Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to help DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan Allows MTL Multiple traffic lights Nutritional inspire school children to take more exercise and shareholders to reinvest their cash dividend in labels which provide effective at-a-glance to eat more healthily.
Now in its third year of shares of the Company through a specially information customers need to make healthier operation, Active Kids is open to all nursery, arranged share dealing service.
4,500 Sainsburys primary and secondary schools as well as Scouts products carry our Wheel of Health MTL label.
EPS Earnings per share Earnings and Girl Guides in the UK.
attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by Organic Organic farming prohibits the www.
co. uk activekids use of artificial fertilisers, pesticides, growth the weighted average number of ordinary shares ADR American Depositary Receipt in issue during the year, excluding those held by regulators and additives in livestock feed.
The The over-the-counter traded US security.
International Federation of Organic Agriculture ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
Movements IFOAM accredits national organic AGM Annual General Meeting This year the Easter adjustment To adjust for the timing of certifying bodies.
AGM will be held on Wednesday 11 July 2007 at Easter falling on 16 April 2006 and 8 April 2007.
The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Pipeline Sites which the Group has an interest ESOP trusts Employee Share Ownership Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE in developing in the future.
ROCE Return on Capital Employed.
Fairtrade The FAIRTRADE label is an B shares Preference B shares issued on independent consumer label that guarantees RPI Retail Price Index.
12 July 2004 as part of the Return of Capital a fair deal for marginalised workers and small scheme in 2004 05.
Sainsburys SO organic Sainsburys organic scale farmers in developing countries.
Producers sub-brand range of products.
basics Sainsburys core sub-brand range receive a minimum price that covers the cost of of products.
production and an extra premium that is invested SORIE Statement of recognised income in the local community.
BGTY Be Good to Yourself Sainsburys healthier alternative sub-brand range of Fair value The amount for which an asset TSR Total Shareholder Return The growth products.
Products fall into one of three could be exchanged, or a liability settled, in value of a shareholding over a specified categories: those with less than 3% fat: those between knowledgeable, willing parties period, assuming that dividends are reinvested with less calories, salt and saturated fat than in an arms length transaction.
to purchase additional units of the stock.
standard lines: or plus products that are freefrom Sainsburys range of products Ttd Taste the difference Sainsburys fortified with added ingredients including guaranteed to be wheat, gluten or dairy free.
premium sub-brand range of products.
Try something new today The marketing CMBS Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities.
campaign in support of Making Sainsburys FTSE4Good The FTSE Group, an indexing Company J Sainsbury plc.
company, runs the FTSE4Good index series CC Competition Commission An to measure the performance of companies that TU Sainsburys own label clothing range.
independent public body which conducts meet CR standards, and to facilitate investment UK GAAP UK Generally Accepted in-depth inquiries into mergers, markets and in those companies.
The CC is GDAs Guideline Daily Amounts.
undertaking an investigation into the supply Underlying basic earnings per share Profit of groceries by retailers in the UK.
Gearing Net debt divided by total equity.
after tax from continuing operations attributable www.
uk to equity holders before any gain or loss on Group The Company and its subsidiaries.
the sale of properties, impairment of goodwill, CR Corporate responsibility The need to IFRIC International Financial Reporting financing fair value movements and one-off act responsibly in managing the impact on a Interpretations Committee.
items that are material and infrequent in nature, range of stakeholders customers, colleagues, divided by the weighted average number investors, suppliers, the community and IFRS International Financial Reporting of ordinary shares in issue during the year, the environment.
Standard s. excluding those held by the ESOP trusts, Debt restructuring On 24 March 2006 the which are treated as cancelled.
IGD Institute of Grocery Distribution.
Group raised new long-term financing secured Underlying profit before tax Profit before Income statement Formerly known as the on 127 of its supermarkets.
tax from continuing operations before any gain profit and loss account under UK GAAP.
Different by design Sainsburys general or loss on the sale of properties, impairment ISA Individual Savings Account.
merchandise brand which mirrors the premium of goodwill, financing fair value movements Taste the difference food range.
and one-off items that are material and Joint venture A business jointly owned infrequent in nature.
Dividend cover Underlying profit after tax from continuing operations attributable to Underlying operating profit loss Like-for-like sales The measure of year equity shareholders divided by total value of Underlying profit before tax from continuing on year same store sales growth.
dividends declared during the year.
operations before finance income and LTIP Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 95 Notes 96 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Design by sasdesign.
Printed by royle corporate print.
This Report is printed on Revive Uncoated, a recycled paper containing 100% post consumer collected waste.
The paper is FSC accredited as a recycled grade.
The printer is certified to the environmental management system ISO 14001 and is also Carbon Neutral.
In the current financial year, these one-off items were the profit on part disposal of Sainsburys Bank and past service gains on defined benefit schemes.
In the prior financial year, these one-off items were the Business Review costs, IT insourcing costs and debt restructuring costs.
Underlying basic earnings per share: Profit after tax from continuing operations attributable to equity holders before any gain or loss on the sale of properties, impairment of goodwill, financing fair value movements and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature, divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the year, excluding those held by the ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
Underlying cash: Cash flow after adjusting for significant one-off items.
Like-for-like sales: Like-for-like sales are adjusted to take into account the timing of Easter falling on 16 April 2006 and 8 April 2007.
Underlying operating profit loss : Underlying profit before tax from continuing operations before finance income and finance costs.
Sales target: This is defined as retailing sales inc VAT ex fuel, of which the non-food element relates to general merchandise, health and beauty and clothing sales and the grocery element relates to food and household sales.
Certain statements made in this document are forward-looking statements.
Such statements are based on current expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ materially from any expected future events or results referred to in these forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise required by applicable law, regulation or accounting standard, we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future development or otherwise.
Nothing in this document shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
The Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 does not contain sufficient information to allow for a full understanding of the results of the Group and the state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
For further information the separate publication, entitled J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007, containing the Business review, the Directors report, the Statement of corporate governance, the Remuneration report, the financial statements and the Independent Auditors report on those financial statements, which is unqualified, should be consulted.
Copies may be obtained through our website www.
co. uk or by calling freephone 0800 0154 330.
Shareholders wishing to receive a free copy of the Annual Report and Financial Statements in future years should write to the Company Secretarys Office, J Sainsbury plc, 33 Holborn, London EC1N 2HT.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 1 1 2 Chairmans statement Over the past year we delivered another strong performance and our recovery is ahead of plan.
Since March 2005, we have grown sales by an additional 1.8 billion with over 1 billion delivered in the 2006 07 financial year.
This means we are ahead of our target to grow sales by 2.5 billion by March 2008.
Im especially pleased that we are now also demonstrating that this strong sales performance is flowing through and is reflected in improved profits.
Our underlying profit before tax for the year was up 42.3 per cent to 380 million.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 7.35 pence per share, an increase of 25.6 per cent.
This will take the full-year dividend to 9.75 pence per share, an increase of 21.9 per cent compared to last year, covered 1.5 times by underlying earnings which is in line with our previously stated minimum objective.
Going forward we expect dividend cover to range between 1.5 and 1.75 times.
It is also encouraging that we can now look at expansion opportunities put on hold during the early stages of our recovery.
Property has always been at the heart of our business and is closely aligned to our successful operation.
Our estate still has considerable development potential which we believe will maximise both operational and freehold property value.
As we move from recovery to growth we believe it is right to retain ownership of our properties.
We continue to review our capital structure on a regular basis.
A year ago we refinanced our debt book with lower-cost property-backed securities.
We have again looked at structural financing opportunities in the light of our revised plans and believe that now is not the time for material change.
We will, however, continue to review funding on a regular basis as the business cash flows improve.
Our strong performance was delivered despite potential takeover speculation in the last quarter of the year.
The Board received a number of proposals from a private equity consortium all of which were subject to a number of pre-conditions related to the consortiums proposed financing structure and which were outside the control of the Board.
The consortium concluded they could not be satisfied and decided to withdraw.
The Board did not receive a formal bid approach capable of being put to shareholders.
What was clear, however, was that the attention we received was due to our success.
A resurgent Sainsburys, with a strong brand, a substantial freehold asset base, a high quality store portfolio with development potential and a highly regarded management team, is proving it can deliver the right results in one of the most competitive markets I have encountered.
This is clearly an attractive proposition for investors.
Another event during the past year has been the Competition Commission investigation into the supply of groceries by retailers in the UK.
We established a separate team to deal with the work involved in this inquiry to ensure it did not distract us from continuing to improve our operations and serve customers in the best possible way.
We are co-operating fully with this inquiry and have made our case clear.
A summary of our thinking is available on our website www.
co. uk We welcomed Val Gooding to the Board in January.
Val has a wide business background with particular recent experience focusing on consumers and health.
She is a great addition to the Board.
Jamie Dundas stepped down as a Non-Executive Director in February after two three-year terms.
I would like to thank him for his hard work and excellent contribution to the Board during a period of significant change for the company.
Our strong performance is a credit to the management team and colleagues throughout the company.
As always, I thank them for their hard work and support in delivering a fundamentally more robust business for our shareholders.
Continuing operations 2007 2006 Sales inc VAT 18,518m 17,317m Sales ex VAT 17,151m 16,061m Underlying operating profit 431m 342m Underlying profit before tax 380m 267m Profit before tax 477m 104m Profit after tax 324m 58m Underlying basic earnings per share 14.7p 10.5p Basic earnings per share 19.2p 3.8p Proposed dividend per share 9.75p 8.00p The Business review The purpose of this Business review is to provide information on Sainsburys strategy and corporate objectives, the market in which it operates together with a review of progress during the year ended 24 March 2007.
It includes an analysis of key performance indicators and an assessement of the key risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Our business and its markets J Sainsbury plc consists of Sainsburys, a chain of 490 supermarkets and 298 convenience stores, and Sainsburys Bank.
Sainsburys Supermarkets is the UKs longest standing major food retailing chain and the Sainsburys brand is built upon a heritage of providing customers with healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food.
Today the company differentiates itself Sainsburys growth will be affected by by offering a broad range of great general market issues such as the impact products at fair prices with particular of regulatory and planning regimes on emphasis on fresh food.
Products are store development and economic factors improved and developed continually to such as the level of household disposable ensure the company leads in terms of income.
However, Sainsburys strategy is the ingredients used and the integrity of aligned with factors such as customers sourcing.
A large Sainsburys store offers preferences for the products they buy.
around 30,000 products and many stores Sainsburys is well positioned to also offer complementary non-food anticipate and meet the increasing products and services.
114 stores provide 14.9% consumer focus on fresh, healthy, Total market share an internet-based home delivery shopping quality foods.
The development of our Source: TNS service.
Sainsburys Bank is jointly owned complementary non-food offer addresses by J Sainsbury plc and HBOS plc.
With our customers desire to buy a greater access to over 16 million Sainsburys range of non-food products along with customers each week, operating costs their weekly grocery shop and the are low, enabling Sainsburys Bank to continued growth of our convenience offer excellent value products with stores also takes account of the faster extra benefits, all delivered in a simple, pace of peoples lifestyles and the trend accessible way.
towards more frequent top-up shopping trips.
The Competition Commission CC The UK grocery retail market is also undertaking an investigation into The UK grocery retailing market was 1 the supply of groceries by retailers in valued at 123.5 billion in 2005 06 and the UK.
The CC has stated its intention is forecast to grow at an average annual to report its findings in the early part increase of 2.8 per cent to 141.5 billion 2 of 2008. by 2011.
Over the past year, Sainsburys strengthened its overall market share 3 position to over 14.9 per cent although the market can also be defined and market share divided in a number of different ways.
Excluding non-food items, Sainsburys has the number 30,000 16 million two position in the market.
products in a large each week Sainsburys store 1 The Institute of Grocery Distribution IGD 2 The IGDs mid-case scenario forecast 3 Measured by TNS: total market share Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 3 Business review continued Corporate objectives These were demanding targets and year overlapping with the third and final the business has had to challenge year of our MSGA recovery plan and run itself in every area in response.
Progress in 2006 07 What have we Whatever we do, we must keep building achieved so far?
on and stretching our lead in food.
It will Against these clearly defined key always be the number one reason why performance indicators we made customers visit our stores.
We share our good progress this year.
customers passion for healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food and will continue We grew sales inc VAT ex fuel by Justin King to innovate and provide leadership in over 1 billion, taking our total sales Chief Executive delivering quality products, sourced growth over the past two years of the with integrity.
Two and a half years ago we outlined recovery plan to 1.8 billion and ahead our plan to Make Sainsburys Great At the same time, we want to speed up of plan Again MSGA.
the development of our complementary The 400 million of investment in non-food offer to give customers a Our vision is simple: we are here to the customer offer was completed by broader shopping experience in our serve customers well with a choice December 2006 and additional stores.
We will follow the same principles of great food at fair prices and, by so funds were invested in early 2007, of quality, value and innovation as we doing, to provide shareholders with improving product quality and giving continue to build our capability and strong, sustainable financial returns.
us our most competitive price position refine our customer offer.
This has driven everything we have for many years done since we outlined our recovery Our focus on driving sales continues plan in October 2004.
We increased our cost savings target with a target to deliver 3.5 billion of to 440 million following our inThe plan spans three years to March additional sales, split two thirds from sourcing of IT in April 2006 and we 2008 and as well as fixing a range of grocery and one third from non-food are on track to deliver this basics such as product availability, ranges, from March 2007 to March 2010. supply chain, IT, and price we Added to the 1.8 billion of sales growth We achieved an underlying cash flow committed to make hundreds of already delivered, this new target, if positive position earlier than expected small changes every day to improve achieved, would give a total sales growth in 2005 06 so we targeted a cash our customers shopping experience.
of 5.3 billion over the five-year period neutral position in 2006 07 and have To enable us to measure our progress March 2005 to March 2010. again exceeded that target despite we set some key three-year targets: increased capital expenditure.
Delivering great product at fair prices The targets we set These achievements give us a strong will stay at the heart of our business To grow sales inc VAT ex fuel by foundation on which to build.
and we will continue to reinvest buying 1 2.5 billion, with grocery contributing efficiencies 100-150 bps per annum We believe now is the right time to look sales of 1.4 billion, non-food products in price and quality.
We will also keep to the next stage of our recovery and to sales of 700 million and convenience improving our operational efficiency expand the business to drive growth for stores sales of 400 million so we can deliver an ever-improving the longer term.
So we have set ourselves shopping experience for customers.
We To invest at least 400 million in new three-year targets that build on the are on track to achieve our cost saving improving product quality and our strong progress weve made so far and target of 155 million in the next financial price position relative to competitors move us from recovery to growth.
As we year and have targeted savings thereafter and to find annual buying synergies of are tracking ahead of our original MSGA to offset half our operating cost inflation.
1 100-150 basis points to be reinvested goals, the new three-year targets start in in the customer offer the current financial year, with the first 1 One basis point is equal to 1 100th of one per cent To deliver operating cost efficiencies of at least 400 million To generate neutral underlying cash flow in 2005 06 and positive cash flow thereafter.
4 4 4 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Business review continued Sales growth - total additional sales of 3.5 billion by March 2010 Space growth - ten per cent Cash flow neutral new space by March 2010 over three years Capital expenditure of Development of grocery 2.5 billion by March 2010 and non-food ranges From recovery to growth 2007 to 2010 plan Channel growth Profit - profit growth through online and flowing through at a convenience expansion percentage rate in high single digits Annual investment Costs - 2007 08 cost savings in price and quality of 155 million on track, of 100 - 150 bps thereafter ongoing annual productivity to create cost savings to offset half our operating cost inflation Our current store estate provides stores operating the service from just over Sales momentum will build through our substantial development opportunities 100 at the current time to 200. expansion and flow through to profit at and we plan to extend a further 75 stores a percentage rate in the high single digits.
The performance of Sainsburys Bank by March 2010.
Were also actively As new space matures and our other has been stabilised and, working with our seeking and developing a pipeline of new investments mature there will be a step partner HBOS plc, it now has promising stores.
Our target for growing sales space up in profit conversion in future years.
We are would take our total sales area to over targeting profits of 40 million in the year The company is significantly stronger 19 million square feet.
That means we ending March 2010.
Under our new joint than it was when we launched our MSGA must increase our space by ten per cent venture arrangements we would share plan in 2004 and this has provided a firm over the next three years.
The new space half of this after tax.
Customers have will be split equally across grocery and become increasingly concerned with non-food ranges.
This goal enables To support these ambitious expansion eating more healthily as well as the us to continue to develop a great food plans we expect our total capital social and ethical consequences of their offer while also growing space for expenditure over the next three years weekly shop.
The Sainsburys brand is non-food ranges.
to be 2.5 billion, funded by operational well positioned and at the forefront of cash flows as we invest now for longWere also extending the reach of the addressing these concerns.
We have laid term growth and the creation of Sainsburys brand.
We plan to open 30 out plans for the next three years and ongoing value.
We expect to be broadly new supermarkets and 100 convenience we are confident that these provide cash flow neutral over the three years.
stores over the next three years, and to Sainsburys with substantial opportunity extend our online home delivery service.
These are ambitious plans that bring for further development of our business We have significantly improved this together the improvements we are and value creation for our shareholders.
service over the past two years and we making in operational efficiency and will be increasing capacity in areas of high our customer offer, together with sales demand, almost doubling the number of growth and the addition of new space.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 5 5 5 Business review continued Operating review Strong progress Our emphasis on fresh and healthy food We had a strong and sustained continues to set Sainsburys apart and improvement in performance this year contributed to this years strong sales and this has added significant momentum performance.
Our heritage provides an to our recovery.
Sales remain the purest ideal market position for our brand, as 1st measure of customer satisfaction in our customers increasingly want healthy, business, so this years 7.3 per cent total safe, fresh and tasty food.
Supporting sales growth excluding Sainsburys Bank our recovery is our goal see below, and including VAT is a particularly which demonstrates that our values and important sign of progress.
beliefs have never fluctuated despite an ever changing and challenging market.
Over the year we grew like-for-like sales, We have focused single-mindedly on what excluding fuel, by 5.9 per cent, despite our customers want: this has driven our limited maturing new space and recovery and will continue to do so.
extensions and the tougher comparatives of the previous year.
We delivered our The strong progress achieved over ninth consecutive quarter of increased the year is built on lots of individual sales in the last quarter of the 2006 07 improvements, initiatives and actions financial year.
This result represented within the business.
The following pages growth on growth on growth and provide a flavour of the many things demonstrated continued improvement we have done this year towards Making and momentum.
Sainsburys Great Again and you can find more at www.
co. uk This strong sales performance is ahead of our own expectations.
Its also our best The strength of our offer for many years.
It shows that our recovery The values at the heart of the Sainsburys is ahead of plan and that weve made brand match the concerns and substantial progress in addressing many preferences of more and more people, of the challenges outlined in our and that has helped to drive our sales recovery plan.
Five principles underpin our activities and these are detailed on page Throughout the year we have focused 21.
The values that made Sainsburys on maintaining our lead in product quality stand out in the past, such as buying and remaining very competitive on price.
healthy and wholesome food and Weve stepped up the development of our respecting the environment, which complementary non-food offer with the have been a key focus of the MSGA introduction of more ranges in more recovery plan, have become increasingly stores and we are growing our presence important to customers.
This has inspired in the convenience sector.
us as we addressed our problems and With 788 stores across the UK, worked to fix the basics of our operation.
Sainsburys is a mainstream retailer and weve worked hard to restore universal appeal our ability to appeal to all shoppers.
We serve more than 16 million customers each week, on average, and believe we can continue to grow.
13 out of 25 Quality Food At Sainsburys we will deliver an ever improving Awards quality shopping experience for our customers with great products at fair prices.
We will exceed customer expectations for healthy, safe, fresh and tasty food making their lives easier every day.
6 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Business review continued Best for food and health In October 2006 we were voted Eating a variety of foods is one of the Supermarket of the Year at the Retail most effective ways to achieve a healthy Industry Awards and in November we 16 m diet.
Supermarkets can play an important again achieved outstanding success at role in helping people to balance their diet the industrys annual quality awards, by providing a wide range of different customers winning more than half of the 25 products.
Customers make up their own categories.
We have made further minds about what they eat: what they each week investments in raising the quality of our want is information to help them choose food and, while we are always pleased to the right food for them.
We believe our be given awards, the best recognition is job is to provide clear and honest labelling In January 2007 we made a number of that of customers buying more through about ingredients, cooking and nutrition.
changes to our basics range to enable their weekly shop.
As more retailers and manufacturers start customers to make healthier choices.
During the past year more than 5,000 labelling products, multiple traffic lights This included adding our Wheel of Health own brand products were new or have MTLs the system approved by the multiple traffic light label to around 200 been improved.
This included the work Governments Food Standards Agency food and drink products, lowering of salt, we did providing customers with clear are emerging as the most effective and sugar and fat levels where possible, and and honest labelling, leading the way popular way to provide the at-a-glance removing unhealthy vegetable oils from on ingredient standards and the way information customers need to make the entire range of products over time.
in which products are sourced.
In April 2007 we became the first UK Sainsburys was the first supermarket retailer to announce the intention to In September 2006 we relaunched our to put nutritional labels on the front of remove all artificial colours and Taste the difference premium range, products when we introduced our Wheel flavourings from own-brand soft drinks which comprises nearly 1,400 products of Health MTL label in January 2005 and and we will complete this work by June and is a 1 billion brand.
These products 4,500 of our products now carry these 2007.
These are just a few of the many meet strict quality standards and now labels.
The body of consumer research improvements we have made.
contain no artificial colours, flavours into nutritional labels is building over time.
or hydrogenated fats, a move we are Customers value quality, fresh and completing on all own label products.
Research carried out among 17,000 seasonal food and we work with suppliers This is a huge task given the sheer people on behalf of Netmums in February to source as many products as possible volume of products we sell.
2007 showed that nearly 80 per cent of from the UK, celebrating the freshness people preferred the MTL system to and seasonality of British produce.
We the alternative scheme, which details have continued to increase sales of guideline daily allowances GDAs on organic food and we source all organic primary chicken, beef, pork, milk, eggs, the front of packs.
GDAs are useful and and in-season lamb from the UK.
We sell we have put them on the back of our around 1,000 different organic products packaging for many years.
We were also and there are now more than 400 the first retailer to provide specific GDAs products in the Sainsburys SO organic for children, but MTL labels are even more range, our second largest sub brand.
effective because they give customers the simple at-a-glance information they want as they shop in store.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 7 Sainsburys was the first major UK supermarket to set a date for the removal of Hydrogenated Vegetable Oils HVOs from its entire range of own brand food and drink.
The company has been working on the removal of HVOs for over a year and to date has removed a minimum of 383 tonnes of HVOs from its cakes alone.
We were the first retailer to announce we will follow the Department of Healths proposed voluntary new guidelines on the labelling of alcohol on all own brand beers, wines and spirits.
Our Try something new today tip cards aim to inspire customers to think beyond their normal range of products.
The campaign provides simple ways to make small but significant changes to the food we buy and eat.
Sainsburys launched the first ever 100% UK organic supermarket box scheme.
These products meet strict quality standards and now contain no artificial colours, flavours or hydrogenated fats.
A gathering of over 100 health experts and parents to discuss the barriers and issues to healthy eating overwhelmingly concluded that parents play the single most important role in helping their children lead a healthy lifestyle but they desperately need help and advice.
8 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 We were the first retailer to provide specific GDAs for children.
Sainsburys began a partnership with MEND, In early 2007 customers who spent 10 the UKs largest prevention and treatment or more in a single visit to Sainsburys programme for overweight and obese children received a Big 5 Drive peel and reveal and their families.
gamecard with a one in three chance to win products containing at least one portion of fruit or veg as an incentive to eat healthily.
healthy Sainsburys was rated top for health in a report published by the National Consumer Council.
shopping Around 200 products in the basics range now have no 80 per cent of people questioned artificial flavourings or additives.
by Netmums preferred the multiple traffic light system over the alternative scheme which details guideline daily allowances.
Sainsburys is cleaning up its soft drinks by removing all artificial colours and flavourings from its own-brand soft drinks.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 9 Business review continued 20 new suppliers Research from the Department of Health The trial delivered significant DoH showed that, while people are improvements to the health, wellbeing aware of the concept of alcoholic units, and self-confidence of participants.
they find it difficult to judge how many This is the first programme of this scale they are drinking.
In February we became sponsored by a private company.
It is the first retailer to adopt the DoHs being run by fully trained Sainsburys proposed voluntary guidelines on the Food Advisors with the assistance of labelling of alcohol.
We have applied a local Youth Sport Trust colleague.
labelling on all our own brand beers, Competitive pricing wines and spirits, encouraging sensible The 400 million investment in our drinking by helping people better customer offer outlined in our MSGA plan understand the effects of alcohol.
was completed by December 2006 and In December 2006 we announced the Our work on labelling was just one of the we have now invested additional funds in decision to convert our entire banana initiatives singled out last November by early 2007.
In total we have now invested range to 100 per cent Fairtrade by the National Consumer Council when over 450 million in quality and price.
July 2007. it named Sainsburys the healthiest We now guard our price position jealously supermarket.
We also organised and and since January 2007 we have cut Our Fairtrade bananas cost the same hosted an event called New Ideas for a further 5,000 prices, bringing the as the conventional bananas available Health in September 2006 to move total since announcing our commitment in other mass-market supermarkets and forward the debate about food and to 20,000. are around 25 pence a kilo cheaper than health.
Around 100 parents and Fairtrade bananas generally available in Ensuring we remain competitive on price professionals, including Caroline Flint, some of our competitors stores.
We was a key strand of our recovery plan and Minister for Public Health, joined us in this invested approximately 4 million in the fundamental to making sure our brand discussion.
We are all increasingly aware supply chain in the social premium that appeals to the widest range of people.
But of health issues but this event went is paid to farmers to achieve this value what makes Sainsburys different for our further by trying to identify the barriers for money for our customers.
to addressing problems, looking at who Every minute 1,000 bananas are sold in should take responsibility for doing this Bananas offer a good illustration of how our stores and our customers are helping and coming up with some solutions.
we turn commitments into actions and to make an enormous difference to provide customers with quality they Following the event we pledged to keep Fairtrade farmers and their communities.
They are the discussion going and began a threeThis is the biggest conversion of its kind also a great example of how our heritage year partnership with MEND, the UKs worldwide and we now sell more Fairtrade and our customers wishes have become largest prevention and treatment bananas than all of the other major increasingly aligned over the year.
programme for overweight and obese supermarkets in the UK combined.
Weve worked with banana growers in children and their families.
The national the Windward Isles for the last 50 years Strong supplier relationships partnership will see 450 MEND and our customers were already buying sourcing with integrity programmes rolled out over the next a large number of Fairtrade bananas.
We enjoy strong and balanced three years following a trial in eight areas.
relationships with suppliers and share the same aim to deliver innovative, highquality products at fair prices for our customers.
In November 2006 we announced an industry first with the launch of a new payment management system that makes it easier and quicker for suppliers to access account information and gain early payments.
The system is in the early stages of a trial and will be rolled out during the current financial year.
Suppliers can view their trading account online, including invoices, bananas are sold every minute in our stores 10 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Business review continued debit notes, remittance advices and in the process of developing a similar payment dates.
This gives them much approach with pork suppliers.
In January better visibility of their expected cash 2007 we launched Farm Connections, flow.
Early cash settlements can also be a scheme that provides 700 Taste the made if suppliers opt to sell their invoices, difference beef farmers with computers, via the new system, to a third party software and training.
This means they financial institution.
can compete in the market and be better informed of industry matters and In May 2006 we launched our Supply production costs.
So far over 500 farmers something new programme where have signed up.
managers meet new suppliers in the search for high quality and innovative, We have built up innovative sustainability locally produced food for customers plans supported by the Marine to enjoy.
Eight events have been held Conservation Society, and we were the to date resulting in the appointment of first retailer to sell Marine Stewardship appeal to our customers.
The successful over 20 new suppliers.
This year we also Council MSC cod from a sustainable elements have been introduced into 48 appointed 12 regional managers who are source.
This was just one of many stores and in those being refurbished responsible for developing our regional industry firsts we have achieved in fish.
We will keep making sourcing programme and supporting and We sell the largest range of MSC products improvements and applying new ideas expanding the 3,000 regional products and none of the fish we sell is red-rated in this area.
The addition of sales space we already sell.
based on a colour rating system.
We are through both new store development and also working to achieve a green rating for extensions is playing an important role as In October 2006 we introduced the all the fish sold in our stores.
We started we accelerate the growth of these ranges.
Sainsburys Dairy Development Group, selling 100 per cent line caught cod and working with around 400 dairy farmers As we continue to build our infrastructure haddock this year and we are the largest to supply all 420 million litres of and capability in non-food we opened retailer to do this.
As one of the UKs conventional milk bought by our offices in Hong Kong and Poland in leading fishmongers, taking the lead on customers each year.
We believe the 2005 to help us work directly with such important issues has an enormous market is best served by initiatives that manufacturers in the development of effect on the fish being eaten in the UK.
connect farmers directly to consumers.
higher quality better value products.
For example, our Farm promise milk, Complementary non-food Our reputation for quality, value and launched in April 2006, gives farmers Food remains at the heart of our offer, but innovation is just as relevant to our nona fair premium and makes a contractual we also set a target for complementary food ranges as it is to food.
In branded commitment to support farmers non-food to deliver 700 million of our areas such as music and entertainment converting to organic milk production.
Over the we focus on offering products at Through this and other initiatives we last 18 months new layouts, fixtures, competitive prices and we have gained will pay a 10 million premium directly fittings and ranges have been trialled in 15 significant market shares of recent DVD to farmers each year.
stores to assess which non-food products and CD releases.
In clothing and home and which types of presentation most ranges, innovation, design and value are We are extending this approach into other all important to customers.
In March 2007 areas of agriculture.
We set up a Lamb we introduced a new premium homeware Partnership in Livestock scheme in range under the Different by design September 2006, for example, and are brand, which mirrors our premium Taste the difference food offer.
TU, our own label clothing range, continues to be a star performer and underpins our non-food offer.
In March 2006 we launched a range of clothing made from Fairtrade certified cotton.
The range consists of 22 different styles across mens, womens and childrens clothing and is designed by our own design team as part of our TU clothing collection.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 11 In an industry-leading initiative welcomed by the National Farmers Union NFU, Sainsburys will 10m work directly with dairy farmers in a newly formed development group to strengthen links and improve transparency in the supply chain.
Sainsburys is the first of the big four supermarkets to sell only cage-free eggs ahead of 2012.
This received a Good Egg award from Compassion in World Farming for its commitment to the health and welfare of animals.
Justin King, along with Harriet Lamb, Director of the Fairtrade Foundation, visited the Windward Isles to meet Fairtrade banana farmers, and to see first hand how developing countries can benefit from the social premium selling Fairtrade food can create.
Sainsbury's is the leading Fairtrade retailer, accounting for 40% of Fairtrade bananas in the UK ' Sainsburys switched the 22 million hot beverages it sells in its 230 in-store restaurants every year entirely to Fairtrade.
This makes it the only supermarket serving Fairtrade tea, coffee and hot chocolate to customers.
Bumblebees are in serious decline in the UK according to research.
To help reverse this problem, Sainsburys is funding an exclusive project aimed at boosting bumblebee numbers by as much as 600 per cent.
12 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Sainsburys now offers a range of clothing made from Fairtrade certified cotton.
The launch of Sainsburys clothing range carrying the FAIRTRADE mark, confirms the supermarkets commitment to the use of Fairtrade certified cotton.
The scheme known as Farm Connections will mean that key beef producers will be given computers, software and training so they can better operate and compete in the market, and be informed of industry matters and production costs.
Sainburys has launched a new farming scheme, which could pioneer the way British apples are grown, and thus help secure the 100% future of the British apple industry.
Fairtrade Just four weeks before small supplier Levi Roots met with Sainsburys, he was cooking up batches of his Reggae Reggae sauce a spicy bananas jerk BBQ sauce based on Levis secret family recipe in the kitchen of his Brixton home.
Following his appearance on TVs Dragons Den, the sauce is now available at 607 Sainsburys stores and is a hot seller.
Customers continue to enjoy the Jamie Oliver Customers value quality, fresh and seasonal Taste the difference range of 21 days extra mature food and Sainsburys worked with suppliers beef which is hung for three weeks before being to source as many products as possible packed.
Its good old fashioned, well looked after from the UK, celebrating the freshness and beef which provides extremely high quality and seasonality of British produce.
In partnership with Food from Britain, Sainsburys is launching an innovative new scheme to make it easier for small and medium sized suppliers to gain business access to the retailer.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 13 Business review continued Availability Our product availability is now the best it has been for many years.
We have reorganised our depot network so that we can continue to improve the service to our stores.
In line with our increase in sales, our depots now handle over a million more cases each week than in the previous year.
Improved efficiencies have also reduced the cost per case and we now deliver an additional 50 million We now deliver 50 million cases for the same costs achieved in more cases of products the previous year.
for the same cost as We are opening a new distribution centre in the previous year in Northampton later this year.
This is an important step in ensuring we have enough capacity to match our growth expectations.
This will create 750 new do as well.
This follows an association jobs.
The depot will initially provide with the We Are What We Do WAWWD additional capacity this Christmas and will global social change movement over be fully operational by the middle of next recent years.
Another sign of our increased sales performance is the extension of our The plan takes policy out of the Langlands depot in East Kilbride and a boardroom and puts us in partnership reconfiguration of our depot at Waltham with our customers.
Each month we are Point in Hertfordshire will improve the holding a Make the difference day where capacity and reliability of the depot.
we raise a specific issue and take action.
And we show customers how they can Corporate responsibility take action too.
With over 16 million Corporate responsibility principles are customers each week, working together at the core of our business and our brand means we can really make the difference.
and have been since we opened our first store in 1869.
Over the past year there Our first Make the difference day was on has been a huge increase in the interest in 27 April 2007.
During that day we stopped social and ethical issues and Sainsburys issuing disposable plastic carrier bags and heritage has meant we have been well instead gave customers our Bag for Life.
placed to address customer concerns.
This is made from 100 per cent recycled During the year most other retailers material and is typically used around 20 announced plans to address concerns times.
When it is worn out customers can over issues such as health and return it to us for a new bag and we will environmental impacts, so our challenge recycle their old one.
These bags normally is to keep leading, innovating and cost ten pence each but on this day we achieving great results.
issued more than six million for free.
It was a great example of working together we Five principles underpin our activities as can give customers the bags but they detailed on page 21 and we already have must re-use them to help us reduce the stretching targets in place.
In April 2007 amount of disposable bags in circulation.
we announced our Make the difference plan.
This reflects the fact that customers are increasingly concerned about social and ethical issues: they now expect companies to meet their responsibilities, but they also want to know what they can 14 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Business review continued Respect for our environment packaging for the environment according As a leading UK retailer we have a to the Womens Institute.
Instead of responsibility to minimise any potential plastic, the packaging uses maize, sugaradverse impacts of our operations.
cane or starch so that it can break down Weve invested more than 15 million naturally in a garden compost heap.
15 m in energy efficiency projects since We share our customers belief that 2002 and Sainsburys won the Carbon plastic bags contribute to long-term invested Management City of London Liveable damage to the environment so in City Award 2006 through our innovative September we launched a new carrier projects to reduce emissions.
in energy bag to replace our previous free carrier.
Much of our work is about good A third of the new orange bag is made housekeeping and almost all our large from recycled material and it can, in turn, efficency supermarkets now have intranet linked, be recycled and made into a new bag.
This automated building controls to allow us has saved 1.7 billion old style carrier bags projects to improve efficiency and manage power and 6,500 tonnes of plastic every year.
loads so we can further reduce our Were still the only UK supermarket to since 2002 energy costs.
offer customers a free carrier bag with a high proportion of recycled material, but A big issue for customers is the amount we urge others to follow this lead and cut of food packaging in use and its down on the use of plastic and materials environmental impact.
Weve already sent to landfill.
reduced excessive packaging on many products.
Take Easter eggs: since 2004 We have promoted re-usable shopping we have reduced the weight of packaging bags since the mid 1990s and in by up to 87 per cent with the vast November 2006 we teamed up with majority of the remaining packaging now Arts Council England to produce limited recyclable, re-usable or compostable.
edition re-usable bags designed by wellknown artists.
The bags were incredibly In September 2006 we announced the popular and sold out in 12 weeks.
We were removal of 3,550 tonnes of plastic from also the obvious outlet for a similar our output every year.
We achieved this environment-friendly bag designed by by replacing 150 million plastic trays and leading accessories designer Anya bags on 500 of our ready meal and Hindmarch, in collaboration with WAWWD.
organic food products with compostable The bags went on sale at the beginning of packaging, the friendliest form of April and sold out within an hour.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 15 By September 2008, 20 per cent of the supermarkets online deliveries will be made using electric vans, saving 45 tonnes of CO 2 emissions in the first year.
As well as selling 100 per cent recycled refuse sacks, Sainsburys now sells compostable garden refuse sacks, as well as caddy bin liners for the one in three people that now home-compost in the UK.
Both bags are made of starch fibre instead of plastic, which means they can naturally break down in a garden compost heap.
I used to be Making a plastic bag the In April 2007 Sainsburys teamed up with designer Anya Hindmarch and global social change movement, We difference Are What We Do to launch a re-usable shopping bag in all stores.
20,000 bags sold out across the UK in under an hour.
A third of the new carrier bag will be made from recycled material, and whats more customers can Sainsburys gave a major recycle their bag and Sainsburys will make it into boost to the worlds forests a new one.
by announcing that it will be the first to source all of its own brand tissue from sustainable sources.
All of its tissue will either be FSC approved or recycled.
Sainsburys first Make the difference day saw Sainsburys become the first major UK supermarket to stop giving out free disposable carrier bags in its stores and instead gave over six Research has shown that carbon million free re-usable Bags for Sainsburys SO organic jute shopping bag emissions from Kenyan roses, Life usually 10p to customers has proved popular with customers, and as including air freight, were 5.8 times for their shopping.
well as being carbon-neutral, it follows organiclower than for Dutch roses.
Results growing ideals, including using low input, nonhave provided a fresh challenge to GM material, rotation crops, organic manures current thinking on sourcing and and avoidance of pesticides.
the impact of air freight versus artificial heating and lighting for growing cut flowers.
16 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 During the Second World War we reduced the paper used for our labels.
Its in our DNA Sainsburys will be the first retailer in the UK to offer to find ways to minimise our customers a Freepost battery and cell phone recycling impact on the environment service.
This is going to be the only scheme of its kind and make our labelling as and is expected to save 2,500 tonnes of batteries going clear as it can be.
Last year our customers recycled 100 million plastic bags at our recycling points at our stores.
We have offered this service since July 2004.
We have been developing an industry leading assessment system that will ensure that the fish we sell are sourced from sustainable sources.
Sainsburys and Arts Council England teamed up to produce Packaging now gives clearer instructions limited edition re-usable shopping for recycling, composting etc.
such as bags designed by well-known Sorry, not recyclable or Please recycle artists.
The bags meant anyone The amount of material our so that customers know what they can do could get a work of art for only 50p.
colleagues recycled in 2006 was when theyve finished with the wrapping.
equivalent to over 14,000 double decker buses.
Sainsburys is half-way through its plans to replace 150 million plastic trays and bags with compostable packaging.
By the end of the year, all ready meals and the majority of organic produce will be in compostable material, which can disappear on a garden compost heap or in a bin.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 17 Business review continued Making a positive difference to our We also work with the Youth Sports Trust Colleagues: a great place to work community and English Schools Athletics Association The majority of our store colleagues live Our stores are at the heart of the as part of our commitment to support within the communities served by their communities they serve and last year grass roots activities rather than national store and many donate time and effort we invested 18 million in community sporting teams or events.
All the profit to a broad range of good causes outside initiatives, and a further 12 million from from our bags for life, 159,000 in work.
Our Local Heroes programme is our charity fundraising and donations in our 2006 07, goes directly into local own awards scheme, which recognises stores.
Our activities focus on areas that community projects recommended by and encourages colleagues in stores, matter most to our colleagues and our store colleagues as part of our depots and offices who do this and we customers such as food, family, health community grants programme.
match all funds raised with awards of and children.
The scheme is Another great example of a scheme that now in its sixth year during which time we Our Active Kids programme is a great supports our business, the community have donated around 750,000 to good example of this and 38,000 registrations and the environment is our food donation causes.
This year we donated around have been received for the 2007 scheme.
This reduces the amount of 250,000, an increase of 48 per cent For the first time this year the nations surplus food past its sell-by date but not over the previous year.
one million Scouts and Girl Guides are its use-by date we have to send to landfill.
Customers earn Active Instead we distribute this to charities Kids vouchers against spend in-store across the country such as the Salvation and online which can then be redeemed Army and FareShare.
In the year ending by schools against activity and cookery March 2007 we donated 3.4 million of equipment.
Since the launch of Active food to homeless charities and 60 per Kids in 2005 we have donated cent of our stores are linked to local 34 million of sports equipment, kit charities through the scheme.
Our aim is and coaching to over 26,000 UK schools to increase this to 100 per cent and we and nurseries.
Active Kids also aims to remain the only UK supermarket to encourage healthy eating as customers donate food in this way all year round earn a bonus voucher for buying fresh rather than just at peak trading periods.
fruit, vegetables and salad, plus any of Community involvement also goes the 2,350 foods marked with the healthy beyond our stores such as our apple stamp, such as milk, pasta, rice and sponsorship of Comic Relief and Sport fresh fish.
This year we raised over 7 million for Comic Relief through sales of Comic Relief merchandise and colleague activity.
This represented 22 per cent of the total 32 million raised on the night.
38,000 organisations have joined our Active Kids programme 18 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Can we have a bleep to remind customers to remove their chip and PIN card?
Business review continued Our colleagues are vital to our success During the year we opened 20 and over the past year we completed the supermarkets and extended 18.
A further delivery of leadership training to 9,000 50 were refurbished, one was downsized managers throughout our business.
We and 48 benefited from investment in their track how engaged colleagues are with non-food offer.
In our convenience our goals and values through our operation, 20 stores opened, 22 were talkback survey and last year saw refurbished and 30 converted to our marked improvements in both colleague Sainsburys @ format.
Two convenience engagement and our leadership skills.
stores closed and two supermarkets were closed due to relocation to improved sites.
The Tell Justin suggestion scheme was launched in September 2004.
Nearly New space growth opportunities are now 17,000 ideas have been received since being developed as we plan a ten per cent that time and ten per cent of suggestions growth in space over the next three years.
We plan to open 30 new supermarkets and 100 new convenience stores and This year we will pay our highest ever online drivers will continue to collect we are targeting the completion of 75 bonus to colleagues with 118,000 sharing customers unwanted Sainsburys plastic extensions and 190 refurbishments, 56 million in bonus payments in June carrier bags for recycling.
with the large majority undertaken on 2007.
Including this bonus, we will have our freehold and long leasehold estate.
We believe there is significant growth paid 145 million in bonus scheme potential in the online operation and we payments over the last three years.
We are actively managing our property plan to increase capacity in areas of high A just reward for the huge efforts of portfolio.
A specialist property team is demand.
As a result the number of stores our colleagues.
building a pipeline of new stores and more operating this service will reach 200 by than 50 per cent of our current estate will Developing our stores March 2010 and we expect sales to more be developed by March 2010 and at least Having made such good progress in than double over the next three years.
60 stores will be over 55,000 square feet improving our performance we renewed with over 15,000 square feet of non-food Sainsburys Bank our search last year for locations where ranges by March 2010.
The pipeline will be Sainsburys Bank became a 50:50 joint we could introduce Sainsburys to new developed to deliver space growth at venture operation in February 2007 when communities.
During the 2006 07 five per cent each year from 2009 10. we announced the sale of five per cent of financial year we increased our space by the business to our partner HBOS plc for 3.8 per cent, driven mainly by our ability The ownership of property is aligned to 21 million.
The Bank remains an to acquire more new space than planned.
these operational plans and provides important part of our Group and the This was ahead of target primarily due to significant opportunity to maximise both new ownership structure reflects the increased activity in the second half of operational and freehold property value shared commitment Sainsburys and the year.
HBOS plc has to growing the business.
Sainsburys online The Bank has made good progress in Our online operation has had an stabilising its operations over the year outstanding year.
Sales grew by 49 and a tight focus on cost control and per cent, with a record Christmas tighter risk management actions performance.
We now cover 83 per implemented over the past two years cent of UK postcodes and have 64,000 has more than offset what has been a customers each week.
New customers worsening environment for consumer continue to be attracted to the service via credit.
In 2006 07 Sainsburys Bank recommendations from family and friends made an underlying operating profit of the most powerful advocates we could 2 million.
It continues to offer growth have.
We are the first grocery retailer to opportunities and we are targeting profits operate an Electric Zero Emission vehicle.
of 40 million in the year ending March By Autumn 2008, the 3.5 tonne van, 2010, half of which will be reported which is suitable for urban areas, will be after tax.
responsible for the transport of 20 per cent of all our online orders and our Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 19 The number of graduates becoming food science experts has hit dangerously low levels in recent years, and to reverse the sharp decline, Sainsburys has launched a Gap Year scheme called Taste the World to entice the best graduates to the food science industry.
Being the best for food and health is a key priority for Sainsburys, as it has been since 1869.
In 1922, tiles were used to ensure shop hygiene was kept to the highest standards.
Leading the way We launched a ground-breaking green store in 1999 at Greenwich.
The 35,000 sq ft store reduces energy consumption by up to 50% compared to a standard store of a similar size and operation.
Shining Stars is a recognition programme Other designed to reward our colleagues by giving them points for doing a fantastic job.
FareShare works to relieve food poverty by providing quality food and other support to organisations working with homeless and disadvantaged people.
Last year alone, FareShare Weve raised 31.5 million across all projects since we became redistributed around 2,000 tonnes of fit for supporters of Comic Relief in 1999.
In 2007 we have raised over purpose surplus food, which contributed to 7 million for Red Nose Day and we are still counting.
20 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Business review continued Our commitment to the communities in which we operate Corporate responsibility isnt new for us.
When we opened our first store in 1869 the guiding principle was to offer good quality products to everyone, including those who had never had access to healthy and safe food before.
Today, our commitment to the communities in which we operate is still every bit as important and the five principles below underpin our activities.
Customers trust us to take care of their concerns, and that sets us apart from competitors as you will have seen in this review.
In many areas we already lead our industry, but were committed to innovating and setting even higher standards.
Weve provided some examples of our activities but our full corporate responsibility report can be found at www.
co. uk cr Making a positive The best for difference to your food and health community A great place to work Sourcing with integrity www.
co. uk cr Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 21 Respect for our environment Business review continued Financial review Progress in year The financial results for the 52 weeks to 2006: 10.5 pence.
Profit before tax 24 March 2007 reflect strong progress on was 477 million 2006: 104 million.
Sales inc VAT increased Basic earnings per share increased to by 6.9 per cent to 18,518 million 2006: 19.2 pence 2006: 3.8 pence.
Underlying profit before dividend of 7.35 pence per share is tax was up 42.3 per cent at 380 million proposed 2006: 5.85 pence, making 2006: 267 million.
Underlying basic full year dividend of 9.75 pence earnings per share increased to 14.7 pence 2006: 8.00 pence.
Darren Shapland Chief Financial Officer 6.9% SALES GROWTH inc VAT to 18,518 million Summary income statement 2007 2006 42.3% INCREASE for the 52 weeks to 24 March 2007 m m % change in underlying profit before Continuing operations tax to 380 million Sales inc VAT 40.
O% INCREASE Retailing Supermarkets and Convenience 18,227 16,987 7.3 in underlying basic earnings 1 Financial services Sainsburys Bank 291 330 11.8 per share to 14.7 pence Total sales inc VAT 18,518 17,317 6.9 21.9% GROWTH Sales ex VAT in full year proposed dividend Retailing Supermarkets and Convenience 16,860 15,731 7.2 to 9.75 pence 1 Financial services Sainsburys Bank 291 330 11.8 Total sales ex VAT 17,151 16,061 6.8 Underlying operating profit Retailing Supermarkets and Convenience 429 352 21.9 1 Financial services Sainsburys Bank 2 10 120.0 Total underlying operating profit 431 342 26.0 2 Underlying net finance costs 51 75 32.0 Underlying profit before tax 380 267 42.3 Business Review operating costs 51 n a IT insourcing costs 63 n a Debt restructuring costs 38 n a Profit on sale of properties 7 1 600.0 Profit on part disposal of Sainsburys Bank 10 n a Past service gains on defined benefit schemes 72 n a Financing fair value movements 8 12 166.7 Profit before tax 477 104 358.7 Income tax expense 153 46 232.6 Profit for the financial year 324 58 458.6 Underlying basic earnings per share 14.7p 10.5p 40.0 Basic earnings per share 19.2p 3.8p 405.3 Proposed dividend per share 9.75p 8.0p 21.9 1 Sainsburys Bank has been fully consolidated until the Group sold five per cent shareholding in February: thereafter it has been equity accounted as a joint venture.
2 Net finance costs pre financing fair value movements 2006: pre financing fair value movements and debt restructuring costs.
22 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Business review continued SALES INC VAT EX FUEL Retailing sales inc VAT increased by of 3.8 per cent which was ahead of target 7.3 per cent to 18,227 million driven by due to a high level of property development 5.9% LFL good like-for-like growth and new space.
completed in the second half.
In the EASTER ADJUSTED next financial year the Group is targeting In total, 639,000 square feet of net new incremental space growth of around two space was added in the year, a space uplift per cent.
Key retailing metrics for the 52 weeks to 24 March 2007 2007 2006 Like-for-like sales % inc fuel Easter adjusted 5.7 4.1 1 Easter adjustment % 0.3 0.4 Implied impact of new space % 1.3 2.0 Total sales % inc fuel 7.3 5.7 Like-for-like sales % ex fuel Easter adjusted 5.9 3.7 1 Easter adjustment % 0.3 0.4 Implied impact of new space % 1.5 2.1 Total sales % ex fuel 7.7 5.4 2 Grocery price inflation deflation % 1.0 1.5 Retailing underlying operating profit m 429 352 Year on year growth % 21.9 14.3 3 Retailing underlying operating margin % 2.54 2.24 1 Easter adjustment takes into account the timing of Easter falling on 16 April 2006 and 8 April 2007.
2 The Group is not intending to provide inflation data in future trading updates.
3 Retailing underlying operating profit divided by retailing sales ex VAT.
Supermarkets Convenience Total Retailing store numbers Area Area Area and space summary Number 000 sq ft Number 000 sq ft Number 000 sq ft 1 As at 25 March 2006 472 16,090 280 635 752 16,725 New stores 20 375 20 53 40 428 Closures 2 34 2 5 4 39 Extensions downsizes refurbishments 249 1 250 As at 24 March 2007 490 16,680 298 684 788 17,364 Memorandum Extensions 18 272 18 272 Downsizes 1 35 1 35 Refurbishments conversions 50 12 52 1 102 13 Complimentary non-food 48 48 Total projects 117 249 52 1 169 250 1 Reflects central supermarkets reclassified from Convenience to Supermarkets and other size adjustments.
Retailing underlying operating profit Key areas of cost saving have been in increased by 21.9 per cent to 429 million supply chain, labour and IT costs and 2006: 352 million reflecting the strong there continues to be a focus on sales performance and a 30 basis point managing central costs and improving improvement in retailing underlying stock loss although shrinkage challenges operating margin ex VAT to 2.54 per remain an issue as the external cent for the year 2006: 2.24 per cent.
Overall, the Continued improvement in operational Group remains on track to achieve the gearing has been driven from higher 440 million cost savings over three sales volumes and further cost savings.
years that underpin the MSGA recovery This helped to mitigate the impact of plan and supports investment in the continued investment in price and product customer offer.
quality and higher energy prices in the second half.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 23 Business review continued SAINSBURYS BANK Financial services Sainsburys Bank Underlying net finance costs The accounting for Sainsburys Bank in the Underlying net finance costs decreased 2 million financial year reflects the sale of five per by 24 million to 51 million 2006: 75 UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT cent shareholding in Sainsburys Bank million, which comprised a 2 million to HBOS plc on 8 February 2007.
Until increase in underlying finance costs 8 February 2007, Sainsburys Bank and a 26 million increase in underlying performance has been fully consolidated finance income.
The lower net finance into the Group results and contributed costs reflected the 12 million benefit of 2 million at an operating level.
From this lower financing rates following the debt date the Group has accounted for restructuring announced on 24 March its equity share i. e. 50 per cent of 2006 as well as a reduction in underlying Sainsburys Banks post-tax profit, which net debt through cash flow improvements.
delivered a break even result in the period The increase in return on pension assets up to 24 March 2007.
Sainsburys Bank offsets the additional interest cost from expects to deliver a similar small profit in the pension contribution of 350 million.
In the next financial year as it focuses on the next financial year the Group expects investing for future activities.
underlying net finance costs to remain broadly level year on year.
Underlying net finance costs 2007 2006 for the 52 weeks to 24 March 2007 m m Interest income 15 7 Net return on pension scheme assets 41 23 1 Underlying finance income 56 30 Interest costs 117 115 Capitalised interest 10 10 1 Underlying finance costs 107 105 1 Underlying net finance costs 51 75 1 Pre financing fair value movements 2006: pre financing fair value movements and debt restructuring costs.
Profit on sale of properties a greater proportion of their pension for Surplus assets were sold during the year a tax-free cash lump sum payment.
generating a profit on sale of 7 million Accordingly, the Group revised its 2006: 1 million and cash proceeds of assumptions used in calculating the 106 million 2006: 164 million which retirement benefit obligations in respect was ahead of target.
The Group will of this and certain minor changes in continue to dispose of surplus assets and scheme rules and has recognised 72 expects the proceeds in the next financial million of past service gains in the Group year to be around 75 million.
Profit on part disposal of Financing fair value movements Sainsburys Bank Fair value movements for the Group On 8 February 2007, the Group sold five resulted in a 8 million gain 2006: 12 per cent shareholding in Sainsburys Bank million loss, of which 4 million loss for 21 million to HBOS plc.
This sale related to Sainsburys Bank.
generated a profit on disposal of 10 million.
Taxation Past service gains on defined The income tax charge was 153 million benefit schemes 2006: 46 million, with an underlying Following changes introduced by the rate of 34.8 per cent 2006: 35.5 per Finance Act effective from 6 April 2006, cent and an effective rate of 32.2 per cent the defined benefit schemes have 2006: 44.2 per cent.
The underlying implemented revised terms to provide rate exceeded the nominal rate of UK members with the option to surrender corporation tax principally due to the lack 24 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Business review continued of effective tax relief on depreciation of paid on 20 July 2007 to shareholders on one-off pension contribution made in UK retail properties.
This disallowable the Register of Members at the close of May 2006 and 90 million paid out in depreciation amounted to 73 million in business on 25 May 2007.
The total relation to one-off costs charged to the the financial year and the Group expects proposed dividend for the year is income statement in the prior year.
These it to remain at a similar level in the next therefore up 21.9 per cent to 9.75 pence were offset by significant cash inflows financial year.
With effect from 1 April 2006: 8.00 pence.
Underlying dividend relating to 93 million received in respect 2008 the standard rate of UK cover increased in the year to 1.5 times of property disposals and the sale of five corporation tax will reduce from 30 per 2006: 1.3 times.
Going forward the per cent shareholding of Sainsburys Bank, cent to 28 per cent and as a result will Group expects to achieve underlying 81 million proceeds from issue of shares reduce the underlying rate in the financial dividend cover in the range of 1.5 times and around 150 million relating to yearyear ending March 2009. to 1.75 times.
end timing differences on working capital which are expected to reverse in the next Underlying basic earnings per share Cash flow statement financial year.
After adjusting for these Underlying basic earnings per share Group net debt as at 24 March 2007 was items, underlying cash flow for the year increased by 40.0 per cent from 10.5 1,380 million 2006: 1,415 million.
In the next pence to 14.7 pence, reflecting the Adjusting for the impact of Sainsburys financial year the Group expects to deliver improvement in underlying profit after Bank, which was consolidated in the prior an underlying cash flow neutral position tax attributable to equity holders, after year, net debt reduced by 156 million after adjusting for the reversal of the 150 adjusting for the minority interests at 2006: ex Sainsburys Bank 1,536 million.
million working capital timing differences.
Within the overall cash flow movement for Dividends the year there were a number of A final dividend of 7.35 pence per share is significant one-off items.
The significant proposed 2006: 5.85 pence and will be cash outflows related to a 240 million NET DEBT Summary cash flow statement 2007 2006 1.4 billion for the 52 weeks to 24 March 2007 m m 1 UNDERLYING CASH Cash generated from operations 830 780 Net interest 83 156 IMPROVEMENT OF Corporation tax received 9 3 162 million Cash flow before appropriations 756 627 Purchase of non-current assets 788 561 Disposal of non-current assets operations 93 151 Proceeds from issue of shares 81 22 Capital redemption 2 9 Repayment of proceeds from borrowings 75 65 Debt restructuring costs 2 22 Dividends paid 140 131 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 77 142 Decrease increase in debt 79 65 IAS 32 and IAS 39 adjustments 51 Other non-cash movements 33 Movement in net debt 35 26 Opening net debt 1,415 1,441 Closing net debt 1,380 1,415 Of which: Retailing 1,380 1,536 Financial services 121 Closing net debt 1,380 1,415 1 Includes 240 million 2006: 110 million of cash paid into the defined benefit pension schemes and 90 million cash outflow in relation to items charged to the income statement in prior years 2006: 68 million.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 25 Business review continued Financing million 2006: 59 million relates to supermarkets, which account for The Groups financing requirements acquisitions and freehold purchases 62 per cent of total supermarket space, are managed by pre-funding cash flow and 368 million on extensions and and six depots.
requirements and maturing debt refurbishments 2006: 233 million.
Pensions obligations, maintaining a diversity of Capital expenditure is forecast to be in The defined benefit schemes were subject funding sources with an appropriate mix the region of 750 million for the next to a triennial valuation carried out by of fixed, floating and inflation-linked financial year.
This is an increase on Watson Wyatt, the schemes independent borrowings and by spreading debt previous guidance reflecting increased actuaries at March 2006, on the projected repayments over a range of maturities.
spend on the new store development unit basis.
The results of this valuation are pipeline, extensions and a larger The Groups core funding takes the expected to be approved by the schemes refurbishment programme.
form of term loans secured over property trustees in June 2007.
Short-term funds are raised on Balance sheet benefit obligations as at 24 March 2007 the wholesale money markets.
Contingent Total equity as at 24 March 2007 was have been calculated, where appropriate, liquidity is maintained through a new 4,349 million 2006: 3,965 million.
in line with this draft valuation.
400 million five-year revolving credit Gearing reduced year on year to 32 per As at 24 March 2007, the retirement facility, entered into in February 2007. cent 2006: 36 per cent.
benefit obligations less the fair value As at 24 March 2007 there were nil Freehold property valuation of plan assets were 103 million drawings under this facility 2006: nil The net book value of the Groups 2006: 658 million.
The net deficit after drawings under 2006 bank facility.
freehold and long leasehold properties tax was 55 million 2006: 431 million.
The Groups treasury policies are set is 5.2 billion.
The Group estimates the The movement reflects the assumptions out in note 29 of the Annual Report current market value to be around changes set out in note 31 of the Annual and Financial Statements.
65 per cent higher based on an Report and Financial Statements, 240 Capital expenditure investment basis valuation carried out million of the 350 million one-off cash Capital expenditure increased in the year by independent surveyors as at 24 March contributions 110 million was paid in to 737 million 2006: 525 million.
2007, giving a total value of 8.6 billion.
the prior financial year and favourable This included 308 million on new stores The Group has 292 freehold and long market conditions.
2006: 203 million, of which 138 leasehold properties comprising 286 Summary balance sheet PENSION FUND DEFICIT 2007 2006 at 24 March 2007 m m NET OF TAX REDUCED TO Non-current assets 7,661 8,927 55 million Inventories 590 576 FROM Trade and other receivables 197 276 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers and other banks 1,940 431 million Cash and cash equivalents 1,128 1,028 Debt 2,508 2,443 Net debt 1,380 1,415 Trade and other payables and provisions 2,719 3,031 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and other banks 3,308 Net assets 4,349 3,965 Equity shareholders funds 4,349 3,886 Minority interests 79 Total equity 4,349 3,965 26 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Principal risks and uncertainties Risk is an inherent part of doing business.
Business continuity and acts of terrorism Supply chain The Group has a process for identifying, A major incident or terrorist event could Our stores are part of a complex supply evaluating and managing the risks faced impact on the Groups ability to trade.
The chain and the Group works in partnership by the business as described in the Group has plans to maintain business with our suppliers to manage the risk of Statement of corporate governance.
continuity in the event of potentially any delays or interruptions in this supply, The Board has identified the following disruptive events, which are regularly which may affect trade.
factors as principal potential risks to the updated and tested.
Pension risk successful operation of the business.
IT systems and infrastructure The Group operates a number of pension Economic and market risks The Group is reliant on its IT infrastructure schemes which includes two defined The economic environment and competitor in order to trade.
A failure in these systems benefit schemes.
These schemes are pricing position can affect the could have a significant impact on our subject to risks regarding the amount of performance of the Groups businesses in business.
The Group has controls in place the liabilities as a result of changes in life terms of both sales and costs.
Household to maintain the integrity and efficiency of expectancy, inflation and future salary disposable income is a driver of sales its systems which are regularly updated increases, risks regarding the value of growth.
Through development of our and tested.
investments and the returns derived from product ranges and investment in price such investments.
The pension trustees, Colleague engagement and retention and quality, the Group works to ensure in consultation with the Company, have The Group employs around 150,000 that we deliver value for all our customers.
commenced changes to the schemes colleagues who are key to the success As has been widely reported, external cost investment strategy to mitigate the of the business.
Good relations with pressures on oil-related costs and volatility of liabilities and to diversify colleagues and investing in their training business rates have impacted our business investment risk.
and development are essential to the although the Group has worked hard to efficiency and sustainability of the Groups Treasury risks mitigate the impact of these cost operations.
The Groups employment The central treasury function is pressures on our customers and the policies, remuneration and benefits responsible for managing the Groups Groups overall profitability through the packages are designed to be competitive liquid resources, funding requirements delivery of cost savings.
with other companies, as well as and interest rate and currency Regulatory risk providing colleagues with fulfilling exposures and the associated risks as The Groups operations are subject career opportunities.
set out in note 29 of the Annual Report to a broad spectrum of regulatory and Financial Statements.
Products requirements particularly in relation to The quality and safety of our products is planning, competition and environmental of the highest importance and there is an issues, employment, pensions and tax laws associated risk if they are below standard.
and in terms of regulations over the The Group has stringent product controls Groups products and services.
The Group in place and regularly reviews health and monitors regulatory developments and safety policies.
All suppliers are expected has a strong compliance regime.
Regular to conform to the Groups code of conduct reviews and audits are carried out in for Socially Responsible Sourcing which stores and depots to ensure compliance was launched in 1998 and covers fair and training needs are regularly reviewed terms of trading, protection of children, and addressed as required.
worker health and safety, equal opportunities, freedom of association, freedom of employment, hours of work and wages.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 27 J Sainsbury plc: Board of Directors Philip Hampton Justin King Darren Shapland Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman Appointed 19 July 2004.
Philip Hampton was Appointed 29 March 2004.
Chairman of the Appointed 1 August 2005.
Deputy Chairman of Group Finance Director of Lloyds TSB Group plc Operating Board.
Formerly Director of Food, Sainsburys Bank plc.
Formerly Group Finance from 20022004, Group Finance Director of BT Marks & Spencer.
From 19942001 held senior Director of Carpetright plc 20022005, and Group plc from 20002002, Group Finance positions at ASDA Wal-Mart in Trading, HR Finance Director of Superdrug Stores plc Director of the BG Group plc formerly British and Retail.
Between 19882000 carried out Gas plc from 19952000, Group Finance of Haagen Dazs UK.
Early career with Mars a number of positions at the Arcadia plc Director of British Steel plc from 19901995, Confectionery and Pepsi International.
Age 45 formerly Burton Group including Joint Executive Director of Lazards from 19811990, Managing Director, Arcadia Home Shopping: Non-Executive Director of RMC Group plc Finance Director of Arcadia brands: Finance 20022005.
Currently he is a Non-Executive Director, Top Shop Top Man Burton Group Director of Belgacom the Belgian telecom and Director of Supply Chain Programme group since 2004.
Age 40 Val Gooding Gary Hughes Bob Stack Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed 11 January 2007.
Joined Cadbury Executive of BUPA since August 1998.
She of CMP Information a division of United Beverages in the US in 1990 and joined the joined BUPA from British Airways in 1996.
Formerly Group Finance Cadbury Schweppes plc Board in May 1996 is also a Non-Executive Director of Standard Director of Emap plc, Group Finance Director as Group Human Resources Director.
She is a member of the of SMG plc, Deputy Finance Director of Forte March 2000 he was appointed Chief Human Council of Warwick University and of the plc, and prior to this held a number of senior Resources Officer and took on responsibility Advisory Board of the Warwick Business management positions with Guinness plc in for communication and external affairs in School.
She is a Trustee of the British Museum, the UK and in North America.
He is also a Visiting Professor and a Non-Executive Director of the Lawn at Henley Management College.
Age 56 Dr John McAdam Anna Ford Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Life President Lord Sainsbury of Preston Candover KG Key to Committee Members Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Denotes Chairman of Committee Appointed 1 September 2005.
Retired from the BBC Note: Gary Hughes became Chairman of the Audit Executive of ICI plc, having joined Unilever as in April 2006 after 30 years of service.
She Committee on 10 May 2006 taking over from Jamie Dundas.
a management trainee in 1974 where he held has been a Trustee of the Royal Botanical a number of senior positions in Birds Eye Walls, Gardens in Kew, London: is Chancellor of Quest, and Unichema, before the sale of the Manchester University: a Fellow of the Royal Specialty Chemical Businesses to ICI in 1997.
Geographical Society: a Trustee of Forum for He is also a member of the University of the Future: an Honourary Bencher of Middle Cambridge Chemistry Advisory Board.
Temple and is on the Board of The Amazing Formerly Non-Executive Director of Group.
Age 59 28 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Mike Coupe Tim Fallowfield Ken McMeikan Trading Director appointed to the Company Secretary since 2001.
Tim Retail Director appointed to the Operating Board in October 2004. joined from Exel plc, formerly NFC plc, Operating Board in February 2005.
Joined Sainsburys from Big Food Group the global logistics company where he Ken joined Sainsburys from Tesco plc where he was a Board Director of Big was Company Secretary and Head of where he worked for 14 years.
He was Food Group plc and Managing Director Legal Services 19942001.
Prior to appointed Chief Executive for Tesco of Iceland Food Stores.
Previously this worked at Clifford Chance and is Japan having previously been appointed worked for both ASDA and Tesco plc.
Chief Executive of Europa Foods Admin Stores following its acquisition by Gwyn Burr Imelda Walsh Tesco.
Before joining Tesco he worked Customer Director joined the Operating HR Director since October 2001 and for Sears plc for four years.
Director of Sainsburys appointed to the Operating Board Bank plc.
Gwyn has over 20 years when it was formed in May 2004.
Roger Burnley business experience, including five Before this was a member of the Supply Chain Director appointed to with Nestle Rowntree and over 13 with Board of Sainsburys Supermarkets the Operating Board in March 2006.
At ASDA, she held Ltd from March 2003.
Director of Roger was previously Supply Chain various Board level positions across Sainsburys Bank plc.
Prior to joining Director at Matalan.
He spent his early Own Brand, Marketing, Customer Sainsburys, worked as the HR Director career in retail management and buying Service and Retail.
for Barclays Retail Financial Services.
at B&Q before joining ASDA Wal-Mart, Previous roles within the Barclays where he held a number of positions Darren Shapland See page 28.
Group included Group Employee Policy before becoming Supply Chain Director and Planning Director, HR Director, in 2001.
Corporate Banking and Group HR Development Director.
Previously worked for Coca-Cola and Schweppes Beverages.
Photo taken at the new Maidenhead store.
From left to right: Ken McMeikan, Roger Burnley, Mike Coupe, Imelda Walsh, Darren Shapland, Justin King, Tim Fallowfield and Gwyn Burr.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 29 Summary Directors report Subject to shareholders approving this provide competitive reward opportunities for The Board recommendation at the AGM, the dividend will delivering exceptional performance.
The Board is chaired by Philip Hampton.
be paid on 20 July 2007 to shareholders on the At 15 May 2007, the Board consisted of two The Value Builder framework remains a key part register at the close of business on 25 May 2007.
Executive Directors and five Non-Executive of the Companys total remuneration package Directors, in addition to the Chairman.
Dr John and consists of two elements, a deferred annual Annual General Meeting McAdam, Chief Executive of ICI plc, is the Senior bonus plan with a performance related share The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday Independent Director.
Anna Ford was appointed match and a long-term incentive plan.
11 July 2007 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London For 2007, the Committee is looking at ways of 2 May 2006 and Val Gooding on 11 January 2007.
The Notice of Meeting and the proxy operating the existing remuneration framework Bridget Macaskill left the Board following the card are enclosed with this review.
in line with the following key principles: Annual General Meeting in 2006 and Jamie Dundas stepped down on 2 February 2007. provide sufficient incentives to retain and Remuneration policy Biographical details of the Directors are set motivate the management team during a It is the intention of the Committee that out on page 28. period of change for the Company: Executive and Operating Board Directors remuneration should be competitive, both in fully utilise the existing best-practice incentive Corporate governance terms of base salary and total remuneration, framework, and build on its success: and During the year, the Company has complied taking into account the individual Directors role, with the provisions of the Combined Code on reward performance on a fair and performance and experience.
This approach is Corporate Governance the Code with the equitable basis.
designed to promote the Companys short and exception that, following the retirement of long-term success through securing and The Remuneration report is set out on pages Jamie Dundas, the Audit Committee has retaining high calibre executive talent.
Basic 37 to 43 of the Annual Report and Financial comprised only two Non-Executive Directors salary is targeted around the median of the Statements.
as members instead of three.
Philip Hampton, market with an opportunity to earn above who has extensive financial experience, attends median levels of total reward in return for all meetings of the Committee.
The Board is exceptional performance.
A significant currently recruiting a new Non-Executive proportion of the total remuneration package Director who will also join the Committee is performance related, aligning managements and bring the membership to three.
Remuneration The Board delegates certain responsibilities policies and practices are aligned with the to its principal committees.
The Corporate key corporate strategy, targets and objectives Responsibility CR Committee established and are designed to create long-term value during the year will advise the Board on broad for shareholders.
CR policy, taking into account the Companys In 2006, following an extensive consultation CR objectives and the overall strategic plan.
exercise with shareholders and institutions, Through the Audit Committee, the Directors the Committee formulated a new incentive ensure the integrity of financial information, framework the Value Builder framework to the effectiveness of the financial controls and support the business strategy over the medium the internal control and risk management to longer term which was consistent with best systems.
The Remuneration Committee sets practice and which was approved by the remuneration policy for Executive Directors shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
and determines their individual remuneration arrangements.
The Nomination Committee The Value Builder framework is based upon recommends the appointment of Board Directors a number of key principles so as to: and has responsibility for evaluating the balance build on the sales-led recovery plan announced of the Board and for succession planning at in October 2004 by embedding key measures Board level.
The Committees terms of reference of financial and capital efficiency: are available on the Companys website www.
support strong performance of the core business and delivery of shareholder value by Performance and dividend generating quality earnings, growing profits The Business review sets out a comprehensive and generating cash for future investments review of the development and performance of and or return to shareholders: the business for the year ended 24 March 2007 provide a common focus for the top and is set out on pages 3 to 27 of this review.
1,000 managers from Chief Executive to The Directors recommend the payment of a final supermarket store managers on critical dividend of 7.35 pence per share 2006: 5.85 business measures: pence, making a total dividend for the year retain and motivate talent for the longer term: of 9.75 pence per share 2006: 8.0 pence, an and increase of 21.9 per cent over the previous year.
30 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Summary Directors report continued Performance graph The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR performance of an investment of 100 180 in J Sainsbury plc shares over the last five years compared with an equivalent investment 140 in the FTSE 100 Index.
This has been selected to provide an established and broad-based index.
100 60 20 March March March March March March 02 03 04 05 06 07 J Sainsbury plc FTSE 100 Index The remuneration of the Directors for the year was as follows: 9 9 Pension Total Total 6 7 8 Salary fees Bonus supplement Benefits 2007 2006 Note 000 000 000 000 000 000 Justin King 1,10 725 960 181 55 1,921 1,471 Darren Shapland 433 405 65 16 919 619 Philip Hampton 395 1 396 398 Anna Ford 2 43 43 Val Gooding 3 10 10 Gary Hughes 54 54 45 John McAdam 55 55 31 Bob Stack 55 55 55 Directors who have left the Company during the year Jamie Dundas 4 40 40 55 Bridget Macaskill 5 14 14 45 1 Highest paid Director.
2 Appointed to the Board on 2 May 2006.
3 Appointed to the Board on 11 January 2007.
4 Left the Board on 2 February 2007.
6 Includes performance bonuses earned in the period under review but not paid in the financial year ended 24 March 2007.
7 Justin King is not a member of the Company pension schemes and received 25 per cent of his basic salary as a cash pension supplement.
In addition to this supplement 4,000 of interest has been earned on a notional fund provided in the prior year from his previous membership of the Executive Shareholder Pension Plan.
Darren Shapland is a member of the Executive Stakeholder Pension Plan.
He received a cash pension supplement equal to 20 per cent of the amount by which his salary exceeded the earnings cap 2006: 108,600.
8 Benefits include company car benefits and medical cover.
9 The totals for 2006 in the case of Justin King and 2006 and 2007 in the case of Darren Shapland do not include deductions made from basic salary for Saving Money and Reducing Tax SMART pensions.
10 See Performance Share Plan below for details of the vesting of a cash equivalent Performance Share Plan award.
11 With effect from 25 March 2007, Justin Kings base salary has been increased from 725,000 to 850,000 per annum.
Since his appointment in March 2004, the Chief Executive has received pay increases in line with colleagues 3.7 per cent in 2005 and 3.6 per cent in 2006.
However a recent salary review showed that his base pay had fallen significantly behind market median levels.
The Remuneration Committee strongly believes that it is in the interests of shareholders to re-align his base salary with market competitive levels.
Over a period of three years since his appointment, this will represent an increase of approximately 8.0 per cent per annum.
Similarly, the base salary for Darren Shapland was increased from 450,000 to 500,000 per annum, reflecting a move to bring his base pay in line with market competitive levels in the sector.
12 The aggregate remuneration and compensation of the Directors for the year was 3.5 million 2006: 2.9 million.
Performance Share Plan Under the Plan, shares conditionally allocated to participants are released to them in the form of options if the performance condition is met at the end of the three-year performance period.
The number of shares conditionally allocated in 2004 are shown below.
No allocations were made from 2005 06 and the Plan is now closed.
Number Number of of shares Number of Mid-market shares conditionally shares price on date Mid-market conditionally allocated Lapsed conditionally of conditional Options granted price on day allocated End of as at 25 March during allocated allocation during the year option granted as at 24 March performance 2006 the year during the year pence under the Plan pence 2007 period Justin King 20.05.04 184,762 274 184,762 24.03.07 The above figures for the 2004 award show the maximum award that would be released provided that the Company achieves first position within the comparator group namely Ahold, Alliance Boots, Carrefour, Casino, DSG International, GUS, Kingfisher, Loblaw, Marks & Spencer, Morrisons, Next and Tesco, at the end of the threeyear performance period.
Shares to the value of 30 per cent of salary will be released at median performance.
Awards will be pro rated at every position between the median and first position in the comparator group.
The Companys relative performance is determined by reference to TSR, being the increase in the value of a share, including reinvested dividends, over the threeyear period.
This measure was chosen to incentivise participants for maximising shareholder return over the medium-term.
On joining the Company, Justin King received a cash equivalent award, which was pro rated on a time basis over the performance period, as if he had received a conditional award under the Performance Share Plan grants made in 2003.
As previously disclosed, based on performance and pro rated time, he received a cash award in respect of 65,789 shares at the end of May 2006 217,038.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 31 Summary Directors report continued J Sainsbury plc Share Plan 2005 The table below shows the conditional awards granted under this Plan known as the Making Sainsburys Great Again Plan, which would be released if the Company achieves maximum vesting.
Share price at Date of Core share Personal Maximum date of award First exercise Last exercise 1 2 grant award investment share award pence date date Justin King 24.03.05 237,508 118,754 1,662,556 293.0 14.05.08 23.03.10 Darren Shapland 01.08.05 102,558 70,224 793,686 280.5 14.05.08 23.03.10 1 The maximum share award excludes the personal investment shares acquired by Justin King and Darren Shapland, which must be held for the duration of the Plan.
2 Depending on performance, partial vesting may occur following the Preliminary Results announcement in 2008.
3 The performance conditions attaching to the award are set out on page 85 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
4 The J Sainsbury plc Share Plan 2005 is a nil cost option plan.
Long-Term Incentive Conditional Plan 2006 The table below shows the conditional awards granted under this Plan, which would be released if the Company achieves maximum vesting.
Share price at Date of Maximum date of award First exercise Last exercise 1 2 grant share award pence date date Justin King 13.07.06 390,424 334.0 15.05.09 17.07.11 Darren Shapland 13.07.06 188,480 334.0 15.05.09 17.07.11 1 The maximum share award assumes full vesting.
2 Depending on performance, partial vesting may occur following the Preliminary Results announcement in 2009.
3 The performance conditions attaching to the award are set out on page 86 of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
4 The Long-Term Incentive Plan 2006 is a nil cost option plan.
Restricted Share Plans 2004 and 2005 As previously disclosed, Justin King and Darren Shapland gave up valuable entitlements arising from the Marks & Spencer Executive Incentive plans and the Carpetright Executive Incentive plans respectively when they joined the Company.
The Committee agreed to compensate them for these lost entitlements and awards comprising cash payments and restricted shares were made.
As the awards compensate them for lost entitlements there are no performance conditions.
Darren Shaplands outstanding award will be released on the vesting date if he remains an employee of the Company on the relevant date and will vest before the release date if his service contract is terminated by the Company other than for cause, in the event of death or on a change of control, unless the award is replaced by the acquiring company.
If he leaves employment for any other reason, the award will be forfeited.
Notional gain on release at Number of Number of Number of 319.0 pence restricted Date of Date of shares shares per share Vesting shares award release released lapsed 000 date Justin King 70,746 27.03.04 31.05.06 70,746 225.7 Justin King retained 41,740 shares arising out of the 2006 release: the remainder was used to fund the income tax and national insurance charge relating to the release.
Notional gain on release at Number of Number of Number of 352.0 pence restricted Date of Date of shares shares per share Vesting shares award release released lapsed 000 date Darren Shapland 32,200 01.08.05 01.08.06 32,200 113.3 32,200 01.08.05 01.08.07 Darren Shapland retained 18,998 shares arising out of the 2006 release: the remainder was used to fund the income tax and national insurance charge relating to the release.
32 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Summary Directors report continued Savings Related Share Options SAYE over ordinary shares At the end of the year, the Directors SAYE share options were as follows: Number of options Weighted Date average Range of Granted Exercised Lapsed exercise exercise 25 March during during the during 24 March price prices From which 2006 the year year the year 2007 pence pence exercisable Of expiry Justin King 6,969 6,969 231.0 231.0 01.03.11 31.08.11 Darren Shapland 2,881 2,881 328.0 328.0 01.03.10 31.08.10 The Savings Related Share Option Scheme is an all employee share option scheme and has no performance conditions as per Inland Revenue Regulations.
In the period from 25 March 2006 to 24 March 2007, the highest mid-market price of the Companys share was 557.0 pence and the lowest mid-market price was 311.0 pence and at 24 March 2007 was 549.5 pence.
Directors interests The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of the Company are shown below: 1 Ordinary Shares 25 March 24 March 15 May 4 2006 2007 2007 Justin King 231,915 274,047 274,088 Darren Shapland 51,243 70,241 70,241 Anna Ford 1,000 1,000 2 Val Gooding 1,320 1,320 1,320 Philip Hampton 25,000 25,000 25,000 Gary Hughes 15,100 15,446 15,446 John McAdam 1,000 1,000 1,000 3 Bob Stack 2,800 2,800 2,800 1 Ordinary shares are beneficial holdings which include the Directors personal holdings and those of their spouses and minor children.
They also include the beneficial interests in shares which are held in trust under the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan.
2 As at date of appointment.
3 Held in the form of 700 American Depository Receipts.
4 Includes shares purchased under the Sainsburys Share Purchase Plan between 24 March 2007 and 15 May 2007.
5 The Executive Directors are potential beneficiaries of the Companys employee benefit trusts, which are used to satisfy awards under the Companys employee share plans, and are therefore treated as interested in the 23.5 million shares 2006: 23.8 million held by the Trustees.
Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 33 Summary financial statements Group income statement for the 52 weeks to 24 March 2007 2007 2006 m m Continuing operations Revenue 17,151 16,061 Cost of sales 15,979 14,994 Gross profit 1,172 1,067 Administrative expenses 669 839 Other income 17 1 Operating profit 520 229 Finance income 64 30 Finance costs 107 155 Profit before taxation 477 104 Analysed as: 1 Underlying profit before tax 380 267 Profit on sale of properties 7 1 Financing fair value movements 8 12 One-off items 82 152 477 104 Income tax expense 153 46 Profit for the financial year 324 58 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 325 64 Minority interests 1 6 324 58 Earnings per share pence pence Basic 19.2 3.8 Diluted 18.9 3.8 1 Profit before tax from continuing operations before any gain or loss on the sale of properties, impairment of goodwill, financing fair value movements and one-off items that are material and infrequent in nature.
34 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Summary financial statements continued Group statement of recognised income and expense for the 52 weeks to 24 March 2007 2007 2006 m m Currency translation differences 2 Actuarial gains losses on defined benefit pension schemes 179 255 Available-for-sale financial assets fair value movements 24 26 Cash flow hedges effective portion of fair value movements 1 transferred to income statement 1 Share-based payment tax deductions recognised directly in equity 17 5 Deferred tax on items recognised directly in equity 59 68 Net income loss recognised directly in equity 161 154 Profit for the financial year 324 58 Total recognised income expense for the financial year 485 96 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 486 90 Minority interests 1 6 485 96 Effect of changes in accounting policy on adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 for the 52 weeks to 25 March 2006: Equity holders of the parent 78 Minority interests 78 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 35 Summary financial statements continued Group balance sheet at 24 March 2007 2007 2006 m m Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 7,176 7,060 Intangible assets 175 191 Investments in joint ventures 98 10 Available-for-sale financial assets 137 113 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers 1,473 Other receivables 50 Deferred income tax asset 55 7,636 8,902 Current assets Inventories 590 576 Trade and other receivables 197 276 Amounts due from Sainsburys Bank customers and other banks 1,888 Available-for-sale financial assets 52 Cash and cash equivalents 1,128 1,028 1,915 3,820 Non-current assets held for sale 25 25 1,940 3,845 Total assets 9,576 12,747 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 2,267 2,094 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and other banks 2,299 Short-term borrowings 373 253 Derivative financial instruments 2 10 Taxes payable 65 63 Provisions 14 91 2,721 4,810 Net current liabilities 781 965 Non-current liabilities Other payables 33 30 Amounts due to Sainsburys Bank customers and other banks 1,009 Long-term borrowings 2,090 2,178 Derivative financial instruments 43 2 Deferred income tax liability 168 Provisions 69 95 Retirement benefit obligations 103 658 2,506 3,972 Net assets 4,349 3,965 Equity Called up share capital 495 489 Share premium account 857 782 Capital redemption reserve 670 668 Other reserves 143 1 Retained earnings 2,184 1,948 Equity shareholders funds 4,349 3,886 Minority interests 79 Total equity 4,349 3,965 36 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Summary financial statements continued Group cash flow statement for the 52 weeks to 24 March 2007 2007 2006 m m Cash flows from operating activities Cash generated from operations 830 780 Interest paid 95 159 Corporation tax received 9 3 Net cash from operating activities 744 624 Cash flows from investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 778 549 Purchase of intangible assets 7 6 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 106 164 Acquisition of and investment in subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 3 6 Proceeds from part disposal of Sainsburys Bank 21 Cash disposed on part disposal of Sainsburys Bank 33 Cost of disposal of operations 1 13 Interest received 15 6 Net cash from investing activities 680 404 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 81 22 Capital redemption 2 9 Repayment of short-term borrowings 53 348 Repayment of long-term borrowings 22 1,701 Proceeds from short-term borrowings 50 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 2,056 Debt restructuring costs 2 22 Repayment of capital element of obligations under finance lease borrowings 1 Interest elements of obligations under finance lease payments 3 3 Dividends paid 140 131 Issue of loan from minority shareholder 9 Net cash from financing activities 141 78 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 77 142 Opening cash and cash equivalents 842 700 Closing cash and cash equivalents 765 842 Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 37 Independent Auditors statement Independent Auditors statement We also read the other information contained Opinion to the members of J Sainsbury plc in the Annual Review and Summary Financial In our opinion the Summary Financial Statement We have examined the Summary Financial Statement and consider the implications for our is consistent with the Annual Report and Financial Statement which comprises the Group income statement if we become aware of any apparent Statements, the Directors report and the statement, Group statement of recognised misstatements or material inconsistencies with Remuneration report of J Sainsbury plc for the income and expense, Group balance sheet, Group the Summary Financial Statement.
52 weeks to 24 March 2007 and complies with cash flow statement and the Summary Directors the applicable requirements of section 251 of This statement, including the opinion, has report set out on pages 30 to 37. the Companies Act 1985, and the regulations been prepared for and only for the Companys made thereunder.
Respective responsibilities of Directors members as a body in accordance with section and Auditors 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other The Directors are responsible for preparing the purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept  LLP Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement or assume responsibility for any other purpose Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors in accordance with United Kingdom law.
or to any other person to whom this statement London is shown or into whose hands it may come save Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion 15 May 2007 where expressly agreed by our prior consent on the consistency of the Summary Financial in writing.
Statement within the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement with the Annual Report and Basis of opinion Financial Statements, the Directors report and We conducted our work in accordance with the Remuneration report, and its compliance Bulletin 1999 6, The Auditors statement on with the relevant requirements of section 251 the summary financial statement issued by of the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations the Auditing Practices Board.
Our report on made thereunder.
the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements describes the basis of our audit opinion on those financial statements and the Remuneration report.
Shareholder information End of year information at 24 March 2007 Number of shareholders: 127,354 2006: 140,920 Number of shares in issue: 1,734,239,672 2006: 1,710,516,638 By size of holding Shareholders % Shares % 2007 2006 2007 2006 500 and under 67.62 64.84 0.57 0.65 501 to 1,000 12.59 13.31 0.69 0.81 1,001 to 10,000 18.31 20.35 3.34 4.20 10,001 to 100,000 0.95 1.03 1.86 2.24 100,001 to 1,000,000 0.36 0.34 8.68 9.53 Over 1,000,000 0.17 0.13 84.86 82.57 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 By category of shareholder Shareholders % Shares % 2007 2006 2007 2006 Individual and other shareholders 96.04 94.86 21.91 31.17 Insurance companies 0.05 0.05 0.03 0.03 Banks and Nominees 3.52 4.61 69.71 54.82 Investment Trusts 0.03 0.04 0.01 0.01 Pension Funds 0.01 0.02 0.13 0.26 Other Corporate Bodies 0.35 0.42 8.21 13.71 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 38 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Shareholder information continued Annual General Meeting AGM Individual Savings Account ISA Investor relations The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Wednesday A corporate ISA is available from The Share For investor enquiries please contact: Elliot 11 July 2007 at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre Ltd and offers a tax efficient way of Jordan, Head of Investor Relations, J Sainsbury Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London holding shares in the Company.
Both a Maxi and plc, Store Support Centre, 33 Holborn, SW1P 3EE.
The Notice of the Meeting and the Mini ISA are available.
proxy card for the meeting are enclosed with contact: The Share Centre, PO Box 2000, Oxford American Depositary Receipts ADRs this review.
The Company has a sponsored Level I ADR Company website programme for which The Bank of New York acts Telephone: 01296 414141 or freephone 08000 J Sainsbury plc interim and annual reports and as depositary.
results announcements are available via the Low cost share dealing service The ADRs are traded on the over-the-counter internet on our website www.
The Company offers a low cost share dealing OTC market in the US under the symbol As well as providing share price data and financial service for J Sainsbury plc ordinary shares JSYNSY, where one ADR is equal to four history, the site also provides background through The Share Centre Ltd. For further ordinary shares.
information about the Company, regulatory and information contact: The Share Centre, PO Box news releases and current issues.
Shareholders All enquiries relating to ADRs should be 2000, Oxford Road, Aylesbury, Buckinghamshire can receive email notification of results and addressed to: HP21 8ZB.
press announcements as they are released The Bank of New York, Investor Relations, by registering on the page called Email news Telephone: 01296 414141 or freephone 08000 PO Box 11258, Church Street Station, New York, service in the Investor section of the website.
Toll Free Telephone # for Registrars ShareGift domestic callers: 1-888-BNY-ADRS.
For information about the AGM, shareholdings, Shareholders who wish to donate shares to International callers can call: 1-610-382-7836 dividends and to report changes to personal charity can do so through Share Gift, the Email: shareowners@bankofny.
com details, shareholders should contact: independent charity share donation scheme General contact details Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box registered charity no.
Further An audio tape of the Annual Review and 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol information about ShareGift may be obtained Summary Financial Statement can be obtained BS99 7NH.
from Computershare Investor Services PLC by calling: 01435 862 737. or from ShareGift on 020 7337 0501 or at Telephone: 0870 702 0106 www.
There are no implications Annual Reports, Interim Reports and information www.
for capital gains tax purposes on gain or loss on corporate responsibility are all available Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP on gifts of shares to charity and it is also on our website at www.
co. uk and The Company has a DRIP, which allows possible to claim income tax relief.
by calling 0800 015 4330. shareholders to reinvest their cash dividends Tax information Capital Gains Tax CGT Share price information is available on the in the Companys shares bought in the market For CGT purposes, the market value of ordinary Companys website, in the financial press and the through a specially arranged share dealing shares on 31 March 1982 adjusted for all capital Cityline service operated by the Financial Times service.
No new shares are allotted under this adjustments was 91.99 pence and B Shares Telephone: 0906 003 3904.
Plan and some 31,157 shareholders participate 10.941 pence.
Full details of the Plan and its charges, For general enquiries about Sainsburys Bank Share capital consolidation together with mandate forms, are available call: 0500 405 060.
The original base cost of shares apportioned from the Registrars.
4 For any customer enquiries please contact our between ordinary shares of 28 7 pence and B Key dates for the final dividend are as follows: Customer Careline Shares is made by reference to the market value by calling: 0800 636 262. of each class of shares on the first day for which Last date for return of a market value is quoted after the new holding revocation of Plan mandates 29 June 2007 comes into existence.
The market value for CGT Plan shares purchased purposes of any share or security quoted on the for participants 20 July 2007 Stock Exchange Daily Official List is generally the lower of the two quotations on any day plus Plan share certificates one quarter of the difference between the issued 2 August 2007 values.
On Monday 19 July 2004 the values were determined as follows: New ordinary shares 257.5 pence B Shares 35 pence Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 J Sainsbury plc 39 Shareholder information continued Electronic communications for shareholders Financial calendar 2007 08 The Company has set up a facility for shareholders to take advantage of electronic communications.
Dividend and interest payments Ordinary dividend If you would like to: check the balance and current value of your shareholding and view Ex-dividend date 23 May 2007 your dividend history Record date 25 May 2007 register your email address so that future shareholder information Final dividend payable 20 July 2007 Interim dividend payable January 2008 can be sent to you electronically submit your vote online prior to a general meeting B shares Log on to www.
co. uk and complete the following steps: Last redemption date 18 July 2007 1 click on Investors Interest payment date 18 July 2007 2 click on Shareholder Services 3 click on Computershare Other dates 4 enter the required information and click on submit.
You will need Annual General Meeting London 11 July 2007 your 11 character shareholder reference number located on your Interim results announced 14 November 2007 latest tax voucher Interim report available November 2007 5 click on Electronic Shareholder Communication and register online.
Annual General Meeting Birmingham 15 July 2008 Registered office Auditors J Sainsbury plc  LLP 33 Holborn 1 Embankment Place London EC1N 2HT London WC2N 6RH Registered number 185647 Solicitors Stockbrokers Linklaters UBS One Silk Street 1 Finsbury Avenue London EC2Y 8HQ London EC2M 2PP Morgan Stanley 25 Cabot Square Canary Wharf London E14 4QA 40 J Sainsbury plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 Glossary Active Kids Our nationwide scheme to help DRIP Dividend Reinvestment Plan Allows MTL Multiple traffic lights Nutritional inspire school children to take more exercise and shareholders to reinvest their cash dividend in labels which provide effective at-a-glance to eat more healthily.
co. uk activekids the weighted average number of ordinary shares use of artificial fertilisers, pesticides, growth ADR American Depositary Receipt in issue during the year, excluding those held by regulators and additives in livestock feed.
ESOP trusts, which are treated as cancelled.
International Federation of Organic Agriculture Movements IFOAM accredits national organic AGM Annual General Meeting This year the Easter adjustment To adjust for the timing of certifying bodies.
This Review is printed on Revive Uncoated, a recycled paper containing 100% post consumer collected waste.
