Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the applicable law and regulations.
Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the the Company and the Group financial statements in accordance with Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: legislation in other jurisdictions.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
44 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Independent Auditors report to the members of J Sainsbury plc We have audited the Group and Company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of J Sainsbury plc for the 52 weeks to We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on 24 March 2007 which comprise the Group income statement, the Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit Group and Company Statements of recognised income and expense, includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts the Group and Company Balance sheets, the Group and Company Cash and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration flow statements, and the related notes.
These financial statements report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
estimates and judgments made by the Directors in the preparation of We have also audited the information in the Remuneration report the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are that is described as having been audited.
appropriate to the Groups and Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited are free Directors responsibilities.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of Remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and the Remuneration report to be audited.
regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only Opinion In our opinion: for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any affairs as at 24 March 2007 and of its profit and cash flows for the 52 other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may weeks then ended: come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the Company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give with IFRS as adopted by the European Union as applied in accordance a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared Companys affairs as at 24 March 2007 and cash flows for the 52 in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group weeks then ended: financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the in the Directors report includes that specific information presented in IAS Regulation: and the Business review that is cross referred from the Business review the information given in the Directors report is consistent with the section of the Directors report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and  LLP explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
London 15 May 2007 We review whether the Statement of corporate governance reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, the Business review, the Directors report, the Statement of corporate governance and the unaudited part of the Remuneration report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 J Sainsbury plc 45
