JJB Sports plc Statement of accounting policies For the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 Accounting period Every accounting period ends on the Sunday which falls before, but closest to 31 January, resulting in accounting periods of either 52 or 53 weeks.
Basis of preparation These Financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union EU and comply with Article 4 of the EU International Accounting Standards Regulation.
IFRS are subject to amendment and interpretation by the International Accounting Standards Board.
These Financial statements and the comparative information have been prepared on the historical cost basis, and the principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
At the date of authorisation of these Financial statements, the following standards and interpretations which have not been applied in these Financial statements were in issue but not yet effective.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related amendment to IAS 1 on capital disclosures IFRS 8 Operating segments IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a lease IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 IFRIC 9 Reassessment of embedded derivatives IFRIC 10 Interim reporting and impairments IFRIC 11 IFRS 2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12 Service concession arrangements The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these standards and interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the Financial statements of the Group except for additional disclosures on capital and financial instruments when the relevant standards come into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
Basis of consolidation The Financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries, together making up the Group.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to be able to obtain benefits from its activities.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is credited to capital reserve in the period of acquisition.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the accounting period are included in the Consolidated income statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
No Income statement is presented for JJB Sports plc, as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for impairment at least annually.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in the Consolidated income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS, has been retained at the previous UK GAAP carrying amounts, subject to being tested for impairment at the end of every accounting period including the date of transition.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 37 JJB Sports plc Statement of accounting policies continued For the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment loss.
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land and properties under construction, over their estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method, as follows: Freehold land and buildings 50 years Short leasehold property over the period of the lease Plant and equipment 5 to 20 years Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful lives on the same basis as owned assets or, where shorter, over the term of the relevant lease.
The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill and brand licence intangible assets At every balance sheet date, a review of the carrying amounts of the tangible and intangible assets, excluding goodwill and brand licence intangible assets, is performed to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent, if any, of the impairment loss.
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit to which the asset belongs.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value in use.
In assessing the value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is immediately recognised as an expense in the Consolidated income statement.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset or cash-generating unit in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is immediately recognised in the Consolidated income statement.
Brand licence intangible assets Any brand licence intangible assets that are internally generated are not recorded on the Balance sheet.
The Group and Company only carry brand licence intangible assets on the Balance sheet that have been acquired.
Acquired brands are carried at cost on the Balance sheet.
Subject to an impairment review, no amortisation is charged on those brand licence intangible assets which have an indefinite life as the Group believes that the value of these brands is maintained indefinitely.
The cost of those brands which have a finite life are amortised over the period during which the Group and Company has the use of the brand.
The Group carries out an impairment review on the brand licence intangible assets, at least annually, or when a change in circumstances or situation indicates that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying amount of an intangible asset with the recoverable amount that is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.
Value in use is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows, using a discount rate based on an estimate of the rate that the market would expect on an investment of comparable risk.
Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated using the FIFO first in first out method.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or damaged items where appropriate.
Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and demand deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 38 JJB Sports plc Statement of accounting policies continued For the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 Bank borrowings Interest-bearing bank loans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premiums payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an accrual basis in the Consolidated income statement using the effective interest rate method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Short-term provisions Short-term provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the Directors best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
Share based payments JJB has applied the requirements of IFRS 2 Share based payments.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as of 28 January 2007.
JJB issues equity-settled share based payments to certain employees.
Equity-settled share based payments are measured at their fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the date of the grant of the equity-settled share based payments is expensed to the Consolidated income statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on JJBs estimate of shares that will eventually vest.
Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model.
The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions, and behavioural considerations.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, returns, VAT and other sales related taxes.
In the case of goods sold through the retail stores, revenue is recognised when goods are sold and the title has passed.
Revenue also includes income generated from the provision of sports and leisure facilities at the Groups health clubs.
This revenue is recognised in the accounting period during which the facility is made available to members of the health clubs.
Revenue from joining fees are contributions to cover costs of the administration of new members and are wholly recognised in the Consolidated income statement in the accounting period of the receipt of that revenue.
Finance income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
Leasing Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
The Group as lessor Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
The Group as lessee Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating lease are also spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Retirement benefit costs Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to State-managed retirement benefit schemes are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 39 JJB Sports plc Statement of accounting policies continued For the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 Foreign currencies Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses arising on retranslation are recognised in the Consolidated income statement for the period in which the gain or loss arises except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups overseas operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the accounting period.
Exchange differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups foreign currency translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or expense in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
The Group has elected to treat goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS as sterling-denominated assets and liabilities.
Taxation The taxation expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The taxation currently payable is based upon the taxable profit for the accounting period.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Consolidated income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the Financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Consolidated income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 40
