Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE is given that the Annual General Meeting AGM of JKX b the maximum price which may be paid for each such Oil & Gas plc the Company will be held at the offices of ordinary share shall be an amount equal to 105 per cent Cardew Group, 12 Suffolk Street, London SW1Y 4HG on of the average of the middle market quotations for an Thursday, 29 May 2008 at 11.00 am for the following purposes: ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately As ordinary business preceding the day on which such ordinary share is 1.
To receive the accounts of the Company, the Directors contracted to be purchased exclusive of expenses and report and the Auditors report thereon for the year ended the minimum price which may be paid for such ordinary 31 December 2007. share shall be the nominal value of such ordinary share at the time of such purchase exclusive of expenses : and 2.
To approve the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2007. c unless previously varied, revoked or renewed, the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire on the 3.
To re-elect Lord Fraser of Carmyllie QC who retires and earlier of the date 15 months after the passing of this whose biographical details are included on page 37 of the resolution and at the conclusion of the next AGM of the 2007 annual report and accounts, as a Director of the Company after the date on which this resolution is passed, Company.
provided that the Company may before such expiry date 4.
To re-elect Viscount Asquith who retires and whose enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares under biographical details are included on page 37 of the 2007 this authority which will or may be completed or executed annual report and accounts, as a Director of the Company.
wholly or partly after the expiration of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of 5.
To re-elect Peter Dixon who retires and whose biographical such contract.
details are included on page 36 of the 2007 annual report and accounts, as a Director of the Company.
That the Companys Articles of Association be amended as follows: 6.
To re-elect Martin Miller who retires and whose biographical details are included on page 36 of the 2007 a by deleting from the first sentence of Article 49 the annual report and accounts, as a Director of the Company.
words or an extraordinary general meeting called for the passing of a special resolution and by deleting from the 7.
To re-elect Nigel Moore who retires and whose biographical second sentence the word extraordinary: details are included on page 37 of the 2007 annual report and accounts, as a Director of the Company.
b by deleting Article 107 and replacing it with the following new Article: 8.
To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the next general 107 1 A Director who is in any way, whether directly or meeting of the Company at which accounts of the Company indirectly, interested in a transaction or arrangement are laid before the members are to authorise the Directors with the Company shall, at a meeting of the Board, to determine their remuneration.
declare in accordance with the Acts the nature of his interest.
For the purposes of this Article and Articles 9.
To declare the dividend recommended by the Directors 108 and 110: of the Company.
a a general notice given to the Board that a As special business Director is to be regarded as having an interest of To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, the nature and extent specified in the notice in any which will be proposed as special resolutions.
transaction or arrangement in which a specified person or class of persons is interested shall be 10.
That, in substitution for any existing authority pursuant to deemed to be a disclosure that the Director has an section 166 of the Companies Act 1985, the Company be interest in any such transaction of the nature and and is hereby generally authorised to make market extent so specified: purchases within the meaning of section 163 of the Act pursuant to and in accordance with section 166 of the Act b an interest of which a Director has no knowledge of fully paid ordinary shares in the capital of the Company and of which it is unreasonable to expect him to upon and subject to the following conditions but otherwise have knowledge shall not be treated as an interest unconditionally: of his: and a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby c an interest of a person who is connected with authorised to be purchased is 15,604,932 representing a Director shall be treated as an interest of the approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share Director.
capital of the Company as at 29 May 2008 : 90 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 2 For the purpose of section 175 of the Companies Act c by deleting from the first sentence of Article 108 the 2006, the Directors shall have the power to authorise words Article 107 and inserting instead the words Article any matter which would or otherwise might constitute 107 1 and, once such provisions come into effect, provided or give rise to a breach of duty of a Director under that that the matter has been authorised by the Directors in section of the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a situation accordance with paragraph 2 of Article 107: and in which he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest d by replacing in Article 104 the amount of 250,000 with that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interest the amount of 500,000. of the Company.
3 Authorisation of a matter under paragraph 2 above shall be effective only if: a the matter in question shall have been proposed in writing for consideration at a meeting of the Directors, in accordance with the Boards normal procedures or in such manner as the Directors Bruce Burrows may approve: Secretary b any requirement as to the quorum at the Registered office: meeting of the Directors at which the matter is 6 Cavendish Square, considered is met without counting the Director London W1G 0PD in question and any other interested Director: and c the matter was agreed to without the interested Directors voting or would have been agreed to if the Notes: votes of the interested Directors had not been 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is also entitled to counted.
appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
4 Any authorisation of a matter pursuant to paragraph 2.
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy, together with the power of 2 above shall extend to any actual or potential conflict attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power of authority must be deposited with the of interest which might reasonably be expected to arise Companys Registrars, Lloyds Bank Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, out of the matter so authorised.
West Sussex BN99 6ZL not less than 48 hours before the time fixed for the Meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed with this notice.
Completion and 5 Any authorisation of a matter under paragraph 2 return of the form of proxy will not preclude shareholders from attending above shall be the subject of such conditions or or voting at the Meeting if they wish.
limitations as the Directors may determine, whether at 3.
Copies of the Directors service contracts and the terms of engagement the time such authorisation is given or subsequently, for Non-executive Directors, together with the register of Directors share and may be determined by the Directors at any time.
interests, are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on each business day until the A Director shall comply with any obligations imposed conclusion of the AGM and will also be available at the place of the AGM on him by the Directors pursuant to any such from at least 15 minutes prior to the Meeting until its conclusion.
6 Any authorisation of a matter under paragraph 2 above may provide that, where a Director obtains other than through his position as a Director of the Company information that is confidential to a third party, he will not be obliged to disclose it to the Company or to use it in relation to the Companys affairs in circumstances where to do so would amount to a breach of that confidence.
7 The provisions of paragraphs 2 to 6 above shall take effect on 1 October 2008 or any other date on which section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 comes into effect: Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 91
