Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the directors to prepare the financial statements of the Company for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
In addition, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each of the directors have taken all the steps that he ought to have taken in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor was aware of such information.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company hence for taking responsible steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the website.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Bruce Burrows Company Secretary 2 April 2008 82 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007
