REMUNERATION REPORT Johnson Matthey Total Shareholder Return and FTSE 100 rebased to 100 The following graph charts total cumulative shareholder return of the company for the five year period from 31st March 2002 to 31st March 2007 against the FTSE 100 as the most appropriate comparator group, rebased to 100 at 1st April 2002.
Johnson Matthey joined the FTSE 100 on 12th June 2002.
200 180 Johnson Matthey FTSE 100 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 March 2002 March 2003 March 2004 March 2005 March 2006 March 2007 The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 5th June 2007 and signed on its behalf by: Charles Mackay Chairman of the Management Development and Remuneration Committee RESPONSIBILITY OF DIRECTORS for the preparation of the Annual Report and the accounts state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and as adopted by the EU: and the group and parent company accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and parent company will Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent continue in business.
company accounts for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the group accounts in accordance with The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial European Union EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its the parent company accounts on the same basis.
accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open The group and parent company accounts are required by law and to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of detect fraud and other irregularities.
the group and the parent company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such accounts Under applicable law and regulations the directors are also that references in the relevant part of that Act to accounts giving a responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
In preparing each of the group and parent company accounts, the directors are required to: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
