OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Precious Metal Products Division enjoyed very strong New Divisional Structure growth in 2006 07, benefiting from buoyant trading conditions in platinum group metals and good growth in its manufacturing From 1st April 2007 we have reorganised our divisional businesses.
In the second half of the year the division benefited structure, creating a new Environmental Technologies Division from some trading profits on the minor pgms which we do not which comprises ECT, the process technologies businesses expect to be repeated at the same level in 2007 08, but overall, within Process Catalysts and Technologies PCT and Fuel Cells.
if current market conditions continue, we would still expect the The remaining businesses within PCT, which serve the speciality division to achieve further growth in 2007 08, particularly in the chemicals and pharmaceutical markets, have been merged with first half of the year.
Pharmaceutical Materials to form a new Fine Chemicals & Our new Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division is expected Catalysts Division.
Precious Metal Products Division is unchanged.
to achieve steady growth in 2007 08, with a further recovery This new structure is designed to give greater focus on in the US Pharmaceutical Materials & Services business and technologies concerned with protecting the environment such as continued growth in catalysts and research chemicals.
Most of pollution control, cleaner fuel, more efficient use of hydrocarbons the divisions growth in 2007 08 is likely to come in the second and the hydrogen economy.
Our new Environmental Technologies half of the year.
Division, which combines our core skills in catalysts and process Overall, the group should perform well in 2007 08.
Prospects technology, is well positioned to serve these emerging markets.
for all our businesses are good, particularly for Environmental Johnson Mattheys Pharmaceutical Materials business is Technologies where global concerns about pollution, climate focused on the manufacture of fine chemicals, particularly active change and making the most efficient use of energy resources pharmaceutical ingredients APIs, sold to pharmaceutical will create significant opportunities for future growth.
companies which fits well with the groups other fine chemicals and catalysts businesses which sell into the same or similar markets.
Our new Fine Chemicals & Catalysts Division, which combines the groups fine chemicals and related catalysts Operations businesses, will enable us to take advantage of the marketing and technology synergies that exist between these businesses.
Johnson Matthey has operations in over 30 countries and The segmental results for 2006 07, restated for the new employs around 7,800 people.
In the 2006 07 financial year divisions, are shown on page 19.
Johnson Mattheys operations were organised into four global divisions: Catalysts, Precious Metal Products, Pharmaceutical Materials and Ceramics.
The sale of Ceramics Division was completed on 28th February 2007.
Outlook Catalysts Division The outlook for the group for the next few years continues to be very encouraging.
We expect to achieve further strong growth Description of the Business in sales excluding precious metals, particularly in Environmental Catalysts Division consists of three global businesses: Technologies Division.
In 2007 08 growth in underlying earnings per share will be approximately 4 to 5% less than the growth in Environmental Catalysts and Technologies ECT profit before tax for the continuing businesses, because of the ECT comprises Johnson Mattheys global autocatalyst, heavy dilutive effect of the sale of Ceramics.
However, looking forward duty diesel and stationary source emissions control businesses.
to 2008 09 and beyond, growth in profit before tax and We are a world leading manufacturer of catalysts for vehicle earnings will be stronger as a result of the divestment.
exhaust emission control and a leader in catalyst systems for In 2007 08 we should benefit from a full year of sales of the reduction of volatile organic compound emissions from HDD catalysts to meet new emission standards introduced in industrial processes.
Manufacturing takes place in the USA, UK, Europe in October 2006 and in North America in January Belgium, Mexico, Argentina, South Africa, Japan, Malaysia, India 2007.
Although industry experts are predicting a 25% fall in and China.
R&D facilities are in the USA, UK, Sweden, Japan truck sales in North America in 2007, all new trucks sold will and Brazil.
need to meet the emissions legislation, which will provide the Process Catalysts and Technologies PCT opportunity for significant new business for Johnson Matthey.
PCT manufactures base and precious metal process catalysts, In addition, ECT should achieve significant growth in sales of fine chemicals and electrochemical products.
Manufacturing CSFs for light duty diesel vehicles and grow its market share of facilities are in the UK, USA, Germany, India and China.
Overall, we expect ECT to achieve double Davy Process Technology business develops chemical process digit growth in both sales and operating profit in 2007 08. technologies and licenses them to customers in the oil, gas and Our Process Technologies business is also experiencing petrochemical industries.
Our Research Chemicals business is strong demand, particularly for catalysts for synthesis gas and based in the USA and UK.
Prospects for Process Technologies are encouraging, driven by the high oil price and the need to make Fuel Cells more efficient use of hydrocarbon feedstocks.
Johnson Matthey is the world leader in catalysts and catalysed components for fuel cells.
8 Johnson Matthey NOx g kW-hr Figure 1 Figure 2 HDD On Road Regulation Development HDD On Road Regulation Development New models All models Europe Euro IV 01 Oct 05 01 Oct 06 Euro V 01 Oct 08 01 Oct 09 Japan 2003 0.20 United States US2007 01 Jan 07 01 Jan 07 US 2002 US2010 01 Jan 10 01 Jan 10 0.15 Japan Short Term 2.5-12 tonnes 01 Oct 03 01 Oct 03 12 tonnes 01 Oct 04 01 Oct 04 0.10 New Long Term Japan 2005 Euro III 2.5 tonnes 01 Oct 05 01 Oct 05 US 2007 0.05 Diesel 09 US 2010 2.5 tonnes 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 09 China Beijing Euro IV 2008 0 0.5 Euro V Rest of country Euro IV 2010 Japan 2009 Euro IV 1.0 1.5 2.0 India Major cities 2010 or earlier?
2.5 3.0 3.5 South Korea Euro IV 01 Jan 06 01 Jan 08 4.0 4.5 5.0 Brazil Euro IV 2009 5.5 6.0 Performance in 2006 07 Estimated Light Vehicle Sales and Production Year to 31st March Catalysts Divisions sales rose by 48% to 2,193 million, partly 2007 2006 change millions millions % as a result of significantly higher prices for platinum, palladium and rhodium.
Excluding the value of precious metals, sales rose North America Sales 19.3 19.7 -2.0% Production 14.9 15.9 -6.3% by 32% to 1,036 million.
This increase was driven by good volume growth and the impact of higher material costs, such as Total Europe Sales 21.3 20.6 3.4% Production 21.1 20.7 1.9% the costs of substrates for catalysed soot filters, which are a Asia Sales 16.4 15.2 7.9% pass through for Johnson Matthey.
Production 25.4 23.2 9.5% The divisions operating profit increased by 11% to Global Sales 66.3 64.5 2.8% 148.8 million, with both Environmental Catalysts and Technologies Production 66.9 64.9 3.1% and Process Catalysts and Technologies performing well.
The Source: Global Insight results were adversely affected by exchange translation.
At last years rates sales excluding precious metals would have We continue to see increasing demand from many of the increased by 35% and operating profit would be 14% up.
leading car companies in Europe for CSFs to remove particulates Environmental Catalysts and Technologies from diesel exhaust emissions.
Although legislation requiring Environmental Catalysts and Technologies was well ahead of such emission control devices does not come into full force in last year with good growth in Europe, particularly for diesel Europe until 2010, most car manufacturers are starting to fit oxidation catalysts and CSFs, increasing autocatalyst sales in Asia these devices much earlier due to public awareness of the and a welcome upturn in our North American business with environmental and health benefits that they provide.
In 2006 07 the introduction of products to meet new HDD legislation.
we completed work on a new factory in Royston, UK to In Johnson Mattheys financial year to 31st March 2007 manufacture CSFs and during 2007 08 we will complete an global light duty vehicle sales increased by 2.8% to 66.3 million.
additional facility which will double our capacity.
In addition, we Car production rose by 3.1% with a small overall increase in have added CSF capacity at our South African facility, which also inventories.
Most of the growth in production again came in supplies the European market.
Asia, which was 9.5% up on last year.
Within Asia, sales grew During the year we commenced construction of a new 21% in China and 23% in India.
Total European sales were 3.4% autocatalyst manufacturing facility in the Russian Federation.
up, with all the growth coming in Eastern Europe 16%.
Sales This plant will produce catalysts to meet demand from both in Russia, where Johnson Matthey is constructing a new plant, local and global car manufacturers following the introduction increased 30% during the year.
In North America light vehicle of emissions legislation requiring autocatalyst fitment in Russia sales were 2.0% down and domestic production fell by 6.3% in the spring of 2006. as imports gained market share.
Our business in Asia continues to perform very well.
Over the next decade we expect that most of the growth in world car production will take place in the Asian region.
In 2006 07 we have achieved strong volume growth in China and Japan and our operations in India and Malaysia also continued to Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9 PM g kW-hr OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW perform well.
During the year we again expanded our legislation to Europe and the US is expected to be introduced autocatalyst manufacturing facility in Japan in order to serve in those two countries by 2010.
HDD emissions legislation in growing demand for our products from Japanese car companies.
Europe, the US and Japan will tighten significantly in 2009 and Further expansion is planned for the coming year.
2010 which will require more sophisticated catalyst systems to Our new plant in South Korea our fifth in the Asian region meet the standards.
is nearing completion and will begin production during 2007 08.
On road HDD emissions legislation will undoubtedly This new plant will manufacture catalysts for both diesel and continue to tighten beyond 2010.
In addition there is also petrol powered vehicles and will carry out research and legislation in place in the European Union and the United States development activities to support the rapidly growing Korean that will take effect from 2011 requiring off road or non road motor industry.
vehicles such as construction, mining and agricultural equipment The market for HDD catalysts for new vehicles grew to meet the same tight emissions standards.
Although average rapidly in the second half of the year.
New emission control engine sizes are smaller than those for on road HDD vehicles, standards for HDD vehicles came into force in October 2006 this is a significant additional new opportunity for Johnson for all new vehicles sold in Europe.
In the United States similar Matthey and will have similar technology requirements.
legislation came into force at the beginning of January 2007.
Process Catalysts and Technologies Johnson Matthey has a leading market share of both these new Process Catalysts and Technologies also achieved good growth markets.
A major expansion programme was completed in the in sales and profits in 2006 07.
The Ammonia, Methanol, Oil year at our facility near Philadelphia, USA to provide capacity to and Gas AMOG business was well ahead of last year with meet demand for catalysts for both heavy duty diesel vehicles continued strong demand for catalysts and purification materials and diesel powered pick ups, which are also affected by this for industries where hydrogen or synthesis gas are key legislation.
Demand from methanol producers was particularly Johnson Mattheys sales, excluding precious metals, of HDD good in 2006 07.
Sales of edible oil catalysts were also ahead of catalysts to original equipment manufacturers OEMs increased last year but catalyst sales to the polymer market declined.
to 46 million in the second half of 2006 07 from 7 million in Davy Process Technology DPT, which we acquired in the first half.
Sales in the US, as expected, started slowly as February 2006, had an excellent year concluding several major truck sales were impacted by pre-buying of trucks ahead of the contracts.
The acquisition of DPT has provided Johnson Matthey legislation.
In 2007 08 we expect to see further rapid growth in with additional opportunities to grow sales of catalysts into new our sales of HDD catalysts as the legislation in Europe and the technology developments.
DPT develops and licenses chemical US will apply for the whole of the year and as US truck sales process technologies and is benefiting from growth in China as return to more normal levels over the course of the year.
well as high energy prices which have increased demand for Our HDD business in Asia continues to make good new chemical processes.
A good example of this is the progress, gaining share of the OEM market in Japan and announcement in February 2007 that the AMOG business and achieving good sales into the large retrofit programme DPT had entered into contracts for a methanol technology underway in Seoul, South Korea.
Both China and India are licence, basic engineering design package and methanol major manufacturers of trucks and similar emission control 10 Johnson Matthey synthesis catalyst supply for a new 1.8 million tonne per year Precious Metal Products Division methanol project for Baotou Shenhua Coal Chemicals.
This Description of the Business project is a coal to olefin plant being constructed in Baotou City in Inner Mongolia.
Methanol will be produced from locally Precious Metal Products Division is organised into three groups: mined coal using advanced methanol synthesis technology and Platinum, Colour Technologies and Gold and Silver and catalysts supplied by Johnson Matthey.
The methanol will then incorporates Johnson Mattheys precious metals marketing, be further converted to olefins via methanol to olefins MTO fabrication and refining activities as well as its business technology.
manufacturing functional and decorative coatings for glass Tracerco, PCTs oil services business, also achieved good and ceramics.
growth in the year benefiting from record demand for its Platinum specialist diagnostics services and equipment from production Consists of our worldwide platinum marketing and fabrication platforms and refineries.
In April 2006, Tracerco acquired the activities.
Marketing is headquartered in Royston, UK with process diagnostics business of Quest TruTec which has support facilities in Philadelphia and Hong Kong.
We are the expanded Tracercos market coverage, particularly in the USA.
worlds leading distributor of platinum group metals pgms and PCTs fine chemicals and related catalysts businesses the sole marketing agent for Anglo Platinum, the worlds largest performed well in the year.
Demand for precious metal chemicals producer of platinum.
Our platinum fabrication business makes was strong and sales of homogeneous and Sponge Nickel a wide range of platinum group metal products primarily in the catalysts showed good growth.
Research Chemicals benefited UK and USA.
Our Pgm Refining business recovers pgms from from a good contribution from its new joint venture in China spent catalysts and other secondary materials and refines and sales in Europe were strong stimulated by the launch of the primary pgms from global mining operations.
It has refining new catalogue.
Projects are now underway to expand the facilities in the UK and USA.
business warehousing and distribution facilities in India.
Colour Technologies Fuel Cells Headquartered in the Netherlands, our Colour Technologies Our Fuel Cells business achieved strong growth in sales, from a business manufactures black obscuration enamels and silver small base, with significantly increased orders for membrane conductive materials for automotive glass.
It also makes colours, electrode assemblies MEAs for direct methanol fuel cells enamels and decorative precious metal products for other glass DMFCs.
Most of these sales were for portable fuel cells which applications such as bottles and architectural glass as well as for are sold to European consumers as companies manufacturing tableware and other ceramic applications.
and marketing portable power supplies achieved sustained commercial sales.
There continues to be considerable potential Gold and Silver Comprises our gold and silver refining and bullion manufacturing in consumer electronics applications where DMFCs have cost and performance advantages over batteries.
Johnson Matthey is a market leader in the refining of gold and silver.
The business serves the worlds mining industries longstanding R&D in this area has put us in a very good position to serve the many companies in this sector that are and recycles secondary scrap material.
We are also a leading manufacturer of high purity small gold bars for investment and now actively developing prototypes and carrying out product trials around the world.
Gold and silver refining operations are located in the USA and Canada.
Other sectors where fuel cells have applications, such as automotive and local power generation, have benefited from growing interest in low carbon and low emission technologies.
Performance in 2006 07 Car companies have reaffirmed their ambitions for fuel cell Precious Metal Products Divisions sales increased by 29% to vehicles and cities such as London have committed to further 3,824 million, boosted by higher prices for pgms.
In sterling purchases of fuel cell buses.
Johnson Matthey introduced new terms the average price of platinum rose by 18%.
Prices of the MEA products in 2006 07 that significantly improve the minor metals rhodium, iridium and ruthenium increased durability and cost of fuel cells used in the very demanding dramatically.
Operating profit before last years impairment transport sector.
While commercial sales to this sector remain costs rose by 37% to 85.3 million.
At last years exchange some way off, the substantial progress over the last year is an rates operating profit would have been 40% higher.
Both the encouraging step towards the realisation of this very large marketing and distribution business and the manufacturing potential market for our fuel cell products.
businesses achieved strong growth in the year.
Our Swindon facility provides our Fuel Cells business with a stable, high quality product development and manufacturing Platinum capability that is very important for our customers long term The price of platinum was extremely volatile in 2006 07.
With ambitions and differentiates us from other catalyst and MEA the physical market tightly balanced, speculative interest and suppliers.
The annual cost of our Fuel Cells business fell by the volatility in other commodities such as oil had a significant 0.8 million to 7.3 million.
Platinum peaked at a new all time high of $1,390 oz in November and was subject to a broadly upward trend throughout the year.
The average price for the year was $1,185 oz, a 26% increase on 2005 06 18% in sterling terms.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Supply of Platinum 2002-2006 Demand for Platinum 2002-2006 Supply of Palladium 2002-2006 Demand for Palladium 2002-2006 Million oz Million oz Million oz Million oz South Africa Russia Elsewhere Autocatalyst Jewellery Industrial Investment South Africa Russia Elsewhere Autocatalyst Dental Electronics Other net net 7 7 9 8 8 7 6 6 7 6 5 5 6 5 4 4 5 4 4 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Total consumption of platinum increased once more in The past year has been notable for the dramatic increase 2006 07, a pattern unbroken since 1992.
Demand for platinum in the price of ruthenium, which rose from $160 oz to reach in autocatalysts increased by 11% with much of the growth $870 oz before easing to $700 oz by the end of our financial generated in Europe, where diesel vehicles accounted for more year.
The price increase was attributable to a surge in demand than 50% of light duty vehicle registrations.
The fitting of from the electronics industry for the coating of a new catalysed soot filters to diesel vehicles and the emissions generation of hard disk memory storage.
Limited physical control equipment fitted to heavy duty diesel vehicles made a availability of metal to meet this demand and speculative buying substantial contribution to platinum demand.
However, demand resulted in a classic market spike.
from jewellery manufacturers fell again as the rising price of Profits from the divisions marketing and distribution platinum encouraged fide-stocking and recycling of old jewellery.
operations were substantially higher than in 2005 06, benefiting Supplies of platinum increased in 2006 07, with new mines from good growth in demand and higher pgm prices.
The coming on stream and the largest producer Anglo Platinum results in the second half of the year also benefited from some having a good year after unexpected problems in 2005. trading profits on the minor metals.
Although we do not expect Overall, the platinum market was close to balance in 2006 07, these trading profits to be repeated at the same level in which, following several years of deficits, ensured the price 2007 08, market conditions remain favourable and we would remained firm.
expect the business to achieve further growth in profits in the The palladium price reached its peak for 2006 07 in May, current year if market conditions remain the same.
Supply and demand fundamentals continued The divisions metal fabrication businesses achieved good to be largely incidental as hedge funds and institutional investors growth in 2006 07.
To meet growth in our market share of core extended already substantial long positions in the market.
With pgm products we increased the capacity of our facility at West their significant and consistent support, the average price for Chester, USA.
This expansion successfully came on stream during the year was $336 oz, an increase of 47% on 2005 06. the year.
The market for catalysts used in the abatement of Physical demand for palladium decreased in 2006 07. nitrous oxide, a powerful greenhouse gas produced as a by Autocatalyst demand increased due to higher gasoline vehicle product in the manufacture of nitric acid, is starting to develop.
production outside Europe, whereas demand from Chinese We have excellent products in this area and the contracts jewellery manufacturers fell significantly after pipeline filling in currently being finalised will generate a new revenue stream in the previous year.
Palladium supplies were lower than in the coming years.
Our medical products business located at three 2005 06 due to a reduction in Russian sales but did little to sites in California had another good year with strong growth in alter the substantial surplus of supply over demand.
nitinol products and components for the cardiovascular sector.
The price of rhodium rose sharply in 2006 07, touching Pgm Refining maintained its good progress, benefiting from a peak of $6,275 oz in May.
The average price doubled for a higher pgm prices which stimulated the flow of secondary second successive year to reach $5,166 oz.
Strong demand materials for refining, especially autocatalyst scrap.
The business from the automotive and glass fabrication industries coupled continues to focus on capacity management and process with speculative interest left little metal to be offered in the improvement.
As a result it was successful in making further spot market, in spite of modestly increased supply.
This reductions in the quantity of precious metals held in the refining sustained pressure on a market which was already tight and circuits.
At the same time new processes were introduced to illiquid inevitably caused the price to rise sharply.
meet customer requirements, such as increased capacity for ruthenium refining to meet growing demand from the electronics sector.
12 Johnson Matthey Colour Technologies US Operations Colour Technologies achieved further good growth in operating The recovery in the divisions US operations reflected increased profit, with our products for automotive glass proving very demand for both APIs and contract research.
In this sector we continue to invest heavily in benefited from the purchase by Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. product development to meet the increasingly stringent of ADDERALL, an immediate release product used in the requirements of our customers for improved enamels and treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, from conductive inks.
In the tableware sector we continue our Shire plc.
Johnson Matthey has an exclusive agreement to successful strategy of focusing on a reduced range of higher supply the API to Barr for this product as well as the API used technology products.
In line with this we announced the closure in Barrs existing generic version.
Sales of APIs for generic of our decorative precious metal products plant in Royston, UK methylphenidate and several opiate products also showed good and transfer of the activities to our larger plant in Maastricht, growth in the year.
This transfer will be completed in 2007 08.
A New Drug Application NDA was filed for Satraplatin, a potential new platinum anticancer drug which was discovered Gold and Silver by Johnson Matthey, licensed to Spectrum Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
The divisions gold and silver business also enjoyed a good year, and sub-licensed for development and commercialisation to boosted by very strong metal prices which stimulated good flows GPC Biotech.
If this drug is successful Johnson Matthey will of secondary materials.
Our North American operations at Salt receive both royalty and manufacturing income from the product.
Lake City and Toronto were successful in growing operating profit Pharma Services performance improved substantially in whilst reducing the amount of metal tied up in processes.
At the 2006 07, with good growth in sales and profits in both the end of March 2007 we agreed to sell our small Hong Kong gold manufacturing and contract chemistry segments.
The business and silver refining business to Metalor Technologies Hong Kong also made good progress in expanding its manufacturing base.
Limited, part of the Metalor Group.
This sale was completed on Several products manufactured by Pharma Services have 4th May 2007.
Net proceeds are expected to be 0.4 million.
progressed well in clinical trials and required significant scale-up during the year.
Pharma Services continues to use its broad Pharmaceutical Materials Division capabilities to support product development for other parts of the division.
A number of generic products manufactured for Description of the Business both West Deptford and Ireland were submitted for regulatory Pharmaceutical Materials Division is a global, integrated supplier approval by our customers during the year.
of active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs, which provides We expect to see further steady growth in sales of APIs services to pharmaceutical companies through all the stages of for generic controlled drugs, particularly those used in the development and commercial manufacture of a pharmaceutical treatment of pain which is a growing market, and in platinum product.
There is also the opportunity for The divisions Macfarlan Smith UK and West Deptford additional growth from the launch of new products, such as USA businesses provide a full range of commercial scale Satraplatin if it should be approved, and the agreed launch in manufacturing services for APIs to both generic and branded April 2009 of Barrs generic version of ADDERALL XR.
Both businesses specialise in the Macfarlan Smith manufacture of low to medium volume, high value products, Sales at Macfarlan Smith, based in Edinburgh, were down on last especially controlled drugs.
However, operating profit was slightly ahead.
The fall in Pharma Services USA provides contract research and sales resulted from an overall reduction in selling prices for key development and manufacturing services to pharmaceutical bulk opiate products which was offset by lower prices for the companies from pre-clinical through to commercial launch.
It also raw materials used to manufacture these products.
Sales of manufactures other low volume APIs for the commercial market.
higher margin specialist opiates, particularly oxycodone and The Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland business specialises in buprenorphine, showed good growth offsetting a decline in the manufacture of prostaglandin APIs, which are very low some non opiate fine chemical products.
volume, high value, chemically complex molecules.
The world market for opiate drugs, which are primarily used to treat pain, continues to grow.
Use of these products Performance in 2006 07 increases as the worlds population ages and people are Pharmaceutical Materials Divisions sales rose by 1% to generally less tolerant of pain, as well as by the introduction 135 million.
Operating profit was up 5% at 35.5 million.
The of new applications and new dosage forms, particularly for divisions US businesses showed a good recovery in the year specialist opiates, which enable broader, more controlled use although their reported results were adversely affected by of these medications.
exchange translation as a result of the weaker US dollar.
At last Ireland years exchange rates the divisions sales would have been 3% The performance of Pharmaceutical Materials Ireland improved up and operating profit 7% higher than in 2005 06. in 2006 07 and the business continued to expand its customer and product base.
Prostaglandin APIs manufactured by the business have been used by customers in developing new generic products and several are in the process of review for regulatory approval.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW chemistry our research is directed towards understanding active Research & Development sites and the other key features of catalyst structures.
Research and development underpins Johnson Mattheys high Catalysts inevitably change with usage as the material technology businesses.
We maintain a high level of R&D poisons and ages over time.
We are therefore engaged in expenditure to ensure the continuous flow of new products studying the physical processes of catalyst change.
With a more and technologies to provide our customers with cost effective fundamental understanding of the restrictions imposed by these solutions to meet legislated and technical requirements.
In physical rules we can design within the limits of what is possible 2006 07 the continuing operations spent 66.5 million gross and streamline our research efforts.
Catalyst Engineering The rational design of catalysts requires an unprecedented degree Johnson Matthey Technology Centre of synthetic control.
In three parallel research programmes we are The Johnson Matthey Technology Centre JMTC is the groups investigating the latest techniques of catalyst preparation.
Whether central resource for longer term research.
JMTCs major facility it is thrifting metals, controlling metal alloy interactions or achieving is located at Sonning Common, UK and supports the research a homogeneous distribution of metal, we are developing the and development of new products and technology across all capability to control the nanoscale structure of metal particles.
JMTC also includes a smaller Complementing more conventional catalysts and materials, these group of scientists based in Billingham, UK which specialises in unique products offer us a diverse portfolio of entirely original catalyst manufacturing science.
The centres bring together 180 catalysts for our development and testing programmes.
world class scientists with expertise in catalysis, precious metals, The focus of this work is on the process as much as the materials science and many other disciplines in which Johnson product and using more sophisticated synthetic techniques Matthey operates.
JMTC has state of the art facilities for the allows us to simplify catalyst syntheses and economise on energy.
development and testing of catalysts as well as one of the most With careful precursor design we can phase out the use of advanced analytical science groups in the world, equipped with toxic and hazardous organic solvents in favour of exclusively the latest tools for materials characterisation.
JMTCs integrated aqueous reactions and reduce the production of environmentally approach to synthesis, testing and analysis fosters the cross harmful emissions such as nitrates and oxides of nitrogen NOx.
fertilisation of ideas to keep the group at the leading edge of Manufacturing Science technological advancement.
The efficient transition from making a catalyst on a laboratory Collaboration is important from the inception of new scale through pilot scale to full commercial manufacture is projects.
JMTC works closely with technology centres and critical to the development of new products.
We need to be development groups within Johnson Mattheys global businesses able to support our customers requirements at every stage and participates in external collaborative research and and be able to produce representative material which will not development programmes worldwide.
It is equally important to understand Many projects at JMTC are sponsored by the operating the sustainability of the manufacturing process to optimise the divisions to meet their longer term objectives alongside which use of expensive metals, reduce the environmental impact of run a number of core science projects to address the by products and to produce material which has the potential fundamental science that underpins every technology to be recycled or reused.
Our Manufacturing Science Centre development.
As well as targeting step changes in technological at JMTC in Billingham is a centre of excellence for catalyst advancement, core science projects focus on sustainability issues manufacturing across the group and is constantly involved in new such as energy efficiency, metal thrifting and waste reduction.
manufacturing projects from many different Johnson Matthey Knowledge gained in the core science programmes is used to businesses.
As well as understanding and resolving issues of accelerate and improve product development across the group, scale-up, we invest in research into new process technology to reducing time to market and improving our ability to design improve the efficiency and reduce the environmental impact of products to meet customers needs.
our manufacturing processes and products.
A core competence of Johnson Matthey is a fundamental understanding of catalyst science and materials technology.
In the section below, three elements of JMTCs approach to Catalysts Division catalyst and materials development are described, followed by New product development in the Environmental Catalysts and a review of R&D activities in our operating divisions.
Technologies business is driven by ever tightening emissions legislation around the world and we continue to invest in Core Science Projects scientists and state of the art equipment for the development and testing of catalysts to meet customers needs.
Through this Catalyst Design investment, Johnson Matthey has become a leader in diesel With the ever increasing complexity of todays catalysts, it is emission control technologies for both heavy and light duty imperative to be able to understand and control the interactions diesel applications including catalysed soot filter technology for between metals that are the basis of the activity, selectivity and removal of particulate matter from diesel exhausts.
We also promotion of a catalyst.
At JMTC we have moved beyond a purely continue to invest in the development of improved products experimental approach to catalyst and materials preparation for the treatment of exhaust from gasoline engines.
and are exploiting rational design to optimise performance.
Johnson Matthey has invested in ECTs R&D facilities Combining sophisticated surface science characterisation during the year to meet the demands of planned new emissions techniques with realistic testing and high power computational regulations around the world.
2007 08 will see the completion 14 Johnson Matthey of expansions at our Royston, UK and Gothenburg, Sweden us to offer MEAs for methanol fuelled fuel cells with improved facilities and of the R&D centre at our new facility in Korea.
membranes based on hydrocarbons, as well as traditional Process Catalysts and Technologies key areas of focus for fluorinated materials.
research remain in the hydrocarbon to products and fuels areas and we are engaged in a number of specific projects aimed at Precious Metal Products Division process improvement and enhancing catalyst performance.
Research and development in the Precious Metal Products The process technology expertise of Davy Process Technology Division encompasses a number of different product areas.
The complements our broad palette of catalyst manufacturing and divisions pgm fabrication business Noble Metals continues to development tools to provide a very potent mix through which support R&D to optimise catalyst systems for the abatement of we aim not only to develop improvements to existing chemical nitrous oxide, a powerful greenhouse gas listed under the Kyoto processes but also achieve significant world scale step changes Protocol.
We have already established a leading share of this in technology.
R&D programmes include those focused on new market and this work will further enhance our position.
improving the design and efficiency of our gas heated reforming Our Colour Technologies business continues to focus on the technology to offer higher efficiencies in syngas based processes development of more environmentally friendly products for use such as gas to liquids and methanol manufacture.
in colours and stains, and on the invention of superior enamels In the fine chemicals and pharmaceuticals areas we also and conductive materials for the automotive industry.
Research continue to invest in R&D projects directed towards both new in our pgm and gold refining businesses continues to target product development and process efficiency improvements.
improved refinery processes to yield shorter lead times and During the year the Fuel Cells business completed a major reduced metal holdings.
project on advanced MEAs for automotive applications funded in part by the UK Department of Trade and Industry DTI and has Pharmaceutical Materials Division collaborated with a number of other DTI funded potential UK suppliers.
This work has demonstrated significant improvements in Research and development in the Pharmaceutical Materials the durability of key components at the heart of the MEA, such Division is directed towards the development of manufacturing as the membrane.
Using our own composite design, we have processes for APIs to be manufactured and marketed by the achieved a five fold improvement in membrane durability under divisions business units.
Across the division the development automotive test cycles and other improvements have reduced of safe and cost effective manufacturing processes and the the cost of the substrates and catalysts used in MEAs by a factor instrumental and chemical methods for detailed analysis of of five while maintaining or improving performance.
Collaboration these products are fundamental technologies for the with new suppliers able to assist our future product development manufacture of commercial scale products.
These technologies including many from outside the fuel cell technology industry are essential to achieve competitive market positions and to will have lasting benefits to the long term competitiveness of our obtain regulatory approval for products.
Each of the divisions businesses has developed substantial Methanol fuelled fuel cells have in the past required much chemical know-how in their respective market niches and they higher loadings of platinum catalyst than their hydrogen fuelled collaborate closely on new technical challenges.
Combined with counterparts and during the year we have made significant Johnson Mattheys core expertise in catalysis, chiral catalysis and progress in lowering these loadings without compromising organometallic chemistry, the division offers the pharmaceutical performance.
Working with international suppliers has allowed marketplace a unique range of R&D capabilities.
