Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 1.
General information Johnston Press is a company incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985.
The address of the registered office is given on the back page.
The nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in note 5 and in the Business Review on pages 12 to 29.
These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the Group operates.
Foreign operations are included in accordance with the policies set out in note 3.
Adoption of new and revised Standards In the current year, the Group has adopted IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, which is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2007, and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements.
The impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 and the changes to IAS 1 has been to expand the disclosures provided in these financial statements regarding the Groups financial instruments and management of capital see notes 21 to 23 and 35.
Four Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee are effective for the current period.
These are: IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies: IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2: IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives: and IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
The adoption of these interpretations has not led to any changes in the Groups accounting policies.
In addition, the Group has elected to adopt early IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs effective for accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
The revisions made to IAS 23 have had no impact on the Groups accounting policies.
The principal change to the Standard, which was to eliminate the previously available option to expense all borrowing costs as incurred, has no impact on these financial statements because it has always been the Groups accounting policy to capitalise borrowing costs incurred on qualifying assets.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following Standards and Interpretations have not been applied in these financial statements as they were in issue but not yet effective: IFRS 8: Operating Segments IFRIC 11: IFRS 2 - Group and Treasury Share Transactions IFRIC 12: Service Concession Arrangements IFRIC 13: Customer Loyalty Programmes IFRIC 14: IAS 19 - The Limit on a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
The Directors anticipate that the adoption of these Standards and Interpretations in future periods will have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group except for additional segment disclosures when IFRS 8 comes into effect for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2009.
Significant Accounting Policies Basis of accounting The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs adopted by the European Union and therefore comply with Article 4 of the EU IAS Regulation.
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain properties and financial instruments.
The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the Company its subsidiaries made up to 31 December each year.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the Group Income Statement from the effective date of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
74 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Business combinations The acquisition of subsidiaries is accounted for using the purchase method.
The cost of the acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for recognition under IFRS 3, including publishing titles, are recognised at their fair value at the acquisition date, except for non-current assets or disposal groups that are classified as held for resale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non Current Assets Held for Sale and Discounted Operations, which are recognised and measured at fair value less costs to sell.
Goodwill arising on acquisition is recognised as an asset and initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognised.
If, after reassessment, the Groups interest in the net fair value of the acquirees identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost of the business combination, the excess is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Publishing titles The Groups principal intangible assets are publishing titles.
The Group does not capitalise internally generated goodwill or publishing titles.
Titles separately acquired after 1 January 1989 are stated at cost and titles owned by subsidiaries acquired after 1 January 1996 are recorded at directors valuation at the date of acquisition.
These publishing titles have no finite life and consequently are not amortised.
Every six months impairment tests are undertaken, as outlined with goodwill, to determine any diminution in the recoverable amount below carrying value.
The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use based on the net present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the Groups pre-tax weighted average cost of capital.
Any impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.
Goodwill Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of a subsidiary or associate at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill which is recognised as an asset is reviewed for impairment at least every six months.
Any impairment is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is not subsequently reversed.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment every six months, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cashgenerating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit, second to the value of publishing titles and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Goodwill can also arise as an equal and opposite offset to deferred tax on publishing titles acquired after 1 January 2005 under the technical provisions of IAS12.
On disposal of a subsidiary or associate, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.
Revenue recognition Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts receivable for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Advertising revenue is recognised on publication and circulation revenue is recognised at the point of sale.
Printing revenue is recognised when the service is provided.
The trading for both years comprised 52 weeks.
Foreign currencies The individual financial statements of each Group company are presented in the currency of the primary economic environment in which it operates its functional currency.
For the purpose of the consolidated financial statements, the results and financial position of each Group company are expressed in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company and the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 75 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 - continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Foreign currencies continued In preparing the financial statements of the individual companies, transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currency foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.
Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items, and on the retranslation of monetary items, are included in profit or loss for the period.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items carried at fair value are included in profit or loss for the period except for differences arising on the retranslation of non-monetary items in respect of which gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
For such non-monetary items, any exchange component of that gain or loss is also recognised directly in equity.
For the purpose of presenting consolidated financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Groups foreign operations are translated at exchange rates prevailing on the balance sheet date.
Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if any, are classified as equity and transferred to the Groups hedging and translation reserve.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing rate.
Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment balances are shown at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
In certain cases the amounts of previous revaluations of properties conducted in 1996 or 1997 or the fair value of the property at the date of the acquisition by the Group have been treated as the deemed cost on transition to IFRSs.
Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment, excluding land, at varying rates calculated to write-off cost over the useful lives.
The principal rates employed are: Heritable and freehold property excluding land 2.5% on written down value Leasehold land and buildings equal annual instalments over lease term Web offset presses excluding press components 5% straight line basis Mailroom equipment 6.67% straight line basis Pre-press systems 20% straight line basis Other plant and machinery 15% on written down value 6.67%, 10%, 20%, 25% and 33% straight line basis Motor vehicles 25% straight line basis Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value as follows: Cost incurred in bringing materials to their present location and condition comprises: a raw materials and goods for resale at purchase cost on a first-in first-out basis: and b work in progress at cost of direct materials, labour and certain overheads.
Net realisable value comprises selling price less any further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Groups balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets Investments are recognised and derecognised on the trade date in accordance with the terms of the purchase or sale contract and are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost and investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method in the Group financial statements and the cost method in the company financial statements.
Therefore, the Group financial statements include the Groups share of the profit and net assets of associated undertakings.
Available for sale financial assets Listed and unlisted investments are shown as available for sale and are stated at fair value.
Fair value of listed investments is determined with reference to quoted market prices.
Fair value of unlisted investments is determined by the Directors.
Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity, with the exception of impairment losses which are 76 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued recognised directly in the Income Statement.
Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the Income Statement for the period.
Dividends on available for sale equity investments are recognised in the Income Statement when the Groups right to receive the payment is established.
Trade receivables Trade receivables do not carry any interest.
They are stated at their nominal value as reduced by appropriate allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.
Other trade receivables are provided for on an individual basis where there is evidence that an amount is no longer recoverable.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date.
Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset the estimated future cash flows of the investment have been impacted.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Changes in the carrying value of this allowance are recognised in the Income Statement.
Derivative financial instruments The Groups activities and funding structure give rise to some exposure to the financial risks of changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.
The Group enters into a number of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to these risks, including interest rate swaps, cross currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Group does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.
The Group designates certain derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised liabilities fair value hedges or hedges of foreign currency risk cash flow hedges.
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at fair value at each reporting date.
The accounting treatment of the resulting gain or loss of fair value hedges and cash flow hedges is discussed below.
The fair value of hedging derivatives is classified as a non-current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is more than 12 months and as a current asset or liability if the remaining maturity of the hedge relationship is less than 12 months.
Embedded derivatives Derivatives embedded in other financial instruments or other host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics are not closely related to those of host contracts and the host contracts are not measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss.
Hedge accounting The Group designates its hedging instruments as either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges.
At the inception of the hedge relationship the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions.
Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on a six monthly basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instruments that are used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.
Fair value hedge Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement immediately as they arise, together with any change in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged risk.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Group revokes the hedging relationship, the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
The adjustment to the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 77 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 - continued 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Cash flow hedge The effective portion of changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in equity.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss as part of other expenses or other income.
Amounts deferred in equity are recycled in profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item is recognised in profit or loss.
At that time, any cumulative gain or loss deferred in equity remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognised in profit or loss.
When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Hedges of net investments in foreign operations Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognised in equity in the translation reserve.
The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss and is included in the other gains and losses line of the income statement.
Gains and losses deferred in the translation reserve are recognised in profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
Debt and equity instruments issued by the company Debt and equity instruments issued by the company are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement.
Trade payables Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at their nominal value.
Borrowings Interest-bearing loans and bank overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Finance charges, including premia payable on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the Income Statement using the effective interest method and are added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.
Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
Assets held under the finance leases are capitalised within property, plant and equipment and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease terms and their useful lives.
The capital elements of future lease obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest elements are charged to the Income Statement over the period of the leases on the effective interest method.
All other leases are classified as operating leases and rentals are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Development grants Development grants for revenue expenditure are recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related costs and are deducted in reporting the related expense.
Grants relating to property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income and released to the Income Statement over the expected useful lives of the related assets.
Operating profit Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring or other non-recurring costs but before investment income, other finance income, finance costs and the share of the results of associates.
Taxation The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year.
Taxable profit differs from profit before tax as reported in the Income Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the Balance Sheet date.
Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax based values used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
78 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3.
Significant Accounting Policies continued Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
On transition to IFRS, a deferred tax liability has been recorded in respect of publishing titles and properties that do not qualify for any tax allowances that were acquired through business combinations.
Given that the Group elected, under IFRS 1, not to restate pre-transition business combinations under IFRS 3, this pre-transition deferred tax element was charged against retained earnings.
Any such fair value on future business combinations will form part of the goodwill on acquisition and both the goodwill and related deferred tax liability will be included in any impairment test in relation to the relevant cash generating unit.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the relevant requirements of IAS 12 are satisfied.
Retirement benefit costs The Group provides pensions to employees through various schemes.
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged to the Income Statement as an expense as they fall due.
Payments made to the industry-wide retirement benefit schemes in the Republic of Ireland are dealt with as payments to defined contribution schemes where the Groups obligations under the schemes are equivalent to those arising in a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.
For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside the Income Statement and presented in the Statement of Recognised Income and Expense.
Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.
The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the scheme.
Share-based payments The Group issues equity settled share-based benefits to certain employees.
The Group has elected to apply IFRS 2 to all share-based awards and options granted post 7 November 2002 but not vested at 31 December 2004.
These share-based payments are measured at their fair value at the date of grant and the fair value of share options is expensed to the Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period.
Fair value is measured by use of the Black Scholes model, as amended to take account of the Directors best estimate of probable share vesting and exercise.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty Critical judgements in applying the groups accounting policies In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are described in note 3, management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt with below.
Deferred tax balances on publishing titles and properties not eligible for tax allowances Deferred tax amounting to 377,656,000 at 31 December 2007 2006 - 397,383,000, has been provided pursuant to IAS 12 Income Taxes on the values of the publishing titles in the Groups Balance Sheet and the value of properties that are not eligible for tax allowances.
Management has considered it appropriate to provide this balance in order to comply with the technical requirements of IAS 12 despite the fact that management cannot foresee any future circumstances in which such a tax liability would arise.
Included in the total above is an amount of 5,389,000 2006: 5,774,000 relating to the deferred tax on the value of properties.
Management has no intention at the present time to dispose of any of the assets concerned but, even if such a decision was to be taken at some future date, it is unlikely that the titles or properties would be sold separately from the legal entities that own the assets.
As such, management is confident that this tax provision will never be required to be paid.
Representations have been made to the IASB on this matter, but in the meantime the deferred tax balance has been provided in order to comply with the technical provisions of the standard.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 79 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 31 December 2007 - continued 4.
Critical Accounting Judgements and Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty continued Valuation of publishing titles on acquisition During the year the Group completed the acquisition and disposals described in notes 29 and 30.
The Groups policies require that a fair value at the date of acquisition be attributed to the publishing titles owned by each acquired entity.
The Groups management uses its judgement to determine the fair value attributable to each acquired publishing title taking into account the consideration paid, the earnings history and potential of the title, any recent similar transactions, industry statistics such as average earnings multiples and any other relevant factors.
The fair values attributed to the titles acquired in 2007 are set out in note 29 and these values will be reviewed for impairment at a minimum twice annually in the future.
Valuation of share-based payments The Group estimates the expected value of share-based payments and this is charged through the Income Statement over the vesting periods of the relevant payments.
The cost is estimated using a Black Scholes valuation model.
The Black Scholes calculations are based on a number of assumptions that are set out in note 33 and are amended to take account of estimated levels of share vesting and exercise.
This method of estimating the value of the share-based payments is intended to ensure that the actual value transferred to employees is provided in the share-based payments reserve by the time the payments are made.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are discussed below.
Impairment of goodwill and publishing titles Determining whether goodwill or publishing titles are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash generating units to which these assets are allocated.
The value in use calculation requires the Group to identify appropriate cash generating units, to estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from each cash generating unit and a suitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
The carrying amount of goodwill was 130,010,000 at 31 December 2007 and the carrying amount of publishing titles was 1,373,614,000 at the same date.
No impairment losses have been identified or provided.
Details of the impairment reviews that the Group performs are provided in note 15.
Valuation of pension liabilities The Group records in its Balance Sheet a liability equivalent to the deficit on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
This liability is determined with advice from the Groups actuarial advisers each year and can fluctuate based on a number factors some of which are out-with the control of management.
The main factors that can impact the valuation include: the discount rate used to discount future liabilities back to the present date.
This is determined each year based on the yield on corporate bonds the actual returns on investments experienced as compared to the expected rates used in the previous pension scheme valuation the actual rates of salary and pension increase as compared to the expected rates used in the previous valuation mortality assumptions.
Details of the assumptions used to determine the liability at 31 December 2007 are set out in note 24.
Bad debt allowance The trade debtors balances recorded in the Groups Balance Sheet comprise large numbers of comparatively small balances.
An allowance is made for the estimated irrecoverable amounts from debtors and this is determined by reference to past default experience.
5. Business and Geographical Segments For management purposes the Group has two business segments, newspaper publishing in print and online and contract printing.
The business operates in two geographical segments which are the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.
Revenue, profit and the carrying value of assets in the Republic of Ireland are less than 10 per cent in both the current year and prior year and so have not been disclosed separately.
80 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 6.
Segmental Analysis a Revenue An analysis of the Groups revenue is as follows: 2007 2006 000 000 Newspaper publishing 572,488 574,897 Contract printing 35,016 27,324 Revenue sub total 607,504 602,221 Investment Income 607 583 Total revenue 608,111 602,804 The printing revenues excludes inter group revenue of 86 million 2006 - 69 million.
The revenues include 4,082,000 and 1,259,000 relating to the acquisitions and disposals respectively, referred to in notes 29 and 30. b Operating profit An analysis of the Groups operating profit is as follows: 2007 2006 000 000 Newspaper publishing 158,060 177,494 Contract printing 7,379 5,864 165,439 171,630 Operating profit above is net of non-recurring items including the goodwill adjustment of 5,874,000.
Operating profit includes a profit of 661,000 and a loss of 917,000 relating to the acquisitions and disposals respectively, referred to in notes 29 and 30.
The 2006 results for contract printing were impacted by a non-recurring write down of the value of presses amounting to 9 million.
c Cost of sales and operating expenses 2007 2006 000 000 Cost of sales 311,756 304,806 Operating expenses Distribution costs 46,156 45,580 Administrative expenses before non-recurring 71,450 65,062 117,606 110,642 Non-recurring - administrative expenses 6,829 15,143 - goodwill adjustment note 15 5,874 130,309 125,785 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 81
