Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the seventy-ninth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held in The Wallace Suite, The Sheraton Hotel, 1 Festival Square, Edinburgh on 25 April 2008 at 12.00 noon to transact the following business of the Company: 1.
To receive the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 and the reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
To receive the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2007.
To re-elect Mr R G Parry, Mr F P M Johnston, Mr P E B Cawdron, Mr T J Bowdler and Mr D Cammiade as Directors of the Company.
To re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP, Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
As special business, to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions of which number 6 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and numbers 7 to 9 will be proposed as Special Resolutions:- Ordinary Resolution 6.
That the Directors be and are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined for the purpose of that section up to a maximum nominal amount of 9,612,688.
This authority shall expire on 25 April 2013 save that the Company may, before this authority expires, make an offer or agreement which would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after it expires.
All previous general authorities under Section 80 of the Act shall cease to have effect.
That, subject to the passing of Resolution 6 set out in the notice of this meeting, the Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to the provisions of Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the Act pursuant to the authority granted by that Resolution for cash, as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited: i to the allotment of such equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of Ordinary Shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all Ordinary Shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of Ordinary Shares held by them subject only to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may consider necessary or expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws of, or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body in, any territory: and ii to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,441,903.
This power shall expire, unless previously revoked or varied, on the date of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2009 save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
That the Company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 10p each in the Company Ordinary Shares PROVIDED THAT: i the maximum number of Ordinary Shares hereby authorised to be acquired is 28,000,000: ii the maximum price which may be paid for any such Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is contracted to be purchased and the minimum price which may be paid for any such share is 10p in each case exclusive of associated expenses : and iii the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 12 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier: but a contract of purchase may be made before such expiry which will or may be completed wholly or partly thereafter, and a purchase of Ordinary Shares may be made in pursuance of any such contract.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 119 Notice of Meeting - continued 9.
That the Articles of Association be and are hereby altered as set out in the Appendix to the Circular to Shareholders dated 5 March 2008 circulated with the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board P R Cooper, ACA Secretary 53 Manor Place Edinburgh EH3 7EG 5 March 2008 Notes A In accordance with the Articles of Association, only holders of Ordinary Shares of the Company are entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting.
B An Ordinary Shareholder entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of his rights to attend and to speak and to vote on his behalf at the Meeting.
An Ordinary Shareholder may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that Ordinary Shareholder.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
C A form of proxy is enclosed for Ordinary Shareholders which, to be valid, must be completed in accordance with the instructions printed thereon and be lodged with the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting.
"D Any person to whom this Notice is sent who is a person nominated under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 to enjoy information rights a ""Nominated Person"" may, under an agreement between him and the Member by whom he was nominated, have a right to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a proxy for the Meeting."
If a Nominated Person has no such proxy appointment right or does not wish to exercise it, he may, under any such agreement, have a right to give instructions to the Shareholder as to the exercise of voting rights.
E The statement of the rights of Shareholders in relation to the appointment of proxies in Notes B and C above does not apply to Nominated Persons The rights described in these paragraphs can only be exercised by Ordinary Shareholders of the Company.
F The Register of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company maintained under section 325 of the Companies Act 1985, will be available for reference at the place of the Meeting from 11.30am until its conclusion.
G Copies of all Directors Service Contracts and letters of appointment of non-executive directors will be available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until the date of the Meeting and on that date at the place of the Meeting from 11.30am until its conclusion.
120 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Advisors A multi-platform community media company Solicitors Principal Bankers MacRoberts The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 152 Bath Street 36 St Andrew Square Glasgow Edinburgh G2 4TB EH2 2YB Our aim is to serve local communiAshurst Lloyds TSB Scotland plc ties by meeting their needs for local Broadwalk House Henry Duncan House 5 Appold Street 120 George Street news, information and advertising servLondon Edinburgh ices through a range of media including EC2A 2HA EH2 4LH print and digital channels which together Auditors Barclays Bank plc Deloitte & Touche LLP Luton Corporate Banking Centre achieve unparalleled levels of market Chartered Accountants 1 Capability Green reach.
and Registered Auditors Luton Saltire Court LU1 3US 20 Castle Terrace Edinburgh National Australia Bank EH1 2DB 88 Wood Street London Investment Bankers EC2V 7QQ Citigroup Citigroup Centre Registrars 33 Canada Square Computershare Investor Services PLC Canary Wharf PO Box 82 London The Pavilions E14 5LB Bridgewater Road Bristol Stockbrokers BS99 7NH Deutsche Bank AG London Winchester House 1 Great Winchester Street London EC2N 2DB 01 Multi-platform Community Media Company 02 Financial Highlights 06 Chairmans Statement 318 newspaper 12 Business Review Strategy 13 Operational Review 21 publications Performance Review 26 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Printing from 11 regional 44 Group Management print centres 46 Board of Directors 48 Groups Newspaper Titles Plus a wide variety of complementary 51 Websites by Division publications to layer the market, give 53 Corporate Governance 57 Directors Remuneration Report consumer choice and increase adver- 65 Directors Report tising reach.
68 Independent Auditors Report 69 Group Income Statement 70 Group Statement of Recognised Income and Expense Lifestyle magazines 71 Group Reconciliation of Shareholders Equity Community newsletters 72 Group Balance Sheet 73 Group Cash Flow Statement Commuter newspapers 74 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Niche publications 109 Company Statement of Directors Responsibilities Cover and pages 1 52 of this report are produced on Revive 50 Silk, pages 53 120 of this report are produced 110 Company Balance Sheet on Revive 100 Uncoated.
Both grades of material are produced at a mill that holds ISO 14001 certification.
111 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 118 Group Five Year Summary Designed and produced by corporateprm, Edinburgh and London.
co. uk 119 Notice of Meeting Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 A multi-platform community media company Johnston Press plc 53 Manor Place Edinburgh EH3 7EG Tel: 0131 - 225 3361 Fax: 0131 - 225 4580 e-mail: enquiries@johnstonpress.
co. uk Registration number 15382 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
