145 Shareholder Information ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING REGISTERED OFFICE The AGM will be held at 12.15 pm on Wednesday 30 April 2008 at Kazakhmys PLC Claridges the Ballroom entrance, Brook Street, Mayfair, London 6th Floor W1K 4HR, United Kingdom.
The Notice of Meeting and the Form Cardinal Place of Proxy are enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts.
100 Victoria Street London SW1E 5JL WEBSITE United Kingdom A wide range of information on Kazakhmys is available at Tel: 44 0 20 7901 7800 www.
com including details of activities, future Registered number: 5180783 events, press releases and Annual and Interim Reports.
CORPORATE BROKER REGISTRAR JPMorgan Cazenove Limited For information about proxy voting, dividends and to report 20 Moorgate changes in personal details, shareholders should contact the London EC2R 6DA Companys registrar: United Kingdom Computershare Investor Services PLC AUDITORS The Pavilions Ernst & Young LLP Bridgwater Road 1 More London Place Bristol BS99 7NH London SE1 2AF United Kingdom United Kingdom Tel: 44 0 870 707 1100 Fax: 44 0 870 703 6101 SHAREHOLDER INTERESTS AT 31 DECEMBER 2007 Email: web.
co. uk Number of shareholders: 2,316 www.
com Number of shares in issue: 460,123,288 No.
of % of total % of ordinary KAZAKHSTAN SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES By size of holding accounts accounts share capital Any queries from Kazakhstan shareholders may be addressed to: 1,000 and under 1,065 45.98 0.11 1,001 to 5,000 536 23.14 0.27 Vadim Kudrya 5,001 to 10,000 156 6.74 0.24 Kazakhmys Services Limited 10,001 to 100,000 339 14.64 2.61 Almaty Branch Of ce Over 100,000 220 9.50 96.77 69-A, Samal 2 Almaty 050059 Total 2,316 100.0 100.0 Republic of Kazakhstan Tel: 7 727 2663317 No.
of % of total % of ordinary By category of shareholder accounts accounts share capital CURRENCY OPTION AND DIVIDEND MANDATE Private shareholders 457 19.73 0.54 If you wish to receive your dividend in UK pounds sterling, you Banks nominees 1,808 78.06 95.72 should contact the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Pension funds 3 0.13 0.16 Services PLC, to request a Currency Election Form.
Investment unit trusts 2 0.09 0.01 Insurance companies 2 0.09 0.01 Computershare can also arrange for your dividend to be paid Corporate holders 44 1.90 3.56 directly into your UK bank account.
To take advantage of this facility, you should contact Computershare to request a Dividend Total 2,316 100.0 100.0 Mandate Form.
This arrangement is only available in respect of dividends paid in UK pounds sterling.
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The following description summarises certain provisions of the INTERIM REPORT Companys memorandum of association and of its articles of Recent changes to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services association and applicable English law concerning companies the Authority have removed the requirements to issue a hard copy Companies Acts 1985 and 2006.
This summary is quali ed in its interim half yearly report to shareholders.
The Directors propose entirety by reference to the Companys articles of association and to take advantage of this change and to cease issuing printed the Companies Acts.
interim reports to shareholders forthwith.
The interim results will still be issued in the form of a press release and will continue to be Two resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting on available on the Companys website.
30 April 2008 to amend the articles of association primarily to take account of changes in English company law brought about by the COMPANY SECRETARY Companies Act 2006 and to increase the Groups borrowing limit.
Robert Welch If adopted, the changes will be re ected in the summary of the Tel: 44 0 20 7901 7800 articles of association which will appear in the 2008 Annual Report email: robert.
KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Financial Statements 146 Shareholder Information continued RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES If a dividend has not been claimed for 12 years after the date The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company are such dividend became due for payment, it may be invested fide ned in the Companys articles of association.
The articles of or otherwise made use of by the Board for the bene t of association may be changed with the agreement of shareholders.
A shareholder whose name appears on the register can choose whether his shares are evidenced by share certi cates or held TRANSFERS OF SHARES in electronic form in CREST the electronic settlement system in The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certi cated share the UK.
which is not fully paid or renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment, provided that refusal does not prevent dealings GENERAL MEETINGS AND VOTING RIGHTS in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and on At least 21 clear days written notice of an annual general meeting a proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer is required.
All other extraordinary general meetings shall be unless i it is in respect of only one class of shares, ii it is in favour convened by not less than 14 clear days notice in writing, unless a of a single transferee or not more than four joint transferees, iii special resolution or a resolution on which special notice has been the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if so required given to the Company is proposed, in which case 21 clear days and delivered for registration to the of ce or such other place as written notice is required.
An Annual General Meeting may be the Board may determine accompanied by the certi cate for the held on shorter notice provided that all the shareholders entitled shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board to attend and vote at the meeting agree.
All other general may reasonably require to prove the title of the transferor or meetings may be held on shorter notice provided a majority in person renouncing to make the transfer.
number of the members having a right to attend and vote at the meeting, being a majority together holding not less than 95% in Transfers of uncerti cated shares must be carried out using nominal value of the shares giving that right agree.
CREST and the Board can refuse a transfer of an uncerti cated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation Members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
a show of hands every member or his representative who is present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution and The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, on a poll every member or his representative who is present in for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register to shareholders.
person or by proxy shall have one vote on each resolution for each The Board cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any share of which he is the holder.
uncerti cated shares without gaining consent from CREST.
At any general meeting a resolution put to a vote of the meeting EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST shall be decided on a show of hands, unless before or on the In order to hedge its obligations under the Kazakhmys Long Term declaration of the result of the show of hands a poll is duly Incentive Plan 2007 and the Kazakhmys Deferred Share Bonus demanded.
Subject to the provisions of Companies Acts, a poll Plan 2007, the Company intends to fund an employee bene t may be demanded by the chairman of the meeting or by at least trust to acquire shares in the Company.
Shares used to satisfy five members present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote the obligations under both plans will be purchased on the open at the meeting or a member or members present in person or by market thereby avoiding any dilution of shareholders.
Where proxy representing not less than one tenth of the total voting shares are held by the employee bene t trust, the trustee will rights of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting abstain from voting.
or a member or members present in person or by proxy holding shares conferring a right to vote at the meeting, being shares on LIQUIDATION RIGHTS which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than In the event the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with one tenth of the total sum paid up on all the shares conferring that the sanction of a special resolution of the Company and any other right.
As a result of changes introduced by the Companies Act sanction required by law, divide among the members in specie 2006 to allow multiple proxies appointed by a single member to all or any part of the assets of the Company and he can value vote on a show of the hands, resulting in the potential for a vote any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out on a show of hands to be unrepresentative of the wishes of the as between the members or different classes of members.
The meeting of the Company, all substantive resolutions at general liquidator may also vest the whole or any part of the assets in meetings will be put to a poll vote.
trustees on such trusts for the bene t of the members, but no member shall be compelled to accept any assets on which there Any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in relation is a liability.
to any general meeting must be received whether in written form or electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time VARIATION OF RIGHTS appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided into the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
shares of different classes, the rights attached to any share or class of shares in the Company may be varied or abrogated in DIVIDEND RIGHTS such manner if any as may be provided by such rights or, in the Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends absence of any such provision, either with the consent in writing but the amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount of the holders of not less than three quarters in nominal value of recommended by the Board.
The Board can declare and pay the issued shares of the class or upon the adoption of an interim dividends.
The Board may declare and pay such interim extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting dividends including any dividend payable at a xed rate of the of the holders of shares of that class.
amounts and on the dates and for the periods it decides provided the distributable pro ts of the Company justify such payment.
If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes, the Board may pay such interim dividends on shares which rank after shares conferring preferential rights with regard to dividend as well as on shares conferring preferential rights, unless at the time of payment any preferential dividend is in arrears.
KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 147 At every such separate meeting, all of the provisions of the articles which may be paid and it will be limited to a maximum of of association relating to the proceedings of general meetings 45,495,428 ordinary shares having an aggregate nominal value shall apply.
The Board may convene a meeting of the holders of of 9,099,086 which represents approximately 10% of the issued any class of shares whenever it thinks t and whether or not the ordinary share capital of the Company as at 4 March 2008. business to be transacted involves a variation or abrogation of class rights.
The quorum at every such meeting shall be not less Shares will only be purchased if the Directors consider such than two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one purchases to be in the best interests of shareholders generally third of the nominal amount paid up on the issued shares of the and that they can be expected to result in an increase in class.
Every holder of shares of the class, present in person or by earnings per share.
The authority will only be used after careful proxy, may demand a poll.
Each such holder shall on a poll be consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing entitled to one vote for every share of the class held by him.
If at at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing any adjourned meeting of such holders such quorum as aforesaid levels and the overall financial position of the Group.
Shares is not present, not less than one person holding shares of the class held as treasury shares will not automatically be cancelled and who is present in person or by proxy shall be a quorum.
will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings per share unless they are subsequently resold or transferred The rights or privileges attached to any class of shares shall be out of treasury.
The Company does not hold any shares as deemed not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue treasury shares nor does it have any warrants in issue in of any new shares ranking equally with or subsequent to those relation to its shares.
already issued or by the reduction of the capital paid up on such shares or by the purchase or redemption by the Company of its Following the authority granted by shareholders at the 2007 own shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Annual General Meeting, the Company has made market Acts and the Companys articles of association.
purchases of 15,079,577 shares at a total cost of 192,298,972 $390.1 million including expenses.
All these shares were PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS AND NEW ISSUES OF SHARES cancelled and the number of shares in issue accordingly reduced.
Under the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without DIRECTORS express authorisation, which may be contained in the articles of The Companys articles of association provide for a Board of association or given by its shareholders in general meeting, but Directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by ordinary which in either event, cannot last for more than five years.
Under resolution of shareholders of not fewer than two Directors and the Companies Acts, the Company may also not allot shares for not more than 10 Directors, who shall manage the business of the cash otherwise pursuant to an employee share scheme without Company and may exercise all of the powers of the Company, first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares whether relating to the management of the business or not.
to them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to Directors may be elected by the members in general meeting or their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived appointed by the Board of Directors.
Each Director must retire by a special resolution of the shareholders.
at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in which he was elected or last re-elected by The Directors propose in Resolution 10 set out in the Notice of the Company.
The members may by ordinary resolution remove Meeting to renew the authority granted to them at the Annual a Director before the expiration of his period of of ce.
General Meeting held in 2007 to allot equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 30,330,285 representing SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS CHANGE OF CONTROL approximately one third of the ordinary shares issued as at The following signi cant agreement contains certain termination 4 March 2008.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the and other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009.
The limited power of the Company.
The terms of a $2.1 billion pre-export finance granted to the Directors at last years Annual General Meeting facility the Facility dated 29 February 2008 between the to allot equity shares for cash other than pro rata to existing Company and the financial institutions named in the Facility shareholders expires no later than 8 August 2008.
Subject to provide that if any person excluding Vladimir Kim or Oleg the terms of the section 80 authority, the Directors recommend Novachuk or group of people acting in concert secures control of that this authority should be renewed.
Resolution 11 set out in the Company: i a lender under the Facility shall not be obliged to the Notice of Meeting will be proposed as a Special Resolution fund a loan: and ii if a body of lenders representing more than to give the Directors the ability until the conclusion of the two-thirds of the amount of the Facility so require, the parties Companys Annual General Meeting in 2009 to issue ordinary shall enter into negotiations for a period of not more than shares for cash, other than pro rata to existing shareholders, in 30 days with a view to agreeing alternative terms for continuing connection with a rights issue or up to an aggregate nominal the Facility.
If no alternative basis has been agreed during such value of 4,549,542 which in accordance with institutional investor period then the lenders may cancel the commitments of the guidelines represents approximately 5% of the issued ordinary lenders to lend the Facility and declare all outstanding amounts share capital of the Company as at 4 March 2008. due and payable.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES FINANCIAL CALENDAR Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company Dividend payments may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as Ex-dividend date 2 April 2008 treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately Record date 4 April 2008 upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount Final dividend payable 8 May 2008 of the Companys issued share capital.
Interim dividend payable October 2008 Other dates Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Meeting will be proposed as a Special Resolution to renew the Directors limited authority last Annual General Meeting 30 April 2008 granted in 2007 to make market purchases of the Companys Interim results announced August 2008 shares.
The authority sets the minimum and maximum prices KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
