Auditors report on the company financial statements remuneration report to be audited have been which we considered necessary in order to Independent Auditors Report to properly prepared in accordance with the provide us with sufficient evidence to give the Members of Kelda Group Plc Companies Act 1985 and that the information reasonable assurance that the parent company We have audited the parent company financial given in the directors report is consistent with financial statements and the part of the statements of Kelda Group plc for the year the parent company financial statements.
directors remuneration report to be audited ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the The information given in the directors report are free from material misstatement, whether company balance sheet and the related notes includes that specific information presented caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
These parent company financial in the business review that is cross referred In forming our opinion we also evaluated statements have been prepared under the from the business review section of the the overall adequacy of the presentation of accounting policies set out therein.
information in the parent company financial also audited the information in the directors statements and the part of the directors remuneration report that is described as We also report to you if, in our opinion, remuneration report to be audited.
the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the We have reported separately on the group Opinion information and explanations we require for financial statements of Kelda Group plc for In our opinion: our audit, or if information specified by law the year ended 31 March 2007. regarding directors remuneration and other the parent company financial statements This report is made solely to the companys transactions is not disclosed.
give a true and fair view, in accordance members, as a body, in accordance with Section with United Kingdom Generally Accepted We read other information contained in the 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work Accounting Practice, of the state of the Annual Report and consider whether it is has been undertaken so that we might state to companys affairs as at 31 March 2007: consistent with the audited parent company the companys members those matters we are the parent company financial statements and financial statements.
The other information required to state to them in an auditors report the part of the directors remuneration report comprises only the unaudited part of the and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent to be audited have been properly prepared directors remuneration report, the chairmans permitted by law, we do not accept or assume in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: statement and the operating and financial responsibility to anyone other than the company and review.
We consider the implications for our and the companys members as a body, for our the information given in the directors report report if we become aware of any apparent audit work, for this report, or for the opinions is consistent with the parent company misstatements or material inconsistencies with we have formed.
the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any Respective responsibilities of directors other information.
and auditors Ernst & Young LLP The directors are responsible for preparing Basis of audit opinion Registered Auditor the Annual Report, the directors remuneration We conducted our audit in accordance with Leeds report and the parent company financial International Standards on Auditing UK and 14 June 2007 statements in accordance with applicable Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards An audit includes examination, on a test basis, United Kingdom Generally Accepted of evidence relevant to the amounts and Accounting Practice as set out in the disclosures in the parent company financial Statement of directors responsibilities.
statements and the part of the directors Our responsibility is to audit the parent company remuneration report to be audited.
It also financial statements and the part of the includes an assessment of the significant directors remuneration report to be audited in estimates and judgments made by the directors accordance with relevant legal and regulatory in the preparation of the parent company requirements and International Standards on financial statements, and of whether the Auditing UK and Ireland.
accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied We report to you our opinion as to whether and adequately disclosed.
the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, the parent company financial We planned and performed our audit so as statements and the part of the directors to obtain all the information and explanations Kelda Group plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
