Directors report KPI Glossary of terms Although overall compliance with standards is no Group financial key performance indicators Non-financial key performance indicators longer published by the DWI, internal monitoring shows that in the year ending December 2006, Group interest cover Overall customer satisfaction This measure provides an indication of whether The group recognises the value of listening to 99.94% of all water quality tests met the prescribed the groups profit is sufficient to cover its interest standards 2005: 99.94%.
customers in order to deliver improvements obligations and is calculated as group operating that not only meet but surpass expectations.
profit from continuing operations divided by the net Waste Water Treatment Works Compliance Customer satisfaction is monitored on a regular of finance costs and investment income.
These The Environment Agency issues consents to allow the basis using a combination of random telephone figures are disclosed in the audited accounts in the surveys and event-based questionnaires.
discharge of treated water from waste water treatment group income statement.
The three principal consented limits are for suspended solids, biochemical oxygen demand and Yorkshire Waters tracker research is an ongoing Cash interest Funds From Operations ammonia.
A range of other substances may be limited telephone survey involving 220 customers chosen at FFO cover depending on the type of discharge.
This indicator random each month.
This monitors customers FFO cover measures the groups ability to meet its general perceptions and the experience that shows loads for the following determinants: interest payments.
This is calculated as net cash Suspended solids, which can blanket the river customers receive when they come into contact inflow from operating activities, excluding interest bed, thereby destroying fish habitat.
paid, divided by net interest paid.
These figures are Biochemical oxygen demand BOD, which is disclosed in the audited accounts in the group cash a measure of the amount of oxygen consumed Yorkshire Water also has a separate telephone survey flow statement.
each month to a sample of customers who have in water usually by organic pollution and therefore reflects the quality of the water.
This survey is based Group gearing Ammonia, which is toxic to fish.
upon Ofwats regulatory customer survey.
The Phosphate, which can lead to eutrophication This ratio measures the proportion of assets invested results of the surveys are published on Yorkshire in fresh waters.
in the business that are financed by borrowing and Waters website www.
is calculated as net debt as a proportion of net debt All waste water treatment works are monitored for Ongoing event-based surveys cover 12 specific areas plus net assets.
These figures are disclosed in the compliance with their discharge consents and the of customer contacts, namely clean water and waste audited accounts in the group balance sheet and receiving waters are monitored to assess their water repair and maintenance work, customer visits note 26 on additional cash flow information.
compliance with water quality targets.
The frequency by water and waste water field technicians, meter installations, meter reading, supply pipe repairs, new of monitoring depends on the size of the treatment Earnings per share EPS works: small works are monitored on a quarterly basis supply applications, mains rehabilitation works, EPS is an important measure of performance and and large works are monitored every week.
waste water capital works and calls to our contact growth.
EPS is calculated on several different bases, centre about billing and operational matters.
all of which are disclosed in the audited accounts at Reportable and notifiable accidents the foot of the group income statement.
Basic EPS is In addition to its continuous customer research The Health and Safety Commission is responsible for expressed as profit for the year attributable to health and safety regulation in Great Britain.
The programme for domestic customers, Yorkshire shareholders, divided by the weighted average Health and Safety Executive and local government Water also tracks customer satisfaction with its number of shares ranking for dividend.
This is are the enforcing authorities who work in support of business users.
An online survey is conducted with quoted in relation to both continuing and total the Commission.
its largest business users throughout the year and a operations.
Diluted EPS is adjusted to assume telephone survey is carried out with other smaller conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
RIDDOR or the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and business users on an annual basis.
These relate to share options granted to employees Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 place a where the exercise price is less than average market legal duty on employers to notify and report some Water quality price of the companys ordinary shares during work-related accidents, diseases and dangerous The Drinking Water Inspectorate DWI regulates the year.
public water supplies in England and Wales.
responsible for assessing the quality of drinking Yorkshire Water financial key These include, for example: water, taking enforcement action if standards are performance indicators deaths: not being met and appropriate action when water is major injuries: unfit for human consumption.
Yorkshire Water net debt to Regulatory over-three-day injuries where an employee or Capital Value RCV self-employed person is away from work or The Government has set legal standards for drinking The RCV of Yorkshire Water is determined by unable to work normally for more than three water in the Water Quality Regulations.
Most of consecutive days: Ofwat and is the value of the capital base on these standards come directly from European law injuries to members of the public or people not which a return is allowed for price setting purposes.
and are based on World Health Organisation guidelines.
The UK has additional standards to at work where they are taken from the scene of The values are calculated and published annually an accident to hospital: safeguard the already high quality of water in by Ofwat.
This ratio expresses Yorkshire Waters some work-related diseases using the F2508A England and Wales.
The standards are strict and regulated net debt as a proportion of the RCV, both report form : and generally include wide safety margins.
They cover: of which are published in Yorkshire Waters audited dangerous occurrences where something Bacteria.
Chemicals such as nitrate and pesticides.
happens that does not result in an injury, but could have done.
The way the water looks and how it tastes.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29
