Statement of Directors Responsibilities Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Annual Report and the financial statements records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure and the Group and Company financial statements, in that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act accordance with applicable law and regulations.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and responsible for preparing a directors report, directors have elected to prepare the Company financial statements in remuneration report and corporate governance statement that accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
comply with that law and those regulations.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and of the corporate and financial information included on the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the in relation to such financial statements that references in the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The Company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements.
46 Keller Group plc Statement of Directors Responsibilities
