Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General information e Revenue recognition Keller Group plc the parent is a company incorporated Revenue represents the fair value of work done on construction in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. contracts performed during the year on behalf of customers The consolidated financial statements are presented in or the value of goods and services delivered to customers.
pounds sterling rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, As soon as the outcome of a construction contract can be the functional currency of the parent.
Foreign operations are estimated reliably, contract revenue and expenses are recognised included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2. in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract.
The fair value of work done is based upon estimates of the 2 Principal accounting policies final expected outcome of contracts and the proportion of work a Statement of compliance which has been completed.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared In the nature of the Groups business, the results for the and approved by the directors in accordance with International year include adjustments to the outcome of construction Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
contracts, including jointly controlled operations, completed in The Company has elected to prepare its parent company prior years arising from claims from customers or third parties financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these and claims on customers or third parties for variations to the are presented on pages 72 to 77. original contract.
Provision against claims from customers or third parties is b Basis of preparation made in the year in which the Group becomes aware that a claim The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost may arise.
Income from claims on customers or third parties is basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated at not recognised until the outcome can be reliably measured.
The carrying value of hedged items are adjusted Where it is probable that a loss will arise on a contract, for changes in the fair value of the associated hedging full provision for this loss is made in the year in which the Group instruments.
becomes aware that a loss may arise.
Except as noted below, these accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these f Leases consolidated financial statements and have been applied Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms consistently by subsidiaries.
of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards The Company has adopted IFRS 7 Financial instruments: of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as Disclosure and IAS 1 amendment Presentation of Financial operating leases.
statements: Capital Disclosures, which apply to accounting Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The principal leases are capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of fair impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 was to add or amend certain value or present value of minimum lease payments and disclosures relating to financial instruments.
The adoption of depreciated in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
IAS 1 amendment did not have a material impact on the The capital element of the leasing commitment is included consolidated financial statements.
as obligations under finance leases.
The rentals payable are In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale apportioned between interest, which is charged to the income and discontinued operations, the loss from discontinued statement, and capital, which reduces the outstanding obligation.
operation is shown separately in the income statement net of tax Amounts payable under operating leases are charged and the comparative gures have been restated accordingly.
to contract work in progress or net operating costs on a The Company did not adopt IFRS 8 Operating segments straight line basis over the lease term.
or IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury share transactions, which were available for adoption in the year but not mandatory.
g Foreign currencies Balance sheet items in foreign currencies are translated into c Basis of consolidation sterling at closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
The consolidated financial statements consolidate the accounts Income statements and cash ows of overseas subsidiary of the parent and its subsidiary undertakings made up to undertakings are translated into sterling at average rates of 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by exchange for the year.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an opening net assets and income statements at closing and entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
Where average rates of exchange respectively are dealt with as subsidiary undertakings were acquired or sold during the year, movements in equity, along with changes in fair values the accounts include the results for the part of the year for which of associated net investment hedges.
All other exchange they were subsidiary undertakings using the acquisition method differences are charged to the Income Statement.
Intra-Group balances, and any unrealised income and The exchange rates used in respect of principal currencies are: expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated 2007 2006 in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
US dollar: average for period 2.00 1.84 d Jointly controlled operations US dollar: period end 2.00 1.96 From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with Euro: average for period 1.46 1.47 other parties.
These fall under the category of jointly controlled Euro: period end 1.36 1.49 operations as dened by IAS 31.
The Group accounts for its own Australian dollar: average for period 2.39 2.45 share of sales, profits, assets, liabilities and cash ows measured Australian dollar: period end 2.28 2.49 according to the terms of the agreements covering the jointly controlled operations.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Keller Group plc 51 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued 2 Principal accounting policies continued m Goodwill and other intangible assets h Interest income and expense Goodwill All interest income and expense is recognised in profit or loss in Goodwill arising on consolidation, representing the difference the period in which it is incurred using the effective interest method.
between the fair value of the purchase consideration and the fair value of the identiable net assets of the subsidiary undertaking i Employee benefit costs at the date of acquisition, is capitalised as an intangible asset.
The Group operates a number of dened benefit pension The fair value of net assets in excess of the fair value of arrangements, and also makes payments into dened purchase consideration is credited to the Income Statement contribution schemes for employees.
in the year of acquisition.
The liability in respect of dened benefit schemes is the In accordance with IFRS 3, goodwill recognised prior to present value of the dened benefit obligations at the balance 1 January 2004 has been frozen at its net book value as at sheet date, calculated using the projected unit credit method, 1 January 2004 and is not amortised.
Goodwill is reviewed for less the fair value of the schemes assets.
The Group has impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that the taken the option to apply the requirements of IAS 19 revised, goodwill may be impaired, with any impairment losses being recognising the current service cost and interest on scheme recognised immediately in the Income Statement.
Goodwill liabilities in the Income Statement, and actuarial gains and arising prior to 1 January 1998 was taken directly to equity in the losses in full in the period in which they occur in equity.
Such goodwill has not been reinstated on Payments to dened contribution schemes are accounted the Balance Sheet.
Other intangible assets j Taxation Intangible assets, other than goodwill, include purchased licences, The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable patents, trademarks, backlog and non-compete agreements.
and the deferred tax charge.
Intangible assets are capitalised at cost and charged to the Provision is made for current tax on taxable profits for Income Statement on a straight line basis over their useful economic the year.
Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the lives from the date that they are available for use and are stated Income Statement because it excludes items of income or at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses.
expenses that are taxable or deductible in other years and it Intangible assets acquired in a business combination further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
are accounted for initially at fair value.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance n Impairment of assets excluding goodwill sheet date.
At each balance sheet date the Group reviews the carrying Deferred tax is recognised on differences between amounts of its property, plant and equipment and intangible the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial assets to determine whether there is any indication that statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using indication exists the recoverable amount of the asset is the balance sheet liability method.
estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment Full provision is made for deferred tax on temporary loss, if any.
An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life differences in line with IAS 12 Income Taxes.
Deferred tax is tested for impairment annually and whenever there is assets are recognised when it is considered likely that they an indication that the asset may be impaired.
will be utilised against future taxable profits.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected o Capital work in progress to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset Capital work in progress represents expenditure on property, is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income plant and equipment in the course of construction.
Transfers Statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited are made to other property, plant and equipment categories directly to equity, in which case the related deferred tax is also when the assets are available for use.
p Inventories k Property, plant and equipment Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and estimated Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less net realisable value with due allowance being made for obsolete accumulated depreciation and impairment.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, l Depreciation direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred Depreciation is not provided on freehold land.
in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost less the estimated residual value of property, plant and equipment by reference to their estimated useful lives using the straight line method.
The rates of depreciation used are: Buildings 2% Long life plant and equipment 8% Short life plant and equipment 12% Motor vehicles 25% Computers 33% The cost of leased properties is depreciated by equal instalments over the period of the lease or 50 years, whichever is the shorter.
52 Keller Group plc Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 2 Principal accounting policies continued v Segmental reporting q Financial instruments A segment is a distinguishable component of the Group that Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the is engaged either in providing products or services business Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes party to the segment, or in providing products or services within a particular contractual provisions of the instrument.
economic environment geographical segment, and which Derivative financial instruments are accounted for in is subject to risks and rewards that are different from those accordance with IAS 39 and recognised initially at fair value.
The Group uses currency and interest rate swaps to manage financial risk.
Interest charges and financial liabilities are stated w Dividends after taking account of these swaps.
Interim dividends are recorded in the Groups financial The Group uses these swaps and other hedges to mitigate statements when paid.
Final dividends are recorded in the exposures to both foreign currency and interest rates.
Groups financial statements in the period in which they receive Hedges are accounted for as follows: shareholder approval.
Cash ow hedges: The effective part of any gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised directly in the hedging x Accounting estimates and judgements reserve.
Any ineffective portion of the hedge is recognised The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with immediately in the Income Statement.
The associated IFRS requires management to make judgements, estimates and cumulative gain or loss is removed from equity and recognised assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported in the Income Statement in the same period or periods during amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.
The which the hedged forecast transaction affects profit or loss.
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical Fair value hedges: Changes in the fair value of the derivative experience and various other factors that are believed to be are recognised immediately in the income statement.
The reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form carrying value of the hedged item is adjusted by the change the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of in fair value that is attributable to the risk being hedged and assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other any gains or losses on remeasurement are recognised sources.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.
immediately in the Income Statement.
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed Net investment hedges: The effective portion of the change on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are in fair value of the hedging instrument is recognised directly recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the in the translation reserve.
Any ineffectiveness is recognised revision affects only that and prior periods, or in the period immediately in the Income Statement.
of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.
r Trade receivables The key estimates and judgements in drawing up the Trade receivables do not carry any interest, are initially Groups consolidated financial statements are in connection recognised at fair value and are carried at amortised cost as with construction contracts in progress, claims on construction reduced by appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable contracts, the valuation of pension liabilities, fair values of net amounts.
assets acquired in business combinations and goodwill impairment tests.
s Trade payables The Groups approach to estimates and judgements relating Trade payables are not interest bearing, are initially recognised to construction contracts and claims is set out in e above.
at fair value and are carried at amortised cost.
The main factors considered when making those estimates and judgments include the likely outcome of negotiations of t Financial guarantees variations, expectations regarding the recovery of any cost Where Group companies enter into financial guarantee contracts over-runs, the likelihood of claims by or against the Group, to guarantee the indebtedness or obligations of other companies including the potential for liquidated damages, and the extent to within the Group, these are considered to be insurance which any claims against the Group are covered by insurance.
arrangements, and accounted for as such.
In this respect, the Note 30 sets out the principal assumptions underlying guarantee contract is treated as a contingent liability until such the valuation of the Groups dened benefit liabilities which time as it becomes probable that the guarantor will be required include the discount rate, expected return on assets, rate of to make a payment under the guarantee.
These assumptions were set on the advice of the relevant schemes actuaries having regard to u Share-based payment current market conditions, past history and factors specic to Charges for employee services received in exchange for sharethe schemes.
based payment have been made for all options granted after Key uncertainties in estimating the fair value of net assets 7 November 2002, that had not vested by 1 January 2005, acquired in business combinations include the market value of in accordance with IFRS 2. tangible assets and the identication and measurement of Options granted under the Groups employee share separable intangible assets.
The fair value of such options has Goodwill has been assessed for impairment by comparing been calculated using a stochastic model, based upon publicly its carrying value with the present value of the discounted available market data, and is charged to the Income Statement cash ows expected to be generated by the relevant cash over the performance period.
Principal areas of uncertainty in respect of valuations are around forecast cash ows, taking into account the strength of local markets, and the discount rate.
The discount rate used is based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital and adjusted as necessary to reect the nancing and risk associated with the asset being tested.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Keller Group plc 53
