Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 1 General information e Revenue recognition Keller Group plc the parent is a company incorporated Revenue represents the fair value of work done on construction in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 1985. contracts performed during the year on behalf of customers The consolidated financial statements are presented in or the value of goods and services delivered to customers.
pounds sterling rounded to the nearest hundred thousand, As soon as the outcome of a construction contract can be the functional currency of the parent.
Foreign operations are estimated reliably, contract revenue and expenses are recognised included in accordance with the policies set out in note 2. in proportion to the stage of completion of the contract.
The fair value of work done is based upon estimates of the 2 Principal accounting policies final expected outcome of contracts and the proportion of work a Statement of compliance which has been completed.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared In the nature of the Groups business, the results for the and approved by the directors in accordance with International year include adjustments to the outcome of construction Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, as adopted by the EU.
contracts, including jointly controlled operations, completed in The Company has elected to prepare its parent company prior years arising from claims from customers or third parties financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP: these and claims on customers or third parties for variations to the are presented on pages 72 to 77. original contract.
Provision against claims from customers or third parties is b Basis of preparation made in the year in which the Group becomes aware that a claim The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost may arise.
Income from claims on customers or third parties is basis except that derivative financial instruments are stated at not recognised until the outcome can be reliably measured.
The carrying value of hedged items are adjusted Where it is probable that a loss will arise on a contract, for changes in the fair value of the associated hedging full provision for this loss is made in the year in which the Group instruments.
becomes aware that a loss may arise.
Except as noted below, these accounting policies have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these f Leases consolidated financial statements and have been applied Leases are classied as finance leases whenever the terms consistently by subsidiaries.
of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards The Company has adopted IFRS 7 Financial instruments: of ownership to the lessee.
All other leases are classied as Disclosure and IAS 1 amendment Presentation of Financial operating leases.
statements: Capital Disclosures, which apply to accounting Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance periods commencing on or after 1 January 2007.
The principal leases are capitalised in the balance sheet at the lower of fair impact of the adoption of IFRS 7 was to add or amend certain value or present value of minimum lease payments and disclosures relating to financial instruments.
The adoption of depreciated in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
IAS 1 amendment did not have a material impact on the The capital element of the leasing commitment is included consolidated financial statements.
as obligations under finance leases.
The rentals payable are In accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale apportioned between interest, which is charged to the income and discontinued operations, the loss from discontinued statement, and capital, which reduces the outstanding obligation.
operation is shown separately in the income statement net of tax Amounts payable under operating leases are charged and the comparative gures have been restated accordingly.
to contract work in progress or net operating costs on a The Company did not adopt IFRS 8 Operating segments straight line basis over the lease term.
or IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury share transactions, which were available for adoption in the year but not mandatory.
g Foreign currencies Balance sheet items in foreign currencies are translated into c Basis of consolidation sterling at closing rates of exchange at the balance sheet date.
The consolidated financial statements consolidate the accounts Income statements and cash ows of overseas subsidiary of the parent and its subsidiary undertakings made up to undertakings are translated into sterling at average rates of 31 December each year.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by exchange for the year.
Control exists when the Group has the power, directly Exchange differences arising from the retranslation of or indirectly, to govern the financial and operating policies of an opening net assets and income statements at closing and entity so as to obtain benets from its activities.
Where average rates of exchange respectively are dealt with as subsidiary undertakings were acquired or sold during the year, movements in equity, along with changes in fair values the accounts include the results for the part of the year for which of associated net investment hedges.
All other exchange they were subsidiary undertakings using the acquisition method differences are charged to the Income Statement.
Intra-Group balances, and any unrealised income and The exchange rates used in respect of principal currencies are: expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are eliminated 2007 2006 in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
US dollar: average for period 2.00 1.84 d Jointly controlled operations US dollar: period end 2.00 1.96 From time to time the Group undertakes contracts jointly with Euro: average for period 1.46 1.47 other parties.
These fall under the category of jointly controlled Euro: period end 1.36 1.49 operations as dened by IAS 31.
The Group accounts for its own Australian dollar: average for period 2.39 2.45 share of sales, profits, assets, liabilities and cash ows measured Australian dollar: period end 2.28 2.49 according to the terms of the agreements covering the jointly controlled operations.
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Keller Group plc 51
