Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the 2008 Annual General Meeting of 13 THAT, subject to the passing of resolution 12 above, the Keller Group plc incorporated and registered in England and Directors be and are hereby empowered pursuant to Section Wales with company number 02442580 will be held at the 95 1 of the Act to allot equity securities as dened in ofces of Smitheld Consultants Limited, 10 Aldersgate Street, Section 94 2 of the Act of the Company within the terms of London EC1A 4HJ on 13 May 2008 at 11.00am for the the authority set out in resolution 12 above as if Section 89 1 transaction of the following business: of the Act did not apply to such allotment provided that such power shall be limited to: Ordinary business i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a 1 To receive and adopt the Directors Report and the rights issue in favour of the holders of ordinary shares Statement of Accounts for the year ended 31 December in proportion as nearly as may be to their respective 2007 together with the Independent Auditors Report holdings of such shares subject only to such exclusions thereon.
or other arrangements as the Directors may consider 2 To declare a final dividend of 12.0p per ordinary share, expedient to deal with fractional entitlements or legal or such dividend to be paid on 30 May 2008 to members practical considerations arising under the laws of any on the register at the close of business on 2 May 2008. territory or the requirements of any regulatory body: and 3 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ii the allotment otherwise than pursuant to paragraph i ended 31 December 2007. of this resolution of equity securities up to an aggregate 4 To re-elect as a Director Mr J R Atkinson who retires nominal value of 331,521 by rotation.
and shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General 5 To re-elect as a Director Mr E G F Brown who retires by Meeting of the Company save that the Directors may, before rotation.
such expiry, make an offer or agreement which would or 6 To re-elect as a Director Mr R T Scholes who retires by might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry rotation.
and the Directors may allot equity securities pursuant to 7 To re-elect as a Director Dr J M West who, having served on such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby the Board as a Non-executive Director for ten years, offers had not expired.
14 THAT the Company be and is hereby granted general and 8 To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors to the Company unconditional authority pursuant to Section 166 of the Act and to authorise the Directors to x their remuneration.
to make market purchases as dened in Section 163 of the To consider and, if thought t, to pass the following resolutions of Act of up to in aggregate 6,630,423 of its own ordinary which resolutions numbered 9 to 12 will be proposed as ordinary shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company ordinary resolutions and resolutions numbered 13 to 15 will be proposed shares representing 10% of the Companys issued as special resolutions: ordinary share capital at the date of this notice provided 9 THAT the Company may send or supply any documents that: or information to members by making them available on a i the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary website for the purposes of paragraph 10 2 of schedule share is an amount equal to not more than 5% above the 5 to the Companies Act 2006 and otherwise.
average of the middle market quotations for the shares 10 THAT the Company may use electronic means within the taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List meaning of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules for the five business days before the day on which the sourcebook published by the Financial Services Authority purchase is made exclusive of expenses payable by the to convey information to members.
Company: 11 THAT the payment by the Company of Directors fees in the ii the minimum price which may be paid for a share is 10p: sum of 318,000 for 2007 in excess of the limit contained in and article 92 of the Companys current articles of association be iii the authority conferred by this resolution shall expire at and is hereby ratied.
the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the 12 THAT: Company, except that the Company may, before such i the Directors be and are hereby generally and expiry, enter into a contract for the purchase of its own unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section shares which would or may require to be completed or 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to allot relevant executed wholly or partly after the expiration of this securities as dened in Section 80 2 of the Act of the authority as if the said authority had not expired.
Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 15 THAT the draft regulations produced to the meeting be 2,210,141 during the period commencing on the date and are hereby adopted as the articles of association of of the passing of this resolution and expiring at the the Company to the exclusion of and in substitution for conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the the existing articles of association of the Company.
Company, provided that the Company may make at any time prior to the expiry of such authority any offer or By order of the Board agreement which would or might require relevant securities of the Company to be allotted after the expiry Jackie Holman Registered ofce: of such authority and the Directors may allot relevant Secretary Capital House, 25 Chapel Street securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as 28 February 2008 London NW1 5DH if the authority hereby conferred had not expired: and ii all previous authorisations given by the Company in general meeting or otherwise pursuant to Section 80 of the Act be and are hereby revoked to the extent not previously exercised.
Notice of Annual General Meeting Keller Group plc 79 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued Notes The Board has no current plans to allot ordinary shares and does not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued share capital, 1.
Resolutions 9 and 10 Consent to website and other than in a rights issue, in any three-year period.
electronic communications As a result of the changes made to the Act by the The authority sought by resolutions 12 and 13 will expire at the implementation of the Companies Act 2006 2006 Act, it is now conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, but could be considered best practice to obtain shareholder approval to varied or withdrawn by agreement of shareholders at an website communications and, notwithstanding the fact that the intervening general meeting.
Company already has this power in its existing articles of association, the Company is seeking this approval by means of 4.
Resolution 14 Purchase of the Companys own shares resolution 9.
For ofcially listed companies, the Disclosure and This resolution grants a limited authority to the Company to Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority also purchase through the market up to 10% of the issued ordinary require a shareholders resolution to be passed approving share capital.
The resolution species the maximum and communications by all electronic means which includes email, minimum prices at which the shares may be bought at the date fax and website communications where a shareholder gives of the notice.
The authority sought will expire at the conclusion his express consent to such communications.
Resolution 10, of the next Annual General Meeting.
The Board has announced if passed, will partially satisfy this requirement.
By proposing that it intends to use its authority to buy back up to 5% of its these resolutions at the 2008 Annual General Meeting, at this share capital during the remainder of 2008. stage the Company is looking to put in place a framework to facilitate the electronic communications regime.
Resolution 15 Adoption of new articles of association will contact shareholders about these proposals in more detail As a result of the changes to the laws relating to companies in the event that it ultimately decides to implement electronic brought into force in the 2006 Act, it has been necessary to communications with shareholders in full.
make certain consequential changes to the Companys articles of association.
In addition a number of other changes are 2.
Resolution 11 Ratication of 2007 Directors fees proposed to bring the Companys articles in line with market The articles x the total aggregate sum which may be paid to the practice.
The principal changes to the articles of association, directors as fees for their services as directors not including any if adopted, are as follows: salary which may be payable in respect of their executive duties, without seeking shareholder consent.
The current limit of 5a the provisions relating to notice and frequency of general 250,000 was set in May 2001 and increases annually from that meetings have been amended in accordance with the date, in line with the retail prices index, giving a limit of 295,924 provisions of the 2006 Act so that: i the Company will hold at May 2007.
This limit was exceeded in 2007, when fees paid to an Annual General Meeting within the six-month period the Directors amounted to 318,000.
The Board considers that following its accounting reference date, rather than once the current limit is no longer appropriate and is seeking a higher every 15 months as currently required: and ii for all general limit going forward, as noted in 5c below.
Shareholders are meetings of the Company other than Annual General asked to ratify the fees paid to the Directors in 2007.
Meetings the Company need only give 14 clear days notice.
The Act currently requires that 21 clear days notice is given 3.
Resolutions 12 and 13 Authority to allot shares of any meeting at which a special resolution is proposed: Under the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Directors of the Company may only allot unissued shares if authorised to do 5b shareholders will be permitted to appoint multiple proxies to so under Section 80 of the Act.
Section 89 of the Act prevents attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company allotments for cash, other than to existing shareholders in and such proxies will also be allowed to vote on a resolution proportion to their existing holdings, unless the Directors are put to a meeting on a show of hands as well as on a poll.
This gives existing shareholders what In addition, the current articles of association require that in are known as pre-emption rights.
order for the appointment of a proxy to be valid, proxy forms must be received by the Company 48 hours before the The Articles of Association give a general authority to the meeting.
The 2006 Act permits the Company to disregard Directors to allot unissued shares and disapply these predays which are not working days for the purposes of emption rights.
Passing resolutions 12 and 13 will extend the calculating this time period and the new articles of Directors exibility to act in the best interests of shareholders, association have been amended to give the Board discretion when opportunities arise, to issue new shares.
in regard to this time period: The Directors will be able to issue new shares up to a nominal 5c the current articles x the total aggregate sum which may value of 2,210,141 which is equal to approximately 33.3% be paid to the directors as fees for their services as directors of the issued ordinary share capital at 28 February 2008. not including any salary which may be payable in respect of The Directors will also be able either to issue shares for cash, their executive duties at 250,000.
This sum is increased other than to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing annually from May 2001 in line with the retail prices index.
holdings, up to a maximum nominal amount of 331,521 The Board is of the view that this limit is no longer appropriate, representing about 5% of the issued ordinary share capital at given the current size of the Company and having regard 28 February 2008 or, other than for cash, in a rights issue.
to the limits put in place by other listed companies of our size.
It is therefore proposing this limit is increased to These arrangements are intended to ensure that the interests 500,000 and that, in line with most other companies, of existing shareholders are protected so that, for example, it is limited to fees paid to non-executive directors: in the event of a share issue which is not a rights issue, the proportionate interests of existing shareholders could not, without their agreement, be reduced by more than 5% by the issue of new shares for cash to new shareholders.
80 Keller Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting 5d the articles have been amended to include a new article 7.
Proxies which requires the directors to retire by rotation every 7a A shareholder is entitled to appoint one or more persons as three years: proxies to exercise all or any of his rights to attend, speak and vote at the meeting.
A proxy need not be a member of 5e the 2006 Act removes the requirement that directors who the Company.
The appointment of a proxy will not preclude have attained the age of 70 vacate ofce and accordingly a shareholder from attending and voting in person at the the Company has removed this provision in its articles: meeting if he so wishes.
To appoint more than one proxy shareholders will need to complete a separate proxy form 5f the 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which largely for each proxy.
Copies of additional proxy forms can be codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the obtained from the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, by 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a telephoning 0871 384 2030 or shareholders may photocopy situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect the form of proxy indicating on each copy the name of the interest that conicts, or possibly may conict, with the proxy to be appointed and the number of shares in respect companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and of which the proxy is appointed.
The total votes cast and in could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director respect whereof abstention is recorded by a shareholder or of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
his duly appointed proxies may not, in aggregate, exceed The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to the total number of the votes exercisable by that shareholder authorise conicts and potential conicts where appropriate, in respect of ordinary shares in the Company of which he is where the articles of association contain a provision to this the holder.
All forms of proxy should be returned together in effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the articles to contain other the same envelope.
Shareholders can only appoint a proxy provisions for dealing with directors conicts of interest to using the procedures set out in these notes and the notes to avoid a breach of duty.
The new articles of association give the proxy form.
the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conicts of interest to be 7b A form of proxy is enclosed.
To be valid, it must be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
completed, signed and sent to the ofces of the Companys registrars, Equiniti Limited, at Aspect House, Spencer Road, There are safeguards that will apply when directors decide Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6ZL so as to arrive no later than whether to authorise a conict or potential conict.
First, 11.00am on 11 May 2008 or, in the event that the meeting is only directors who have no interest in the matter being adjourned, no later than 48 hours before the time of any considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and adjourned meeting.
secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to 7c CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies promote the companys success.
The directors will be able through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if may do so by using the procedures described in the CREST they think this is appropriate.
CREST personal members or other CREST sponsored members and those CREST members who have It is the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers of CREST sponsor or voting service provider s who will be authorisation of conicts are operated effectively and that able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
the procedures have been followed: and In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using 5g the 2006 Act also permits the Company to provide an the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST indemnity in favour of directors and ofcers of associated message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly companies including any corporate pension scheme authenticated in accordance with Euroclear UK & Ireland trustees and the Company has updated the new articles Limiteds formerly CRESTCos specications and must to provide for this.
contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless As the provisions of the 2006 Act are gradually phased in it is of whether it constitutes the appointment of a proxy or an the Companys intention, subject to shareholder approval, to amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed continue to update its articles of association in accordance proxy, must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be with the 2006 Act.
received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by no later than 11.00am on 11 May 2008.
Record Date through the CREST network after this time will be accepted.
Only those shareholders registered in the register of members For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the of the Company as at 6.00pm on 11 May 2008 or, in the event time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message that the meeting is adjourned, in the register of members as at by the CREST Applications Host from which the registrars 6.00pm on the date that is two days before any adjourned are able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the meeting shall be entitled to attend or vote at the meeting in manner prescribed by CREST.
After this time, any change of respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that instructions to proxies appointed through CREST should be time.
Changes to entries in the register of members after 6.00pm communicated to the appointee through other means.
on 11 May 2008 or, in the event that the meeting is adjourned, after 6.00pm on the date that is two days before any adjourned CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST meeting shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any sponsors or voting service provider s should note that person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited does not make available Notice of Annual General Meeting Keller Group plc 81 Notice of Annual General Meeting continued special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncerticated Securities Regulations 2001.
Directors Service Contracts and Biographical Details Copies of all the Directors service contracts or memoranda of the terms thereof: the register of interests of Directors in the share capital of the Company: and the memorandum, current articles of association and proposed new articles of association will be available for inspection at the registered ofce of the Company during usual business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excluded from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
Directors biographical details are set out on pages 30 and 31.
82 Keller Group plc Notice of Annual General Meeting
