Notes to the Company Financial Statements 1 significant accounting policies Investments These financial statements have been prepared under the Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where historical cost convention in accordance with applicable appropriate, provisions for impairment.
accounting standards of UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Deferred taxation The Company has taken the exception granted under Except where otherwise required by FRS 19, full provision SI 2005 2417 not to disclose non-audit fees paid to its auditors.
without discounting is made for all timing differences which The Company has adopted FRS 29 Financial instruments: have arisen but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
Disclosures and UITF 41 Scope of FRS 20 in the year.
These did not have a material impact on the financial statements.
Tangible xed assets Except for this, the following accounting policies have been Tangible xed assets principally consist of leasehold applied consistently.
improvements which are depreciated over the term of The principal accounting policies adopted under UK GAAP the lease.
are the same as the Groups accounting policies under International Financial Reporting Standards except for those 2 Employees listed below: The Company has no employees other than the Directors.
Directors remuneration and details of their share-based Basis of accounting payments are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report No profit and loss account is presented for the Company on pages 35 to 41. as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Retirement benets The Company operates a dened benefit pension scheme, and also makes payments into dened contribution schemes for employees.
The liability in respect of the dened benefit scheme is the present value of the dened benefit obligations at the balance sheet date, calculated using the projected unit credit method, less the fair value of the schemes assets.
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 17 recognising the current service cost and interest on scheme liabilities in the profit and loss account, and actuarial gains and losses in reserves.
Payments to dened contribution schemes are accounted for on an accruals basis.
Notes to the Company Financial Statements Keller Group plc 73
