Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records the group and parent company financial statements in accordance that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial with applicable law and regulations.
position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements fraud and other irregularities.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and applicable law and have elected to Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
report and corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such the corporate and financial information included on the Companys financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
44 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
