Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back2:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back2 19 3 08 11:55 Page 106 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Basis of accounting Taxation The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention Deferred tax is recognised as an asset or liability, at appropriate rates, in respect except as otherwise stated.
They have been drawn up to comply with applicable of transactions and events recognised in the financial statements of the current UK accounting standards.
and previous periods which give the entity a right to pay less, or an obligation to pay more, tax in future periods.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent it is The Company has taken advantage of the provision of FRS 1 revised which probable that there will be suitable taxable profits from which they can be recovered.
exempts subsidiaries, 90 per cent or more of whose voting rights are controlled within the Group, from preparing a cash flow statement.
The required consolidated No provision is made for any taxation on capital gains that would arise from the future cash flow statement has been included within the consolidated IFRSs financial disposal of any fixed assets shown in the financial statements at valuation, except to statements of the Group.
the extent that at the balance sheet date there is a binding sale agreement.
The Company has restated its comparative year balance sheet and profit for Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
the year ended 31 December 2006 to recognise a financial liability and a financial Foreign currency translation asset in relation to guarantees given to third parties in respect of lease liabilities The presentation and functional currency of the Company and the functional of subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division and an indemnity received from currencies of its UK subsidiaries, is sterling.
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in sterling at the foreign currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities 2 Change in accounting policies denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the foreign currency rate There have been no changes in accounting policies during the year.
of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
3 Summary of significant accounting policies All foreign currency translation differences are taken to the profit and loss account Investments with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a post Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment.
tax hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised The Company assesses these investments for impairment wherever events or in the profit and loss account.
Tax charges and credits attributable to exchange changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an investment may differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
If any such indication of impairment exists, the Company makes an estimate of the recoverable amount.
If the recoverable amount of the cashNon monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign generating unit is less than the value of the investment, the investment is considered currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
to be impaired and is written down to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss Non monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated is recognised immediately in the profit and loss account.
using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value was determined.
Financial assets Pensions Financial assets are recognised when the Company becomes party to the contracts The Company is the principal employer of the Ladbrokes Pension Plan, a funded that give rise to them.
The pension cost relating to the plan is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries using the projected The Company classifies financial assets at inception as either financial assets at credit unit method.
fair value or loans and receivables.
On initial recognition, loans and receivables are measured at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial assets at fair value comprise Any actuarial gains or losses arising are taken to equity in the period in which they arise.
guarantees provided to the Company.
Financial assets at fair value through profit Any past service costs are recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are or loss are measured initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to already vested, and otherwise are amortised on a straight-line basis over the average the profit and loss account.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains period until the benefits are vested.
and losses from changes therein are recognised in the profit and loss account.
The defined benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet represents the fair value Financial guarantees provided to the Company are classified as financial assets and of plan assets less the present value of defined benefit obligations adjusted for are measured at fair value by estimating the probability of the guarantees being called any unrecognised past service costs.
If necessary, the net defined benefit surplus upon and the related cash inflows to the Company.
is limited to the amount that can be recovered through reduced Company Financial liabilities contributions in the future plus any refunds that have been agreed at the balance Financial liabilities comprise guarantees given to third parties.
On initial recognition, sheet date.
financial liabilities are measured at fair value plus transactions costs where they are not categorised as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured initially at fair value, with transaction costs taken directly to the profit and loss account.
Subsequently, the fair values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised in the profit and loss account.
Financial guarantee contracts The Company has provided financial guarantees to third parties in respect of lease obligations of certain of the Companys former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels division.
Financial guarantee contracts are classified as financial liabilities and are measured at fair value by estimating the probability of the guarantees being called upon and the related cash outflows from the Company.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the assets has expired: or when the Company has transferred its contractual right to receive the cash flows from the financial assets, and either substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred: or substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been retained nor transferred but control is not retained.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.
