Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1 19 3 08 11:54 Page 72 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Intangible assets continued Intangible assets included in continuing operations Licences comprises the cost of acquired betting shop licences.
These are not amortised as they are considered to have an indefinite life for a combination of reasons: Ladbrokes is a leading operator in a well established market: there is a proven, sustained demand for bookmaking services: and existing law acts to restrict entry.
Ladbrokes has a very strong track record of renewing its betting permits and licences at minimal cost.
Software relates to the cost of software acquisition and the capitalised costs in respect of internally generated software.
Goodwill relates to the consideration exceeding the fair value of net asse ts of the acquisitions of Paddington Casino Limited and other acquired statutory entities as well as the deferred tax liability arising on statutory licence acquisitions.
Customer relationships relate to contracted relationships acquired as part of a business combination.
16 Impairment testing of indefinite life intangibles The Group tests annually for impairments, or more frequently if there are indications that indefinite life intangibles might be impaired, by comparing the carrying amounts of these assets with their recoverable amounts being the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
Goodwill is tested for impairment by allocating its carrying amount to groups of cash generating units CGUs expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination: if the recoverable amount of a group of CGUs exceeds its carrying amount, the group and any goodwill allocated to that group would be regarded as not impaired.
Goodwill of 48.3 million 2006: 44.7 million relating to the European Retail continuing operations is allocated to the cash generating units that comprise the European Retail segment.
Licences have been allocated to the individual European Retail CGUs that are expected to benefit from the assets.
The carrying value of licences at 31 December 2007 was 410.5 million 2006: 370.9 million.
Goodwill of 10.7 million 2006: nil arising on the acquisition of Paddington Casino is allocated to a cash generating unit, disclosed in the Other segment.
Customer relationships of 40.5 million 2006: nil arising on the acquisition of Sponsio is allocated to a cash generating unit, disclosed in the eGaming segment.
The recoverable amounts of the CGUs are determined from value in use calculations.
The discount rate applied to cash flow projections is 10.3 per cent 2006: 10.4 per cent and cash flows beyond 2012 2006: 2011 budget is approved up until and including 2012 2006: 2011 are extrapolated using a 2.5 per cent growth rate 2006: 2.5 per cent.
This rate does not exceed the average long-term growth rate for the relevant markets.
The recoverable amount of the European Retail estate is significantly in excess of its carrying amount and there has been no impairment of goodwill or licences in 2007.
When applying sensitivities to these projections, impairments of individual CGUs may be necessary in the future if their recoverable amounts do not exceed their carrying amounts, although this is not expected to be material.
There would need to be a significant change in the cash flow projections or the discount rate before a material impairment charge would be required.
