Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1 19 3 08 11:54 Page 54 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Corporate information The Group has early adopted the guidance under IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on The consolidated financial statements of Ladbrokes plc for the year ended a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, for 31 December 2007 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution the year ended 31 December 2007.
IFRIC 14 provides general guidance on how of the directors on 28 February 2008.
Ladbrokes plc is a limited company to assess the limit on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset incorporated in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded.
The address under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
It also explains how the pensions asset or liability of its registered office and principal place of business is disclosed in the corporate may be affected when there is a statutory or contractual minimum funding information section to the Annual Report on page 120. requirement.
The Interpretation standardises practices and ensures that entities recognise an asset in relation to a surplus on a consistent basis.
This has had no The principal activities of Ladbrokes plc and its subsidiaries together, the Group impact on the financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2006 and 2007. are described on page 59, note 6.
4 Summary of significant accounting policies 2 Basis of preparation Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted parent Company Ladbrokes plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
for use in the European Union.
The underlying financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling.
All values are reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Control in millions m rounded to one decimal place except where otherwise indicated.
is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
To assist in understanding the underlying performance, the Group has defined the following items of income and expense as non-trading in nature: All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated profits losses on disposal of non-current assets: on consolidation.
profits losses on disposal of businesses and investments: Subsidiaries are consolidated, using the purchase method of accounting, from the unrealised gains losses on derivative financial instruments arising from hedging date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from interest rate and currency exposures: and the date on which control is transferred from the Group.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are The non-trading items have been included within the appropriate classification in measured at the fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition the consolidated income statement.
over the fair values of the separately identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as The Group has restated its comparative year balance sheet and income statement to goodwill.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of reflect Vernons as a discontinued operation: to exclude from total revenue the share subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
of results from joint ventures and associates: to disclose the net impact of gains and Use of assumptions, estimates and judgements losses on fair value hedges within finance costs: for the reclassification of antepost The preparation of financial information requires the use of assumptions, estimates liabilities and property provisions as current liabilities: and the reallocation of shared and judgements about future conditions.
Use of available information and application costs between reporting segments.
Refer to note 39 for further details.
of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates.
Actual results in the future may differ from those reported.
In this regard, management believes that the accounting 3 Changes in accounting policies policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those that relate to the measurement IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures has superseded the disclosure requirements and impairment of indefinite life intangible assets, the measurement of pension and of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure, with the remaining other post employment benefit obligations, the determination of the initial fair value parts of IAS 32 dealing only with financial instruments presentation matters.
of betting and gaming transactions and the recoverable amount of trade receivables Under the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7, financial instruments have been and the valuation of financial guarantee contracts.
grouped into classes of similar instruments and the required disclosures made The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
The two main categories of disclosures required by IFRS 7 are: Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate information about the significance of financial instruments: and is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and information about the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments future periods, if the revision affects both current and future periods.
and how the Group manages these risks.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future and other key The new disclosures on market risk include a sensitivity analysis of each type of sources of estimation uncertainty are set out below.
market risk to which the Group is exposed.
Indefinite life intangible assets The Group has adopted IFRS 7 for the year ended 31 December 2007 and for The Group determines whether indefinite life intangible assets are impaired at comparatives for the year ended 31 December 2006 as required by the International least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the Accounting Standards Board IASB.
cash generating units to which intangible assets are allocated.
Estimating a value The Group has adopted IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements in use amount requires management to make an estimate of the expected future for the year ended 31 December 2007.
This has had no effect on the financial cash flows from the cash generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount position of the Group but does, however, give rise to additional disclosures.
rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further details are given in notes 15 and 16.
The Group has applied the guidance under IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment for the year ended 31 December 2007, which concludes that where an Pension and other post employment benefit obligations entity has recognised an impairment loss in an interim period in respect of goodwill or The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post employment benefits is an investment in either an equity instrument or a financial asset carried at cost, that determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making impairment should not be reversed in subsequent interim financial statements nor in assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary annual financial statements.
This has had no impact on the financial statements for increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature the years ended 31 December 2006 and 2007. of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
Further details are given in note 33.
