Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1 19 3 08 11:54 Page 54 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Corporate information The Group has early adopted the guidance under IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on The consolidated financial statements of Ladbrokes plc for the year ended a Defined Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction, for 31 December 2007 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution the year ended 31 December 2007.
IFRIC 14 provides general guidance on how of the directors on 28 February 2008.
Ladbrokes plc is a limited company to assess the limit on the amount of the surplus that can be recognised as an asset incorporated in the United Kingdom whose shares are publicly traded.
The address under IAS 19 Employee Benefits.
It also explains how the pensions asset or liability of its registered office and principal place of business is disclosed in the corporate may be affected when there is a statutory or contractual minimum funding information section to the Annual Report on page 120. requirement.
The Interpretation standardises practices and ensures that entities recognise an asset in relation to a surplus on a consistent basis.
This has had no The principal activities of Ladbrokes plc and its subsidiaries together, the Group impact on the financial statements for the years ended 31 December 2006 and 2007. are described on page 59, note 6.
4 Summary of significant accounting policies 2 Basis of preparation Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of the Group have been prepared in The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted parent Company Ladbrokes plc and its subsidiaries as at 31 December each year.
for use in the European Union.
The underlying financial statements of subsidiaries are prepared for the same The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling.
All values are reporting year as the parent Company, using consistent accounting policies.
Control in millions m rounded to one decimal place except where otherwise indicated.
is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.
To assist in understanding the underlying performance, the Group has defined the following items of income and expense as non-trading in nature: All intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated profits losses on disposal of non-current assets: on consolidation.
profits losses on disposal of businesses and investments: Subsidiaries are consolidated, using the purchase method of accounting, from the unrealised gains losses on derivative financial instruments arising from hedging date on which control is transferred to the Group and cease to be consolidated from interest rate and currency exposures: and the date on which control is transferred from the Group.
On acquisition, the assets and liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary are The non-trading items have been included within the appropriate classification in measured at the fair values at the date of acquisition.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition the consolidated income statement.
over the fair values of the separately identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as The Group has restated its comparative year balance sheet and income statement to goodwill.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of reflect Vernons as a discontinued operation: to exclude from total revenue the share subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
of results from joint ventures and associates: to disclose the net impact of gains and Use of assumptions, estimates and judgements losses on fair value hedges within finance costs: for the reclassification of antepost The preparation of financial information requires the use of assumptions, estimates liabilities and property provisions as current liabilities: and the reallocation of shared and judgements about future conditions.
Use of available information and application costs between reporting segments.
Refer to note 39 for further details.
of judgement are inherent in the formation of estimates.
Actual results in the future may differ from those reported.
In this regard, management believes that the accounting 3 Changes in accounting policies policies where judgement is necessarily applied are those that relate to the measurement IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures has superseded the disclosure requirements and impairment of indefinite life intangible assets, the measurement of pension and of IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation and Disclosure, with the remaining other post employment benefit obligations, the determination of the initial fair value parts of IAS 32 dealing only with financial instruments presentation matters.
of betting and gaming transactions and the recoverable amount of trade receivables Under the disclosure requirements of IFRS 7, financial instruments have been and the valuation of financial guarantee contracts.
grouped into classes of similar instruments and the required disclosures made The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
The two main categories of disclosures required by IFRS 7 are: Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate information about the significance of financial instruments: and is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and information about the nature and extent of risks arising from financial instruments future periods, if the revision affects both current and future periods.
and how the Group manages these risks.
Further information about key assumptions concerning the future and other key The new disclosures on market risk include a sensitivity analysis of each type of sources of estimation uncertainty are set out below.
market risk to which the Group is exposed.
Indefinite life intangible assets The Group has adopted IFRS 7 for the year ended 31 December 2007 and for The Group determines whether indefinite life intangible assets are impaired at comparatives for the year ended 31 December 2006 as required by the International least on an annual basis.
This requires an estimation of the value in use of the Accounting Standards Board IASB.
cash generating units to which intangible assets are allocated.
Estimating a value The Group has adopted IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Financial Statements in use amount requires management to make an estimate of the expected future for the year ended 31 December 2007.
This has had no effect on the financial cash flows from the cash generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount position of the Group but does, however, give rise to additional disclosures.
rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
Further details are given in notes 15 and 16.
The Group has applied the guidance under IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment for the year ended 31 December 2007, which concludes that where an Pension and other post employment benefit obligations entity has recognised an impairment loss in an interim period in respect of goodwill or The cost of defined benefit pension plans and other post employment benefits is an investment in either an equity instrument or a financial asset carried at cost, that determined using actuarial valuations.
The actuarial valuation involves making impairment should not be reversed in subsequent interim financial statements nor in assumptions about discount rates, expected rates of return on assets, future salary annual financial statements.
This has had no impact on the financial statements for increases, mortality rates and future pension increases.
Due to the long-term nature the years ended 31 December 2006 and 2007. of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty.
Further details are given in note 33.
54 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1 19 3 08 11:54 Page 55 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued A summary of the policies applied to the Groups intangible assets is as follows: Betting and gaming transactions Customer Betting and gaming transactions are initially measured at the fair value of the Licences Software relationships consideration received or receivable from customers.
This is normally the nominal Useful lives indefinite finite indefinite amount of the consideration, but on certain occasions the fair value is estimated using valuation techniques, taking into account the credit profile of customers Method used not depreciated 3-5 years not depreciated in determining the collectibility of the consideration.
In addition where there are or revalued straight line or revalued indicators that any trade receivable is impaired at a balance sheet date, management makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount.
Further details are given Internally generated acquired acquired and acquired in note 20. or acquired internally Financial guarantee contracts generated The valuation of financial guarantee contracts and related indemnities requires use of assumptions of the risks of default of the guaranteed entities and credit profiles Impairment testing annually and useful lives annually and of the counterparties.
Further details are given in note 27. recoverable amount where an reviewed at where an testing indicator of each financial indicator of Investments in joint ventures impairment exists year end impairment exists A joint venture is an entity in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which is jointly controlled by the Group and one or more other venturers under An intangible asset is derecognised upon disposal, with any gain or loss arising a contractual agreement.
calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying The Groups share of results of joint ventures is included in the Groups income amount of the item included in the income statement in the year of disposal.
statement using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in joint ventures Property, plant and equipment are carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in Land is stated at cost less any impairment in value.
Buildings, plant and equipment the Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment in value.
The are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.
carrying value of investments in joint ventures includes acquired goodwill.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis over the estimated useful life If the Groups share of losses in the joint venture equals or exceeds its investment of the asset as follows: in the joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses, unless it has buildings 50 years or estimated useful life of the building, or lease, whichever incurred obligations to do so or made payments on behalf of the joint venture.
is less, to estimated residual value: Investments in associates fixtures, fittings and equipment four to 10 years as considered appropriate Associates are those businesses in which the Group has a long-term interest and to write down cost to estimated residual value.
is able to exercise significant influence over the financial and operational policies but does not have control or joint control over those policies.
The carrying values of plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying values may not be recoverable.
The Groups share of results of associates is included in the Groups income If any such indication exists and where the carrying values exceed the estimated statement using the equity method of accounting.
Investments in associates are recoverable amount, the assets or cash generating units are written down to their carried in the Group balance sheet at cost plus post acquisition changes in the recoverable amount.
The recoverable amount of plant and equipment is the greater Groups share of net assets of the entity less any impairment in value.
The carrying of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated values of investment in associates includes acquired goodwill.
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre tax discount rate Goodwill that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks Goodwill on acquisition is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the cost specific to the asset.
For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash of the business combination over the Groups interest in the net fair value of the inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which separately identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a subsidiary the asset belongs.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement in the or associate at the date of acquisition.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business depreciation and amounts written off non-current assets line item.
Combinations, goodwill is not amortised but reviewed annually for impairment and An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal, with any gain as such, is stated at cost less any provision for impairment of value.
Any impairment or loss arising calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.
carrying amount of the item included in the income statement in the year of disposal.
On acquisition, any goodwill acquired is allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash generating unit Leases and part of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill associated with Finance leases, which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and benefits the operation disposed of is included in the carrying amount of the operation when incidental to ownership of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation.
lease at the fair value of the leased item or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance Intangible assets charges and reduction of the lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of Intangible assets acquired separately are capitalised at cost and those acquired as interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are charged part of a business combination are capitalised separately from goodwill if the fair directly against income.
value can be measured reliably on initial recognition.
The costs relating to internally generated intangible assets, principally software costs, are capitalised if the criteria Capitalised leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful for recognition as assets are met.
Other expenditure is charged against profit in the life of the asset and the lease term.
year in which the expenditure is incurred.
Following initial recognition, intangible Leases where the lessor retains substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership assets are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated of the asset are classified as operating leases.
Operating lease payments, other impairment losses.
The useful lives of these intangible assets are assessed to be than contingent rentals, are recognised as an expense in the income statement either finite or indefinite.
Where amortisation is charged on assets with finite lives, this on a straight line basis over the lease term.
expense is taken to the income statement through the depreciation and amounts written off non-current assets line item.
Useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis.
Contingent rentals, within prior year discontinued operations, were determined by turnover or profit performance of individual hotels and charged as incurred.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested for impairment annually either Where a minimum guarantee existed, a charge was made to the income statement, individually or at the cash generating unit level.
based on planned performance, to the extent that the individual hotel was expected to exceed minimum guarantee levels, or at the minimum guarantee level if there was a projected shortfall in performance.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 55 Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1 19 3 08 11:54 Page 56 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred: or Recoverable amount of non-current assets substantially all the risks and rewards have neither been retained nor transferred At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an but control is not retained.
Where an indicator of impairment exists, the Group makes Financial liabilities are derecognised when the obligation is discharged, cancelled a formal estimate of recoverable amount.
Where the carrying amount of an asset or expires.
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting down to its recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the higher of an assets The Group uses derivative financial instruments such as cross currency swaps, or cash generating units fair value less costs to sell and its value in use and is foreign exchange swaps and interest rate swaps, to hedge its risks associated with determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets.
recognised initially at cost and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
The gains Non-current assets held for sale or losses on remeasurement are taken to the income statement except where the Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are measured derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge or a net investment hedge.
Fair values at the lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
of over-the-counter derivatives are obtained using valuation techniques, including Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their discounted cash flow models and option pricing models.
carrying amount will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than through Derivative financial instruments are classified as assets when their fair value is continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when the sale is highly positive or as liabilities when their fair value is negative.
Derivative assets and probable and the asset or disposal group is available for immediate sale in its liabilities arising from different transactions are only offset if the transactions are present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale, which should be with the same counterparty, a legal right of offset exists and the parties intend expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the to settle the cash flows on a net basis.
The derivative financial instruments taken out as hedges were designated and Cash and cash equivalents documented as hedges on the date that the relevant derivative contract was Cash and cash equivalents consists of cash at bank and in hand and short-term committed to, as one of the following: deposits with an original maturity of less than three months, net of outstanding a hedge of the fair value of an asset and liability fair value hedge : bank overdrafts.
a hedge of the income cost of a highly probable forecasted transaction or Financial assets commitment cash flow hedge : Financial assets are recognised when the Group becomes party to the contracts a hedge of a net investment in a foreign entity net investment hedge.
In relation to fair value hedges that meet the conditions for hedge accounting, any The Group classifies financial assets at inception as either financial assets at fair value gain or loss from remeasuring the hedging instrument at fair value is recognised through profit or loss or as loans and receivables.
On initial recognition, loans and immediately in the income statement.
Any gain or loss on the hedged item attributable receivables are measured at fair value.
Financial assets at fair value through profit to the hedged risk is adjusted against the carrying amount of the hedged item and or loss comprise derivative financial instruments and guarantees provided to the recognised in the income statement.
Financial assets through profit or loss are measured initially at fair value with In relation to cash flow hedges that meet the conditions for hedge accounting, transaction costs taken directly to the income statement.
Subsequently, the fair the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion is in the income statement.
recognised in the income statement.
Trade receivables are generally accounted for at amortised cost.
The Group reviews For all other cash flow hedges, the gains or losses that are recognised in equity indicators of impairment on an ongoing basis and where indicators exist, the Group are transferred to the income statement in the same year in which the hedged makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amounts.
cash flow affects the income statement.
Financial guarantees provided to the Group are classified as financial assets and are Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, measured at fair value by estimating the probability of the guarantees being called terminated or exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that point upon and the related cash inflows to the Group.
in time, any cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognised in equity Financial liabilities is kept in equity until the forecasted transaction occurs.
If a hedged transaction Financial liabilities comprise interest bearing loans and borrowings, derivative is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity financial instruments, antepost bets and guarantees given to third parties.
is transferred to the income statement for the year.
On initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured at fair value plus transactions In relation to net investment hedges, the post tax gains or losses on the translation costs where they are not categorised as financial liabilities at fair value through at the spot exchange rate of the hedged instrument are recognised in equity.
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include derivative portion of the post tax gains or losses on the hedging instrument that is determined financial instruments and guarantees.
to be an effective hedge is recognised directly in equity and the ineffective portion Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are measured initially at fair value, is recognised in the income statement.
The interest element of the fair value of the with transaction costs taken directly to the income statement.
Subsequently, the fair hedging item is recognised in the income statement.
values are remeasured, and gains and losses from changes therein are recognised For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting, any in the income statement.
gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are taken directly to the income Financial guarantee contracts statement for the year.
Ladbrokes has provided financial guarantees to third parties in respect of lease Loans and receivables obligations of certain of the Groups former subsidiaries within the disposed hotels Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable division.
Financial guarantee contracts are classified as financial liabilities and are payments that are not quoted in an active market.
After initial recognition at fair value, measured at fair value by estimating the probability of the guarantees being called loans and receivables are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the upon and the related cash outflows from the Group.
effective interest method less any allowance for impairment.
Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Interest bearing loans and borrowings Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the All loans and borrowings are initially recognised at the fair value of the consideration assets has expired, or when the Group has transferred its contractual right to receive received net of issue costs associated with the borrowing.
the cash flows from the financial assets, and either: After initial recognition, fixed rate interest bearing loans and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
56 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1 19 3 08 11:54 Page 57 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued except where the deferred income tax asset relating to the deductible temporary Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any issue costs and any difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction discount or premium on settlement.
that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and Where these loans form part of documented fair value hedges their carrying in respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments value will be adjusted for the change in fair value arising on the remeasurement in subsidiaries and associates, deferred tax assets are only recognised to the of the hedged instruments.
extent that it is probable that the deductible temporary differences will reverse Provisions in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against which the Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or temporary differences can be utilised.
constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources The carrying amount of deferred income tax assets is reviewed at each balance embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income tax asset Provisions are measured at the directors best estimate of the expenditure required to be utilised.
to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are value where the effect is material using a pre tax rate that reflects current market expected to apply to the year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a finance cost.
at the balance sheet date.
Convertible bond Deferred tax balances are not discounted.
The interest expense on the liability component of the convertible bond was calculated by applying the prevailing market interest rate for similar non-convertible Income tax relating to items recognised directly in equity is recognised in equity debt to the liability component of the instrument.
The difference between this amount and not in the income statement.
and the interest paid was added to the carrying amount of the convertible loan note.
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales Foreign currency translation tax except: The presentation and functional currency of Ladbrokes plc and the functional where the sales tax incurred on a purchase of goods and services is not recoverable currencies of its UK subsidiaries is sterling.
from the taxation authority, in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as applicable: and Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded in sterling at the foreign receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
currency rate ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the foreign currency rate The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authority of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.
is included as part of receivables or payables in the balance sheet.
All foreign currency translations are taken to the consolidated income statement Pensions and other post employment benefits with the exception of differences on foreign currency borrowings that provide a The defined benefit pension fund holds assets separately from the Group.
post tax hedge against a net investment in a foreign entity.
These are taken directly The pension cost relating to this fund is assessed in accordance with the advice to equity until the disposal of the net investment, at which time they are recognised of independent qualified actuaries using the projected unit credit method.
in the consolidated income statement.
Tax charges and credits attributable Actuarial gains or losses are recognised in the statement of recognised income and to exchange differences on those borrowings are also dealt with in equity.
expense in the period in which they arise.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign Any past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits have currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the initial transaction.
already vested and otherwise, is amortised on a straight line basis over the average Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated period until the benefits vest.
The retirement benefit asset recognised in the balance using the exchange rate at the date when the fair value was determined.
sheet represents the fair value of scheme assets less the value of the defined benefit The main functional currency of the overseas subsidiaries is the Euro.
At the reporting obligations as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost.
date, the assets and liabilities of these overseas subsidiaries are translated into The Groups contributions to defined contribution plans are charged to the income sterling at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date and their income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.
statements are translated at the weighted average exchange rates for the year.
For defined benefit schemes, management makes annual estimates and The post tax exchange differences arising on the retranslation, since the date of assumptions in respect of discount rates, future changes in salaries, employee transition to IFRSs, are taken directly to a separate component of equity.
On disposal turnover, inflation rates and life expectancy.
In making these estimates and of a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised in equity relating assumptions, management considers advice provided by external advisers, to that particular foreign entity is recognised in the income statement.
Where actual experience differs to these estimates, actuarial Income tax gains and losses are recognised directly in equity.
Refer to note 33 for details Deferred income tax is provided, using the liability method, on all temporary of the values of assets and obligations and key assumptions used.
differences at the balance sheet date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities Equity instruments and their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes.
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received Deferred income tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences: net of direct issue costs.
except where the deferred income tax liability arises from the initial recognition of Treasury shares an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the Own equity instruments that are reacquired treasury shares are deducted from time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor the tax profit: and equity.
No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the or cancellation of the Groups own equity instruments.
timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
ESOP trusts Where the Group holds its own equity shares through an ESOP trust these shares Deferred income tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences are shown as a reduction in equity.
Any consideration paid or received for the and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax losses, to the extent that purchase or sale of these shares is shown in the reconciliation of movements in it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible shareholders funds and no gain or loss is recognised within the income statement temporary differences and carry forward of unused tax assets and unused tax or the consolidated statement of recognised income and expense on the purchase, losses can be utilised: sale or cancellation of the shares.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57 Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Back1 19 3 08 11:54 Page 58 NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 Summary of significant accounting policies continued The cost of equity settled transactions is recognised together with a corresponding Share buybacks in the close period increase in equity, over the period in which the performance conditions are fulfilled, During the close period, the period between the year end and the preliminary annual ending on the date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the results announcement, the Company is prevented from purchasing its own shares award vesting date.
The cumulative expense recognised for equity settled by the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, except under certain allowed contingent transactions at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which purchase agreements with third parties.
In accordance with IAS 32 Financial the vesting period has expired and the number of awards that, in the opinion of the Instruments: Presentation, a financial liability is recognised when the Company enters directors of the Group at that date, based on the best available estimate of the into such an agreement, representing the purchase price of the shares the Company number of equity instruments, will ultimately vest.
may be required to purchase.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards Dividends where vesting is conditional upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting Dividends proposed by the Board of Directors and unpaid at the year end irrespective of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved other performance conditions are satisfied.
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reflected as additional share dilution Revenue in the computation of earnings per share as shown on page 69, note 13.
Continuing operations The Group has an employee share incentive plan and an employee share trust Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the granting of non-transferable options to executives and senior employees.
from customers for goods and services provided in the normal course of business, Shares in the Group held by the employee share trust are treated as treasury shares net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
and presented in the balance sheet as a deduction from equity.
For licensed betting offices, on course betting, Telephone Betting, eGaming The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of IFRS 2 ShareSportsbook businesses and online casino operations including games and other based Payment in respect of equity settled awards and has applied IFRS 2 only number bets, revenue represents gains and losses, being the amount staked to equity settled awards granted after 7 November 2002 that had not vested less total payouts plus commission received, from betting activity in the period.
Open betting positions are carried at fair market value and gains and losses arising Future accounting developments on these positions are recognised in revenue.
IFRS 8 Operating Segments replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and in so doing, Revenue from the online Poker business reflects the net income rake earned from requires an entity to report financial and descriptive information about its reportable Poker games completed by the period end.
segments, having identified operating segments based on internal reports regularly In the case of the greyhound stadia, revenue represents income arising from the reviewed by the entitys chief operating decision maker in order to allocate resources operation of the greyhound stadia in the period, including sales of refreshments.
to a segment and assess its performance.
Descriptive information about the way that the operating segments were determined and the products and services Discontinued operations provided by the segments should be given: any change across reporting periods Vernons revenue represented gains and losses, being the amount staked less to the basis of measurement of segment amounts should be stated and an total payouts, from betting activity in the period.
explanation of how segment profit or loss and segment assets and liabilities Hotels revenue in respect of accommodation and related services was recognised are measured for each reportable segment should be provided.
at the point at which the services were rendered.
Management fees were recognised in accordance with the terms of the business.
The Group is required to and will adopt IFRS 8 for the year ending 31 December Joining fees and subscriptions in respect of health and fitness membership were 2009 and is currently assessing the impact this will have.
recognised over the membership period.
IFRIC 11 IFRS 2: Group and Treasury Share Transactions provides guidance Franchise fees received for the provision of initial and subsequent services were on applying IFRS 2 in three circumstances: recognised as revenue as the services were rendered.
Franchise fees charged share-based payment involving an entitys own equity instruments in which the for the use of continuing rights granted by the agreement or for other services entity chooses or is required to buy its own equity instruments treasury shares provided during the period of the agreement, were recognised as revenue to settle the share-based payment obligation: as the services were provided or the rights were used.
where a parent grants rights to its equity instruments to employees of its Finance costs and income subsidiary: and Finance costs and income arising on interest bearing financial instruments carried where a subsidiary grants rights to equity instruments of its parent to its employees.
at amortised cost are recognised in the income statement using the effective interest IFRIC 11 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007. rate method.
Finance costs includes amortisation of fees that are an integral part The Group will adopt IFRIC 11 for the year ended 31 December 2008 and of the effective finance cost of a financial instrument, including issue costs, and is currently assessing the impact it will have.
amortisation of any other differences between the amount initially recognised and the redemption price.
IFRS 3R Business Combinations and IAS 27R Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements were issued in January 2008.
The Group is required to, and will, adopt Net gains and losses in respect of mark-to-market adjustments on financial standards for the year ended 31 December 2010.
IFRS 3R introduces a number of instruments carried at fair value, fair value adjustments to the carrying value changes in the accounting of goodwill recognised, the reported results in the period of hedged items that form part of fair value hedges and foreign exchange that an acquisition occurs, and future reported results.
IAS 27R requires that change adjustments are included in non-trading items in the income statement.
in the ownership interest of a subsidiary is accounted for as an equity transaction.
Net gains and losses on financial guarantees are included in discontinued Therefore, such changes will have no impact on goodwill, nor will it give rise to a gain non-trading items.
Furthermore, the amended standard changes the accounting for losses Share-based payment transactions incurred by the subsidiary as well as the loss of control of a subsidiary.
The changes Certain employees including directors of the Group receive remuneration in the introduced by IFRS 3R and IAS 27R must be applied prospectively and will affect form of equity settled share-based payment transactions, whereby employees render future acquisitions and transactions with minority interests.
services in exchange for shares or rights over shares equity settled transactions.
There are no other IFRSs or IFRICs in issue but not yet effective that will have a The cost of equity settled transactions is measured by reference to the fair value significant impact for the Group.
at the date on which they are granted.
The fair value is determined using a binomial model, further details of which are given on page 93, note 34.
In valuing equity settled transactions, no account is taken of any performance conditions, other than conditions linked to the price of the shares of Ladbrokes plc market conditions.
