Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Note 35 Disposals continued the total consideration for the sale of other non-core businesses was 15.6 million, of which 15.2 million was received in cash during the the sale of the groups 50% associate interest in Caran saab year and 0.4 million is receivable during the first half of 2008. included engineering ab on 1 april 2007 generated a profit of 3.0 million in the 6.6 million disposal costs was a 2.6 million impairment loss from cash consideration received of 4.4 million.
together with the relating to buildings previously occupied by the graphic services 2.8 million loss on disposal of the Caran business sold to JCe group business in portugal prior to the disposal of this business.
on 4 June 2007, the groups combined profit from the disposal of all the other non-core businesses disposed of during the year Caran-related business activities was 0.2 million.
comprised the following: an element of the payroll business in the Netherlands which Other business disposals provided solutions for the sMe and local government market: the group completed the sale of certain other non-core businesses during the year, as described below.
the aggregate net assets of the Copidata integrated graphic services business in portugal: these businesses, which are not individually significant, at their date the business providing staff augmentation and hosting services of disposal are analysed below: to the automotive industry in the united states: m the former WM-data subsidiary operating in germany, WM-data goodwill 11.3 deutschland gmbH: other intangible assets 1.4 the subsidiary operating the groups it services business in property, plant and equipment 1.1 austria, logicaCMg gmbH: other non-current assets 0.2 inventories 1.2 small finance bpo businesses in Norway and sweden: and trade and other receivables 4.1 a part of the it services business in denmark, providing services Cash and cash equivalents 2.4 and products to tax authorities around the world.
trade and other payables 2.8 Retirement benefit obligations 1.2 these disposals do not match the criteria of iFRs 5 Non-current Net assets disposed of 17.7 assets held for sale and discontinued operations as none of the disposals represents a separate major line of business or total consideration 15.6 geographical area of operations and hence were not treated Foreign exchange losses recycled from equity 1.2 as a discontinued operation.
disposal costs 6.6 Loss on disposal 9.9 Cash consideration received 15.2 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 2.4 Net cash inflow arising on disposal 12.8 Note 36 Acquisitions Karttakone Oy on 31 october 2007, the group acquired a 100% interest in during the year, the group made a small number of acquisitions Karttakone oy, a company providing digital and paper-based mapping in the Nordic region, as described below.
products covering the whole of Finland and other parts of europe.
Siemens Business Systems Internet Telecom Payment Solutions AB on 31 March 2007, the group acquired the outsourcing, it on 31 august 2007, the group acquired a 55% interest in internet infrastructure and systems integration business of siemens telecom payment solutions ab, resulting in full ownership of this business systems as in Norway.
the 45% associate interest held previously was acquired the purchase of the business assets and liabilities, together with the WM-data group.
the Company provides solutions and with the transfer of approximately 250 employees.
services relating to billing for the telecoms sector in sweden.
Medici Data Oy Saab Combitech on 29 November 2007, the group acquired a 63.66% interest on 1 april 2007, the group acquired saabs Combitech operations and in Medici data oy, resulting in full ownership of this company.
subsequently disposed of the operations as part of the rationalisation the 36.34% associate interest held previously was acquired with of business ventures with saab referred to in Note 35. the WM-data group in october 2006.
Medici data oy is a Finnish company specialising in developing and building applications for planning, controlling and documenting patient care processes and providing information management services to the health care sector.
