Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated Financial statements Note 3 Adoption of new and revised International the revised standard is still subject to endorsement by the Financial Reporting Standards continued european union.
iFRs 8, operating segments, effective for annual periods iFRs 3 Revised, business combinations, must be applied beginning on or after 1 January 2009. the main impact would prospectively by the group from 1 January 2010. the revised be that operating segments would be identified, and segment standard requires that all acquisition-related costs are to be information provided, on the same basis as is used internally expensed to the income statement in the period incurred.
for evaluating segment performance and allocating resources.
Furthermore, purchase accounting only applies at the point Reconciliations would be provided of total segment revenues, when control is achieved.
this has a number of implications: profit, assets, liabilities and other amounts to the corresponding amounts in the consolidated Financial statements, together with where the acquirer has a pre-existing equity interest in the entity an explanation of any differences in measurement basis.
acquired and increases its equity interest such that it achieves control, it must remeasure its previously-held equity interest to all the iFRss, iFRiC interpretations and amendments to existing fair value as at the date of obtaining control and recognise any standards had been adopted by the eu at the date of approval of resulting gain or loss in the income statement.
these consolidated Financial statements, unless otherwise indicated.
except as discussed above, the directors anticipate that the future once control is achieved all other increases and decreases in adoption of those standards, interpretations and amendments listed ownership interest are treated as transactions among equity above that have not been adopted early will not have a material impact holders and reported directly within equity.
goodwill is not on the consolidated Financial statements.
Note 4 Key areas of estimation uncertainty in the value-in-use calculations for all cash-generating units were 1% lower than managements estimates, the group would not have in preparing the consolidated Financial statements, management recognised any goodwill impairment charge.
if the long-term growth has to make judgements on how to apply the groups accounting rate used in the value-in-use calculations for all cash-generating units policies and make estimates about the future.
the critical judgements were 1% lower than managements estimates, the group would not that have been made in arriving at the amounts recognised in the have recognised any goodwill impairment charge.
consolidated Financial statements and the key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material Defined benefit plans adjustment to the carrying value of assets and liabilities in the the calculation of the defined benefit obligation of a defined benefit next financial year, are discussed below.
plan requires estimation of future events, for example salary and pension increases, inflation and mortality rates.
in the event that future Revenue recognition experience does not bear out the estimates made in previous years, the revenue and profit of fixed price contracts is recognised on a an adjustment will be made to the plans defined benefit obligation in percentage of completion basis when the outcome of a contract future periods which could have a material effect on the group.
the can be estimated reliably.
Management exercises judgement in carrying amounts of assets and liabilities relating to defined benefit determining whether a contracts outcome can be estimated reliably.
plans, together with the key assumptions used in the calculation of the Management also makes estimates of the total cost of professional defined benefit obligations relating to those plans and sensitivity to services, or in some instances total contract costs, which are used in those key assumptions are disclosed in Note 38. determining the value of amounts recoverable on contracts.
estimates are continually revised based on changes in the facts relating to each Income taxes contract.
the carrying amount of amounts recoverable on contracts in recognising income tax assets and liabilities, management makes is disclosed in Note 23. estimates of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities on transactions and events whose treatment for tax purposes is uncertain.
Impairment of goodwill Where the final outcome of such matters is different, or expected to the determination of whether or not goodwill has been impaired be different, from previous assessments made by management, a requires an estimate to be made of the value in use of the cashchange to the carrying value of income tax assets and liabilities will generating units to which goodwill has been allocated.
the value be recorded in the period in which such a determination is made.
in use calculation includes estimates about the future financial the carrying values of income tax assets and liabilities are disclosed performance of the cash-generating units, including managements separately in the consolidated balance sheet.
estimates of long-term operating margins and long-term growth rates.
the carrying amount of goodwill and the key assumptions used in the if the actual final outcome on the judgement areas were to differ by calculation of value in use of cash-generating units to which goodwill 10% from managements estimates, the group would need to: is attributed are disclosed in Note 17. increase the income and deferred tax liability by 6.9 million if the estimated pre-tax discount rate applied to the discounted if unfavourable: or cash flow of all cash-generating units were 1% higher than managements estimates, the group would not have recognised any decrease the income and deferred tax liability by 7.0 million goodwill impairment charge.
if the long-term operating margin used if favourable.
