Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Notes to the Company Financial statements enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Note I Accounting policies deferred tax is recognised to take account of timing differences between the treatment of transactions for financial reporting purposes the following are the principal accounting policies of the Company and their treatment for tax purposes.
a deferred tax asset is only which have been applied consistently throughout the year and the recognised when it is regarded as more likely than not that there preceding year.
will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Basis of accounting deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected the Company Financial statements have been prepared under the to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies to reverse, based on the tax rates and laws that have been enacted act 1985 and applicable uK accounting standards.
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Investments in subsidiaries investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost.
such Foreign currencies investments include both investments in shares issued by the the functional currency of the Company is pounds sterling.
subsidiary and other parent entity interests that in substance form transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into part of the parent entitys investment in the subsidiary.
these include the functional currency of the Company at the rates prevailing at the investments in the form of loans which have no fixed repayment terms dates of the individual transactions.
Foreign currency monetary assets and which have been provided to subsidiaries as an additional source and liabilities are translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet of long-term capital.
trade amounts receivable from subsidiaries date.
exchange gains and losses arising are charged or credited to the in the normal course of business and other amounts advanced on profit and loss account within net operating costs.
commercial terms and conditions are included in debtors.
investments in subsidiaries in the Companys balance sheet Employee benefits are held at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Retirement benefits the Company participates in retirement benefit plans of a defined Financial instruments contribution nature.
the cost of defined contribution plans is charged the Company has taken advantage of the exemptions available in to the profit and loss account on the basis of contributions payable by Financial Reporting standard FRs 25 para 3 c b and FRs 29 para the Company during the year.
2 d not to disclose any information relating to financial instruments as the Companys Financial statements are included in publicly available Share-based payment consolidated Financial statements.
the cost of share-based employee compensation arrangements, the following policies for financial instruments have been applied in the preparation of the Companys Financial statements: whereby employees receive remuneration in the form of shares or share options, is recognised as an employee benefit expense in the profit and loss account.
Cash at bank and in hand Cash at bank and in hand includes short-term deposits with an original the total expense to be apportioned over the vesting period of the benefit is determined by reference to the fair value at the grant maturity period of three months or less.
bank overdrafts that are an date of the shares or share options awarded and the number that are integral part of the Companys cash management are included in cash at bank and in hand where they have a legal right of offset against expected to vest.
the assumptions underlying the number of awards expected to vest are subsequently adjusted to reflect conditions positive cash balances, otherwise bank overdrafts are classified prevailing at the balance sheet date.
at the vesting date of an award, as borrowings.
the cumulative expense is adjusted to take account of the awards that actually vest.
Debtors debtors are stated at amounts receivable less any provision for recoverability.
a trade or other receivable is derecognised from the Other employee benefits a liability for other employee benefits, such as paid holiday, is balance sheet when the Company enters into a financing transaction recognised for the amount the Company may be required to pay as a which transfers to a third party all significant rights or other access to benefits relating to that asset, and all significant exposures to the result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the balance sheet date.
risks inherent in that asset.
Borrowings Employee share ownership trusts employee share ownership plan esop trusts, which purchase and borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction hold ordinary shares of the Company in connection with certain costs incurred.
borrowings are subsequently stated either at employee share plans, are included in the Company Financial amortised cost or, if designated as such, at fair value through profit statements.
any consideration paid or received by esop trusts for or loss.
For borrowings stated at amortised cost, any difference the purchase or sale of the Companys own shares is shown as a between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption movement in shareholders equity.
value is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest rate method.
Dividends dividends to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability Taxation and deducted from shareholders equity in the period in which the Corporation tax is payable on taxable profits at amounts expected shareholders right to receive payment is established.
to be paid, or recovered, under the tax rates and laws that have been 148
