Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated Financial statements Note 1 General information knowledge, technical excellence and global delivery expertise to help its customers build leadership positions in their markets.
logica is logica is a leading european it and business services company, listed on both the london stock exchange and euronext amsterdam employing 39,000 people across 36 countries.
it provides business lse: log: euronext: log.
More information is available at consulting, systems integration, and it and business process www.
logica works closely with its customers to the Company is a public company incorporated and domiciled release their potential enabling change that increases their efficiency, in the uK.
the address of its registered office is stephenson House, accelerates growth and manages risk.
it applies its deep industry 75 Hampstead Road, london NW1 2pl, uK.
Note 2 Accounting policies the results of an operation that represents a separate major line of business and either has been disposed of during the period or is Basis of preparation classified as held for sale, are classified as discontinued operations.
these consolidated Financial statements have been prepared in the post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operation, plus the accordance with international Financial Reporting standards iFRss post-tax gain or loss recognised on the measurement of the assets as adopted by the european union eu, iFRiC interpretations and liabilities within the disposal group at fair value less costs to sell, and those parts of the Companies act 1985 the act that remain is presented as a single amount on the face of the income statement.
applicable to companies reporting under iFRss.
the consolidated Financial statements have been prepared under Intangible assets the going concern basis and under the historical cost convention with all intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less the exception of certain items which are measured at fair value, as accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
disclosed in the accounting policies below.
goodwill is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Basis of consolidation the consolidated Financial statements include those of the Company Goodwill and all of its subsidiary undertakings together, the group, and goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the the groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
fair value of the groups interest in the identifiable assets, liabilities investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using and contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination and the the equity method.
excess of the consideration paid for an increase in stake in an existing subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled directly or subsidiary over the share of the carrying value of net assets acquired.
Control arises when the Company has the ability to direct the financial and operating policies of an entity so as Development costs to obtain benefits from its activities.
expenditure incurred in the development of software products the results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the or enhancements, and their related intellectual property rights, is consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition or up to capitalised as an intangible asset only when the future economic the date of disposal respectively, using the same accounting policies benefits expected to arise are deemed probable and the costs can be as those of the group.
all business combinations are accounted for reliably measured.
development costs not meeting these criteria, and using the purchase method.
all research costs, are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
on acquisition, the interest of any minority shareholders is stated Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis at the minoritys proportion of the fair value of the assets and liabilities over their useful economic lives once the related software product or recognised.
subsequently, the minority interest in the consolidated enhancement is available for use.
balance sheet reflects the minoritys proportion of changes in the net assets of the subsidiary.
a minority interest is not recognised in Other intangible assets a subsidiary with net liabilities except to the extent that the minority intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences has a binding obligation, and is able to make an additional investment, that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised to cover cumulative losses.
at cost and amortised over their useful economic life.
intangible assets all intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on acquired through a business combination are initially measured at fair consolidation.
value and amortised over their useful economic lives.
the useful economic lives of the other intangible assets are Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations as follows: Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale in the balance sheet if their carrying amount will be recovered through brand names 35 years a sale transaction rather than ongoing use but only if the sale is highly purchased computer software 3 years probable and is expected to complete within one year from the date software products recognised on acquisition 37 years of classification.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
100 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Note 2 Accounting policies continued in determining a cash-generating units or assets value in use, estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using Customer contracts and relationships are amortised over their useful a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of economic life which are between five and eight years, except for one the time value of money and risks specific to the cash-generating unit contract in the international category which has a useful life of 10 years.
or asset that have not already been included in the estimate of future cash flows.
Property, plant and equipment property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated Inventories depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
the cost of an inventories represent computer equipment that, at the balance item of property, plant and equipment comprises its purchase price sheet date, had not yet been allocated to a specific customer contract and any costs directly attributable to bringing the asset into use.
and materials, including work-in-progress, used in document printing depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis to write down and finishing.
the assets to their estimated residual value over their useful economic inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
lives at the following annual rates: Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the Furniture 1020% inventories to their present location and condition.
Cost is calculated Computer equipment 2533% using the first-in-first-out FiFo method.
Net realisable value partitions and office equipment 1020% represents the estimated selling price less costs to be incurred in Motor vehicles 25% marketing, distribution and sale.
Freehold property 2% amounts recoverable on contracts represent revenue which has leasehold equipment and plant life of lease not yet been invoiced to customers on fixed price contracts.
such amounts are separately disclosed within trade and other receivables.
the residual values and useful economic lives of property, plant and the valuation of amounts recoverable on contracts is adjusted to take equipment are reviewed annually.
Freehold land and properties under up profit to date or foreseeable losses in accordance with the groups construction are not depreciated.
borrowing costs related to the accounting policy for profit recognition.
purchase of fixed assets are not capitalised.
Trade receivables Leases trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to method, less provision for impairment.
a provision for impairment the lessee.
all other leases are classified as operating leases.
of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence assets held under finance leases are initially recognised as that the group will probably not be able to collect all amounts due property, plant and equipment at an amount equal to the fair value according to the original terms of the receivables.
significant financial of the leased assets or, if lower, the present value of minimum lease difficulty of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy payments at the inception of the lease, and then depreciated over or financial reorganisation and default or delinquency in payments are their useful economic lives.
lease payments are apportioned between considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired.
repayment of capital and interest.
the capital element of future lease the amount of the impairment is the difference between the assets payments is included in the balance sheet as a liability.
interest is carrying value and the present value of estimated future cash flows, charged to the income statement so as to achieve a constant rate of discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
the interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
carrying amount of the trade receivable is reduced through the use Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the income of a provision account and the amount of the loss is recognised in the statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
operating lease income statement within net operating costs.
When a trade receivable incentives are recognised as a reduction in the rental expense over the is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the provision lease term.
subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against net operating costs in the Impairment of non-current assets income statement.
goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of a trade or other receivable is derecognised from the balance sheet impairment testing.
the recoverable amount of the cash-generating when the group enters into a financing transaction which transfers to unit to which the goodwill relates is tested annually for impairment a third party all significant rights or other access to benefits relating or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that it might to that asset and all significant exposures to the risks inherent in be impaired.
the carrying values of property, plant and equipment, that asset.
investments measured using a cost basis and intangible assets other than goodwill are reviewed for impairment only when events indicate Trade payables the carrying value may be impaired.
trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently in an impairment test, the recoverable amount of the cashmeasured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
generating unit or asset is estimated to determine the extent of any impairment loss.
the recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and the value in use to the group.
an impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount.
101 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated Financial statements Note 2 Accounting policies continued Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are not designated as hedging instruments or do not qualify for hedge Financial instruments accounting are recognised in the income statement as they arise.
the following policies for financial instruments have been applied in Changes in the fair value of derivatives or other hedging instruments the preparation of the consolidated Financial statements.
transacted as hedges of financial items are recognised in finance costs income in the income statement as they arise.
any resulting Cash and cash equivalents ineffectiveness is recognised directly in the income statement.
For the purpose of preparation of the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents include cash at bank and in hand, and short-term Financial assets deposits with an original maturity period of three months or less.
bank the group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: overdrafts that are an integral part of a subsidiarys cash management at fair value through profit or loss, loans and receivables and are included in cash and cash equivalents where they have a legal available-for-sale.
the classification depends on the purpose for right of offset against positive cash balances, otherwise bank which the financial assets were acquired.
Management determines overdrafts are classified as borrowings in the balance sheet.
the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition.
Borrowings Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial costs incurred.
borrowings are subsequently stated either at amortised assets held for trading or designated as such on initial recognition.
cost or, if designated as such, at fair value through profit or loss.
a financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally For borrowings stated at amortised cost, any difference between for the purpose of selling in the short term.
Financial assets at fair the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the redemption value is value through profit or loss are stated at fair value, with any resultant recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings gain or loss recognised in the income statement.
using the effective interest rate method.
the groups euro-denominated convertible bonds have been Loans and receivables designated as a financial liability at fair value through profit or loss.
trade receivables, loans and other receivables that have fixed or the change in the fair value of the convertible bonds that reflects determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market the movement in the quoted market price of the convertible bonds are classified as loans and receivables.
loans and receivables is recognised in the income statement as either interest income or are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than expense.
the change in fair value relating to the movement of the 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are classified as nonexchange rate between the euro and pounds sterling is treated as a current assets.
loans and receivables are measured at amortised hedge of net investments in foreign operations see below.
Foreign cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment and are exchange gains and losses on the convertible bonds are taken directly classified as trade and other receivables in the balance sheet.
to equity to the extent that the hedge is effective.
Available-for-sale financial assets Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative financial assets derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a contract that are either designated in this category or not classified in any of is entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value.
the fair the other categories.
such financial assets are included in non-current values of derivatives are measured using observable market prices or, assets unless management intends to dispose of the investment within where market prices are not available, by using discounted expected 12 months of the balance sheet date.
future cash flows at prevailing interest and exchange rates.
the gain or unlisted and listed shares held by the group that are traded in loss on remeasurement is taken to the income statement except where an active market are classified as being available-for-sale financial the derivative is part of a designated cash flow hedge or a designated assets and are stated at fair values.
the fair values of quoted shares hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.
are based on current bid prices.
if the market for a financial asset is the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that not active unlisted shares, the group establishes fair value by using are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge of a firm commitment valuation techniques.
these include the use of recent arms length or highly probable forecasted transaction are recognised directly in transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the equity.
the gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion of a cash flow same, discounted cash flow analysis and option pricing models.
hedge is recognised immediately in the income statement.
gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are recognised if the cash flow hedge results in the recognition of an asset or directly in equity with the exception of impairment losses, interest liability, then the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had calculated using the effective interest method and foreign exchange previously been recognised in equity are included in the measurement gains and losses on monetary assets, which are recognised directly of the asset or liability at the time the asset or liability is recognised.
For cash flow hedges that do not result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts deferred in equity are transferred to the income statement in the same period as the underlying transaction occurs.
Where the group hedges net investments in foreign entities through currency borrowings or derivative financial instruments, the gains or losses on the translation of the borrowings or change in fair value of the derivative are recognised in equity.
gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income statement when the foreign operation is disposed of.
102 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Note 2 Accounting policies continued Foreign currencies the presentation currency of the group is pounds sterling.
the group Impairment of financial assets also presents primary statements in euros, see pages 160 to 162. the group assesses at each balance sheet date whether there is items included in the separate Financial statements of group objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets entities are measured in the functional currency of each entity.
For unlisted shares classified as available-for-sale, a transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into significant prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its the functional currency of the entity at the rates prevailing at the dates cost is considered as an indicator that the securities are impaired.
Foreign currency monetary assets and if any such evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, liabilities are translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet the cumulative loss measured as the difference between the date.
exchange gains and losses arising are charged or credited to acquisition cost and the current fair values, less any impairment loss net operating costs or finance costs income in the income statement, on those financial assets previously recognised in profit or loss as appropriate, except when deferred in equity as qualifying cash flow is removed from equity and recognised in the income statement.
hedges and qualifying net investment hedges.
impairment losses recognised in the income statement on equity the income statement and balance sheet of foreign entities are instruments are not reversed through the income statement.
the translated into pounds sterling on consolidation at the average rates carrying amount of the financial assets is reduced by the impairment for the period and the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade respectively.
exchange gains and losses arising on the translation receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the of the groups net investment in foreign entities, and of financial use of a provision account.
instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are impairment testing of trade receivables is described above.
recognised as a separate component of shareholders equity.
on disposal of a foreign entity, the cumulative translation differences Taxation are recycled to the income statement and recognised as part of the Current tax is recognised based on the amounts expected to be paid gain or loss on disposal.
or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity deferred tax is provided in full on temporary differences that arise and translated at the rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial the most important foreign currencies for the group are the euro reporting purposes and their corresponding tax bases.
liabilities and the swedish krona.
the relevant exchange rates to pounds are recorded on all temporary differences except in respect of sterling were: investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference is controlled by the group 2007 2006 and it is probable that it will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Average Closing average Closing deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable 1 1.46 1.36 1.47 1.48 that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can 1 seK 13.51 12.87 13.57 13.39 be offset.
deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis using the tax Government grants rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the grants related to assets are recognised initially as deferred income balance sheet date.
and subsequently credited to the income statement on the same basis Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, that the related assets are depreciated.
grants related to income are except when the tax relates to items charged or credited directly to credited to the income statement over the periods to match them with equity, in which case the tax is also dealt with directly in equity.
the related costs which they are intended to compensate.
Provisions Revenue and profit recognition provisions are recognised for restructuring costs when the group Revenue represents the fair value of consideration received or has a detailed formal plan for the restructuring that has been receivable from clients for goods and services provided by the group, communicated to affected employees.
provisions are recognised for net of discounts, Vat and other sales-related taxes.
Where the time future committed property lease payments when the group receives value of money is material, revenue is recognised as the present value no benefit from the property through continuing usage and future of the cash inflows expected to be received from the customer in receipts from any sub-letting arrangements are not in excess of the settlement.
Revenue from the sale of software products or hardware with no Where the time value of money is material, provisions are measured significant service obligation is recognised 100% on delivery.
Revenue at the present value of expenditures expected to be paid in settlement.
from the sale of software products or hardware requiring significant modification, integration or customisation is recognised using the Share capital percentage of completion method.
ordinary shares are classified as equity.
incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction from the proceeds.
103 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated Financial statements Note 2 Accounting policies continued the cost of defined contribution plans is charged to the income statement on the basis of contributions payable by the group during the revenue and profit of contracts for the supply of professional the year.
services at predetermined rates is recognised as and when the work For defined benefit plans, the defined benefit obligation is calculated is performed, irrespective of the duration of the contract.
annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit the revenue and profit on fixed price contracts is recognised on method.
the retirement benefit liability in the balance sheet represents a percentage of completion basis when the outcome of a contract the present value of the defined benefit obligation as reduced by can be estimated reliably.
a contracts outcome is deemed to be the fair value of plan assets and unrecognised past service cost.
capable of reliable estimation at the earlier of six months from contract a retirement benefit asset is recognised to the extent that the group commencement and the date at which the contract is 50% complete.
can benefit from refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
if a contract outcome cannot be estimated reliably, revenues are insurance policies are treated as plan assets of a defined benefit recognised equal to costs incurred, to the extent that costs are plan if the proceeds of the policy: expected to be recovered.
can only be used to fund employee benefits: the stage of contract completion is determined by reference to the costs of professional services incurred to date as a proportion are not available to the groups creditors: and of the total estimated costs of professional services, except in rare either cannot be paid to the group unless the proceeds represent circumstances when measuring the stage of contract completion using surplus assets not needed to meet all the benefit obligations or are total contract costs is more representative of the work performed, in a reimbursement for benefits already paid by the group.
which case total contract costs are used.
Where a contract contains multiple elements, the individual elements are accounted for separately insurance policies that do not meet the above criteria are treated where appropriate.
as non-current investments and are held at fair value in the provision is made for all foreseeable future losses in the period in balance sheet.
the current service cost is recognised in the income statement as an employee benefit expense.
the interest cost resulting from the Segment reporting increase in the present value of the defined benefit obligation over time at 31 december 2007, logica was organised into six geographical and the expected return on plan assets, is recognised as net interest segments based on the location of assets.
these segments are the expense or income.
the expected return on plan assets is, for uK groups primary reporting format for segment information as they defined benefit pension schemes, shown net of an expected reduction represent the dominant source and the nature of the groups risks for payments to the pension protection Fund the ppF levy.
the and returns following the sale of the telecoms products business.
difference between the actual and expected ppF levy is treated as the groups secondary reporting format is by vertical market.
an actuarial gain or loss.
inter-segment sales are charged at arms length prices.
segment a past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that assets include all intangible assets, property, plant and equipment, benefits have already vested, or is otherwise amortised on a straightinventories and trade and other receivables but exclude tax assets, line basis over the average period until the benefits vest.
derivative financial assets and cash and cash equivalents.
segment actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments liabilities comprise mainly trade and other payables, retirement or changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited in the benefit obligations and certain borrowings that can be attributed to statement of recognised income and expense in the period in which the segment but exclude tax liabilities, derivative financial liabilities they arise.
and borrowings that are for general corporate purposes.
Capital expenditure comprises additions to property, plant and equipment Share-based payment and intangible assets.
total assets are allocated based on where the the cost of share-based employee compensation arrangements, assets are located.
whereby employees receive remuneration in the form of shares or share options, is recognised as an employee benefit expense in the Exceptional items income statement.
exceptional items fall within operating and financial activities of the the total expense to be apportioned over the vesting period of group but are identified as exceptional items by virtue of their size, the benefit is determined by reference to the fair value at the grant nature or incidence.
these items are disclosed in aggregate on the date of the shares or share options awarded and the number that are face of the income statement to aid an understanding of the groups expected to vest.
the assumptions underlying the number of awards financial performance.
expected to vest are subsequently adjusted to reflect conditions prevailing at the balance sheet date.
at the vesting date of an award, Employee benefits the cumulative expense is adjusted to take account of the awards that Retirement benefits actually vest.
the group operates retirement benefit plans of both a defined contribution and defined benefit nature.
Retirement benefit plans Short-term compensated absences that are funded by the payment of insurance premiums are treated as a liability for short-term compensated absences, such as holiday, defined contribution plans unless the group has an obligation either to is recognised for the amount the group may be required to pay as a pay the benefits directly when they fall due or to pay further amounts if result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the balance assets accumulated with the insurer do not cover all future employee sheet date.
in such circumstances, the plan is treated as a defined benefit plan.
