Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Note XIII Share-based payment continued will be met and the final determination on the vesting date.
the sharebased payment expense also takes account of expected forfeiture the fair value of esos options was measured using a Monte Carlo from the balance sheet date to the end of the vesting period following simulation model and the fair value of sharesave plan options was cessation of employment.
a weighted average forfeiture rate of 9% measured using the black-scholes option pricing model.
the fair value per annum was assumed for calculating the share-based payment of share awards under the equity partnership plans was measured expense for the year ended 31 december 2007 2006: 7%.
at the market share price at the date of grant reduced for the present For exercises prior to the vesting date, the additional expense value of expected dividends over the vesting period, for which award between the calculation date and the vesting date is immediately holders have no entitlement.
charged to the income statement.
expected volatility was determined using the historical volatility the Company recognised a total expense in respect of equityof the Companys share price over a period commensurate with the settled share-based payment arrangements of 0.9 million in the expected life of the share option.
the period from 1 July 1999 to 30 year ended 31 december 2007 2006: 1.0 million.
June 2001 was excluded as management believe it represented a period of high share price volatility which is unlikely to be repeated Cash-settled share-based payment arrangements in the future.
the Company does not operate separate cash-settled share-based share awards under the equity partnership plans are assumed to payments arrangements, however, social security obligations arising be exercised on the vesting date.
sharesave options are assumed to on share option and share award plans are treated as such an be exercised three months after the vesting date, the mid-point of the arrangement for accounting purposes.
the liability for cash-settled contractual exercise period.
share-based social security payments at 31 december 2007 was at the date of grant, it is assumed that performance conditions will 0.1 million 2006: 0.4 million.
the movement in the liability resulted be met in full.
adjustments are made subsequently, where necessary, in an income for the year ended 31 december 2006 of 0.3 million to reflect updated assessments of whether performance conditions 2006: expense of 0.1 million.
Note XIV Contingent liabilities authorities.
Whilst the outcome of current outstanding actions and claims remains uncertain, it is expected that they will be resolved the groups subsidiaries and the Company are currently, and may be without a material impact on the groups financial position.
the from time to time, involved in a number of legal proceedings including Company has guaranteed certain contracts in the normal course inquiries from or discussions with governmental and taxation of business and bank borrowings of its subsidiaries.
Note XV Related party transactions members of the group headed by logicaCMg plc.
transactions with the directors of the Company are disclosed in the Remuneration the Company has taken advantage of the exemption in FRs 8 Committee report on pages 56 to 73. there were no other related Related party transactions from disclosing transactions with other party transactions during the current or prior year.
