Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Notes to the consolidated Financial statements Note 1 General information knowledge, technical excellence and global delivery expertise to help its customers build leadership positions in their markets.
logica is logica is a leading european it and business services company, listed on both the london stock exchange and euronext amsterdam employing 39,000 people across 36 countries.
it provides business lse: log: euronext: log.
More information is available at consulting, systems integration, and it and business process www.
logica works closely with its customers to the Company is a public company incorporated and domiciled release their potential enabling change that increases their efficiency, in the uK.
the address of its registered office is stephenson House, accelerates growth and manages risk.
it applies its deep industry 75 Hampstead Road, london NW1 2pl, uK.
Note 2 Accounting policies the results of an operation that represents a separate major line of business and either has been disposed of during the period or is Basis of preparation classified as held for sale, are classified as discontinued operations.
these consolidated Financial statements have been prepared in the post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operation, plus the accordance with international Financial Reporting standards iFRss post-tax gain or loss recognised on the measurement of the assets as adopted by the european union eu, iFRiC interpretations and liabilities within the disposal group at fair value less costs to sell, and those parts of the Companies act 1985 the act that remain is presented as a single amount on the face of the income statement.
applicable to companies reporting under iFRss.
the consolidated Financial statements have been prepared under Intangible assets the going concern basis and under the historical cost convention with all intangible assets, except goodwill, are stated at cost less the exception of certain items which are measured at fair value, as accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
disclosed in the accounting policies below.
goodwill is not amortised and is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Basis of consolidation the consolidated Financial statements include those of the Company Goodwill and all of its subsidiary undertakings together, the group, and goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the the groups share of the results of associates and joint ventures.
fair value of the groups interest in the identifiable assets, liabilities investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted for using and contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination and the the equity method.
excess of the consideration paid for an increase in stake in an existing subsidiary undertakings are those entities controlled directly or subsidiary over the share of the carrying value of net assets acquired.
Control arises when the Company has the ability to direct the financial and operating policies of an entity so as Development costs to obtain benefits from its activities.
expenditure incurred in the development of software products the results of subsidiaries acquired or sold are included in the or enhancements, and their related intellectual property rights, is consolidated income statement from the date of acquisition or up to capitalised as an intangible asset only when the future economic the date of disposal respectively, using the same accounting policies benefits expected to arise are deemed probable and the costs can be as those of the group.
all business combinations are accounted for reliably measured.
development costs not meeting these criteria, and using the purchase method.
all research costs, are expensed in the income statement as incurred.
on acquisition, the interest of any minority shareholders is stated Capitalised development costs are amortised on a straight-line basis at the minoritys proportion of the fair value of the assets and liabilities over their useful economic lives once the related software product or recognised.
subsequently, the minority interest in the consolidated enhancement is available for use.
balance sheet reflects the minoritys proportion of changes in the net assets of the subsidiary.
a minority interest is not recognised in Other intangible assets a subsidiary with net liabilities except to the extent that the minority intangible assets purchased separately, such as software licences has a binding obligation, and is able to make an additional investment, that do not form an integral part of related hardware, are capitalised to cover cumulative losses.
at cost and amortised over their useful economic life.
intangible assets all intercompany transactions and balances are eliminated on acquired through a business combination are initially measured at fair consolidation.
value and amortised over their useful economic lives.
the useful economic lives of the other intangible assets are Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations as follows: Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale in the balance sheet if their carrying amount will be recovered through brand names 35 years a sale transaction rather than ongoing use but only if the sale is highly purchased computer software 3 years probable and is expected to complete within one year from the date software products recognised on acquisition 37 years of classification.
Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
