Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Note 2 Accounting policies continued share plans, are consolidated in the group Financial statements.
any consideration paid or received by esop trusts for the purchase or sale Death-in-service benefits of the Companys own shares is shown as a movement in shareholders insured death-in-service benefits are accounted for as defined contribution equity.
death-in-service benefits for which the group does not have insurance cover are accounted for as defined benefit arrangements.
Dividends dividends to the Companys shareholders are recognised as a liability Employee share ownership trusts and deducted from shareholders equity in the period in which the employee share ownership plan esop trusts, which purchase and hold shareholders right to receive payment is established.
ordinary shares of the Company in connection with certain employee Note 3 Adoption of new and revised International iFRiC 13, Customer loyalty programmes, effective for annual Financial Reporting Standards periods beginning on or after 1 July 2008.
Management do not expect this interpretation to be relevant to the group.
the the accounting policies adopted in these consolidated Financial amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by statements are consistent with those of the annual Financial the european union.
statements for the year ended 31 december 2006, except that the iFRiC 14, ias 19 the limit of a defined benefit asset, minimum following standards, amendments to and interpretations of published funding requirements and their interaction, effective for annual standards were adopted during the year: periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Management do iFRiC 7, applying the restatement approach under ias 29. not expect the interpretation to have a significant impact on the consolidated Financial statements.
the amendment to the standard iFRiC 8, scope of iFRs 2. is still subject to endorsement by the european union.
iFRiC 9, Reassessment of embedded derivatives.
ias 1, presentation of Financial statements, effective for annual iFRiC 10, interim Financial Reporting and impairment.
periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
No significant impact on the consolidated Financial statements is expected, except for iFRs 7, Financial instruments: disclosures and ias 1, additional disclosure.
the full iFRs 7 disclosures, including the sensitivity analysis to market risk and capital ias 23 amendment, borrowing costs, effective for annual disclosures required by the amendment of ias 1, are given in these periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009.
Management do annual Financial statements.
ias 1 revised is still subject to not expect the interpretation to have a significant impact on the endorsement by the european union.
the amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the european union.
this interpretation was not relevant to the group.
ias 27 Revised, Consolidated and separate Financial statements, must be applied prospectively by the group from 1 January 2010. except for the additional disclosure under iFRs 7, the above the revised standard requires that acquisitions and disposals that standards, amendments to and interpretation of published standards do not result in a change of control are accounted for within equity.
had no material impact on the consolidated Financial statements.
any difference between the change in the minority interest and the the following new standards, amendments to standards and fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly interpretations have been issued but are not effective for 2007 and in equity and attributed to the owners of the parent.
the revised have not been early adopted: standard is still subject to endorsement by the european union.
iFRiC 11, iFRs 2 group and treasury share transactions, iFRs 2 amendment, share-based payment, effective for annual effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 March 2007. period beginning on or after 1 January 2009. the amendment to Management do not expect this interpretation to have a significant the standard limits vesting conditions to service conditions and impact on the consolidated Financial statements.
the amendment also specifies that all iFRiC 12, service concession arrangements, effective for annual cancellations, whether by the entity or by other parties, should periods beginning on or after 1 January 2008.
Management do receive the same accounting treatment, namely, acceleration of the not expect this interpretation to be relevant for the group.
the expense based on the grant date fair value.
No significant impact on amendment to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the consolidated Financial statements is expected.
the amendment the european union.
to the standard is still subject to endorsement by the european union.
