2007 Annual Report Lonmin Plc Shareholder information 87 Lonmins shares are quoted on the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges, and ADRs representing Lonmin shares are also traded in an over-the-counter market in the USA.
UK share register information All holdings of the Companys shares are maintained on the Companys UK share register, with the exception of those held on the South African branch register.
The register is administered by Equiniti formerly known as Lloyds TSB Registrars who offer a range of shareholder information online, including facilities to check shareholdings, update personal details and cast votes at general meetings as well as providing practical help on transferring shares at www.
Up-to-date information on the Company is contained in the Companys website at www.
com which also includes a link to the registrars website.
South African branch register information The South African branch register was transferred from Computershare Investor Services 2004 Pty Limited to Link Market Services South Africa Pty Ltd on 15 October 2007.
Shareholders are not affected by this change.
Any queries should be directed to Link Market Services South Africa Pty Ltd.
Contact details for both the UK and South African registrars can be found in Corporate Information on page 86.
Dividends Currency of dividends The Company declares dividends in US Dollars.
Subject to shareholder approval, the final dividend of 60 cents per share for the year ended 30 September 2007 will be paid on 8 February 2008 to shareholders on the registers at the close of business on 11 January 2008.
The dividend will be paid in Sterling to UK shareholders unless they elect to receive US Dollar dividends, calculated at the US Dollar to Sterling exchange rate on 18 January 2008 and in Rand to shareholders on the SA branch register, calculated at the US Dollar to Rand exchange rate on 27 December 2007.
The dividend will be paid in US Dollars to all other overseas shareholders unless they elect to receive Sterling dividends or have mandated their dividend payments to a UK bank or participate in TAPS.
Elections to receive an alternative currency US Dollars or Sterling should comprise a signed request to Equiniti at the address shown on page 86 to be received by 5 p. m. on 11 January 2008.
No transfers will be permitted between the UK principal register and the SA branch register from the date on which the Rand dividend is announced until the record date, both dates inclusive i. e. the last day on which transfers between registers will be permitted is 24 December 2007. Dividend payment to your bank account The Company can pay UK registered shareholders dividends direct to their bank or building society account.
This means that dividends will normally be in shareholders accounts on the same day as the payment is made and tax vouchers will be posted to the shareholders registered addresses.
Shareholders wishing to adopt this method of payment should contact the registrars.
Transcontinental Automated Payment System TAPS TAPS permits shareholders resident in certain countries to receive dividend payments to their local bank and in their local currency.
All eligible shareholders have been or will be sent information on TAPS by Equiniti.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan A Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP is available through which eligible shareholders may invest the whole of their cash dividends in additional Lonmin Plc shares.
Eligible shareholders on the registers on the record date for the recommended final dividend, 11 January 2008, may participate in the plan in respect of that dividend, provided their application forms are received by 25 January 2008.
Copies of the DRIP brochure and application form have been sent to eligible shareholders on the registers up to 7 July 2007 and are being sent to those who are newly entered on the registers between then and 11 January 2008.
Further copies are available from the registrars or can be downloaded from the registrars website.
American depository receipts ADRs The Company has a sponsored Level 1 ADR programme for which The Bank of New York Mellon acts as the depository.
Each ADR represents one ordinary share of the company.
The ADRs trade in the over-the-counter OTC market under the symbol LOMNY.
When dividends are paid to shareholders, the depository makes the equivalent payment in US Dollars to ADR holders.
Contact details can be found in Corporate Information on page 86.
88 Shareholder information Further information for UK-domiciled shareholders Capital Gains Tax For Capital Gains Tax purposes, shareholders disposing of shares in either Lonmin Plc or Lonrho Africa Plc after 7 May 1998, who held shares prior to that date, should apportion the base cost of their original Lonmin Plc shares between the two companies.
Based on the closing share prices on 7 May 1998 of Lonmin Plc and Lonrho Africa Plc, this apportionment would be 80.498% for Lonmin Plc and 19.502% for Lonrho Africa Plc.
The Companys capital reduction was completed on 22 February 2002.
For the purposes of assessing any liability to capital gains tax, UK shareholders should apportion 13.33% of the base cost of their original shareholding to the capital reduction and the balance to their new holding of ordinary shares of $1 each.
The market price of Lonmin Plc ordinary shares at 31 March 1982 was 38.9 pence as adjusted for subsequent capitalisation issues, and 155.6 pence as adjusted for the consolidation of the Companys shares on 24 April 1998 and 125.3 pence as adjusted for the fide-merger of Lonrho Africa Plc on 7 May 1998.
Lonmin Corporate Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited offers the Lonmin Corporate Stocks & Shares ISA for investment in Lonmin Plc shares.
UK registered shareholders may subscribe to the Lonmin Corporate ISA up to a maximum currently of 7,000 annually for a maxi ISA or alternatively one stocks-and-shares mini ISA of 4,000, by direct transfer of eligible employee shares and or by sale and reinvestment of existing Lonmin Plc shares.
From 6 April 2008, subscription limits will rise to a total of 7,200 for stocks-and-shares ISAs and there will be no distinction between maxi and mini subscriptions in future.
Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited is regulated by the FSA.
This is not a recommendation that shareholders should subscribe to the ISA.
The advantages of holding shares in an ISA vary according to individual circumstances and shareholders who are in any doubt should consult their financial adviser.
ShareGift Lonmin is proud to support ShareGift, an independent charity share donation scheme administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation registered charity number 1052686.
Those shareholders who hold only a small number of shares, the value of which make them uneconomic to sell, can donate the shares to ShareGift who will sell them and donate the proceeds to a wide range of charities.
Further information about ShareGift can be obtained from their website at www.
org and a ShareGift transfer form can be downloaded from the Companys website.
Warning to shareholders A survey by the Financial Services Authority FSA has reported that an increasing number of shareholders of UK listed companies are being targeted by individuals purporting to be legitimate brokers or financial advisors.
Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free reports on the Company.
If you receive any unsolicited investment advice: Make sure you get the correct name of the person and organisation and make a record of any other information they give you, e. g. telephone number, address, etc.
Check that they are properly authorised by the FSA before getting involved.
The FSA also maintains on its website a list of unauthorised overseas firms who are targeting, or have targeted, UK investors and any approach from such organisations should be reported to the FSA so that this list can be kept up to date and any other appropriate action can be considered.
If you deal with any unauthorised firm, you would not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
The FSA can, preferably, be contacted by completing an on-line form at www.
uk pages doing regulated law alerts overseas.
shtml or, if you do not have access to the internet, on 0845 606 1234.
Inform the registrars on the relevant telephone numbers listed on page 86.
They are not able to investigate such incidents themselves but will record the details and pass them on to the FSA.
We would like to thank all those employees and community members whose photographs appear in this document.
The paper used in this report is made from 100% ECF wood pulps.
Sourced from carefully managed and renewed forest.
It is fully recyclable and is manufactured to precise and controlled standards.
Photography by Kevin Rudham and David Magee.
Designed and produced by MAGEE.
co. uk 2007 Annual Report Lonmin Plc Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals.
We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals.
We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way.
Our Mission We are successful Our Values when To grow and build our Our employees live and work Zero Harm portfolio of high quality assets.
safely and experience the We are committed to zero personal satisfaction that harm to people and the To deliver the requirements comes with high performance environment.
of the South African broadand recognition.
based socio-economic Mining Integrity, Honesty & Trust Charter and we welcome the We are committed ethical Our shareholders are realising opportunity to transform our a superior total return on their people who do what we say business.
investment and support our corporate sustainability values.
To build a value-based Transparency culture, which is founded The communities in which we Open, honest communication on safe work, continuous and free sharing of information.
improvement, common We are meeting our Respect For Each Other standards and procedures, commitments to all business Embracing our diversity community involvement and partners and our suppliers, enriched by openness, one that rewards employees contractors, partners and sharing, trust, teamwork for high performance.
customers support our and involvement.
High Performance Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes.
Employee Self-Worth To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families and promote self Sir John Craven Brad Mills esteem.
Chairman Chief Executive November 2004 Lonmin Plc Annual Report for the year ending 30 September 2007 Annual Report For the year ending 30 September 2007 www.
com Liberating the Earths potential You can access more information about us on our website to fulfil life About Lonmin At a glance Our Business Our mission Our values Operating environment Business conduct Current operations Principle risks Future growth Governance structure Contact Us Addresses Telephone numbers Feedback form Media Centre News Calendars Image gallery Case studies Sustainable Development Economic growth Human capital Safety Community Investor Relations Health Financial highlights Environment Reports and presentations News Investor tools Investor information Lonmin Plc Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL Annual Review For the year ending 30 September 2007 www.
com Liberating the Earths potential You can access more information about us on our website to fulfil life About Lonmin At a glance Our Business Our mission Our values Operating environment Business conduct Current operations Principle risks Future growth Governance structure Contact Us Addresses Telephone numbers Feedback form Media Centre News Calendars Image gallery Case studies Sustainable Development Economic growth Human capital Safety Community Investor Relations Health Financial highlights Environment Reports and presentations News Investor tools Investor information Lonmin Plc Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL Lonmin is the worlds third largest producer of Platinum Group Metals PGMs.
Our strategy is threefold to create a culture of safe production, operational excellence and innovation: to capture and build growth into our portfolio of high quality assets: and to focus on ensuring the long term sustainability of the communities impacted by our operations.
01 Lonmin Charter Matte tapping at the Number One furnace 02 2007 Features 04 Operating Sectors 06 Chairmans Statement 08 Chief Executives Review 14 Market Overview 16 Building Growth 18 Operational Excellence 20 Sustainability 22 Review of Operations 30 Growth 34 Key Performance Indicators 36 Board of Directors 38 Operating Statistics 40 Summary Consolidated Income Statement 41 Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet 42 Summary Consolidated Cash Flow 43 Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record 44 Corporate Information ibc Financial Calendar for 2008 Front cover: Ronald Herridge, Dozer Operator, Hossy shaft Operationally, 2007 has been a challenging year for Lonmin as we continued on our journey to transform our business.
Production was impacted by the outage of the Number One furnace in the first half of the year and poorer recoveries through our concentrators.
The ramp-up of our fully mechanised shafts is progressing well and we have seen a continued improvement in our safety performance across the operations.
The acquisition of the Akanani project has added substantial growth potential to our portfolio and we continue to have confidence in the long term future of our business.
Collecting PGM concentrate from the K4 concentrator Strategic Delivery Cycle Capture and build growth Exploration Long term Investment Management sustainability Acquisitions Project Development Adherence to ICMM Standards Community Engagement Social and Labour Plans Environmental Excellence Liberating the Earths potential to fulfil life Operational excellence Employee Alignment Six Sigma Process Stability Mechanisation Shared Business Services Safe Production 2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc Lonmin Charter We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals.
Chairman Chief Executive November 2004 www.
2 Financials for the years 2003 and 2004 are prepared under UK GAAP, whilst 2005, 2006 and 2007 financials are prepared under IFRS.
3 EBIT for 2003 and 2004 has been restated to exclude profit or loss from associates and joint ventures consistent with IFRS.
4 A reconciliation to free cash flow is presented on page 42.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc 03 2007 Features A challenging year for Lonmin: Sales of 793,584 ounces of Platinum and 1,490,184 ounces of total PGMs Underlying EBIT of US$796 million down 4.1% on 2006 Underlying earnings per share of 295.9 cents down 5.2% on 2006 Safety performance continues to improve Mineral resources increased by 27.1% and mineral reserves by 9.2% year on year, enhanced by the completion of the pre-feasibility study at Limpopo and the addition of Akanani Continued growth of mechanised shafts Senior operational team strengthened with appointment of new President, Lonmin South Africa and new Executive Vice President, Mining Drilling at Akanani continues to confirm our view of the potential of the project Final dividend of 60.0 cents per share, an increase of 9.1% on 2006 reflecting the Boards confidence in the fundamentals of Lonmins business www.
com 04 Hossy shaft headgear K4 concentrator Mining Process Division All our Mining operations are located in the Bushveld complex in Once the ore is extracted from our mines, it 1 South Africa.
Our Marikana mining operations, on the Western 2 is transferred to our Process Division which Limb of the Bushveld, currently contribute around 92% of our converts the ore into refined metal.
Our Limpopo mine is situated near Polokwane concentrators crush the ore and transform it on the Bushvelds Eastern Limb.
At both our operations, we mine into a liquefied concentrate which is then sent the Upper Group 2 UG2 and Merensky PGM-bearing reefs.
to our smelting facilities which convert the A key focus for our Mining operations is the drive towards concentrate into a metal-rich matte.
This matte mechanisation which, we believe, represents a safer, more is transported to our Base Metal Refinery BMR cost efficient alternative to conventional mining.
which extracts the base metals, primarily copper and nickel.
The final stage in the process is our Precious Metal Refinery PMR which produces refined PGMs.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc 05 Our three operating sectors Our producing assets are all based in South Africa a country which currently contributes nearly 80% of global Platinum production.
We run a vertically integrated operational structure from mine to market: our Mining operations extract ore which our Process Division converts into refined PGMs, for delivery to our customers.
Underpinning our core operations, our Shared Services functions provide consistent levels of support and infrastructure across the operations.
Theunis Gerber, Property Maintenance Foreman, Hossy shaft Shared Services Our Shared Services support our business with 3 common centralised infrastructure programmes, systems and processes, covering such areas as Information Technology, Human Capital, Procurement, Six Sigma and Finance.
The key objective for each of our Shared Services functions is to provide an effective and cost efficient service to the operating units.
com 06 Chairmans Statement Management has reviewed the operational issues Lonmin encountered during 2007 and taken steps to address them, with the active support of the full Board.
Dear Shareholders, As a result of a combination of these and other factors, Platinum production in concentrate was Despite continued strong demand for our key metals, down 9.9% year on year and final Platinum sales the 2007 financial year has been a challenging one were down 15.5% versus the 2006 financial year.
We delivered underlying Management has reviewed the operational issues earnings before interest and taxation of US$796 Lonmin encountered during 2007 and taken steps to million, a decline of 4.1% from the 2006 financial year address them, with the active support of the full Board.
and underlying earnings per share of 295.9 cents The senior operational management team has were down 5.2% from 2006. been considerably strengthened with the appointment We have a strong balance sheet with low gearing of a new President, Lonmin South Africa and a new and, during the year, we generated trading cash flow Executive Vice President, Mining.
The Marikana mining of US$692 million, with free cash flow of US$380 team has also been enhanced by the appointment of a million.
To demonstrate our confidence in the long Vice President, Mechanised Mining and Vice President, term potential of Lonmin and the quality of its asset Conventional Mining for that operation.
Managements base, the Board has recommended a final dividend focus will now be on delivering a solid operational for the period of 60.0 cents per share which gives a performance next year and beyond.
An improvement full year dividend of 115.0 cents per share, up 15.0% programme has been implemented at Limpopo, with a on the year to 30 September 2006. particular focus on development.
Responsibility for the concentrators has been Operational Overview moved so they are now managed as an integral part Mining production at Marikana was affected by of the Process Division to ensure the correct focus industrial action and the longer than usual Christmas on recoveries and planning.
In addition, adverse ground conditions at recoveries will be a key area of focus during 2008.
The Limpopo impacted the production from that mine.
Groups reliance on the Number One furnace was also A key area of concern was the concentrators which reduced by re-commissioning the Merensky furnace, delivered recoveries lower than previous years.
The giving us 25% more installed smelting capacity.
Number One furnace was also out of action for four months following a burn through early in the year.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc The Board is confident that we now have in 07 place an excellent and balanced management team which is focussed on driving the business forward in a coordinated and effective manner.
Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala Resources This positions us well in the South African Platinum Our relationship with our Black Economic Empowerment mining industry where many new entrants are emerging partner, Incwala Resources, in which we hold a 24% who lack the financial resources to build their own stake, continued to develop during the year.
In July, processing capacity and will necessarily rely upon the Incwala Resources purchased the 26% stake in our small number of fully integrated companies such as Akanani project which now sits alongside their ourselves.
Our new life of mine plan is at an advanced 18% holding in our other South African operating stage of preparation.
It will incorporate recent subsidiaries, Western Platinum Limited and Eastern developments including the addition of the Akanani Platinum Limited.
This ensures that Incwala Resources project and the substantially increased levels of has significant exposure to our entire value chain, attributable resources and reserves, the details as well as to our long term growth profile, through of which we recently announced.
its recent investment in Akanani.
I would like to thank It has now been three years since Brad Mills joined the management team and shareholders of Incwala us to take leadership of the Company.
The headline Resources for all their support and assistance during production figures over this period and indeed over the year.
the past 5 years have shown only modest growth.
These headline figures, however, obscure the major Board of Directors changes that have taken place in the business both to During the year, we have taken steps to further deliver the new regulatory framework in South Africa strengthen the Board with the appointment of three introduced under the new Mining Charter, and to new Directors.
Alan Ferguson joined us in June from prepare the Company for growth.
The dual objectives of BOC as Chief Financial Officer.
In August, Jim Sutcliffe, transformation and modernisation require fundamental Chief Executive of Old Mutual and David Munro, cultural changes and this work is being completed to Executive Director, Strategy of Kazakhmys joined the the Boards satisfaction.
Shareholders can take comfort Board as non-executives.
David formerly held a in the impact of these changes, as evidenced in the number of senior management positions at BHP Companys safety performance, the achievement of Billiton.
I welcome all of them to the Board and look New Order Mining Rights and the substantial growth in forward to continuing to work with them in the future.
Operational developments in the On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like course of this last year have been the catalyst for further to express my gratitude to all Lonmin employees for senior management changes.
The Board is confident their commitment and hard work during what has that we now have in place an excellent and balanced been a challenging year.
management team which is focussed on driving the business forward in a coordinated and effective manner.
Strategy and Outlook While we expect the current year to be one of Lonmins long term strategy is to: consolidation, the Board believes that the Company is Create a culture of safe production, operational now well placed to exploit the growth potential of its excellence and innovation: portfolio in years to come and is more soundly based Capture and build growth into our portfolio of high and better positioned strategically in an industry with quality PGM assets: and extraordinary growth potential than it has been for Focus on ensuring the long term sustainability of many years.
the communities impacted by our operations.
The Board remains fully committed to the three pillars of this strategy.
The operational issues we have had to deal with this year have naturally focussed attention on short term production targets.
While understandable, Sir John Craven this has the tendency to deflect attention from the very Chairman strong fundamental position of the business.
14 November 2007 As I mentioned earlier, we have a strong balance sheet with low gearing, and we continue to generate healthy cash flows.
Our mechanised mining activities at the Saffy and Hossy shafts are progressing in line with our expectations and with the re-commissioning of the Merensky furnace during the year, we have excess smelting capacity for the first time in many years.
com 08 Chief Executives Review Despite the operational setbacks we have faced in 2007, we remain fully committed to our strategy and we are well on the way to establishing the solid foundations from which we can build a successful and stable long term future for Lonmin.
Dear Shareholders, Creating a culture of safe production, 1 operational excellence and innovation As the Chairman outlined in his review, the three key pillars of our strategy are: We have adopted three key principles for delivering this element of our strategic plan.
Creating a culture of safe production, operational Firstly, the safety of our employees is of excellence and innovation: paramount importance to Lonmin.
The challenge has Capturing and building growth into our portfolio been to create the culture to support these values of high quality assets: and and overcome historical attitudes in the mining Ensuring the long term sustainability of the industry towards safety.
communities impacted by our operations.
Secondly, we need to achieve operational excellence by improving the efficiency and When this strategy was established in 2005, we felt productivity of all aspects of our production cycle.
that, by achieving these key objectives, we could We are implementing quality systems like Six Sigma, reach our goal of transforming Lonmin into one of the international benchmarking and ISO management worlds leading natural resource companies.
the operational setbacks we have faced in 2007, we Finally, we are adopting innovative ideas and remain fully committed to our strategy and we are technologies including mechanising and automating well on the way to establishing the solid foundations our mines.
from which we can build a successful and stable In 2007, we were very much in a transition from long term future for Lonmin.
old methods and approaches to those that will deliver I would like to take this opportunity to break our future.
This transitional period has brought up down the key components of our strategy and short term operational challenges as we build discuss them in the context of how we are creating leadership teams committed to adopting new the building blocks for sustainable growth and operational methods and systems.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc One of the key success stories in 2007 09 for Lonmin was the high standard of our safety performance.
Safe production safety record in 2007 One of the key success stories in 2007 for Lonmin was the high standard of our safety performance.
Our Marikana and Limpopo operations delivered a market-leading safety performance for deep level underground mining in South Africa, recording a lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR per million man hours worked for the year of 10.80, an improvement of 13.3% on the 2006 financial year.
Our severity rate has also fallen to 10.48 days versus 13.81 days in 2006, an improvement of 24.1%.
We deeply regret the three industrial fatalities we suffered during the year one at Rowland shaft and two at E3 shaft.
Operational excellence challenges in 2007 Looking at the challenges we faced in 2007, we fell short of our production targets, encountering a number of difficulties as we transition our mining operations from older conventional mines to mechanised shafts.
Some of these issues are short term in nature and related to the timing of the start-up and ramp-up of new projects such as the K4 shaft, while others are more related to operating consistently in our existing conventional operations.
Hossy shaft Specifically, our operations at Marikana were impacted by the longer than usual Christmas break and, later in the year, illegal industrial action related to Our smelting and refining operations also had a the implementation of our new payroll system.
In negative impact on the 2007 results.
In December common with the rest of the industry, we suffered 2006, we had a burn through in the Number One management turnover in the globally booming market furnace next to one of the matte tap holes.
The for experienced mining talent.
Our Limpopo operation investigation that followed indicated that a full rebuild was impacted by adverse ground conditions at the was required.
This was successfully completed during existing Baobab shaft.
Currently, we are developing the second quarter of the financial year and the through this disturbed portion of the ore body.
furnace came back online on 30 April 2007.
In total, Further down the value chain, recoveries at our furnace operations were curtailed for around four concentrators were below our expectations.
Since May, the Number One furnace and our a result of two key issues a change in the ore mix re-commissioned Merensky furnace have been and a shortage of skilled personnel which resulted in extremely stable and we are now more confident that sub-optimised milling strategies.
Ore milled by our we can operate this portion of the value chain with concentrators in 2007 was also of slightly lower grade greater reliability in the future.
than previous years due to a higher proportion In common with the rest of the South African of lower quality opencast ore than anticipated, mining industry, we continued to experience cost increased dilution from the development phase pressures with substantial increases in the cost of of our mechanised shafts and a slight increase in the power, water and some key consumables starting to percentage of marginally lower grade underground impact the business.
The shortage of, and difficulty in UG2 ore from the Eastern side of our Marikana ore retaining, skilled labour has also contributed to cost body.
increases as we have had to stay competitive in our packages to retain certain key skills.
com Chief Executives Review continued 10 Operational excellence addressing the issues Innovation mechanisation and Six Sigma of 2007 We are proud of our track record of introducing, We have learnt a great deal from the challenges we developing and improving practices, techniques and faced during the year.
Today, we know more about systems in our business.
our operations, our practices, our systems and our Mechanisation is an excellent example of this type people than ever before.
We have taken the of innovation.
We believe mechanisation will play an opportunity to capitalise on these insights to improve important role in a safer, more cost effective and our business in order to achieve operational more productive PGM industry in South Africa.
We excellence in the future.
continued to develop mechanisation at our operations In our Mining division, we have strengthened the during the year with the ramp-up of our fully management team with the addition of three new mechanised Hossy and Saffy shafts.
We are satisfied senior appointments.
Chris Sheppard joined us from with the progress of these shafts and they are Anglo Platinum as Executive Vice President, Mining, confirming our views of the safety, productivity and Frank Russo-Bello from AngloGold Ashanti as Vice cost benefits of mechanisation.
These shafts President in charge of conventional mining and Dave increased production from 64,000 tonnes in 2006 to Wright from Rio Tintos Palabora mine as Vice 461,000 tonnes this year or around 4% of our President in charge of mechanised mining.
In underground Marikana ore. We currently forecast addition, we have installed a new management team mechanised tonnes from Hossy, Saffy and our other at Limpopo which has been charged with improving mechanised sections will represent around 17% of performance at the mine.
underground ore produced at Marikana in the 2008 We have moved the management of our financial year.
concentrators into the Process Division.
This will Our Six Sigma continuous improvement ensure a strong focus on improving recoveries at the programme is another area of innovation within the concentrators.
We also instigated a new Six Sigma business.
For the second year running, we won the model for the running of the concentrators which, we Best Six Sigma Achievement in Manufacturing at the believe, will assist us in optimising recoveries by more Global Six Sigma Awards.
We now have a total of 7 effectively managing the feed and ore mix across our Master Black Belts and 28 Black Belts in the 8 concentrators.
programme and have continued with the training of all The addition of the Merensky furnace plus our our senior management team as Green Belts.
three Pyromets now gives us 40 megawatts of installed capacity.
This is an increase of 25% on our Capturing and building growth into our 2006 installed capacity and gives us much greater 2 portfolio of high quality PGM assets flexibility in our Smelting operations.
With these changes, we believe we can achieve The next strategic objective which I would like to greater stability in our operational performance.
cover is capturing and building growth.
Our resources have increased significantly during 2007 with mineral resources increasing by 27% to 166 million ounces of PGMs 3PGE Au as at 30 September 2007, primarily as a result of the addition of Akanani to our resource base.
The full reserves and resources statement, including all the accompanying notes can be found on our website at www.
com and a summary version is included on page 29.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc 11 Capturing growth Akanani At the start of the year, we acquired a 74% interest in the Akanani project.
We are excited about the potential for Akanani.
Current inferred resources are already 30 million PGM ounces 3PGE Au with one third of the known strike length of the ore body drilled in detail.
We are currently operating a number of drill rigs on the property to increase our knowledge of the resource and have started studies on production options which could range from 400,000 to 1 million tonnes hoisted per month.
Further details of the Akanani project are outlined on pages 30 and 31 of this report.
Building growth Limpopo At the time we acquired Limpopo in 2005, it was a small mine with a poor safety record.
We felt there was a good opportunity to use well-known long hole stoping mechanised mining in the steeply dipping reef environment which would be safer and ultimately lower cost.
In addition, the eastern extension of the ore body offered the possibility of significant expansion.
We completed a pre-feasibility study on the Limpopo expansion project in March this year which Pierre Janse Van Rensburg, Site Foreman at Rowland shaft, confirmed our view that the project could be with ARM Alpine Reef Mining continuous mining equipment developed as a fully mechanised mine.
We have undertaken further work since then to look at a larger Building growth Capital expenditure project and to optimise integration and project Our growth projects are supported by our capital expansion timing across the property.
This new work expenditure programme.
In 2008, we expect our will also look at short term opportunities to make capital spending to be around US$400 to US$450 optimal use of our existing concentrator capacity at million.
This will include some carry forward from Limpopo including the possibility of accessing ore 2007, spending at the Marikana operations on the from the expansion to the east where the reef is completion of our K4 shaft and sub-declines projects closer to the surface.
at Rowland and K3 plus initial work on our planned next generation of deeper shafts.
At Limpopo, we will Building growth Marikana continue to conduct work on our expansion of this At Marikana we will continue the conversion to property to the east.
For Akanani, we have included mechanised mining with Saffy and Hossy reaching full around US$20 million of capital to cover the planning production in 2011 and 2012 respectively.
Our K4 stage on the project during 2008. mechanised shaft on the western side of the Marikana property will come into production late in 2009 and at full production, which we anticipate will be around 5 years later, is planned to contribute an additional 180,000 Platinum ounces.
These large new shafts, plus the extension of K3 and Rowland shafts, will offset the decline of a number of smaller, shallow shafts which are expected to deplete over the next few years.
com Chief Executives Review continued 12 Building homes and communities gives people a Ensuring the long term sustainability of the sense of place.
A significant part of our commitment 3 communities impacted by our operations to improve the quality of life for our employees is the We are driven by our sustainability vision, Lonmin commitment to build 5,500 homes over the next four and Communities uniting to liberate the potential of years.
In 2008, we plan to build 500 houses for our current and future generations to experience quality category 3 to 8 employees and convert 38 hostel of life.
We have identified a number of key areas that units into married accommodation.
We are promoting can create a positive shift in the day-to-day lives of home ownership for our employees which we the people in our communities.
believe is fundamental to building communities.
We have created a Beyond home ownership, we are engaged in community engagement vehicle Lentswe meaning active community development, including school voice in Tswana.
This grass roots programme development, local government capacity building focusses on celebrating the successes and and town planning.
communicating the challenges around our 2008 Guidance and Outlook communities and the projects and programmes being We currently anticipate sales for the 2008 financial developed.
We are integrating our decision-making year will be around 900,000 ounces of Platinum.
process on community development projects with 2008 will be a year of consolidation as we continue to local leadership authorities and government grow our mechanised mining at Marikana with structures.
production increasing from our Hossy and Saffy Partnerships make a difference.
The continued ramp-up of our mechanised ground-breaking partnership with the International shafts will contribute to the mix and grade impact we Finance Corporation IFC in March this year.
This saw in 2007 continuing into 2008 with our growth in agreement includes a US$5.9 million Lonmin-IFC Marikana next year coming predominantly from the technical assistance programme.
This programme is eastern side of the operation.
At Limpopo, the focussed on introducing women to the workplace, emphasis on development will continue.
In the local supplier development, HIV and AIDS and Process Division we will focus on improving building the necessary capacity within local recoveries across the value chain, in particular at the government structures to manage major infrastructure concentrators.
projects, such as water and sanitation within the mine We expect the current challenging cost communities.
South African Health, nutrition and education create the building inflation in the mining sector for both operating costs blocks for future generations.
Our HIV and AIDS and capital projects is accelerating rapidly due to the programme has seen some encouraging results as combined impact of the mining boom, construction we continue our drive to create awareness.
Through boom, and 2010 World Cup infrastructure spend.
The our Voluntary Counselling and Testing campaign, we labour market for all skills at artisan level and above is have now tested over 50% of our total workforce.
very competitive with overall industry wage This has enabled early entry of HIV-positive settlements increasing at double digit annual rates.
employees into the Wellness programme, resulting in 836 patients now receiving anti-retroviral therapy.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc 13 Utility costs are rising rapidly as are the costs of basic materials such as steel, lubricants and fuel.
These factors, plus the current stronger South African Rand, will increase unit costs in 2008.
We are currently forecasting that our C1 costs, prior to any currency impact and before base metal credits for the 2008 financial year will be 15% ahead of the R4,196 reported in 2007 and base metal credits per PGM ounce sold will be in line with that recorded in 2007.
The markets for Platinum and our other key metals continue to look robust and we have added further growth to our portfolio with the acquisition of Akanani.
We are taking actions to address the operational issues we have encountered in the last twelve months and are confident that this work will strengthen the Company and build a solid foundation for our long term growth plans.
Employees Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to mention the contribution of Lonmin employees, contractors and community members during the last year.
Their commitment to Lonmin is highly valued and I would like to thank them for their dedication and support during what has been a difficult year.
Matte tapping at the Number One furnace Bradford A Mills Chief Executive 14 November 2007 www.
com 14 Market Overview Other than Palladium, physical PGM markets Diesel autocatalysts are particularly important for remained tight during 2007.
Global demand for the demand, as they specifically utilise Platinum, compared metals from industrial applications, in particular the to gasoline, which is less Platinum-oriented, using a autocatalyst sector, continued to grow whilst supply mix of Palladium, Platinum and Rhodium.
The South African European vehicle market is becoming increasingly PGM industry, the worlds largest source of PGM diesel-focussed.
In addition, in the medium to long production, continued to face challenges, such as term, we expect diesel penetration in the US to skills shortages, and capital project and wage increase from its relatively low level, stimulated by inflation.
As a result of these factors, the market high fuel prices and the resultant introduction of a remains finely balanced.
greater number of diesel-powered vehicles at the volume end of the market in the coming years.
The jewellery market is the second largest Platinum Demand 2007 demand market for Platinum.
Over 50% of this market is now based in China, where the outlook for 25% jewellery demand remains positive.
Elsewhere, the bridalwear market continues to be somewhat price 54% inelastic, as Platinum is still seen as the premium brand in this area whilst the fashion market, which tracks the luxury goods market, remains price 21% sensitive and affected by discretionary consumer spending.
Around 23% of Platinum is used in smaller Autocatalysts industrial and electronic applications, including the Jewellery fabrication of molten glass, for LCD flat screen Other industrial displays, the production of magnetic hard discs, the Source: Johnson Matthey manufacture of speciality silicones and the assembly of complex biomedical components.
The autocatalyst sector continues to be the Rhodium primary demand driver for Platinum, Palladium and Rhodium pricing rose steadily during the year, with Rhodium, as a result of the metals distinctive average monthly pricing increasing from $4,925 per properties, in particular their strong resistance to high ounce during the first month of the year to just over temperature corrosion.
PGMs are used in catalytic $6,200 per ounce during September 2007. converters to reduce noxious emissions from vehicle This pricing environment is a result of continued exhausts gasoline, diesel, bio-fuels and hybrid market tension, driven by autocatalyst applications, engines all utilise PGMs in their catalytic processes.
which contributes around 89% of Rhodium demand.
Demand growth for the use of autocatalysts in motor Increasingly stringent global emissions standards engines continues to be driven by global legislation continue to drive demand in this area where the focussing on both the reduction of emissions and fuel metal is used to convert nitrous oxide to nitrogen.
Supply of Rhodium remains constrained due to the As we anticipated, the introduction of Platinum metal being produced mainly as a by-product of and Palladium Exchange-Traded Funds during the South African Platinum production, with less than year had a minimal impact on these markets.
1 million Rhodium ounces per annum produced Platinum globally.
Lonmin has a relatively high share of the The Platinum price rose from around $1,100 per Rhodium market of around 17%, due to the higher ounce at the start of the year to just over $1,300 per mix of UG2 ore in its mining production.
ounce in September 2007, averaging $1,230 per ounce for the year.
The Platinum market continued to be supported by the ongoing growth in demand for diesel autocatalysts, where Platinum helps to convert unburnt hydrocarbons, a constituent component of smog, into carbon dioxide and water vapour.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc 15 Palladium Palladium pricing has been relatively stable during the year, gravitating within an average monthly range of between $315 per ounce and $370 per ounce, as the market continues to be supported by investor demand.
The autocatalyst sector, where Palladium converts carbon monoxide to carbon dioxide, remains the most important component of the demand story.
A significant on-going development is the consistent volume growth of small gasoline vehicles in China.
In addition, demand has been bolstered by the Palladium jewellery market during the 12 to 18 months.
Although the Palladium market remains oversupplied, we expect the market to begin to tighten in the medium term.
Ruthenium and Iridium Demand for the other Platinum metals continues to grow, as new and innovative industrial manufacturing technologies start to use these metals in their applications.
As the dominant source of OPMs in the world, South Africa continues to be critical to meeting global demand.
As with Rhodium, supply is relatively inelastic as they are both by-products of Platinum production.
The Ruthenium price has risen steadily over the last three years from $60 per ounce to around $430 per ounce, as new applications have consumed the surplus stocks that existed in the industry for many years.
Around 800,000 ounces of Ruthenium are produced per annum, with a growth area being in the memory capacity of perpendicular magnetic recording devices in hard disk drive technology.
A primary demand driver for Iridium is its use in crucibles for single crystal growth to produce energy efficient light emitting diodes, for products including mobile phones and MP3 players.
Lonmin Revenue Split by Metal 2007 Justice Modise, Stoper, at Rowland shaft 8% 4% 7% 50% 31% Platinum Other PGMs Rhodium Base Metals Palladium www.
com Lonmin w ill continue to 16 We are excited about the potential for Akanani, which will play an important role in investigate various growth our future long term growth.
opportunit ies through our selective i nvestment programm e, our targeted acquisition policy and our high quality exp loration projects.
Ian Farmer Chief Strategic Officer Drill rig at Akanani 2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc ill continue to 17 e various growth i ies through our i nvestment Building Growth m e, our targeted n policy and our high Akanani Akanani is a unique property on the northern limb of the p loration projects.
We completed our acquisition of the project in February 2007 and it provides a platform for Lonmin to achieve sustainable long term growth.
The most distinctive aspect of the project is the width of the ore body which, from our initial investigations, we estimate to be around 20 metres in some parts of the property, which compares to the ore body width at Marikana of around 1 metre.
Akanani, therefore, has the potential to be extremely amenable to mechanised mining and is expected to have relatively low operating costs, as well as being highly capital efficient.
In addition, our initial assessment highlights that the ore type at Akanani, known as Platreef, is of reasonable grade with an attractive base metals content, so should, therefore, be relatively simple to process.
We are excited about the potential of the Akanani project and are confident that it will play an important role in Lonmins future long term growth.
com Visible leadership commitment is 18 We are committed to running our operations injury-free.
key to achieving improvements in safety performance.
Lonmin is committed to Zero Harm and this attitude and mindset is obvious from the CEO and down through the whole organisation.
Mohlaba Makumbila Senior Manager, Safety, Health and Environment K4 concentrator 2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc ip commitment is 19 g improvements in nce.
Lonmin is Operational ero Harm and this Excellence ndset is obvious The road to Zero Harm We are committed to eliminating all fatalities and serious injuries in our nd down through operations and have a roadmap to achieve this by 2010.
This year, we have seen a continued improvement in our safety performance with our n sation.
Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate LTIFR reducing from 12.45 to 10.80 per million man hours worked.
Our focus has been on improving our systems, addressing behaviours and enhancing engagement with our unions.
We have introduced Fatal Risk Protocols and rolled these out across the operations: Incident Cause Analysis Methodology is now firmly entrenched and is used to investigate each mining LTI.
In our Mining operations, we have increased the visibility of the management team through regular visits to enforce the Zero Harm message and focussed successfully on achieving LTI free days, with 93 LTI free days at the Marikana operations in 2007 versus 37 in 2006.
This year, we rolled out Safety Behaviour Observations across the operations and these have been successful in further illustrating managements commitment to the safety of each employee.
The visible leadership of management and our unions to promote safe working is extremely important.
Our unions have continued to provide leadership and support during the year and we appreciate their extremely valuable contribution in promoting Zero Harm.
com 20 The Wellness Campaign continues to gain credibility amongst our employees.
Ramabaka Estol sitting and Andrack Bomba standing with Julian Mayo, Enrolled Nurse, at Andrew Saffy Hospital, Marikana Daki Ndiwalana Nursing Service Manager We are d edicated to supporting and assisting our employees and their families in vital aspec ts of their everyday lives, inclu ding health, education a 2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc 21 Sustainability The Wellness Campaign The HIV AIDS epidemic in South Africa persists, with one in seven citizens now infected with HIV.
The disease continues to have a major impact on the communities in which Lonmin operates and we remain committed to providing support to our employees and their families.
A cornerstone of our programme to help tackle the impact of the disease is our Wellness Campaign which was launched in 2005 to encourage voluntary testing and counselling for HIV and other chronic illnesses.
Our Medical Services teams visit the various shafts within Lonmins operations on a regular basis in order to provide our employees with information, health assessments, disease screening and counselling services.
Any employees testing positive for HIV, or any other disease, are then edicated to referred for further treatment.
The Campaign continues to gain credibility amongst g and assisting our our employees and we tested 13,761 employees in 2007, an increase of 31% from 2006. s and their families in c ts of their everyday u ding health, www.
22 Review of Operations Hossy and Saffy are performing in line with our Mining expectations and are confirming our view of the During the year, we have experienced production improvements in safety, productivity and costs shortfalls at both our Marikana and Limpopo mining which we can expect from mechanisation.
We have continued to mine the Pandora implementation of mechanisation is also key to Joint Venture ground and production from this area assisting us in increasing the participation of women increased in 2007.
At the end of the financial year, we within our underground workforce.
We are currently appointed Chris Sheppard as our new Executive Vice training an entire crew of women to operate one of President, Mining to take control of all our mining the sets of ULP equipment.
Chris joined us from Anglo Platinum and We have no plans to fully retrofit our conventional has a considerable amount of experience in the mining shafts at Marikana with mechanised equipment and industry.
We expect him to play a vital role in optimising will continue to mine them on a predominantly our mining performance over the coming years.
We will continue to explore effective ways to modernise our mining methods Marikana including the use of technology such as the full ULP fleet or parts of it within our conventional Production operations where appropriate.
We mined a total of 12.8 million tonnes during the year at Marikana, a decrease of 2.0% on 2006, after Safety stripping out the effect of the additional seven days of Our safety record continues to be industry leading.
production which were included in last years figures We continued to make further improvements in our in order to align our production months with the performance this year as we work towards our 2010 calendar months.
Of this total, 11.2 million tonnes goal of running an injury free operation.
came from our underground operations and 1.6 At Marikana, our lost time injury rate per million million tonnes from our opencast pits.
man hours worked LTIFR fell by 14.4% to 12.5.
The reduction in volumes was primarily as We deeply regret that we suffered three fatalities a result of the longer than usual Christmas break at our Marikana operations during the year, two at and industrial action during the year.
As well as E3 shaft and one at Rowland shaft.
a one day wildcat strike in February 2007, we were At Marikana, the focus has been on achieving LTI impacted by an illegal strike in August 2007.
We achieved a total of 93 LTI free days strike was resolved within 10 days but, unfortunately, during the year, compared to 37 in 2006.
The visibility affected the entire Marikana operation.
This strike and commitment of all the management is essential and the slow return to full production negatively to support the drive on safety.
The Marikana team impacted production by around 30,000 ounces initiated a series of blitzes during the year where all of Platinum.
the senior management team visited a shaft to We have continued during the year to ramp up evaluate the conditions and actively engage with production from our new mechanised Hossy and Saffy employees on safety issues.
We also conducted shafts on the eastern side of the Marikana operation.
Incident Cause Analysis Methodology ICAM to These shafts began stoping during the third quarter of investigate each LTI with the relevant Mine Overseer 2006 and have contributed 461,000 tonnes or 4% of presenting the details of the ICAM to the senior our underground production in 2007.
Both these shafts management team at their weekly meeting.
use the full fleet of ultra low profile ULP mechanised For 2008, we have started a Marikana mining equipment which we have developed in partnership wide safety campaign based on the concept of with Sandvik.
Although we have been developing and learning maps which uses football as an analogy for trialling the ULP equipment over the last 6 years, safety and ties our objective of being injury free to the these are the first deep shafts where we have fully 2010 World Cup being held in South Africa.
implemented mechanisation and the lessons learned will be applied to the next generation of Lonmin shafts.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc We continued to make improvements 23 in our safety performance this year.
Costs Our mining costs for the year were R264 per tonne for Marikana, up 15.8% on 2006 and R2,306 per PGM ounce, a 36% increase on 2006.
Costs were impacted by the lower than expected volumes and cost inflation in many of our key consumables including steel, timber and lubricants.
Looking forward to 2008, we expect the inflationary cost environment to continue in South Africa with further double digit increases in the cost of some consumables.
Our new wage agreement contains a basic wage increase of 10% with increases in other benefits over and above this.
Our focus in 2008 will be to drive productivity, against a macro environment of continued cost inflation.
People At the start of the 2008 financial year, we strengthened the Marikana mining team with the appointment of Frank Russo-Bello, formerly with Anglogold Ashanti, as Vice President in charge of the conventional mining operations and Dave Wright, formerly mine manager at Rio Tintos Palabora mine, as Vice President in charge of the Marikana mechanised shafts Hossy, Saffy and, once it is handed over to the operations, K4.
We completed our wage negotiations with NUM on 17 October 2007.
The agreement, which came into force on 1 October 2007, is a two year agreement with a basic wage increase in the first year of 10% for all category 3 to 9 employees at Marikana and 8% in the second year.
The agreement also provides for a number of increases to certain benefits including shift bonuses and housing allowances.
We have also agreed to adjust minimum rates of pay for each category of employees.
In order to reduce absenteeism and increase productivity we have introduced within the new agreement a bonus payment for each months full attendance.
Eben Stapelberg, in the foreground, Juan Pierre Olivier, in the background both ULP Face Rig operators at Hossy shaft www.
com 24 Review of Operations continued People Limpopo We have changed the management team at Limpopo Production with the appointment in August of one of our Production from Limpopo continued to be hampered experienced mine managers from Marikana, Gerrit by the lack of available developed ore. Development van Rensburg, to take this operation forward.
rates at Limpopo, which were materially below industry average when we acquired the mine, declined Pandora Joint Venture further at the end of the 2006 financial year when we encountered a number of potholes which further Production reduced our open faces.
The focus for this year was For our own account, we mined 414 thousand tonnes therefore on development.
In the later part of the year, from our underground and opencast operations we intersected an Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatoid on the Pandora Joint Venture ground, an increase IRUP body affecting the Merensky reef.
This makes of 50% on production from this area in 2006. the ore uneconomic to process.
Mining through this We have a 42.5% interest in Pandora alongside occurrence will, we currently believe, take around Anglo Platinum 42.5%, Mvelaphanda Resources six to seven months.
7.5% and the Bapo Ba Mogale Mining Company We mined 757 thousand tonnes during the year, 7.5%.
Lonmin is the manager of the project.
We are a reduction of 13.1% from 2006. currently accessing Pandora ore alongside our own ore from the E3 shaft which is close to the Pandora Safety Marikana border.
For our account during the year, we The safety performance of Limpopo during the year mined 128 thousand tonnes from this shaft, an was much improved with no mine fatalities versus increase of 28% on the production for 2006.
In two in the 2006 financial year.
The mine delivered a addition, the Joint Venture has several opencast pits 3.7% decrease in lost time injury frequency rate per which we mine.
Mining for our account of opencast million man hours worked to 7.8.
The team at ore during the year was 286 thousand tonnes, Limpopo implemented a mine wide notification a 62.5% increase from 2006. system with a free phone number to report all Lonmin has an ore purchase agreement in place incidents and this has given us valuable data on with the Joint Venture under which we buy 100% of safety.
They have also initiated a mine wide safety the Pandora ore mined.
Once purchased, we show campaign called Lebone which means shine a light these ounces in our tonnes milled, metal in to highlight a number of safety issues and renew concentrate and sales figures.
We have included focus in this area.
in our current production plans a continued Costs contribution from Pandora through E3 and opencast Our Limpopo mining cost for the year was R464 per in the medium term.
The feasibility study for a standtonne, up 11.1% on 2006 and R4,463 per PGM alone Pandora project on a conventional basis, ounce, a 19% increase on 2006.
Costs were which underpins the full value of the asset, is still impacted by the lower volumes as we focussed work in progress and we will be considering our on development and the cost inflation pressure we options in consultation with our joint venture have also seen at Marikana.
Pandora Joint Venture activities contributed US$12 million of profit after tax for our account in the financial year.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc The new management team in the 25 Process Division is making good progress in implementing operational discipline.
Process Division The Process Division has also experienced challenges during the year.
We put in place a new management team under Theuns fide Bruyn towards the end of the 2006 financial year and they have made good progress with implementing operational discipline into the Division.
The management team introduced a pillar system during the year to measure their key performance indicators in the areas of Safety, Health and Environment, Operations, People, Quality, Shareholder Value and Growth.
This pillar system is currently being rolled out across the division and will be extended to the concentrators during 2008.
The more accurate tracking of all our ounces as they travel through the value chain is key.
We have been working on a project to introduce a new metal tracking system which reconciles with SAP and has more accurate measurement systems to track the ounces at each section of the value chain.
This project will continue in the Process Division in 2008 and will then be rolled out up the value chain to the mines.
Following the underperformance of the concentrators in 2007, they are now run by the management team of the Process Division to ensure the correct focus on recoveries.
Concentrators The concentrators produced a total of 869,832 saleable ounces of Platinum in concentrate for the year down 9.9% on 2006 after stripping out the effect of the additional seven days in the prior year.
Milled head grade declined marginally during 2007 from 4.85 grammes per tonne to 4.80 grammes per tonne as we ramped up the Marikana mechanised shafts and processed more opencast ore.
In addition, as Hossy and Saffy shafts are based on the eastern side of Marikana, we sourced 25% more underground UG2 ore than in 2006 from the eastern side of the Marikana property.
This ore is marginally lower grade and slightly more difficult to Storage silos at K4 concentrator process through the concentrators.
Overall concentrator recoveries were down 3.5% from 80.8% in 2006 to 77.3% this year.
Recoveries were impacted by the blend of the feed mix including higher than anticipated opencast tonnage, the lower head grade and the continued shortage of skilled personnel with a number of experienced production managers leaving during the year.
com 26 Review of Operations continued Costs in the concentrators were impacted by the The combination of our Number One, Merensky increases in power and water costs during the period and our three Pyromet furnaces increases our installed with costs of R59 per tonne milled and a weighted capacity by 25% from 2006, as a result of which we average cost per PGM ounce for concentrating at managed to process substantially all of the concentrate Marikana and Limpopo of R526, up 46% from 2006. inventories which was stockpiled following the Number Concentrator recoveries will be a key area of One furnace outage.
This increased smelting capacity focus in 2008.
We have added more expertise to the gives us the potential to process around 1.2 million concentrator group in the short term with the transfer Platinum ounces per annum.
of two Six Sigma black belts with concentrator Refining Operations backgrounds into the team.
In the medium term, we Our refining operations were impacted by the smelter will look to recruit further skilled personnel in this area.
rebuild with little throughput during this period.
We We have also used the Six Sigma group to help took this opportunity to complete maintenance on develop a model to manage feed across all our 8 both the plants.
Marikana concentrators to optimise and improve At our Base Metal Refinery BMR, we are recoveries.
In addition, we are conducting a review of continuing with the upgrade of the facility required to the ongoing viability of our opencast pits, given their reach our target throughput rate of 37 tonnes per impact on concentrator recoveries and increasing day.
The BMR performed well in the second half of costs but are currently planning for these pits to the year, despite the impact of the August strike, with continue to contribute during 2008. throughput of 5,276 tonnes.
Smelter The Precious Metal Refinery PMR produced The smelter produced a total of 8,540 metric 695,842 ounces of Platinum and 1,289,857 ounces tonnes of matte in the year.
As expected, this level of total PGMs during the year, a decrease of 12.9% of throughput was below last years performance and 15.2% respectively on 2006 after stripping out but was much improved, versus performance prior the effect of the additional seven days in the prior to 2006. year.
We conducted a full rebuild of the Number One In order to improve operational efficiencies and furnace, following the leak next to one of the matte consistency, we have changed our year end inventory tap holes in December 2006.
During the rebuild, we management practices.
This change has resulted in replaced the hearth and took the opportunity to an increase of around 65,000 Platinum ounces in upgrade the furnace with a number of significant metal in process at the year end, predominantly modifications.
We also improved the general operating within the Base Metal Refinery.
We estimate that, discipline surrounding the running of the furnace.
of this year end stock, around 19,000 ounces of Since its first matte tap on 30 April 2007, the Number Platinum should be released through the value One furnace has performed extremely well, driving the chain in the 2008 financial year.
As evidence of this, the Final metal sales for the year were 793,584 average monthly tonnes of matte produced at our ounces of Platinum and 1,490,184 ounces of total smelting operations were around 880 metric tonnes PGMs.
These sales included 93,609 ounces of during the second half of the year, an increase Platinum which were toll refined and 7,032 ounces of of 62% from the first half of the year.
Platinum which were sold as concentrate or other We made good progress in reducing our reliance part-processed products.
on the Number One furnace with the re-commissioning The ratio of ore milled by opencast, underground of the Merensky furnace which contributes an UG2 and Merensky resulted in the proportion of additional 8 megawatts to our smelting capacity.
OPMs Rhodium, Ruthenium and Iridium produced Since its first matte tap on 12 March 2007, the refrom the PMR being lower than originally expected.
commissioned Merensky furnace has been performing This impact is likely to continue into 2008. well.
Our targeted rate of throughput for the vessel was 200 tonnes per day and we have proved the furnace can run at throughput well in excess of this.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc We made good progress in reducing our 27 reliance on the Number One furnace with the re-commissioning of the Merensky furnace.
Safety The Process Division recorded an LTIFR per million man hours worked for the year of 6.28, an increase of 34% on the prior year and ahead of the divisions target of 3.28.
Measures were taken to address this during the year including recruiting a new Senior Safety, Health and Environment Manager for the division and the roll-out of Safety Behaviour Observations to encourage interaction between all employees.
These changes were beginning to have an impact as the financial year ended.
Highlights within the division were the PMR which recorded only one LTI for the year and the laboratory which recorded no LTIs.
Costs Costs in our Process Division for the year were R600 per PGM ounce, up 47.8% on costs for 2006.
Costs were impacted by lower volumes, the costs of the re-build of the Number One furnace and toll refining charges.
Shared Business Services Centres of Excellence At the beginning of September 2007, Mahomed Seedat joined us as President, Lonmin South Africa.
Mahomed has taken over accountability for Shared Business Services and all our Centres of Excellence which deliver support to the business in areas such as Human Capital, IT, Finance, Legal and Communications.
Mahomed is also directly responsible for the integration of all South African business reporting and the co-ordination of all activities in South Africa that require cross-functional teamwork.
We have also appointed an new Vice President, Shared Business Services, Jeffrey Ngobeni.
SAP The implementation of SAP has overall been successful but has caused some issues through the U2 opencast pit business which indicate a lack of ownership or planning in certain areas of the implementation.
One of Mahomeds focus areas for the 2008 financial year is to complete the refining or improvement of SAP in certain areas to ensure that the entire system is delivering a solution that works for our business.
com 28 Review of Operations continued We have continued to work closely with the Six Sigma Lentswe community forum during the year and Our Six Sigma project delivered R173 million of EBIT support this group in the implementation of projects to benefit for the year.
This is some way short of the achieve their 2040 Charter and Vision for the future.
challenging target of R400 million we set ourselves for It has become clear in this process that the provision the financial year, primarily as a result of the utilisation of delivery of community projects through the Lonmin of Six Sigma resource during the year to address the Community Development Trust and Lonmin has operational issues.
Projects have been spread across all caused confusion and mis-communications.
We have business areas looking both at increasing throughput therefore decided to focus our contribution towards and reducing costs.
We are proud to have won, for community projects within Lonmin under Marinda and the second year running, the Global Six Sigma Award have withdrawn our funding from the trust for the for Best Achievement of Six Sigma in Manufacturing.
We believe this will allow us to The programme is now mature and becoming provide much more efficient and focussed delivery to further entrenched into the way we manage the the Greater Lonmin Community.
We currently have a total of 7 Master Black Other successes include the US$5.9 million Belts and 28 Black Belts within the business.
Lonmin-IFC partnership in four areas of local supplier development, gender equity, HIV AIDS and Sustainability community capacity building.
As a result of our One of the components of our strategy is the delivery Voluntary Counselling and Testing programme, of long term sustainability for the communities that around 50% of our employees now know their HIV host our operations and the environment.
In addition, our ART programme continues raise the profile of this key area within the business to gain support and we currently have 836 patients and enhance our delivery, we have appointed participating in the programme.
Marinda van der Merwe as our new Vice President, As we do every year, we will produce a detailed Sustainability.
Marinda now serves on the Chief Sustainable Development Report which will outline Executive Committee and is accountable for the our performance in 2007 in the areas of Safety, delivery of our strategy in the areas of Health, Health, Environment, Community and Housing and Community, Environment and Housing.
The report will be published in early 2008, with additional information available on our website at www.
Reserves and Resources Our directly attributable mineral resources increased by 27.1% from 30 September 2006, primarily as a result of the addition of the Akanani resources which added an additional 30.0 million ounces of PGMs 3PGE Au.
Attributable reserves increased 9.1% to 51.3 million PGM ounces with the completion of a pre-feasibility study on the Limpopo expansion, significantly enhancing the Limpopo overall reserves.
At Marikana, the reserves and resources remained relatively consistent year on year as we continued to replace mined tonnes with further ore reserves.
The table on the following page sets out our attributable reserves and resources as at 30 September 2007 versus the position at the end of September 2006.
The full reserves and resources statement including all the accompanying notes can be found on our website at www.
Opencast rehabilitated land 2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc Mineral resources increased substantially, 29 primarily as a result of the addition of Akanani to our portfolio.
b Limpopo: includes Dwaalkop JV, in which Western Platinum Limited 82% owned by Lonmin has an interest of 50%.
c Pandora JV: Eastern Platinum Limited 82% owned by Lonmin has an attributable interest of 42.5% in the Pandora Joint Venture together with Anglo Platinum, Mvelaphanda Resources and the Bapo Ba Mogale Mining Company.
d Loskop JV: Western Platinum Limited 82% owned by Lonmin has an attributable interest of 50% in the Loskop Joint Venture with Boynton Investments.
e Incwala Resources owns 18% of both Western Platinum Limited and Eastern Platinum Limited and 26% of Akanani.
f All quoted Resources and Reserves includes Lonmin's attributable portion only and the following percentages were applied to the total Mineral Resource and Reserve for each property: Limpopo Baobab, Limpopo Doornvlei, Area Marikana Dwaalkop JV Zebedelia Akanani Pandora Loskop Lonmin Attributable 82% 41% 82% 74% 34.85% 41% The 2006 Mineral Resources and Mineral Reserves have been restated in order to reflect Lonmins portion only.
g All figures are reported as metric tonnes millions, grammes per tonne, percent or troy ounces millions.
h All tabulated data have been rounded to one decimal place for tonnage and content and two decimal places for grades.
i Mineral Resources are inclusive of Mineral Reserves.
j Mineral Resources are reported as in situ tonnes and grade and allow for geological losses such as faults, dykes, potholes and Iron Rich Ultramafic Pegmatoid IRUP.
k Proved and Probable Mineral Reserves are reported as tonnes and grade expected to be delivered to the mill, are inclusive of diluting materials and allow for losses that may occur when the material is mined.
l Mine tailings dams are excluded from the above Mineral Resource summary.
m For economic studies and the determination of pay limits, an exchange rate of R7.25 to one US$ and the following metal prices were assumed: Metal Pt Pd Rh Ru Ir Au USD Oz 1,270 350 4,000 530 410 680 Metal Ni Cu USD tonne 33,000 6,600 n Dilutions are quoted as waste tonnes ore tonnes in percent.
o Unless otherwise stated, the Lonmin Mineral Resources and Reserves estimates were prepared or supervised by various Lonmin Competent Persons.
com 30 Growth Our growth in the period to 2012 will come primarily We completed a pre-feasibility study on the Limpopo from the development of our mechanised shafts at expansion project in March this year confirming our Marikana and the completion of the Limpopo eastern view that the project could be developed as a fully expansion.
The combination of these and the steady mechanised mine.
We have undertaken further rate of production from our deep shafts at Marikana work on the project since the completion of this will, we believe, allow us to reach production of study to look at the potential for a larger project on around 1.2 million ounces of Platinum in 2012.
Permitting for this project is underway.
target and the detailed plans to reach it will be fully This new work will also look at short term opportunities reviewed in 2008 by the new mining team.
to make optimal use of our existing concentrator capacity at Limpopo including the possibility of Marikana accessing ore from the expansion to the east where At Marikana we will continue to add to our the reef is closer to the surface.
mechanised tonnages with Hossy and Saffy reaching full production.
Our K4 mechanised shaft on the Akanani western side of the Marikana property will come In the second half of the year, we continued drilling at into production late in 2009 and at full production, the Akanani project which is on the northern limb of which we anticipate will be around five years later, is the Bushveld complex to increase our confidence in planned to contribute an additional 180,000 Platinum the mineral resource.
The results of the P2 in-fill drill ounces.
The shallower shafts on the property are holes completed since our interim announcement are reaching the final years of their lives but this decrease set out on the table below and show a weighted in production will be more than offset by these three mean width of 20.88 metres at a grade of 6.06 deep mechanised shafts and sub-decline projects we grammes per tonne 3PGE Au.
Once the in-fill are completing to deepen our Rowland and K3 shafts.
drilling programme is completed, we will publish an updated mineral resources statement for the property.
Limpopo Work has commenced on mine design for high Our existing Limpopo operations at Baobab shaft volume mechanised mining at Akanani looking at have encountered a number of adverse ground options which could range from 400,000 to 1 million conditions including IRUP during 2007.
This, combined tonnes hoisted per month.
with the previous poor focus on development at the mine, has pushed back our growth profile for the operations and we continue to focus on development to work through the IRUP and ensure we can sustain our targeted production levels in the future.
Platreef In-Fill Holes drilled at Akanani South section P2 unit Drilled 3PGE Au Cu Ni Drill hole width g t % % ZF015 13.27 2.62 0.16 0.25 ZF043 25.60 5.51 0.17 0.36 ZF044 35.98 9.64 0.17 0.34 ZF045 28.00 2.51 0.14 0.22 ZF046 11.74 8.31 0.21 0.40 ZF047 0.97 4.08 0.03 0.26 ZF049 30.64 6.25 0.12 0.24 Weighted Mean 20.88 6.06 0.15 0.30 Average of two intersections 2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc Our growth in the period to 2012 will come 31 primarily from the development of our mechanised shafts at Marikana and the completion of the Limpopo eastern expansion.
In addition to the P2 section of the Platreef, we continue to believe that the P1 mineralisation has significant selective mining potential which has been confirmed by our drilling of the P1 section of the reef to date.
Recent drill holes indicated zones of P1 mineralisation in the reef of between 16.5 to 38.4 metres at grades of between 3.16 and 5.11 grammes per tonne 3 PGE AU.
Since February, a further fourteen drill holes have been completed along approximately six kilometres of strike in the northern portion of the asset.
These drill holes indicate that the promising mineralisation continues along the entire nine kilometres of strike at the property.
com Growth continued 32 Investments Exploration Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala Canada We continue to hold a 24% stake in Incwala, our Our joint venture with CVRD Inco covers six properties Black Economic Empowerment partner.
Incwala is around the Sudbury Basin.
We have made significant an 18% shareholder in our South African operating progress with our projects during 2007, including subsidiaries Western Platinum Limited and Eastern new PGM discoveries and better delineation of Platinum Limited and, through this investment, has an mineralisation identified in the previous year.
We 18% interest in our entire value chain from our mines continue to build towards a critical mass of resources to our processing facilities.
Incwala also purchased a to support a dedicated mill and concentrator 26% stake in our Akanani project in July 2007. designed for optimal PGM recoveries.
Our exploration joint venture with Wallbridge Mining Furuya Metals Co. Limited Furuya Company Limited covers seven PGM projects around In 2001, we acquired a 7% stake in Furuya, a the Sudbury Basin.
In June 2007, we purchased 10.8 Japanese specialist fabricator of PGMs, giving us a million units of Wallbridge for a total consideration of unique insight into leading-edge developments in the US$6.1 million, representing approximately 18% of uses and applications of PGMs.
Furuya listed on the issued capital of Wallbridge assuming all warrants Jasdaq in 2006.
As at 30 September 2007, our are exercised within a 3 year period.
The investment investment was valued at US$25 million.
cements the long standing relationship between Platmin Limited Platmin Lonmin and Wallbridge and could open up a number of opportunities in the Sudbury area, as Lonmin has We hold a 22% stake in Platmin, a Canadiandomiciled exploration junior with PGM projects in first right of refusal on all of Wallbridges Sudbury properties for the next 5 years, subject to any existing South Africa which listed on the UK Alternative Investment Market and Toronto Stock Exchange last agreements with other parties.
Platmin, through its subsidiary Boynton, is our Tanzania joint venture partner at Loskop.
Platmin has The Luwumbu and Mibango projects are joint ventures attributable proven and probable reserves of 3.2 with Goldstream Mining NL.
We accelerated drilling million ounces 3 PGE plus Au, measured and on Luwumbu this year to follow up encouraging indicated resources of 3.27 million ounces 3 PGE results from earlier in 2007.
We have drilled over plus Au and 12.69 million ounces of inferred resources 9,000 metres targeting the PGM horizons.
Our investment in Platmin was results show relatively low PGM grades, but the valued at US$182 million, at 30 September 2007. majority of analyses are still awaited.
At Mibango, following last years discovery of massive nickel sulphide mineralisation outside of the main intrusion, we have completed a combined 16,000 line kilometres of airborne magnetic, electromagnetic and radiometric surveys which have identified a number of targets for follow-up by ground geophysics and surface mapping.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc We continue to hold a 24% stake in 33 Incwala Resources, our Black Economic Empowerment partner.
Gabon Monts fide Cristal is an early stage project on a large intrusion.
To date, grid sampling and mapping have been carried out on a small portion of the southern area, representing only ten percent of the intrusions length.
Stratigraphic drilling to obtain more information on the structure and geochemistry of the intrusion started in August 2007.
At our Koumba gold project, we have completed the detailed soil sampling of the target area and have identified 3 priority targets for drilling in 2008.
South Africa The Loskop project, located on the Eastern Limb of the Bushveld complex, is under an option and joint venture with Boynton Investments Pty Ltd. We have estimated an Inferred Resource on the Loskop properties of 1.3 million ounces 2 PGE plus Au, on an attributable basis.
Hossy shaft storage silo www.
com 34 Key Performance Indicators We have set out the following key performance indicators for our business: Ounces Production Platinum ounces produced Our strategy is to grow production from our Platinum business.
Platinum ounces produced are 1,000,000 the ounces we produce either as refined ounces or recoverable ounces sold in concentrate.
800,000 600,000 400,000 200,000 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 Rand per PGM Marikana Costs C1 costs of own production before by product credits ounces sold Cost per unit is an important metric in helping us to measure our competitive position in 4,000 case of any down cycle.
Our C1 costs are defined as cash operating costs per PGM ounce sold of own production, before by product credits which relate to our base metal 3,200 production.
2,400 1,600 800 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 US$m Underlying Earnings before Interest and Taxation EBIT For any business, the ultimate aim is to grow underlying earnings and deliver value to 1,000 shareholders.
We track our performance by looking at our earnings before interest and 800 taxation from continuing operations.
Underlying EBIT is calculated on profit for the year and excludes the effect of one-off and non-trading items.
600 400 200 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc 35 LTIF Safety Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per Million Man Hours Worked As a company, we are committed to Zero Harm to our employees and we also regard 25 safety performance as a lead indicator of the health of any business.
Lost time injury 20 frequency rate is measured per million man hours worked and reflects all injuries sustained by employees which mean that the injured party is unable to return to work 15 on the next shift.
10 5 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 PMR Refined production Production Lonmin is an integrated mine to market operation and we produce refined metal for sale 1.6 to our customers.
One of our key objectives is to ensure that all the ore we mine is processed and refined in-house thus allowing us to realise the highest possible margin 1.2 on these ounces.
Every ounce we sell before it reaches final product represents a loss of margin to the business.
We therefore believe that refined production from our Precious Metal Refinery is a key performance indicator measured in PGM ounces.
0.8 0.4 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 US$m Free cash flow We believe that a key metric of how successful we are as a business is ultimately the 400 amount of cash we generate before dividends and acquisitions.
com 36 Board of Directors Brad Mills 53 Chief Executive Appointed as a Director and Chief Executive in March 2004.
He is a member of the Safety and Sustainability Committee.
Brad holds a first degree in geology and a masters degree in minerals economics from Stanford University.
After working in exploration and business development for Magma Copper, he held a variety of senior roles for BHP following that companys acquisition of Magma.
One of the architects of the merger of BHP and Billiton in 2001, he subsequently headed up strategy for the combined group before becoming head of BHP Billitons base metals division.
Brad was appointed as Chairman of the International Council on Mining and Metals in October 2007 and is on the Board of Trustees for the Houston Museum of Natural Science.
Ian Farmer 45 Chief Strategic Officer Appointed a Director in 2001 and has responsibilities for the Companys business development, exploration and marketing activities.
A chartered accountant, he joined the Company in 1986 and transferred to a group company in Zambia in 1990.
In 1995, he was appointed Finance Director of Lonmin Platinum in South Africa, which position he relinquished upon his transfer to London in 2001.
He is a Director of the International Platinum Association and Incwala Resources Pty Limited, which holds a minority interest in Lonmins South African operating subsidiaries.
Ian has both South African and British nationality.
Alan Ferguson 49 Chief Financial Officer Appointed as Chief Financial Officer and a Director in June 2007.
Prior to joining Lonmin, he was Group Finance Director of The BOC Group BOC until late 2006, following the Linde Groups acquisition of BOC.
Before joining BOC in 2005, he worked for Inchcape plc for 22 years in a variety of roles including Group Finance Director from 1999 until his departure.
Alan is a Chartered Accountant and is a British national.
Sir John Craven 67 Chairman Appointed as an independent Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Board in 1997 and is a member of the Nomination Committee of the Board.
He was Chairman of Fleming Family and Partners Limited, an independent, privately-owned investment house and was the Group Chief Executive and Chairman of Morgan Grenfell Group plc and a Member of the Board of Managing Directors of Deutsche Bank AG after that companys acquisition of Morgan Grenfell.
He has also held a number of non-executive directorships, including Reuters Holdings plc, Incwala Resources Pty Limited, Ducati Motor Holdings SpA and Rothmans International BV.
Sir John is Chairman and Director of GEMS Oriental and General Funds I, II and III and Chairman of Patagonia Gold Plc.
Sir John holds both British and Canadian nationality and was knighted for his services to banking and to the City.
Roger Phillimore 58 Deputy Chairman Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in 1997.
Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees, and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Formerly joint managing director of Minorco, he is currently a Non-executive Director of Aber Diamond Corporation.
Roger holds both South African and British nationality.
Michael Hartnall 65 Senior Independent Director Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in May 2003.
He is the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and is a member of the Remuneration Committee, the Safety and Sustainability Committee and, as from 21 September 2007, the Nomination Committee.
A chartered accountant and former finance director of Rexam Plc, he is also a Non-executive Director of BAE Systems plc.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc 37 Dr Sivi Gounden 49 Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in September 2005.
An engineer by profession, Sivi joined the South African Government in 1994 and in 1999 he was appointed director-general of the newly established Department of Public Enterprises.
In June 2003, he was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Bateman BV, a global process engineering company.
Sivi is currently a trustee of the Deutsche Bank Africa Foundation and a Non-executive Director of Grindrod Limited, a company listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
He served as a non-executive director until July 2005, of Anglo American Corporation of South Africa.
Sivi is a South African national.
Peter Godsoe 69 A chartered accountant and banker with an MBA from Harvard, he was appointed an independent Non-executive Director in 2001.
He is a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees of the Board.
Formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Bank of Nova Scotia, he is also a Non-executive Director of Barrick Gold, Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust Plc, Ingersoll-Rand Company, Rogers Communication Inc. and Onex Corporation.
Karen fide Segundo 60 Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in April 2005 and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Safety and Sustainability Committee.
Formerly Chief Executive Officer of Shell International Renewables and Chief Executive of Shells global gas and power business, she is currently a member of the supervisory board of Ahold NV and a Non-executive Director of British American Tobacco Plc, Merrill Lynch New Energy Technology Plc, Ensus Ltd and Pyry Oyj of Finland.
Jim Sutcliffe 51 Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in August 2007.
He is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
He is currently Chief Executive of Old Mutual plc, a post which he assumed in November 2001 after acting as Chief Executive of the Old Mutual Groups life assurance business since January 2000.
He is a Nonexecutive Director of Nedbank Group Limited and a Director of The Nelson Mandela Legacy Trust UK and Kotak Mahindra Old Mutual Life Insurance Company Limited.
Before joining Old Mutual, Jim was Chief Executive UK of Prudential plc and was, until recently, Chairman of  Skandia publ.
David Munro 52 Appointed an independent Non-executive Director in August 2007.
He is a member of the Remuneration Committee and of the Safety and Sustainability Committee.
He is currently Executive Director, Strategy of Kazakhmys plc, a post he has held since October 2006.
Before joining Kazakhmys, David was Chief Executive Officer of RMC Group PLC from January 2004 until RMCs acquisition by Mexicos Cemex in 2005.
From 1981, he held a variety of positions with Gencor Billiton and then BHP Billiton including Chief Development Officer from 2003 to 2004, Vice President, Strategy and Business Development from 2002 to 2003 and Executive Director Aluminium from 1997 to 2002.
David was a Non-executive Director of Wogen plc from 2005 to 2007 and Kazakhmys plc from 2005 to 2006.
The data has been restated to remove these extra days and restate on a like-for-like basis.
2 Pandora-attributable tonnes mined includes Lonmin's share 42.5% of the total tonnes mined on the Pandora joint venture.
Prior years have been restated.
3 Tonnes milled excludes slag milling.
4 Lonmin purchases 100% of the ore produced by the Pandora joint venture for onward processing which is included in downstream operating statistics.
5 Relates to the tonnes milled and derived metal in concentrate from third-party ore purchases.
6 Metals in concentrate have been changed from the previously reported definition of full contained metal to adjust for industry standard downstream processing losses.
7 Corresponds to contained base metals in concentrate.
8 Nickel is produced and sold as nickel sulphate crystals or solution and the volumes shown correspond to contained metal.
Copper is produced as refined product but typically at LME grade C. 9 Concentrate and other sales have been adjusted to a saleable ounces basis using standard industry recovery rates.
10 Exchange rates are based on the weighted average rates applicable over the course of the year on revenue between Rand and US$.
N A Not applicable N C Not calculated www.
com 40 Summary Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 30 September 2007 2006 1 1 Underlying Special Total Underlying Special Total Continuing operations $m $m $m $m $m $m Revenue 1,941 1,941 1,855 1,855 2 EBITDA 883 2 881 911 12 923 Depreciation and amortisation 87 87 81 81 3 Operating profit loss 796 2 794 830 12 842 Net finance expenses 3 104 107 12 12 Share of profit of associate and joint venture 18 18 19 19 Profit loss before taxation 811 106 705 827 194 633 4 Income tax expense 255 42 297 280 78 202 Profit loss for the year 556 148 408 547 116 431 Attributable to: Equity shareholders of Lonmin Plc 453 139 314 445 132 313 Minority interest 103 9 94 102 16 118 Earnings per share 295.9c 205.1c 312.1c 219.5c 5 Diluted earnings per share 293.4c 203.3c 307.7c 216.4c Dividends paid per share 110.0c 87.0c 2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc Summary Consolidated Balance Sheet 41 as at 30 September 2007 2006 Non-current Current Total Non-current Current Total $m $m $m $m $m $m Property, plant and equipment 1,673 1,673 1,463 1,463 Goodwill and intangible assets 1,122 1,122 441 441 Investments in associate and joint ventures 131 131 113 113 Financial assets available and held for sale 226 7 233 98 6 104 6 Working capital 238 238 322 322 7 Net debt 359 16 375 501 43 458 8 Financial derivative assets liabilities 8 8 268 4 272 Net current tax payable 37 37 88 88 Deferred tax liabilities 585 585 294 294 Provisions 46 46 39 39 9 Other sundry net assets 2 2 20 20 2,160 200 2,360 1,033 279 1,312 Equity interest 1,968 1,089 Minority interest 392 223 2,360 1,312 www.
com 42 Summary Consolidated Cash Flow for the year ended 30 September 2007 2006 $m $m Cash flow from operations 983 722 Interest and finance costs 25 31 Tax paid 266 185 Trading cash flow 692 506 Capital expenditure 276 182 Proceeds from disposal of assets held for sale 5 28 Dividends paid to minority 41 62 Free cash flow 380 290 Acquisitions 393 14 Financial investments 21 36 Shares issued 68 15 Equity dividends paid 171 124 Cash inflow outflow 137 131 Opening net debt 458 585 Shares issued on bond conversion 213 Exchange 7 4 Closing net debt 375 458 Trading cash flow per share cents 452.0 354.9 Free cash flow per share cents 248.2 203.4 Notes to summary financial statements: 1 Underlying earnings are calculated on profit for the year excluding movements in the fair value of the embedded derivative associated with the convertible bonds, exchange on tax balances, profit on the sale of Marikana houses, pension settlement surplus, impairment losses in respect of non core investments and, for 2006, an adjustment to the interest capitalised in prior years.
2 EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation and amortisation.
3 Operating profit is defined as revenue less operating expenses before net finance costs and before share of profit of associate and joint venture.
4 The income tax expense substantially relates to overseas taxation $6 million income relates to utilisation of losses against a deferred tax liability recognised on unrealised gains on available for sale financial assets held in the UK and includes exchange losses of $51 million 2006 gains of $82 million as disclosed in note 7 to the financial statements within the Annual Report.
5 The calculation of diluted EPS includes adjustments for the movements in fair value on the embedded derivative within the convertible bonds subject to the limitation under IAS 33 Earnings per share, that this cannot thereby create a figure exceeding basic EPS.
6 Working capital includes inventories, trade and other receivables and trade and other payables.
7 Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents, bank overdrafts repayable on demand and interest-bearing loans and borrowings grossed up for capitalised fees.
8 Financial derivatives assets liabilities include the fair value adjustment for the embedded derivative in the convertible bonds and a current derivative liability in respect of forward price agreements for by-product metals.
9 Other sundry net assets comprise employee benefits and non-current other receivables.
2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc Consolidated Group Five Year Financial Record 43 for the year ended 30 September Continuing operations excluding acquisitions ii 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 iii i i IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP $m $m $m $m $m Income statement: Revenue 1,941 1855 1,128 1,030 779 Operating profit excluding associate and joint venture 794 842 350 304 298 Underlying operating profit excluding associate and joint venture 796 830 362 262 298 Profit before taxation 705 633 319 290 291 Underlying profit before taxation 811 827 339 290 269 Attributable profit for the year 314 313 158 125 74 Underlying attributable profit for the year 453 445 168 137 123 Basic earnings per share cents 205.1 219.5 111.5 88.4 52.5 Underlying earnings per share cents 295.9 312.1 118.5 96.9 87.2 Balance sheet: Non-current assets property, plant and equipment 1,673 1,463 1,339 1,370 983 Non-current assets other 1,501 677 559 133 292 Net current assets liabilities 200 279 40 13 79 Net debt 375 458 585 275 197 Equity shareholders funds 1,968 1,089 838 744 645 Equity shareholders funds per share cents 1,285 764 591 525 457 Cost of dividend paid 171 124 102 102 101 Dividends per share paid cents 110.0 87.0 72.0 72.0 72.0 Dividend for the year per share cents 115.0 100.0 72.0 72.0 72.0 Cash flow: Cash flow from operating activities trading cash flow 692 506 279 324 227 Free cash flow 380 290 56 100 68 Trading cash flow per share cents 452.0 354.9 191.2 229.2 161.0 Free cash flow per share cents 248.2 203.4 39.5 70.7 48.2 i For the years ended 30 September 2003 and 2004, the information has been presented on a UK GAAP basis.
ii The 2003 figures were restated in 2004 to show the investment in the Lonmin Employee Share Ownership Plan as a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
iii The balance sheet as at 30 September 2005 has been restated following the finalisation of fair values arising on the acquisition of Southern Platinum Corporation.
com 44 Corporate Information Company Secretary and Stockbrokers ADR Depository Registered Office United Kingdom: The Bank of New York Mellon Rob Bellhouse BSc FCIS JPMorgan Cazenove Limited ADR Shareholder Enquiries Dept.
Lonmin Plc 20 Moorgate PO Box 11258 4 Grosvenor Place London Church Street Station London EC2R 6DA New York SW1X 7YL Tel: 44 0 20 7588 2828 NY 10286 United Kingdom Fax: 44 0 20 7155 9000 USA Tel: 44 0 20 7201 6000 Citigroup Global Markets Limited Fax: 44 0 20 7201 6100 US Callers: Citigroup Centre E-mail: contact@lonmin.
com Tel: 1-888-BNY-ADRS Toll free 33 Canada Square Website: www.
com International Callers: Canary Wharf Tel: 1 212 815 3700 Registered in England and Wales London E-mail: shareowners@bankofny.
com Company number 103002 E14 5LB Tel: 44 0 20 7986 4000 ISA Provider Investor Relations Fax: 44 0 20 7986 2266 Rensburg Sheppards Investment Alexandra Shorland-Ball Management Limited Vice President, Investor Relations South Africa: Corporate PEP and ISA Administration & Communications JPMorgan Equities Limited The Plaza 1 Friker Road 100 Old Hall Street Rob Gurner Illovo Liverpool Investor Relations Manager Johannesburg 2196 L3 9AB South Africa External Auditors Tel: 44 0 151 237 2160 Tel: 27 0 11 507 0575 KPMG Audit Plc Fax: 44 0 151 255 1742 Fax: 27 0 11 507 0502 PO Box 695 8 Salisbury Square Registrars London Equiniti EC4Y 8BB Aspect House United Kingdom Spencer Road Tel: 44 0 20 7311 4744 Lancing Fax: 44 0 20 7311 8257 West Sussex BN99 6DA UK Callers: Tel: 0870 600 3970 Fax: 0870 600 3980 International Callers: Tel: 44 0 121 415 7047 Fax: 44 0 1903 833371 Web: www.
co. uk Link Market Services South Africa Pty Ltd Postal address: PO Box 4844 Johannesburg 2000 South Africa Physical address: 5th Floor 11 Diagonal Street Johannesburg 2001 Tel: 27 0 11 630 0800 Fax: 27 0 11 854 4398 Website: www.
co. za 2007 Annual Review Lonmin Plc Financial Calendar for 2008: January AGM & Q1 Production Report February Final Dividend Payment April H1 Production Report May Interim Results August Q3 Production Report & Interim Dividend Payment October FY Production Report November Final Results We would like to thank all those employees and community members whose photographs appear in this document.
The paper used in this report is produced from a combination of ECF elemental chlorine-free and TCF totally chlorine-free pulp that is fully recyclable, biodegradable, acid-free and sourced from carefully managed and renewed commercial forests.
The range is manufactured within a mill which is registered under the BS EN ISO 9001 accreditation, which provides the highest standard of quality assurance.
com Annual Review For the year ending 30 September 2007 www.
com Liberating the Earths potential You can access more information about us on our website to fulfil life About Lonmin At a glance Our Business Our mission Our values Operating environment Business conduct Current operations Principle risks Future growth Governance structure Contact Us Addresses Telephone numbers Feedback form Media Centre News Calendars Image gallery Case studies Sustainable Development Economic growth Human capital Safety Community Investor Relations Health Financial highlights Environment Reports and presentations News Investor tools Investor information Lonmin Plc Lonmin Plc 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
