102 Appendix to Notice of Luminar plc Annual General Meeting Annual Report 2007 Appendix to Notice of Annual General Meeting SUMMARY OF THE PRINCIPAL TERMS OF awards will be made shortly following the having a market value in excess of 100% of his THE LUMINAR 2007 PERFORMANCE SHARE adoption of the PSP.
annual base salary in that financial year although PLAN THE PSP in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment The Committee may grant awards as conditional or retention, this limit is increased to 200% of an OPERATION shares, nil or nominal cost options with a short employees annual base salary.
The Remuneration Committee of the Board of exercise period or as forfeitable shares.
The Directors the Committee of Luminar plc the Committee may also decide to grant cash-based PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Company will supervise the operation of the awards of an equivalent value to share-based Awards granted to Executive Directors and PSP.
awards or to satisfy share-based awards in cash, other members of the Executive Committee will although it does not currently intend to do so.
be subject to performance conditions, which ELIGIBILITY performance conditions will be determined by Any employee including an Executive Director An award may not be granted more than 10 the Committee.
of the Company and its subsidiaries will be years after shareholder approval of the PSP.
eligible to participate in the PSP at the discretion The initial grant of awards in 2007 to members No payment is required for the grant of an of the Committee.
of the Executive Committee will be subject to award.
Awards are not transferable, except on five performance conditions as summarised GRANT OF AWARDS death.
The Committee may grant awards to acquire INDIVIDUAL LIMIT ordinary shares in the Company Shares 50% of each award the TSR Portion will be Under the first awards to be made shortly after within six weeks following the Companys subject to a performance condition measuring the Annual General Meeting, employees may announcement of its results for any period.
The the Total Shareholder Return TSR receive awards over Shares having a market Committee may also grant awards within six performance of the Group against the TSR value up to 150% of their annual base salary at weeks of shareholder approval of the PSP or at performance of the FTSE 250 Index over a three that time.
any other time when the Committee considers year performance period as set out in the table However, thereafter, an employee may not there are exceptional circumstances which justify below: receive awards in any financial year over Shares the granting of awards.
It is intended that the first TSR performance of the Group over the performance period % of the TSR Portion of the award that vests Below the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 Index 0% Equal to the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 Index 25% i. e. 12.5% of the total award Out-performance of the FTSE 250 Index by 40% or more 100% i. e. 50% of the total award Between FTSE 250 Index performance and out-performance Between 25% and 100% i. e. 12.5 % and 50% of the total award of the FTSE 250 index by 40% on a pro-rata straight-line basis iii 10% of each award the Staff Turnover Portion The Committee may set different performance The required level of out-performance of the will be subject to a performance condition based conditions from those described above for future Groups TSR over the TSR of the FTSE 250 Index on reduction in staff turnover from the current awards to Executive Committee members provided will be calculated on a multiplicative basis.
level 25% of the Staff Turnover Portion 2.5% of that the new targets, in the reasonable opinion of The remaining 50% of each award will be subject to the total award will vest for a reduction in current the Committee, are not materially less challenging in four strategic targets which must be achieved by the staff turnover from 220% to 140%, 100% of the the circumstances than those described above.
These strategic Staff Turnover Portion 10% of the total award will Awards granted to employees other than Executive targets are as follows: vest for a reduction in current staff turnover to Committee members may be subject to different i 20% of each award the ROI Portion will be 120%, with vesting on a pro-rata straight-line basis performance conditions from those described subject to a performance condition requiring between those points: and above.
The current intention is that the initial grant return on investment ROI for the financial iv 10% of each award the Value Return Portion of awards in 2007 to executives immediately below year ended 1 March 2010 of 25%: will be subject to a performance condition the Executive Committee level may be subject to ii 10% of each award the Cost Savings Portion based on returning value to shareholders over performance targets based on divisional or business will be subject to a performance condition the period of three financial years commencing unit performance.
based on central costs savings over the period on 2 March 2007 25% of the Value Return The PSP includes flexibility to grant awards, the of three financial years commencing on 2 March Portion 2.5% of the total award will vest for a vesting of which is not subject to performance 2007 25% of the Cost Savings Portion 2.5% of return to shareholders of 70 million, 100% of the conditions and or which have a vesting period of the total award will vest for central costs savings of Value Return Portion 10% of the total award will less than three years.
Whilst there is no current 3.5 million, 100% of the Cost Savings Portion vest for a return to shareholders of 100 million, intention to grant awards which are not subject to 10% of the total award will vest for central costs with vesting on a pro-rata straight-line basis performance conditions or which have a vesting savings of 4 million, with vesting on a pro-rata between those points.
period which is shorter than three years, the straight-line basis between those points: Luminar plc 103 Appendix to Notice of Annual Report 2007 Annual General Meeting Committee considers that it is necessary for the PSP Alternatively, if a participant ceases to be an VARIATION OF CAPITAL to include the flexibility to permit such grants.
Such employee or director in the Group for one of the In the event of any variation of the Companys share awards would only be granted to more junior, good leaver reasons specified above, the capital or in the event of a demerger, payment of a operationally based, executives, below the Executive Committee can decide that his award will vest when special dividend or similar event which materially Committee level.
The extent to which an award will vest in affects the market price of the Shares, the these situations will depend upon two factors: i Committee may make such adjustment as it The Committee may vary any performance the extent to which any performance conditions considers appropriate to the number of Shares conditions applying to existing awards if an event or have, in the opinion of the Committee, been subject to an award and or the exercise price events has have occurred which cause s the satisfied by reference to the date of cessation: and payable if any.
Committee to consider that it would be appropriate ii the pro-rating of the award to reflect the to amend the performance conditions, provided the OVERALL LIMITS reduced period of time between its grant and Committee considers the varied conditions are fair The PSP may operate over new issue Shares, vesting although, again, the Committee can decide and reasonable and not materially less challenging Treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the market.
not to pro-rate an award for time if it regards it as than the original conditions would have been but for In any ten calendar year period, the Company may inappropriate to do so in the particular the event or events in question.
not issue or grant rights to issue more than: circumstances.
VESTING OF AWARDS a 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the CORPORATE EVENTS Awards will normally vest three years after grant, to Company under the PSP and any other In the event of a takeover or winding up of the the extent that any applicable performance employee share plan adopted by the Company: Company not being an internal corporate conditions see above have been satisfied and and reorganisation all awards will vest early subject to: provided that the participant is still employed in i the extent that any performance conditions have, b 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the the Group.
in the opinion of the Committee, been satisfied at Company under the PSP and any other As mentioned above, the PSP includes the that time: and ii the pro-rating of the awards to executive share plan adopted by the Company.
flexibility to grant awards which are not subject to reflect the reduced period of time between their Treasury Shares will count as new issue Shares for performance conditions and or which have a grant and vesting, although the Committee can the purposes of these limits unless institutional vesting period which is shorter than three years decide not to pro-rate an award for time if it regards investors decide that they need not count.
such awards would only be granted to executives it as inappropriate to do so in the particular below Executive Committee level.
ALTERATIONS TO THE PSP there is no current intention to grant such awards The Committee may, at any time, amend the PSP in In the event of an internal corporate reorganisation to executives.
any respect, provided that the prior approval of pursuant to which a new holding company is shareholders is obtained for any amendments that DIVIDEND EQUIVALENT inserted above the Company, awards will be are to the advantage of participants in respect of the The Committee may decide that participants will replaced by equivalent new awards over shares in rules governing eligibility, limits on participation, the receive a payment in cash and or Shares on or that new holding company unless the Committee overall limits on the issue of Shares or the transfer of shortly following the vesting of their awards, of an decides that awards should vest on the basis which Treasury Shares, the basis for determining a amount equivalent to the dividends that would would apply in the case of a takeover.
participants entitlement to, and the terms of, the have been paid on those Shares between the time If a demerger, special dividend or other similar Shares or cash to be acquired and the adjustment of when the awards were granted and the time when event is proposed which, in the opinion of the awards.
It is intended that this provision will apply Committee, would affect the market price of to awards granted to members of the Executive The requirement to obtain the prior approval of Shares to a material extent, then the Committee Committee.
shareholders will not, however, apply to any minor may decide that awards will vest on the basis alteration made to benefit the administration of the LEAVING EMPLOYMENT which would apply in the case of a takeover as PSP, to take account of a change in legislation or to As a general rule, an award will lapse upon a described above.
obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control participant ceasing to hold employment or be a PARTICIPANTS RIGHTS or regulatory treatment for participants or for any director within the Group.
However, if a participant Awards of conditional shares and options will not company in the Group.
Shareholder approval will ceases to be an employee or a director because of confer any shareholder rights until the awards have also not be required for any amendments to any his death, ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, vested or the options have been exercised and the performance condition applying to an award.
redundancy, his employing company or the business participants have received their Shares.
Holders of for which he works being sold out of the Group or OVERSEAS PLANS awards of forfeitable Shares will have shareholder in other circumstances at the discretion of the The shareholder resolution to approve the PSP will rights from when the awards are made except they Committee, then his award will normally vest on the allow the Board to establish further plans for may be required to waive their rights to receive date when it would have vested if he had not overseas territories, any such plan to be similar to dividends.
ceased such employment or office subject to: i the the PSP, but modified to take account of local tax, performance conditions if any measured at that RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES exchange control or securities laws, provided that time: and ii the pro-rating of the awards by Any Shares allotted when an award vests or is any Shares made available under such further plans reference to the time of cessation although the exercised will rank equally with Shares then in issue are treated as counting against the limits on Committee can decide not to pro-rate an award for except for rights arising by reference to a record individual and overall participation in the PSP.
time if it regards it as inappropriate to do so in the date prior to their allotment.
104 Shareholder Notes Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Shareholder Notes
