100 Explanation of Resolutions Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Explanation of Resolutions This is an important document.
If there is review was that shareholder approval should particularly for more junior operationally based anything you do not understand, please contact be sought for the introduction of a new executives.
long-term, share-based, incentive It is intended that initial awards to be granted arrangement, the Luminar 2007 Performance 1.
Directors Report and Accounts resolution 1 immediately following the Annual General Share Plan the PSP.
The Directors are required to present to the Meeting, will be 1.5 times the future annual grant meeting the Directors and Auditors reports Resolution 10, which is an ordinary level, recognising the fact that no performance and the accounts for the year ended 1 resolution to be passed by way of special based long-term incentives were granted in the March 2007. business, proposes the approval of the PSP.
Consider and adopt the Report on The principal terms of the PSP are In addition to the new PSP, a policy to Remuneration resolution 2 summarised below and in the Appendix to encourage Executive Directors to build and The Directors are also required to present this Notice.
maintain a shareholding in the Company will be the Directors Remuneration Report for introduced.
Under the policy, Executive Directors Under the PSP, executives will be granted, each approval.
The Report is set out on pages 28 will be expected to retain no less than 50% of year, a right to receive shares in the Company.
to 35. the shares after tax released under executive Awards granted to executive directors and other share schemes, until such time as a shareholding 3.
Declaration of dividend resolution 3 executives at Executive Committee level will be equivalent to 100% of salary has been achieved.
The proposed final dividend of 12.32p per subject to challenging performance conditions ordinary share will be paid on 24 July 2007 and may vest no sooner than three years after 7.
Renewal of authority to allot shares resolutions to shareholders who are on the Register of grant.
11 and 12 Members as at the close of business on 22 The existing authorities given to the For the initial awards to Executive Committee June 2007.
This dividend is in addition to the Directors at the last Annual General Meeting members, to be made immediately after the interim dividend of 4.88p per ordinary share, to allot unissued share capital and to allot Annual General Meeting, the performance which was paid on 5 January 2007.
The shares for cash in limited circumstances criteria will be a mixture of total shareholder shares will become ex-dividend on 20 June expire on 20 July 2007.
It is proposed that return and key strategic targets.
2007. further authorities be granted which shall Total shareholder return TSR measures the expire on the earlier of the date of the next 4.
Re-election of Directors resolutions 4, 5, 6 and percentage change in share price plus the value Annual General Meeting to be held after the 7 of dividends reinvested.
The Groups TSR will be passing of the resolution and the date falling Article 94 of the Companys Articles of compared to the performance of the FTSE 250 15 months after the passing of the Association states that any Director Index over a three year performance period, resolution.
An ordinary resolution resolution appointed by the Board during the year may with 40% outperformance required for full 11 will be proposed to authorise the hold office only until the next Annual vesting.
Directors to allot unissued share capital up General Meeting.
Alan Jackson was to an aggregate nominal amount of The four strategic targets will be Return on appointed on 5 December 2006 and is 5,740,691 being 22,962,764 ordinary shares Investment, reduction in staff turnover, returning offering himself for re-election.
Debbie of 25p each representing approximately 33% significant value to investors and significant Hewitt was appointed on 14 February 2007 of the share capital currently in issue as at 16 central cost savings.
This mix of financial and and is offering herself for re-election.
John May 2007, which is the latest practicable non-financial targets is considered to be of Jackson was appointed on 1 March 2007 and date prior to the publication of the notice of critical importance to the business strategy at the is offering himself for re-election.
A special resolution resolution 12 current time.
For future years awards to Article 87 of the Companys Articles of will be proposed authorising the Directors to members of the Executive Committee, the Association states that any Director who has allot shares in connection with a pre-emptive performance criteria may change to being a mix not been appointed or re-appointed at issue to existing shareholders, but allowing of TSR and earnings per share.
either of the Companys last two Annual the Directors to modify statutory Awards granted to executives below the General Meetings should retire.
Richard requirements for pre-emptive issues in order Executive Committee level may not be subject Brooke is retiring and offering himself for reto deal with legal, regulatory or practical to performance conditions governing vesting election under this provision.
The resolution will and or may have a vesting period shorter than also, if passed, authorise the Directors to 5.
Appointment and remuneration of Auditors three years.
For such executives the level of the issue shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive resolutions 8 and 9 awards granted may be linked to the basis of an aggregate nominal value of up to These resolutions propose the reachievement of bonus targets or other 869,802 being approximately 5% of the appointment of  performance measures.
issued share capital currently in issue as at 16 LLP as the Companys auditors, and permit May 2007, which is the latest practicable Whilst there is no current intention to grant the Directors to fix their remuneration.
date prior to the publication of the notice of awards to executives which are not subject to 6.
Approval of Share Plan resolution 10 meeting.
There are no present plans to three year performance conditions on vesting, or The Remuneration Committee has issue shares, except as required to satisfy the which have a vesting period which is shorter undertaken a comprehensive review of the exercise of options or warrants under the than three years, the Remuneration Committee Companys policy for long-term incentive Companys employee share incentive considers that it is important to include the arrangements.
The main conclusion of the schemes.
flexibility to grant such awards under the PSP, Luminar plc 101 Explanation of Resolutions Annual Report 2007 8.
Authority to purchase own shares resolution your admission.
Please keep it until the end of In order for a proxy appointment or instruction 13 the meeting.
The meeting will commence at made using the CREST service to be valid, the This special resolution would authorise the 1.00pm and refreshments will be available from appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Company to acquire its own shares subject 12.00 noon.
Instruction must be properly authenticated in to the constraints set out in the resolution.
accordance with CRESTCo Limiteds You may also find it helpful to bring your Annual The resolution limits the number of shares specifications and must contain the information Report with you so that you can refer to it at the that may be purchased to 10% of the required for such instructions, as described in the meeting.
Companys issued share capital as at 16 May CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of If you do not wish, or are unable, to attend, you 2007, which is the latest practicable date whether it constitutes the appointment of a may appoint either the Chairman of the meeting prior to the publication of the notice of proxy or an amendment to the instruction given or someone else of your choice to act on your meeting.
The Directors would exercise this to a previously appointed proxy must, in order behalf and to vote in the event of a poll.
That power only if satisfied that it was in the to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received person is known as a proxy.
You can use the interests of the shareholders as a whole to by the Companys agent ID 7RA01 by the enclosed form of proxy to appoint a proxy.
do so and that it was likely to result in an latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments increase in earnings per share.
Any shares set out in paragraph 9 of this section above i. e. A proxy need not be a shareholder and may purchased in accordance with this authority latest time to deliver proxy.
For this purpose, attend and vote on a poll on behalf of the will subsequently be cancelled.
The effect of the time of receipt will be taken to be the time shareholder who appointed him or her.
any cancellation would be to reduce the as determined by the timestamp applied to the At the meeting, the proxy can act for the number of shares in issue.
message by the CREST Applications Host from member he or she represents.
This includes the which the Companys agent is able to retrieve As at 16 May 2007, which is the latest right to join in or demand a poll, but it does not the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner practicable date prior to the publication of include the right to vote on a show of hands.
After this time any change the notice of meeting, exercisable options The proxy is valid for any adjournment of the of instructions to proxies appointed through and warrants were outstanding to subscribe meeting.
CREST should be communicated to the for a total number of 5,698,882 ordinary appointee through other means.
Please tick the appropriate box alongside each shares, or 8.19% of the Companys issued resolution to indicate whether you wish your share capital.
If this authority to purchase CREST members and, where applicable, their votes to be cast for or against that resolution shares were used in full, the exercisable CREST sponsors or voting service providers or if you wish to withhold your vote on that options and warrants would represent 9.10% should note that CRESTCo Limited does not resolution.
Unless you give specific instructions of the adjusted, reduced issued share capital.
make available special procedures in CREST for on how you wish to vote on a particular any particular messages.
Normal system timings ACTION TO BE TAKEN resolution, your proxy will be able, at his or her and limitations will therefore apply in relation to Whether or not you intend to attend the Annual discretion, to vote for or against that resolution the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the General Meeting, you are requested to complete or to abstain from voting.
responsibility of the CREST member concerned the enclosed form of proxy and return it to the to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST Before posting the form of proxy to the Companys Registrars, Lloyds TSB Registrars, The personal member or sponsored member or has Registrars, please check that you have signed it.
Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZR appointed any voting service provider s, to In the case of joint holders, either of you may as soon as possible and in any event so as to be procure that his CREST sponsor or voting sign it.
received no later than 48 hours before the time service provider s take s such action as is appointed for the Annual General Meeting.
The To be effective the form of proxy must be necessary to ensure that a message is completion and submission of a form of proxy received by the Companys Registrars, together transmitted by means of the CREST system by will not prevent you from attending and voting in with the power of attorney or other authority if any particular time.
In this connection, CREST person if you so wish.
any under which it is signed, or a notarially members and, where applicable, their CREST certified copy of such authority, at the address RECOMMENDATION sponsors or voting service providers are referred, shown above by no later than 1.00pm on 18 July Your Board believes that the proposed in particular, to those sections of the CREST 2007.
Any form of proxy received after this time resolutions to be put to the meeting are in the Manual concerning practical limitations of the will be declared void.
best interests of shareholders as a whole and, CREST system and timings.
accordingly, recommends that shareholders vote CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy The Company may treat as invalid a CREST in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in intend to do in respect of their own beneficial appointment service may do so for the Annual Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated shareholdings in the Company.
General Meeting and any adjournment s of the Securities Regulations 2001. meeting by using the procedures described in ATTENDANCE AND VOTING the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members As a shareholder of Luminar plc, you have the or other CREST sponsored members and those right to attend and vote at the Annual General CREST members who have appointed any Meeting.
voting service provider s should refer to their Please bring with you the accompanying form of CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, proxy admission card.
It will authenticate your who will be able to take the appropriate action right to attend, speak and vote and will speed up on their behalf.
