98 Notice of Annual General Meeting Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Notice of Annual General Meeting Notice is hereby given that the eleventh Annual shares made available under such further expedient to deal with fractional General Meeting of Luminar plc will be held at plans are treated as counting against the entitlements, legal or practical problems the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna LLP, limits on individual or overall arising in any overseas territory, the 160 Aldersgate Street, London, EC1A 4DD on participation in the PSP.
requirements of any regulatory body or Friday 20 July 2007 at 1.00pm for the transaction stock exchange or any other matter 11.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the of the following business: whatsoever: and following resolution as an ordinary ORDINARY BUSINESS resolution: b to the allotment otherwise than 1.
To receive the audited accounts for the year pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of THAT the Directors be and are hereby ended 1 March 2007 together with the equity securities up to an aggregate generally and unconditionally authorised to reports of the Directors and the Auditors nominal value of 869,802: exercise all the powers of the Company to thereon.
allot relevant securities within the meaning and shall expire on the earlier of the 2.
To approve the Directors Remuneration of section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 conclusion of the next Annual General Report.
up to an aggregate nominal amount of Meeting of the Company to be held after 5,740,691 and that this authority shall the passing of this resolution and the date 3.
To declare a final dividend of 12.32p per expire on the earlier of the conclusion of the falling fifteen months after the passing of this ordinary share.
next Annual General Meeting of the resolution unless previously renewed, varied 4.
To re-elect Alan Jackson as a Director.
Company to be held after the passing of this or revoked by the Company save that the resolution and the date falling 15 months Company may before such expiry make an 5.
To re-elect Debbie Hewitt as a Director.
after the passing of this resolution unless offer or arrangement which would or might 6.
To re-elect John Jackson as a Director.
previously renewed, varied or revoked by require equity securities to be allotted after the Company, save that the Company may such expiry and the Directors may allot 7.
To re-elect Richard Brooke as a Director.
before such expiry make an offer or equity securities pursuant to such offer or 8.
To re-appoint  LLP agreement which would or might require arrangement as if the power conferred as auditors of the Company to hold office relevant securities to be allotted after such hereby had not expired.
until the conclusion of the next general expiry and the Directors may allot relevant 13.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the meeting at which financial statements are laid securities in pursuance of such offer or following resolution as a special resolution: before the Company.
agreement as if the authority conferred THAT the Company be and is hereby hereby had not expired.
To authorise the Directors to agree the generally and unconditionally authorised for auditors remuneration.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the the purposes of section 166 of the following resolution as a special resolution: SPECIAL BUSINESS Companies Act 1985 to make one or more 10.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the THAT, subject to the passing of resolution market purchases within the meaning of following resolution as an ordinary 11 above, the Directors be and are hereby section 163 3 of that Act of its own resolution: empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the ordinary shares on such terms and in such Companies Act 1985 to allot equity manner as the Directors shall determine, THAT the rules of the Luminar 2007 securities within the meaning of Section 94 provided that: Performance Share Plan the PSP, of that Act for cash pursuant to the produced in draft to this meeting and, for a the maximum aggregate number of authority conferred by resolution 11 as if the purposes of identification, initialled by ordinary shares hereby authorised to be sub-section 89 1 of that Act did not apply the Chairman, be and are hereby approved purchased is 6,958,413: to any such allotment, provided that this and the Directors be authorised to: b the maximum price excluding expenses power shall be limited: a make such modifications to the PSP as which may be paid for each ordinary a to the allotment of equity securities in they may consider appropriate to take share is an amount equal to the higher connection with an issue in favour of account of the requirements of best of i 105% of the average of the closing ordinary shareholders on a fixed record practice and for the implementation of mid-market prices for the ordinary date whether by way of a rights issue, the PSP and to adopt the PSP as so shares of the Company derived from open offer or otherwise where the modified and to do all such other acts the London Stock Exchange Daily equity securities attributable to such and things as they may consider Official List for the five business days ordinary shareholders are proportionate appropriate to implement the PSP: and immediately preceding the date of as nearly as may be to the respective purchase and ii the price stipulated by b establish further plans based on the PSP number of ordinary shares held by them Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and but modified to take account of local tax, on such record date, but subject to such Stabilisation Regulation: exchange control or securities laws in exclusions or other arrangements as the overseas territories, provided that any Directors may deem necessary or Luminar plc 99 Notice of Annual General Meeting Annual Report 2007 c the minimum price per ordinary share NOTES excluding expenses is the nominal 1.
For the purpose of determining entitlement value thereof: and to attend and vote at the meeting, the name of the member must be entered on the d unless previously renewed, varied or register of members at 6.00pm on or before revoked the authority hereby given shall 18 July 2007.
If you have recently sold or expire on the earlier of the conclusion of transferred all of your shares in the the next Annual General Meeting of the Company please send this notice and the Company to be held after the passing of accompanying proxy form to the broker this resolution and the date falling 12 who sold your shares for you.
The broker months after the passing of this can then send them to the new owner of resolution, save that the Company may the shares.
make any purchase of ordinary shares after the expiry of such authority in 2.
The following documents are available for execution of a contract of purchase that inspection during normal business hours was made under and before the expiry Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays of such authority.
excepted at the Companys registered office and at the offices of CMS Cameron McKenna LLP at 160 Aldersgate Street, By Order of the Board London EC1A 4DD from the date of this notice until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting: Tim OGorman a Copies of all Directors service contracts Company Secretary for periods in excess of one year with 16 May 2007 the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
b The Companys Memorandum and Luminar House Articles of Association.
Deltic Avenue Milton Keynes c A copy of the draft rules of the Luminar Buckinghamshire 2007 Performance Share Plan.
