Luminar plc 47 Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2007 Principal Accounting Policies for the Consolidated Financial Statements For the year ended 1 March 2007 The principal accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied The Group classifies items of income and expenses as exceptional items, to all years presented, unless otherwise stated.
where the nature of the item, or its size, is likely to be material so as to assist the user of the financial statements to better understand the results BASIS OF PREPARATION of the operations of the Group.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION European Union and International Financial Reporting Interpretations The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements Committee IFRIC and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 of the Group and entities controlled by the Group.
applicable to companies reporting under IFRSs.
The Group has complied Control is achieved where the Group has the power to govern the financial with those IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations where the implementation date is and operating policies of an investee entity so as to obtain benefits from its relevant to the financial year ended 1 March 2007 but has not early activities.
Control is normally evidenced when the Group either directly or adopted other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations.
indirectly owns more than 50% of the voting rights or potential voting rights The financial statements of the Company as an entity continue to be of a Groups share capital.
prepared under United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles BUSINESS COMBINATIONS and are presented separately from these consolidated financial statements Under the requirements of IFRS 3, Business combinations, all business refer to pages 85 to 97 within this Annual Report.
combinations are accounted for using the purchase method acquisition The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis accounting.
The cost of a business combination is the aggregate of the fair except for non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale measured at values, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or their fair value less costs to sell.
assumed, equity instruments issued by the acquirer and any costs directly attributable to the business combination.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of estimates and On acquisition of a subsidiary, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the of a subsidiary are measured at their fair value at that date.
Any excess of date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and the cost of acquisition over the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised expenses during the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based as goodwill.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values on managements best knowledge of the amount, event or actions, actual of the identifiable net assets acquired i. e. discount on acquisition is results may ultimately differ from those estimates.
credited to the Consolidated Income Statement in the period of acquisition.
IMPACT OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The Group has considered all new accounting standards which have been The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are published at 1 March 2007 but are not yet effective.
The current included in the Consolidated Income Statement from the effective date of assessment of these standards is that they will not have a significant impact acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal.
All intra-group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated ALTERNATIVE PRESENTATION WITHIN THE CONSOLIDATED on consolidation.
INCOME STATEMENT NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE The Group has presented separately, on the face of the Consolidated Non-current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their Income Statement on page 43, the profit from trading operations and costs carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction associated with the closure of properties.
This presentation has been rather than continuing use.
This condition is regarded as met only when a adopted to more clearly distinguish the profit from ongoing operations of sale is highly probable and the asset or disposal group is available for the Group i. e. Profit from trading operations from those items immediate sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to presented within continuing operations i. e. Exceptional items relating to the sale, which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a the closure of properties that relate to closed operations.
completed sale within one year from the date of classification.
Disposal These exceptional costs relating to the closure of properties have arisen groups are groups of assets, and liabilities directly associated with those following the Groups exit from Non-Core operations and the relocation of assets, that are to be disposed of together as a group in a single transaction.
These items have been presented within continuing Non-current assets and disposal groups classified as held for sale are operations as they do not meet the criteria to be held for sale, as they initially measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to were not actively marketed prior to the balance sheet date, and therefore sell.
At subsequent reporting dates non-current assets and disposal groups cannot be presented as discontinued operations, in accordance with IFRS 5, are re-measured to the latest estimate of fair value less costs to sell.
As a Non-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations.
result of this re-measurement any impairment is recognised as a charge in the Consolidated Income Statement.
Any increase in fair value is credited The presentation of Profit from trading operations separately on the face to the Consolidated Income Statement to the extent of previous of the Consolidated Income Statement is relevant to explain the financial impairment charges.
performance of the ongoing Group.
Additional information on the performance of the Group is included in the notes to the financial statements.
48 Consolidated Financial Statements Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Principal Accounting Policies for the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 1 March 2007 DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS The Groups financial liabilities are classified as either current liabilities Discontinued operations represent cash generating units or groups of cash or non-current liabilities.
These are non-derivative financial liabilities generating units, that have either been disposed of or classified as held for with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active sale, and represent a separate major line of business or are part of a single market.
They arise when the Group receives goods or services directly co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business.
Cash from a creditor or supplier, or borrows money, with no intention of generating units forming part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a trading the liability.
This category includes: separate major line of business are classified within continuing operations trade and other payables these are typically non-interest bearing and until they meet the criteria to be held for sale.
following initial recognition are included in the balance sheet at The post-tax profit or loss of the discontinued operation is classified as a amortised cost.
single line on the face of the Consolidated Income Statement, together bank loans these are initially recorded at fair value based on with any post-tax gain or loss recognised on the re-measurement to fair proceeds received, net of issue costs.
Finance charges are accounted value less costs to sell or on the disposal of the assets or disposal group for on an accruals basis and charged to the Consolidated Income constituting the discontinued operation.
Statement using the effective interest rate method.
On changes to the composition of groups of units comprising discontinued Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting measurement basis operations, the presentation of discontinued operations within prior The Groups activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in interest periods is restated to reflect consistent classification of discontinued rates, and the Group uses interest rate swaps to manage these exposures.
operations across all periods presented.
The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by the Groups FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide written The Group has applied IAS 32, Financial instruments: Disclosure and principles on the use of derivative financial instruments.
presentation, and IAS 39, Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement.
The Group does not qualify for hedge accounting for its interest rate swaps Financial assets and liabilities measurement basis under IAS 39.
These swaps are therefore classified as financial assets or Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the date on which the liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
They are initially recognised at Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument fair value, with fair value being re-measured at each reporting date.
The fair giving rise to the asset or liability.
Financial assets and liabilities are initially value of the interest rate swaps is based on the market price of comparable recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Any impairment of a financial instruments at the balance sheet date.
Realised and unrealised gains and asset is charged to the Consolidated Income Statement when incurred.
losses arising from changes in fair value are included in the Consolidated Financial assets are derecognised when the Groups rights to cash inflows Income Statement within finance costs.
Where the fair value at a point in from the asset expire: financial liabilities are derecognised when the time gives rise to an asset liability the fair value is classified on the balance contractual obligations are discharged, cancelled or expire.
sheet within current financial assets liabilities.
Financial assets are classified according to the purpose for which the asset was acquired.
The Groups financial assets are classified as either: trade and other receivables these are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They arise when the Group provides goods or services directly to a debtor, or advances money, with no intention of trading the loan or receivable.
Subsequent to initial recognition loans and receivables are included in the balance sheet at amortised cost using the effective interest method less any amounts written off to reflect impairment, with changes in carrying amount recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
cash and cash equivalents these comprise deposits with an original maturity of three months or less with banks and financial institutions, bank balances, and cash on hand.
Luminar plc 49 Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2007 The Group has no embedded derivatives that are not closely related to the OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS host instrument.
Acquired trademarks are included at purchase cost and amortised over their finite useful economic lives on a straight-line basis.
Financial instruments other disclosures The Groups debt financing exposes it to a variety of financial risks that Intangibles acquired separately and through business combinations, i. e. include the effects of changes in the following: licences and other intangible assets, where material, are included at cost or fair value respectively and amortised over their useful economic lives, being Interest rate risk the shorter of the term of the lease to which they are attached or the Interest rate risk is managed through swapping floating rate debt into fixed licence.
Acquired software assets not integral to the operation of the related Currency risk hardware are included at cost and amortised over their estimated finite The Group operates predominantly within the United Kingdom and useful economic lives three years on a straight-line basis.
substantially all transactions are denominated in sterling: therefore the Group does not suffer from a significant concentration of currency risk.
The Group does not carry out research and development activities that may lead to the recognition of internally generated intangible assets.
The Credit risk Groups internally generated brands represent commercially valuable The Group does not have a significant concentration of credit risk.
The intangibles but are not eligible for recognition as assets under IAS 38, Groups revenues are predominantly cash based, with receivables principally Intangible Assets.
recognised on sales of property assets and on income received from sub-lets.
A vendor loan note of 19.3m with The 3D Entertainment Group REVENUE RECOGNITION Limited is receivable on the earlier of a subsequent sale of the business, Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or refinancing or 2013.
At the year end, the recoverability of the loan note is receivable and represents amounts recoverable by the Group for goods not perceived to be a high credit risk.
and services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts, VAT and other sales related taxes.
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is managed through an assessment of short, medium and longa Sale of goods term cash flow forecasts to ensure the adequacy of committed debt Sales of goods are recognised when goods are provided and the title has facilities.
passed, at the point of cash receipt.
Price risk b Admission revenue The Group is not exposed to equity security price risk or commodity Admission revenue is recognised when the service is provided.
c Sub-lease rental income In addition to the financial instruments described in the measurement basis Sub-lease rental income is recognised on a straight-line basis over the life of sections above, the Group also has the following financial instruments for the related sub-lease agreement.
which additional disclosures are included in the notes to the financial d Commission income statements: Commission income is recognised on an accruals basis in accordance with cash and cash equivalents the substance of the relevant agreement.
trade and other receivables loan note INTEREST INCOME finance lease obligations Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal provisions outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate accruals that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected PROVISIONS life of the financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Provisions for onerous lease commitments, public liability insurance claims EQUITY DIVIDENDS and other provisions are recognised when: the Group has a present legal or Final dividends are recognised in the Groups financial statements in the constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is more likely than not period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders.
Interim equity that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
obligation: and the amount can be measured reliably.
DIVIDEND INCOME GOODWILL Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair rights to receive payment have been established.
value of the Groups share of the net identifiable assets and liabilities of the PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT acquired business at the date of acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an All classes of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost, net of asset and is reviewed for impairment at least annually, with goodwill depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Cost includes other allocated to cash generating units for the purpose of impairment testing at attributable costs, e. g. professional fees, and, for qualifying assets, borrowing the level of reportable segments.
Any impairment is recognised immediately costs capitalised.
Depreciation is not charged during the period of in the Consolidated Income Statement and is not subsequently reversed.
construction, and commences when the assets are ready for their On the disposal of a subsidiary or cash generating unit, the attributable intended use.
amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit and loss on disposal.
50 Consolidated Financial Statements Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Principal Accounting Policies for the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the year ended 1 March 2007 Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost or valuation, less the Where taxation computations submitted to the taxation authorities are yet estimated residual value of all assets, other than land, by equal annual to be agreed, the Groups estimate of tax liabilities reflects the uncertainty instalments over their estimated useful lives.
as to the amount of tax that may ultimately be payable.
The periods generally applicable are: Deferred tax is the tax accounted for in respect of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial I Freehold and long leasehold buildings and related structural fixtures and statements, and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of fittings 50 years taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
I Short leasehold buildings and related structural fixtures and fittings Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences over the period of the lease and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary I Other fixtures and fittings, furniture and equipment between two differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if years and ten years the temporary difference arises from the recognition of goodwill or the I Motor vehicles three years initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their expected useful accounting profit.
lives on the same basis as owned assets, or, where shorter, the term of the relevant lease.
IAS 12, Income taxes, requires that the measurement of deferred tax should have regard to the tax consequences that would follow from the The assets residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed, and manner of expected recovery or settlement, at the balance sheet date, of adjusted if appropriate, at each balance sheet date.
the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.
In calculating its deferred tax An assessment is made at each reporting date if there is any indication that liability, the Groups policy is to regard the depreciable amount of the an asset may be impaired.
If any indications are deemed to exist, the carrying value of its property, plant and equipment to be recovered through relevant assets are tested for impairment.
Any impairment is determined as continuing use in the business, unless included within assets held for sale the difference between the higher of value in use, calculated by discounting where the policy is to regard the carrying amount as being recoverable an estimate of future cash flows by the Groups pre-tax weighted average through sale.
cost of capital, and fair value less costs to sell, compared to the carrying Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the value of the relevant asset.
Fair value less costs to sell is estimated by period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is qualified surveyors and valuers and by applying the knowledge and charged or credited to the Consolidated Income Statement, except when it experience of management, together with external market indicators.
If the relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the recoverable amount is less than the carrying value of the asset then the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
carrying value is reduced to recoverable amount, and the resulting impairment charge is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
LEASING Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATES transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee.
All An associate is an entity over which the Group exercises, or is in a position other leases are classified as operating leases.
to exercise, significant influence, but not control or joint control, through participation in the financial or operating policy of the investee.
Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets of the Group at their fair value or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease Where material, the results and assets and liabilities of associates are payments, each determined at the inception of the lease.
The incorporated in the financial statements using the equity method of corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the balance sheet as a accounting, except when these associates are classified as held for sale.
Lease payments are apportioned between finance Investments in associates are carried in the balance sheet at cost adjusted charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant by any material post-acquisition changes in the net assets of the associates, rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.
Finance charges are less any impairment of value in the individual investments.
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement within finance costs, INVENTORIES unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
calculated using the first in, first out method.
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to income on a straightTAXATION line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to enter into an operating deferred tax.
lease are included within deferred income and recognised in the The tax currently payable is based on the taxable profit for the year.
Consolidated Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the Premiums paid on entering into the lease of certain leasehold land and Consolidated Income Statement because it excludes items of income or buildings are classified as other non-current assets and amortised to the expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further Consolidated Income Statement over the life of the relevant lease.
excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability Leased assets that are sub-let to third parties are classified according to for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or their substance as either finance or operating leases.
All such arrangements substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
the Group has entered into as lessor are operating leases.
Income received Luminar plc 51 Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2007 as lessor is recognised on a straight-line basis over the lease term and is the relevant tax authority.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is classified in the Consolidated Income Statement as revenue.
different from the amounts which were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period to Leases that are entered into following the sale of assets by the Group i. e. which such determination is made.
sale and leaseback transactions are classified according to the risk and rewards of the lease.
All such arrangements entered into by the Group are Deferred tax operating leases.
Where the proceeds on sale of the asset exceed the The Group has made provision for deferred tax arising following the assets fair value, and the asset is leased back as an operating lease, any requirements of IAS 12, Income taxes, using estimates based on the current surplus over the fair value is treated as deferred income and recognised in manner of recovery of the assets value of property, plant and equipment the Consolidated Income Statement over the term of the lease on a not eligible for capital allowances, i. e. recovery of the depreciable amount straight-line basis.
through continued use in the business unless the assets are held for sale.
This method assumes that no tax relief will be available until the value of SEGMENTAL REPORTING the asset is recovered through sale rather than continued use.
A business segment is a group of assets and operations engaged in providing products or services that are subject to risks and returns that are Upon any change to the manner of recovery of the assets value, the change different from those of other business segments.
A geographical segment is to the level of deferred tax provided will be recognised through the income a distinguishable component of an entity that provides products or services statement during the period in which the change in the method of recovery within a particular economic environment and that is subject to risks and occurs.
Any changes to the expected manner of recovery could result in a returns that are different from those of components operating in other significant change to the deferred tax charge or credit to the income economic environments.
Business segments have been designated as the primary segment as these Impairment of property, plant and equipment and goodwill segments reflect the dominant source and nature of the Groups returns The Group has tested property, plant and equipment and goodwill for and is consistent with the internal reporting structure of the Group.
The impairment following the requirements of IAS 36, Impairment of assets.
Group has only one geographic segment, being the UK, as no regions of the These impairment tests are dependent on estimates of value-in-use and fair UK expose the Group to differentiated risks and returns.
value less costs of sale to determine the recoverable amounts of cash generating units.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Retirement benefit costs Fair value less costs of sale is determined using external and internal Payments made to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are estimates of the value of the Groups units.
Value in use is calculated using charged as an expense when they fall due.
The Group has no defined estimated earnings and cash flows derived by internal management benefit or other retirement benefit schemes.
estimates, and a discount applied to these cash flows.
Share-based compensation Any changes to the level of forecast earnings or cash flows could impact The Group has applied the requirements of IFRS 2, Share-based payment.
In upon the value in use of these cash generating units.
Management have accordance with the transitional provisions, IFRS 2 has been applied to all performed the annual impairment review of goodwill as required by IAS 36. grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that were unvested as No impairment was required in either the dancing segment or the nonof 1 January 2005. core segment based on the value in use calculation, reflecting the strong performance of the dancing segment and the 5 former entertainment units.
The Group issues some equity instruments where the counter-party has A net impairment charge of 6.3m has been made against property, plant the choice of either cash or equity settlement, and some equity instruments and equipment and 0.6m against other non-current assets.
where the settlement can only be in equity.
Onerous lease provisions Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date The Group provides for its onerous obligations under operating leases of grant.
The fair value determined at grant date is expensed on a straightwhere the property is closed or vacant, and the Group believes that it is line basis over the vesting period, based on the Groups estimate of the more likely than not that the property will not be redeveloped for use in shares that will actually vest, with a corresponding credit entry directly to the Groups business.
Provision is made for rent and other property related equity reserves.
Fair value is measured by means of a binomial model.
costs for the period management believe a sub-let or assignment of the A liability is recognised at current fair value at each balance sheet date for lease is not possible, for periods between two and eight years.
cash settled share-based payments, with changes in the fair value Where the Group believes the lease is likely to be assigned, provision is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement.
made for the Groups best estimate of the reverse lease premium payable, CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES if this represents the least cost to the Group from exiting from the AND ESTIMATES obligation.
Income taxes The estimated timings and amounts of cash flows are determined using the Significant judgement is required in determining the provision for income experience of internal and external property experts, however any changes taxes.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate to the estimated method of exiting from the property could lead to tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course of business.
The significant changes to the level of the provision recorded.
Group recognises the liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due.
In addition any reduction in the corporation tax liability as a result of business activities undertaken in a tax efficient manner is fully provided for until agreement is reached with
