86 Company Financial Statements Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Principal Accounting Policies for the Company Financial Statements For the year ended 1 March 2007 BASIS OF PREPARATION FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS These financial statements present financial information for Luminar plc as a The Company has applied FRS 25, Financial instruments: Disclosure and separate entity, and are prepared in accordance with the historical cost presentation, and FRS 26, Financial instruments: Measurement.
convention, the Companies Act 1985 and United Kingdom Accounting Financial assets and liabilities measurement basis Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Companys Financial assets and liabilities are recognised on the date on which the Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European giving rise to the asset or liability.
Financial assets and liabilities are initially Union, are separately presented.
The principal accounting policies adopted recognised at fair value plus transaction costs.
Any impairment of a financial in these Company financial statements are set out below and, unless asset is charged to the income statement when incurred.
Financial assets otherwise indicated, have been consistently applied for all periods are derecognised when the Companys rights to cash inflows from the asset presented.
expire: financial liabilities are derecognised when the contractual obligations In accordance with FRS 18, Accounting principles, the Directors have are discharged, cancelled or expire.
reviewed the accounting policies of the Company as set out below and Financial assets are classified according to the purpose for which the asset consider them to be appropriate.
The Companys financial assets are classified: CASH FLOW STATEMENT AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS I debtors these are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing a cash determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
They flow statement under FRS 1 Revised 1996, Cash flow statements.
The arise when the Company provides goods or services directly to a debtor, Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8, Related party disclosures, or advances money, with no intention of trading the loan or receivable.
from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the Subsequent to initial recognition loans and receivables are included in the Luminar plc Group.
balance sheet at amortised cost using the effective interest method less IMPACT OF NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS any amounts written off to reflect impairment, with changes in carrying The Company has considered all new accounting standards which have amount recognised in the income statement.
been published at 1 March 2007 but are not yet effective.
The current The Companys financial liabilities are classified as either Creditors: assessment of these standards is that they will not have a significant impact amounts falling due within one year or Creditors: amounts falling due on the Company.
These are non-derivative financial liabilities with TURNOVER fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market.
Turnover is the total amount receivable by the Company for management They arise when the Company receives goods or services directly from a and other services provided to other group companies, excluding VAT, and creditor or supplier, or borrows money, with no intention of trading the is recognised on performance of these services.
This category includes: INVESTMENTS I trade creditors these are typically non-interest bearing and following Investments in subsidiary undertakings and associates are stated at cost less initial recognition are included in the balance sheet at amortised cost.
amounts written off for impairment.
Amounts advanced to subsidiary I bank loans these are initially recorded at fair value based on proceeds undertakings with no intention of being repaid in the foreseeable future are received, net of issue costs.
Finance charges are accounted for on an classified as investments.
accruals basis and charged to the income statement using the effective BASIS OF IMPAIRMENT interest rate method.
On an annual basis the Company performs a review of its investments to Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting measurement basis determine whether there have been any impairment trigger events.
If such The Companys activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in a trigger event is noted then the recoverable amount of the asset, or where interest rates, and the Company uses interest rate swaps to manage these appropriate group of assets, in cash generating units that comprise the exposures.
The use of derivative financial instruments is governed by the investment is estimated and compared to the carrying amount of the asset.
Companys policies approved by the Board of Directors, which provide Recoverable amount is the higher of the value in use to the Company of written principles on the use of derivative financial instruments.
the asset and the net realisable value from disposal of the asset.
Value in use is estimated by calculating the net present value of the estimated future The Company does not qualify for hedge accounting for its interest rate cash flows relating to the cash generating units that comprise the swaps under FRS 26.
These swaps are therefore classified as financial investment after applying a discount factor.
Net realisable value is estimated assets or liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
They are initially by applying the knowledge and experience of management, together with recognised at fair value, with fair value being remeasured each reporting external market indicators.
If the recoverable amount is below the carrying date.
The fair value of the interest rate swaps is based on the market price value of the asset then the carrying value of the asset is reduced to of comparable instruments at the balance sheet date.
Realised and recoverable amount, and the resulting charge is taken to the profit and loss unrealised gains and losses arising from changes in fair value are included in account.
Where the fair value at a point in time gives rise to an asset liability the fair value is classified on the balance sheet within RETIREMENT BENEFIT COSTS current financial assets liabilities.
Payments made to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense when they fall due.
The Company has no other The Company has no embedded derivatives that are not closely related to retirement benefit schemes.
Luminar plc 87 Company Financial Statements Annual Report 2007 Financial instruments other disclosures A liability equal to the portion of the goods or services received is The Companys debt financing and other activities expose it to a variety of recognised at the current fair value at each balance sheet date for cash financial risks that include the effects of changes in the following: settled share-based payments.
Interest rate risk ISSUE COSTS Interest rate risk on debt financing is managed through swapping floating Costs directly related with establishing loan finance are offset against the rate debt into fixed rate debt.
Such costs are amortised over the period of the loan with the resulting charge being recognised in interest expense.
Currency risk The Company operates predominantly within the United Kingdom and TAXATION substantially all transactions are denominated in sterling: therefore, the UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or Company does not suffer from a significant concentration of currency risk.
recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the balance sheet date.
Credit risk The Company does not have a significant concentration of credit risk.
All Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have receivables arise from transactions in the ordinary course of business with originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date, where transactions trading subsidiaries.
or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future, or a right to pay less tax in the future, have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Liquidity risk Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits Liquidity risk is managed through an assessment of short, medium and longand its results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the term cash flow forecasts to ensure the adequacy of committed debt inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from facilities.
those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
Price risk A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore The Company is not exposed to equity security price risk or commodity recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be price risk.
regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS deducted.
The Company has applied the requirements of FRS 20, Share-based payment.
In accordance with the transitional provisions, FRS 20 has been Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates and laws that are applied to all grants of equity instruments after 7 November 2002 that expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are were unvested as of 1 January 2005. expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax assets and Where equity instruments are granted to employees of subsidiary liabilities recognised have not been discounted.
undertakings for the services provided by the employees to those companies, the fair value at the grant date of the equity instrument EQUITY DIVIDENDS represents an additional investment in the subsidiary undertaking by the Final dividends are recognised in the Companys financial statements in the parent.
period in which the dividends are approved by shareholders.
Interim equity dividends are recognised in the period they are paid.
The Company issues some equity instruments where the counter-party has choice of either cash or equity settlement, and some equity instruments DIVIDEND INCOME where the settlement can only be in equity.
Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholders rights to receive payment have been established.
Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at grant date is expensed on a straightline basis over the vesting period, based on the Companys estimate of the shares that will actually vest.
Fair value is measured by means of a binomial model.
