Governance Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors have elected to prepare the parent Annual Report and the financial statements in company financial statements in accordance accordance with applicable law and regulations.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Company law requires the directors to Accounting Practice United Kingdom prepare financial statements for each financial Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The directors are required by the IAS The parent company financial statements are Regulation to prepare the Group financial required by law to give a true and fair view of statements under International Financial the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by these financial statements, the directors are the European Union.
The Group financial required to: statements are also required by law to be select suitable accounting policies and then properly prepared in accordance with the apply them consistently: Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the make judgements and estimates that are IAS Regulation.
reasonable and prudent: and International Accounting Standard 1 state whether applicable UK Accounting requires that IFRS financial statements present Standards have been followed, subject to any fairly for each financial year the Companys material departures disclosed and explained financial position, financial performance and in the financial statements.
This requires the faithful The directors are responsible for keeping proper representation of the effects of transactions, accounting records that disclose with other events and conditions in accordance with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial the definitions and recognition criteria for position of the Company and enable them to assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out ensure that the parent company financial in the International Accounting Standards statements comply with the Companies Boards Framework for the preparation and Act 1985.
They are also responsible for presentation of financial statements.
In safeguarding the assets of the Company virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation and hence for taking reasonable steps for will be achieved by compliance with all the prevention and detection of fraud and applicable IFRS.
However, directors are also other irregularities.
required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
84 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
