Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information www.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 51 Auditors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE We read other information contained in the Annual report and MEMBERS OF MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans We have audited the group and parent company financial foreword, the Chief Executives business review, the Financial statements the financial statements of Marks and Spencer review, the Corporate governance statement, the unaudited part Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise of the Remuneration report, the Group financial record and the the consolidated and Company income statements, the Shareholder information.
We consider the implications for our consolidated and Company balance sheets, the consolidated report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or and Company cash flow statements, the consolidated material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our statement of recognised income and expense, the Company responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
statement of changes in shareholders equity and the related group and parent company notes.
These financial statements Basis of audit opinion have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International We have also audited the information in the Remuneration report Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing that is described as having been audited.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial statements and the part of the Remuneration report to The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual report, be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant the Remuneration report and the financial statements in estimates and judgments made by the directors in the accordance with applicable law and International Financial preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the disclosed.
part of the Remuneration report to be audited in accordance We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International information and explanations which we considered necessary Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
This report, including in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the companys assurance that the financial statements and the part of the members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Remuneration report to be audited are free from material Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by statements and the part of the Remuneration report to our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion: statements and the part of the Remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the the financial statements give a true and fair view, in Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to of the state of the Groups and the parent companys affairs you whether in our opinion the information given in the Group as at 31 March 2007 and of the Groups and the parent directors report is consistent with the financial statements.
companys profit and cash flows for the year then ended: In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has the financial statements and the part of the Remuneration not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all report to be audited have been properly prepared in the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards information specified by law regarding directors remuneration the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS and other transactions is not disclosed.
Regulation: and We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the information given in the Group directors report is the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the consistent with the financial statements.
Combined Code 2003 specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or  LLP form an opinion on the effectiveness of the groups corporate Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
