w ww ww w.. m ma ar rk ks sa an nd ds sp pe en nc ce er r.. c co om m a an nn nu ua allr re ep po or rt t2 20 00 07 7 98 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC FINANCIAL CALENDAR Record date to be eligible for the Shareholder information final dividend 1 June 2007 ORDINARY SHARES AGM Earls Court 2 As at 31 March 2007 there are 232,802 holders of ordinary shares whose shareholdings are analysed as below.
We also have a further 38,000 investors holding shares via our 10 July 2007 Corporate nominee.
By advising us of your requirements we again proved very popular.
The offer for 2007 08 is being are able to offer a range of services and tailor communication to extended to technology products and shopping online via meet your needs.
Informed choices, aligned to new technology our website.
Vouchers will be distributed with the January will reduce the amount of paper, print and postage we use.
dividend and be valid throughout February and March 2008.
Together, we can minimise waste and our impact on the environment.
For further information go to Dividends www.
co. uk Shareholders are able to choose how they receive their dividends direct to their bank account: Electronic shareholding paid in foreign currencies: Shareholders can hold shares electronically in our reinvested in M&S shares: or Corporate nominee account.
gives increased security for personal details: removes the need for a share certificate: and M&S preferred option provides share dealing at competitive rates.
The quickest and most efficient way to receive your dividends For further information please contact Lloyds TSB Registrars.
is to have them paid direct to your bank account.
This saves Company website waiting for funds to clear and reduces the paper and postage Visit www.
com thecompany to find out we use.
Those selecting this payment method receive a more about your Company.
You can catch up on the latest consolidated tax voucher at their registered address each news in the press release section, read the latest Annual report January.
However, we are able to send a tax voucher with and review, as well as watch recordings of past AGMs and each payment if preferred.
To change how you receive your our financial results presentations.
Our 2007 AGM is being dividends either log on to www.
co. uk or contact broadcast live on the internet and details of how you can view Lloyds TSB Registrars.
this are included in your Notice of Meeting.
We welcome feedback on the site.
Please email your comments to Electronic communication chairman@marks-and-spencer.
com Together with Lloyds TSB Registrars we are able to offer an easy to use, free and secure service allowing you to manage Shareholder security your shareholding online.
You can also elect to view your Shareholders are advised to be very wary of any unsolicited Annual report via our website.
Shareholders who choose this advice, offers to buy shares at a discount, or offers of free option receive the same information, only sooner.
Details of any share dealing facilities that the Company endorses will be included in Company mailings.
More detailed information can be found at www.
uk consumer Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information w ww ww w.. m ma ar rk ks sa an nd ds sp pe en nc ce er r.. c co om m a an nn nu ua allr re ep po or rt t2 20 00 07 7 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 99 SHAREHOLDER VOUCHERS Enjoy shopping at M&S stores and online with your annual shareholder vouchers.
DIVIDENDS Capital Gains Tax CGT Receive dividends direct to your bank account in For the purposes of CGT, the price of an ordinary share on 31 sterling or foreign currency, reinvest in more M&S March 1982 was 153.5p, which, when adjusted for the 1 for 1 shares or receive a cheque.
scrip issue in 1984, gives a figure of 76.75p.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Following the capital reorganisation in March 2002, the Inland Register your AGM vote, update your details and check Revenue has confirmed the base cost for CGT purposes was your holding online at www.
ELECTRONIC SHAREHOLDING Open an M&S Share Service account for more convenient Unsolicited mail dealing without a share certificate.
For further information The Company is obliged by law to make its share register please contact LloydsTSB registrars.
publicly available and, as a consequence, some shareholders may receive unsolicited mail.
If you wish to limit the amount of COMPANY WEBSITE unsolicited mail you receive, please contact: Keep updated on M&S news as it happens at www.
com The Mailing Preference Service MPS DMA House, 70 Margaret Street, London W1W 8SS CONTACT US Alternatively, register online at www.
uk Email us at chairman@marks-and-spencer.
com or call the MPS Registration line on 0845 703 4599.
Customer queries 0845 302 1234 Shareholder queries 0845 609 0810 The use of a nominee company can also help protect your 44 0 121 415 7071 outside the UK privacy.
You can transfer your shares into our Corporate nominee company by contacting Lloyds TSB Registrars.
Alternatively, contact your broker for information on their nominee services.
ShareGift Registered office and Head office Shareholders with a small number of shares, the value of which Waterside House, 35 North Wharf Road, London W2 1NW makes it uneconomical to sell, may wish to consider donating Telephone 44 0 20 7935 4422 them to charity.
Registered in England and Wales No.
4256886 ShareGift is a registered charity administered by The Orr Group Secretary and Head of Corporate Mackintosh Foundation.
Set up in 1996, they have donated Governance the proceeds of unwanted shareholdings to a wide range of Graham Oakley UK charities.
Registrars Find out more at www.
org or by telephoning Lloyds TSB Registrars, ShareGift on 020 7337 0501.
The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex BN99 6DA American Depositary Receipts ADRs Telephone 0845 609 0810 The Company has a level 1 ADR programme sponsored by and outside the UK 44 0 121 415 7071 JP Morgan Chase Bank NA to enable US investors to purchase Marks & Spencer American Depository Shares ADSs in US Feedback Dollars over the counter.
Each ADS represents six ordinary We want to know what you think of this document.
For further information, please contact www.
com  JP Morgan Chase Bank, and complete our online survey.
Box 43013, Providence, RI 02940-3013, USA Further information Email: adr@jpmorgan.
com For additional copies of the Annual report or Annual review Website: www.
com and summary financial statements go to Toll-free for callers within the US: 800 990 1135 www.
com thecompany For those calling outside the US: 1 781 575 4328 Alternatively, call 0800 591 697 Half year results Large print and audio files can be downloaded The half year results will be advertised in selected national from our website.
newspapers and be available on our website in November.
How we do business A copy of the How we do business report detailing our environmental and social performance is available online at www.
com  1 10 00 0 w ww ww w.. m ma ar rk ks sa an nd ds sp pe en nc ce er r.. c co om m a an nn nu ua allr re ep po or rt t2 20 00 07 7 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Glossary Better buying Gross margin Refers to the way we now buy our clothing at the right time, Sales less the cost of goods sold, as a percentage of sales.
in the right amount at the right price.
Market share Business Involvement Groups BIG The percentage of the market or market segment that is being Comprise some 3,500 people across M&S, elected to represent serviced by M&S.
For instance, if 100 t-shirts were sold a year their colleagues views when the Company is informing, in the UK and M&S sold 10 of them, it would have 10% consulting and involving staff on matters relating to work and market share.
M&S Direct Buying direct Our online, phone and catalogue services, including the Buying directly from a supplier.
Around 30% of the general flower, wine and food ordering business, as well as the merchandise we buy is sourced direct.
Buying in greater depth Open to buy Buying more of a particular product or range to meet demand.
Budget we set aside so that we can buy more of a popular product or buy into new trends during the season.
Core business Our main UK business - selling clothing, food and home Opening price point OPP products.
The starting price for our ranges.
For example, t-shirts at 5 or bras at 6.
Earnings per share EPS The profit for the year attributable to shareholders, divided by Our core values the average number of shares in issue.
The values which underpin our business: quality, value, service, innovation and trust.
Fast fashion Products available in the latest styles, only weeks after they Plan A have been on the catwalk.
Developed from sample to sales Our new 200m, five-year eco plan.
floor in only eight weeks.
Total shareholder return TSR Footfall The increase or decrease in value of 100 invested in Marks The number of people who visit our stores.
and Spencer Group plc on 30 March 2002 compared to 100 invested in the FTSE 100 over the same period.
Full service vendors FSVs A supplier who provides a full design, commercial, sourcing, Value manufacturing and shipping service of our products from At M&S, price and quality combined makes value.
source to our distribution centres in the UK.
Around 70% of what we buy is sourced through FSVs.
Volume The number of individual items we sell.
General merchandise Our clothing, footwear, home and beauty products i. e. all non-food.
This document is printed on Revive uncoated, a 100% recycled paper made from post-consumer collected waste.
Revive uncoated is manufactured to the certified environmental management system ISO 14001.
D fide es siig gn n:: Corporate Edge www.
com P Pr riin nt t:: Royle Corporate Print w ww ww w.. m ma ar rk ks sa an nd ds sp pe en nc ce er r.. c co om m a an nn nu ua allr re ep po or rt t2 20 00 07 7 1 10 01 1 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Index A Page F Page O Page Accounting policies 55 Financial liabilities 79 Occupancy costs 61 Audit Committee 36 Financial record 94 Online 25 Auditors remuneration 62 Financial review 28 Operating assets 60 Auditors report 51 Fixed charge cover 2, 96 Operating leases 57, 62, 86 Authorised share capital 84 Food 16, 60 Operating liabilities 60 Foreign exchange rates 89 Operating profit 2, 28, 52, 60, 90 B B shares 79, 85 G P Balance sheet 53, 90Gearing 96 Partnership liability 30, 81 Board 27 General merchandise 12, 60 Pensions 30, 55, 67 Bonus 26, 29, 45, 48 Geographic segments 60 Performance 2 Borrowing facilities 80 Glossary 100 Plan A 10 Brands 9, 56, 75 Going concern 34 Prepaid leasehold premiums 78 Goodwill 56, 75, 85 Principal risks and uncertainties 40 C Group directors report 31 Product 12 Capital commitments 86 Profitability 96 Capital expenditure 23, 30, 60, 96 H Property valuation 33 Cash flow statement 54, 91 Hedging reserve 85 Property, plant and equipment 76 Chairmans foreword 3 Home 13 Provisions 83 Charitable donations 33 Chief Executives business review 6 I R Clothing 12 Income statement 52, 90 Related party transactions 89, 93 Corporate governance statement 35 Intangible assets 75 Remuneration Committee 37, 44 Cost of sales 61 International Financial Remuneration report 44 Critical accounting estimates Reporting Standards 55 Reserves 85, 93 and judgements 59 International Retail 24, 28, 60 Retained earnings 85, 93 Customers 20 Inventories 53, 57 Return on equity 96 Investment property 77 Revenue 2, 6, 28, 52, 60 D Risk assessment 39 Deferred tax 55, 57, 63, 84 J Depreciation 56, 60, 76 Joint venture 77, 89 S Derivatives 58, 82 Segmental information 60 Diluted earnings per share 65 K Service 20 Directors emoluments 48, 66, 92 Key performance indicators 2 Share capital 84 Directors interests 47, 49 Key performance measures 96 Share issues 31, 84 Directors responsibilities 32 Share options 46, 49, 71 Discontinued operation 64 L Share-based payments 71 Dividend cover 96 Like-for-like sales growth 28, 29 Shareholders equity 85, 93 Dividend Shareholder information 98 per share 3, 29, 31, 66, 92, 96 M Simply Food 23 Major shareholders 32 Sourcing & Supply Chain 13, 17 E Margin gross and net 2, 7, 28, 96 Statement of recognised Earnings per share 2, 7, 29, 65, 96 Marketplace 8 income and expense 52 Environment 22 Marketshare 6 Stores 22, 24, 97 Employees 20, 66, 92 Merger reserve 93 Subsidiary undertakings 93 Exceptional items 29, 63 Minority interest 53 Executive team 4 Modernisation programme 22 T M&S Money 8, 29, 60 Taxation 57, 63, 84 F Total shareholder return 7, 50 Finance costs income 63, 92 N Trade and other payables 78 Finance Net debt 30, 54, 88, 96 Trade and other receivables 78 leases 57, 63, 76, 79, 80, 81, 88 Nomination Committee 37 Financial assets 78 Non-GAAP performance U Financial instruments 57, 81 measures 59 UK Retail 7, 28, 29, 60 Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2007 Annual report and financial statements www.
com 2007 Annual review and summary financial statements 2007 We are one of the UKs leading retailers, with over 15.8 million people visiting our stores each week.
We offer stylish, high quality, great value clothing and home products, and outstanding quality foods, all responsibly sourced from suppliers we trust.
We employ over 75,000 people and have 520 UK stores, as well as an expanding international business.
Clothing & Home Food International UK sales exc.
VAT 610.6m 16.8% We are the UKs largest clothing retailer Food accounts for 49.8% of our UK Our international business accounts for with a market share of 11.1% source: business and we have a market share 7.1% of Group turnover and has grown TNS Worldpanel and sales accounting of 4.3% source: TNS Worldpanel.
In to 219 franchise stores in 34 territories for 44.8% of our UK business.
In 2006 07, we launched a range of 120 worldwide as well as eight whollywomenswear we expanded our Nutritionally Balanced ready meals owned stores in Hong Kong and 13 in Autograph range and the fast fashion which are free from artificial colours, the Republic of Ireland.
During the year, choice in Limited Collection: in flavours and hydrogenated fats and we entered four new territories and menswear, Blue Harbour remains the follow government salt, fat and sugar opened 36 new stores including our UKs biggest mens casualwear brand: guidelines.
Eat Well accounts for largest ever franchise store in Dubai at we grew our lingerie market share to around 30% of food sales and some 52,000 sq ft.
In May 2007, we opened 26.1%, offering clearly defined brands: 1,300 products.
Simply Food grew from our first store in Taiwan under a joint and in childrenswear we reversed our 144 stores to 205 across the UK, venture with President Chain Store poor performance with stronger ranges.
including franchise stores in BP Corporation.
Home, representing 5.4% of our UK Connect forecourts, motorway service business, has had two years of strong stations, railway stations and airports.
growth helped by outstanding value and strong demand in furniture.
read more on pages 12-15 read more on pages 16-19 read more on page 24 WHATS INSIDE... 02 2007 performance 20 Service 32 Consolidated balance sheet 03 Chairmans foreword 20 Our customers 33 Consolidated cash flow 04 Executive team 20 Our people information 06 Chief Executives 22 Environment 34 Group financial record business review 24 International 34 Auditors statement 08 Our marketplace 25 Online 35 Summary reports 09 Our brand 26 Looking ahead 36 Summary remuneration report 10 Plan A 27 Your Board 42 Shareholder information 12 Product clothing and home 28 Financial review 44 UK store portfolio 16 Product food 31 Consolidated income statement 45 Glossary Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 1 Our plan Weve achieved a lot in the last three years.
We are now building on that progress through a relentless focus on our core business, while also laying the foundations for future growth.
Our aim is to become a more customer-focused, faster moving and flexible business, offering a wide choice of quality goods and services.
Everything we do has one key goal: building a sustainable business for the long term, generating shareholder value through consistent, profitable growth while making sure that our customers can always trust us to do the right thing.
We will do this by continuing to focus on Product, Service and Environment: offering great products, in great looking stores with great customer service.
In addition, we have begun to pursue new routes to growth through the acquisition of new space: new food formats: new product areas such as home technology: our new website and international expansion.
And we continue to manage our impact on society and the environment with great care, through our eco plan, Plan A.
We believe this will all make M&S a better business.
Weve a long way to go before we are truly a world-class retailer again, but we are on the right track.
Product Service Environment We aim to provide a wide We have been investing in our We are opening new stores choice of great value, quality people to ensure that we meet and modernising our existing food, clothing and home our customers expectations portfolio to ensure we provide products, which are all sourced of consistently great service, an exciting shopping and made responsibly.
no matter when or where experience in the right place, they visit us.
continued on page 12 continued on page 20 continued on page 22 2 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
stores increased by an average of the carbon emissions from our UK 500,000 each week.
and Irish stores and offices, delivery vehicles and business travel.
From next year these figures will also include the carbon produced by 15.8m our warehouses and refrigeration gas leakage.
15.3m 5.9 times 14.9m 296,000 2005 06: 4.9 times 2004 05: 4.1 times tonnes 2005 06: 404,000 tonnes 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 The profit measures above are from continuing operations and stated before property disposals and exceptional items.
KPI Key Performance Indicator Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 3 2006 07 was a good Chairmans foreword year for M&S with strong growth across the Last year, in my first year as your Chairman, we made good progress and business.
Our challenge were able to begin to talk realistically about recovery.
But we know this is is to sustain this just the start and no-one underestimates the effort now needed to achieve performance in the face sustainable growth in a highly competitive retail sector.
of fierce competition and fast-changing consumer Stuart and his team remain focused on getting the basics right as they look to expand the business.
That means remaining true to our values quality, trends.
value, service, innovation and trust and constantly improving product, service and our stores, whilst controlling costs.
This attention to detail lies behind our much improved results in 2006 07, our higher share price and a 28.7% increase in earnings per share to 40.4p last year 31.4p.
On the strength of these results, we propose a record final dividend of 12.0p, up 30.4%.
Our new funding arrangement for the defined benefit pension scheme deficit uses part of our property portfolio to secure payments over the next 15 years.
This has put an already good scheme on a sustainable, safer footing, balancing the interests of pension scheme members and investors.
Plan A, our eco plan, illustrates a different kind of sustainability and builds directly on our strengths as an ethical company.
In keeping with Plan A, this report is produced by carbon neutral printers on 100% recycled paper.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM, we are proposing that we use our website as the main way to communicate with shareholders, sending out reports only to those who tell us they want a paper copy.
We have a Board with the right blend of Your dividend skills to support and challenge the executive team.
Martha Lane Fox joined as a non-executive director on 1 June 2007, bringing considerable business experience as well as knowledge of the online sector.
Jack Keenan is retiring after the AGM.
I would like to thank him for his contribution to M&S during 18.3p the past six years.
The executive management changes, which Stuart Total dividend describes in his review, provide us with an effective structure to take us onto the next stage of our growth.
Our remuneration policy set out on page 36 is closely tied to shareholder 6.3p interests.
The way we reward our executive team for their leadership is Half year dividend primarily focused on long-term growth in earnings.
We believe in sharing the benefits of success widely and, once again, have awarded all staff a bonus to thank them for their hard work.
12.0p The prospects for M&S are good.
We are well placed to meet the challenges Final dividend we face and achieve our goal of long-term growth.
Thank you for your continued support.
I look forward to seeing many of you at our AGM on the 10 July at Earls Court in London.
Lord Burns Chairman 4 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 In the past 12 months, we have made important management changes, promoting existing talent and bringing in new people to ensure that we are set up for the next phase of our growth.
We now have the right skills in place to further improve our products, stores and service, as well as pursue new opportunities.
executive team Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 5 1.
Stuart McIvor Director of GM Logistics Director of Womenswear, Director of Far East Girlswear & Lingerie Procurement 2.
Matthew Hudson Food Division Executive Director, Marketing Director of Trading for Womenswear, Lingerie Steven Esom 3.
Stuart Rose & Girlswear Director of Food Commercial Director, Chief Executive joined 1 June 2007 Food Division 22.
Ian Dyson Director of M&S Direct 4.
Darrell Stein Group Finance Director Director of IT 23.
George Davies Joint Business Unit Director, 5.
Tony Quinlan Chairman of per una per una Director of Financial Control 15.
Jude Bridge Technical Director, Director of Menswear Marketing Communications Food Division Carl Leaver Director 25.
Steve Rowe Director of International 16.
Richard Gillies Director of Home & Beauty Business 7.
Keith Cameron Director of Store Design, joined 14 May 2007 Director of Human Resources Development & Procurement 26.
Nayna McIntosh Director of UK Store 8.
Glen Tinton Presentation Director of General Director of Sourcing Merchandise Planning 27.
Flic Howard-Allen & Supply Chain Director of Property Director of Communications 9.
Richard Wolff Director of Retail Director of International 19.
com annualreview2007 The plan to return M&S to growth has remained the same over the last three years.
This paid off in 2006 07 with strong results across the business.
Our job now is to consolidate this progress as we move towards achieving growth for the long term.
Were confident we can do this, but the year ahead is undoubtedly a critical one for us.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 7 Since the summer of 2004, M&S has gone from being a retailer struggling to hold its own to one that, last year, was once again setting the pace in a fiercely competitive market.
Weve achieved that change by following a simple, but rigorous plan.
It has been about getting three basic elements right our products, the service we offer our customers, and the look and feel of our stores.
This will remain our focus as we continue to drive further improvements in the core business.
At the same time, we have begun to look at new opportunities for growth.
M&S has always done best when it has stuck closely to its traditional values quality, value, service, innovation and trust.
They capture just what our customers look to us for high quality, great value products, sourced and made responsibly Stuart Rose and sold through stores which are enjoyable to shop in and which offer excellent customer service.
We are in no way complacent about the results we have achieved to date.
We know that we still have much to do.
Performance Our results last year show that we have made real progress.
UK sales rose by 9.7% to 7.98bn last year 7.27bn.
General merchandise grew by 9.6% with clothing up 9.2% and home up 13.1%.
Group operating margins grew to 12.2%, up from 11.0% last year.
Group profit before tax rose by 28.5% to 965.2m last year 751.4m.
CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE These results were achieved in a challenging economic environment, where interest rate rises, higher household bills Adjusted earnings per Total shareholder share EPS return TSR and personal debt were beginning to dent consumer 40.4p confidence.
Competition is fierce, with retailers constantly looking to 31.4p improve their offer, while also extending their reach through aggressive growth of their store portfolios.
19.2p Customers are ever more demanding and informed.
They want us to provide great value with no compromise on quality or innovation.
Increasingly, they also want to know that we are doing this 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 responsibly, addressing key ethical and environmental issues.
FTSE100 M&S TSR is the value of 100 invested in M&S shares on 30 March 2002 Against this backdrop our results were all the more compared to 100 invested in the FTSE 100 over the same period.
We were one of the few retailers to experience Share price performance strong growth in market share during the year.
We saw increases in market share, both by value and volume, in all categories during the year.
Our share of the UK clothing and footwear market went up from 10.4% to 11.1% and in food our share ended the year on a new high of 4.3%, up from 4.1%.
On average, we had 15.8 million visitors to our stores each week and we successfully encouraged shoppers to buy more each time they visited.
Our TV, newspaper and billboard advertising campaigns are May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May 06 06 06 06 06 06 06 06 06 06 07 07 07 allowing us to project our brand, one of our most valuable Marks & Spencer FTSE 100 General Retailers assets, with much greater impact.
com annualreview2007 OUR MARKETPLACE Interest rate rises and higher bills have begun to dent consumer confidence.
But this has not yet changed spending habits, which are being fuelled by increasing levels of debt.
Last year, the retail market continued Retailers converged in the middle ground, Consumers have become much more to grow.
However, the proportion of with value retailers adding higher-priced conscious of food quality, trading up to disposable income spent in shops ranges, and mid-market players premium ranges.
Increasingly, purchasing shrank, as people chose to spend expanding their value ranges.
decisions are swayed by such things as more on leisure and other activities.
provenance, with demand for fairly traded At the same time customers have and organic goods from ready-prepared Traditional high streets remained under become less loyal and more savvy, willing jams and pies, to basics such as milk pressure.
Out-of-town shopping centres to shop anywhere and everywhere to increasing rapidly.
became more dominant: online and compare price and quality.
television shopping were firmly established Cooking a meal from scratch became More retailers entered the fragmented as mainstream shopping channels: while popular again, along with a renewed homeware market in the past year.
mail order firms offered branded goods at emphasis on fresh food, with consumers Consumers, meanwhile, looked for low more competitive prices.
shopping more often in more stores.
prices as they regularly freshened up Healthy eating continued to grow in Moreover, the market remained intensely their homes with soft furnishings in importance, but people still treated competitive, with new entrants regularly fashionable colours and styles.
themselves to the occasional indulgence.
joining the fray and established players Shoppers were happy to spend on steadily increasing their store space.
In the year to come, the expected technology, from flat-screen televisions slowdown in property prices will further In the clothing market, a modest increase to MP3 players, upgrading to the latest impact consumer confidence, whilst in total sales value was dwarfed by a version.
The supermarkets increased their competition will increase.
Convenience, large increase in volume, as consumers offer to meet this demand, making this quality, service and choice will remain key bought more lower-priced products.
In market more price sensitive.
spring 2007, this was further influenced Growth in food remained strong, with by consumers buying into a multitude of the big food retailers benefiting at the looks in the absence of one dominant expense of smaller chains and fashion trend.
Sources: BRC KPMG: Mintel great product.
Now that we have better products, we are using The website, www.
com, performed well, advertising to drive sales with greater confidence.
This year, we reaching sales of over 100m for the first time.
We know that extended our television advertising into childrenswear for the online is a big opportunity for us and, in March 2007, we first time.
launched our new website the first step in building our multichannel offer.
2006 07 saw us invest heavily in modernising our stores.
35% of the portfolio was modernised by Christmas 2006 from big Our international business also performed well.
We have built stores such as Cribbs Causeway and Manchester to small high a strong franchise operation and now have 219 stores in 34 street stores in Crewe and Clapham.
We have a target to territories.
Turnover, including our eight wholly-owned stores in complete 70% of the portfolio by the end of 2007.
Hong Kong and 13 in the Republic of Ireland, rose 16.8% to 610.6m last year 522.7m while operating profits rose 33.2% This is a big programme.
But it is being managed with minimal to 87.5m last year 65.7m.
disruption to customers and our overall performance.
Feedback from customers is good and sales performance at the new M&S Money is benefiting from our partnership with HSBC, with stores is encouraging.
our share of profits more than doubling from 9.6m to 19.5m.
Over three million people now use the &More credit card, reWe want to offer a convenient, exciting and modern shopping launched during the year, and we have over 100 Bureaux fide experience.
However, our new stores will only thrive if we keep Change at our stores serving 3.8 million customers.
We getting our products and service right.
expanded the range of financial products, which now includes As well as improving the look and feel of our stores, we have home and car insurance and a new ethical investment fund.
invested in our people, increasing the number of customer In the pages that follow I will expand on how each element of assistants and the amount of time they spend helping the business performed in more detail and look at some of the customers.
Our work on reward, training and career paths main opportunities and challenges we see coming up in the is helping us recruit and retain the best people.
Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 9 OUR BRAND The public has an affinity with M&S which, arguably, it has with few others.
They have grown up with M&S and feel they own it.
The award-winning Your M&S tag continues to recognise this and unify the brand.
During the year, we continued to focus For the important festive season, we ran on fewer, bigger impact campaigns and a feature-length ad, with Shirley Bassey, to use mass-appeal, traditional capturing the special quality we bring to communication channels, like television, Christmas.
to bring clarity and authority to our Look behind the label and Plan A messages.
responded to customers desire to We freshened our womenswear and better understand our approach to lingerie formula, introducing Lizzie environmental and ethical issues.
Jagger to appeal to younger audiences.
But its not just about advertising.
Better In March 2007, Myleene Klass joined product, better looking stores, investment the girls outside for a fashion picnic in in customer service and a new website the park.
have been critical in encouraging In menswear, rock-star turned people to reassess our brand.
photographer Bryan Adams captured The positive net effect of our marketing our Autograph offer: while our first mix continues to build: footfall is childrenswear television ad drove up growing ahead of the market and brand sales faster than any previous momentum is the highest it has ever campaign.
In our home department we been and the M&S brand grew by 192% developed our catalogues, in-store during the year to a value of 4.75bn, dcor and website offer further.
making it the fastest growing top 100 Not just food advertising continued global brand Millward Brown.
Our to give a strong visual taste of our high challenge is to maintain this by keeping quality products, such as our organic our brand fresh.
Exploring new opportunities Our new website, developed in partnership with Amazon and 2007 08 will be critical as we seek to put the business on launched in March 2007, makes us a truly multi-channel the path to solid and sustainable growth, consolidating on operation, allowing us to offer customers greater choice and our progress to date, whilst also building the foundations for convenience.
With the right technology in place attached to a future growth.
much better service offer, we believe we can increase our sales through this channel five-fold in the next five years.
Our plan to focus on product, service and environment will remain front of mind we cant afford to take our foot off We have tested new product and service offers too, such as the accelerator.
home technology, new formats for mens shoes, and new eating offers, such as our eat over delicatessens, all of which we are Our other challenge in the months ahead is also to pursue new now trialling more widely.
This year, we will also trial a new product opportunities in our stores and online to encourage our layout for womens shoes and for childrenswear.
existing customers to spend more with us.
We will develop our overseas business at a faster pace.
We We will do more of what we do already, but at greater pace.
For have teams exploring opportunities both in markets where we instance, this year we will open more Simply Food stores than already perform well and in new locations, as I describe in more ever before, working towards our aim to have more than 400, detail on page 24. in addition to selling our food in BP Connect service stations under the Simply Food banner in up to 200 locations within The continued tight control of our costs and stock levels five years.
But we are prepared to invest heavily, as we have with the modernisation of our stores, in Our property review, outlined in November, means that over the areas where we see real opportunities for long-term growth next five years we will expand our overall space by 15-20%, and investment returns.
with new or extended stores out of town, on Retail Parks and in city centres.
The objective is to be in the right place with the right space for tomorrows customers.
We are reviewing our high street stores to make sure we are properly represented in well-located sites where customers most want to shop.
10 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 Management team Kate Bostock, Director of Womenswear and Girlswear takes We have made some important changes to the leadership of on additional responsibility for lingerie, helping us to ensure a M&S in the last 12 months to prepare us for the next phase of co-ordinated offer for all of our ranges for women.
our previous Director of Lingerie became Director of Trading for the new, enlarged womenswear, lingerie and girlswear group.
In the autumn, we brought supply chain, sourcing and planning for our clothing and home businesses together under one director, Responsibility for our ongoing store modernisation programme Andrew Skinner, in order to get our supply chain fit for the future.
passed to Ian Dyson, our Group Finance Director, to allow Julian Kilmartin replaced Andrew as our Director of Menswear.
Steven Sharp to focus on the next generation of store design, alongside his responsibilities for marketing and M&S Money.
In addition, we have emphasised the importance of e-commerce and the new director for this area, John Dixon, now reports The Executive Committee, which oversees the day-to-day directly to me.
running of the business, was extended and now includes Kate Bostock, Steven Esom, Guy Farrant, Andrew Skinner and Carl We reinforced the strength of the team in April 2007, with two Leaver, in addition to the executive board directors.
new appointments and the promotion of key talent.
This executive team in turn forms part of a wider Directors Group, Steven Esom joined as Director of Food on 1 June 2007 from which you can see on pages four and five of this report, Waitrose, where he was Managing Director.
Guy Farrant, our including three new food director roles created in April 2007. previous Director of Food, was appointed Director of Retail, replacing Anthony Thompson who has left the business.
This structure retains the fast decision making which has been critical in recent years, whilst also ensuring that we have a Carl Leaver joined on 14 May 2007 as our Director of joined-up approach to our customer offer.
International Business and reports to me.
He was previously CEO of fide Vere Group plc and will replace Richard Wolff, who Plan A retires later in the year after 36 years with the Company.
In any company, the temptation can be to focus too narrowly on short-term business performance.
Responsible companies have to look to the long term.
CLIMATE CHANGE PLAN A Plan A is our five-year, 100-point plan to tackle some of the biggest challenges facing our business and our world.
55,000 Climate Change We aim to make our UK and Republic All our Simply Food stores, of Ireland operations carbon neutral in five years.
We will our stores in Scotland and our minimise energy use, maximise the use of renewables and London head office are now offset only as a last resort.
powered by renewable green energy saving 55,000 tonnes Waste Well reduce packaging by 25%, find new ways to of CO every year.
2 recycle and stop sending waste to landfill from our stores, offices and warehouses.
Sustainable Raw Materials From fish to forests, our goal is to make sure our key raw materials come from the most sustainable sources available.
Fair Partner By being a fair partner, well help improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of people in our worldwide supply chain and local communities.
Health Well help customers and employees choose healthier lifestyles through healthy food ranges and clear labelling.
To find out more visit www.
com PlanA Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 11 We set ourselves very high quality and ethical standards.
The impact will be felt widely.
We are taking action across Last year, we used our Look behind the label campaign to 35,000 product lines, involving more than 2,000 factories, describe the lengths we go to to ensure everything we sell is 10,000 farms and 250,000 workers around the world.
also involve customers and co-operate with governments, environmental agencies and like-minded organisations.
But customers and staff wanted to understand our overall approach and our plan for the future.
One of our aims is to help customers and employees live healthier and more sustainable lives.
Weve trained 1,500 The result was Plan A, our five-year, 200m eco plan launched assistants to give our customers advice on nutrition and we in January 2007. continued to expand our Eat Well ranges.
Later this year, we Weve made 100 commitments across the five areas, including will start selling green home products from energy-saving becoming carbon neutral, sending no waste to landfill, cutting light bulbs to composters.
As well as committing to reduce our packaging by a quarter and only using fish and wood from the amount of food we import by air, we have also started to sustainable sources.
As well as addressing the wider issues, introduce an aeroplane symbol on flown food.
And well be we continue to work closely with local communities through making it easier for customers to recycle our packaging.
our Marks & Start work experience programme, for example.
We dont have all the answers All of these commitments are described in our How we yet.
But responsible retailing has always been at the heart of do business report, published alongside this document at our approach, so we have a strong starting point.
Im convinced we have no alternative but to make Plan A work.
Each year we will report on how far we have got in Doing nothing is not an option.
Businesses can no longer achieving them.
ignore the challenges facing the world.
To make sure Plan A is a success it is being completely integrated into our day-to-day operations.
It will change how we operate forever.
SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS Over 90% of our new collection of timber garden furniture will be Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified.
By 2012 all of our products that are made using wood will carry FSC certification so that our customers can be confident that our products meet independent environmental management standards which aim to protect our forests.
HEALTH WASTE FAIR PARTNER We are committed to helping disadvantaged groups like the disabled and homeless get into jobs via work placements in our stores and supplier 1,500 100% factories.
Since it launched in 2004, We now have 1,500 trained over 9,000 people have taken part in Almost all the carrier bags we use in Healthy Eating Assistants in our our Marks & Start programme.
This our clothing and home departments stores to advise our customers work was recognised in March 2007 are now made from 100% recycled on healthy options.
We will train when we won the Princes Trust material.
Our Bag for Life, which has all our food hall teams in Partnership & Innovation Award.
been reduced in price from 15p to 10p, nutrition within three years.
12 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 INNOVATION Our technologists work closely plastic bottles this year to make as fine as seven denier from with suppliers to introduce new, fleeces for sale in-store and for 3.50.
The fabric is made from innovative products, which have a store uniform trial.
revolutionary new yarns, which real practical benefits for our join to form thousands of During the year, we also extended customers.
This means our use of innovative materials that should a yarn break, rather This year, we launched our that we introduced in 2005 06. than creating an unsightly ladder, exclusive mens Stormwear This included Insolia shoes, which the fabric forms a discreet hole.
range which is made with an work by moving weight back This hosiery also has a reinforced innovative water and stain to your heel for better body toe and added stretch.
repellent, breathable fabric alignment and balance, keeping originally developed for legs comfortable.
In womenswear, we built on the the military.
success of Magicwear, which We also used Real Cool Cotton, we had introduced in lingerie to Initially applied to some of our a trademark fabric that was provide invisible shape and mens jeans, we plan to introduce initially introduced into mens support.
more Stormwear products for undergarments and helps to both adults and children.
keep you cool, in new categories We applied this shaping including adult t-shirts and technology to the Magic Dress We also developed a new fleece baby sleepsuits.
as worn by Shirley Bassey in made from recycling plastic bottles our Christmas TV adverts and into polyester, instead of using In hosiery, we now sell ladderare now offering Magic Jeans.
We will be using 4.5 million resistant tights and hold-ups product Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 13 We said last year that our main aim was to provide great quality, responsibly sourced clothing and home products in our stores at the right time, the right price and in the right quantities.
Womenswear, menswear, lingerie, childrenswear and home all recorded strong growth in sales and market share as we also brought in more choice and translated trends more quickly into really wearable fashion, or stylish ranges for your home.
But customers expect us to do more.
Relentless competition from high street value retailers, supermarkets and established rivals means we cannot be complacent.
We need to keep getting the basics right if we are to retain the support of customers and keep improving our performance.
Performance Our growth last year shows what we are capable of.
Womenswear executed its every woman, every time strategy with skill with marketshare increasing from 10.5% to 11.3%.
Key looks such as slim trousers, leggings, tunics, knitted jumpers and jersey t-shirts proved successful and our new denim shops traded well in a tricky market.
Formal clothes prospered our 50 polyester and linen mix suit remained a top seller offsetting slower demand for casual trousers and some leisure wear.
Limited Collection was well-received by younger, more fashion-conscious shoppers.
Per una continued to grow strongly in the year, with sales of 423.5m, as it celebrated its fifth birthday with strong ranges from Collezione Italia fashion flair to stylish eveningwear and a relaunched jeans collection.
SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN Footwear also performed well, with improved choice and quality It is 20 months since we opened our network of sourcing offices: Hong Kong and Shanghai which from 9.50 pumps to leather-lined Autograph shoes.
In opened in September 2006 covering China and the 2007 08, we will be trialling a new womens footwear layout to Far East: Bangalore, Colombo and Dhaka covering make this enhanced offer easier to shop.
South East Asia: and the Turkish office in Istanbul focusing on Eastern Europe and North Africa.
Menswear saw growth across the board from casual clothing to With a staff of around 200, the offices have cotailoring and its share of the market grew from 9.6% to 10.3%.
ordinated the direct buying, production and Our shoe ranges benefited from new serviced shoe shops, transportation of over 129 million items in 8,000 styles.
which will be rolled out to 30 modernised stores.
Our three These offices are our eyes and ears on the ground, menswear sub-brands also performed well.
Autograph was helping us to operate more efficiently, such as getting new fast fashion ranges from the drawing the main engine for growth, Blue Harbour remains the UKs board into stores in eight weeks.
They also play a biggest mens casualwear brand and Collezione continues to key role in monitoring our suppliers labour be popular with men looking for classic European style.
Last year, 677 independent visits to supplier factories were carried out to make sure they Harbour Vintage performed less well and this more casual look were meeting our ethical standards on issues such will be gradually absorbed into Blue Harbour.
In suiting, deals as fair pay and working conditions.
to provide suits for the England teams for the European football Our overseas offices also help us to find new championships and the Rugby World Cup are a great vote of suppliers who we can work with directly to produce confidence in the quality of our tailoring.
great value products for our customers.
In 2006 07, we bought 28% of our clothing and home products In lingerie, offering more clearly defined brands helped us redirectly last year 21%.
Full Service Vendors still account for the large majority of our supply and establish our fashion credentials, provide real choice and boost remain key supplier partners, helping us to maintain sales.
Ceriso and per una are attracting younger customers our record on innovation.
while Adored continues to offer pretty femininity and Truly You, sophisticated glamour.
Body remains popular with those looking for simple style, while the introduction of the Autograph has helped to highlight the great quality at the top of our price range.
We also remained the place women go to first for 14 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 essential items like everyday bras, single knickers and hosiery, to choose from without compromising on quality, innovation thanks to competitive pricing and excellent quality.
segmentation and choice enabled us to increase our market We have been taking action on prices across clothing and share, despite intense competition, from 24.3% to 26.1%, home for two years, with further progress made on improving nearly five times the share held by our nearest competitor.
value across our ranges in 2006 07.
Average prices fell by Maintaining this dominant position will be the challenge this year.
around 3% over the year, while volumes increased by around In childrens clothing we reversed the weak performance of 14%.
Last year, items like womens jogging trousers for 9.50, recent years and made our first market share improvement for one of our biggest selling lines: cosy, long fleece dressing six years, up from 4.2% to 4.5%, introducing better product gowns at 17.50: our mens 49.50 machine-washable suit: from baby right through to young teenage girls and boys.
Our and cooking sets from 9.50, set the pace on value.
first television advertising campaign for childrenswear boosted But we need to keep providing customers with new, great sales, as did a new trial store layout.
We are pleased with the value products.
In the year ahead, there will be more must-have progress this year, but we know we have a lot more to do here, fashion items like leggings and printed jersey dresses in both in terms of product and availability.
womenswear, while in mens we will continue to introduce Our home department is in its second year of strong growth, better opening prices on popular lines, as we have done with helped by good demand for furniture and a clearer pricing our 5 polo-shirt.
In lingerie and home, were extending the stretching from 50p glass tumblers and 5 large glass vases choice of colours in key lines like the 6 bra and in basic towels to our Autograph extra large pure combed cotton bath towels and bed linens.
Therell be more value items in childrenswear, at 25.
Theres potential to grow this business significantly.
like our 2.50 girls t-shirts, as we continue our work to improve In furniture, our priority is to improve our deliveries to provide our offer.
even better levels of service.
Choice Value Our brands are helping us to introduce more clarity at higher As the UKs largest clothing retailer, we buy on a vast scale.
Autograph the brand we use across This means we can give customers a broad spread of prices womenswear, mens, lingerie and home for contemporary products at the top end of our price range is a good example VALUE AWARDS We offer customers a choice of high We won a number of important quality products at prices that suit awards during the year.
For us, its a simple equation: included being named Business value price x quality.
Were trying to in the Community Company of make the choices simpler.
Take bed the Year for the second time: linen.
Customers can now choose our Best Fashion Retailer by the opening price pillow cases at 2 each, RSPCA: and being given Grade A opt for our Supima 100% soft cotton, status by Greenpeace for non-iron pillow cases at 4, or choose sustainable wood sourcing.
Both Autograph Egyptian fine cotton ones Prima and Drapers voted us best at 12 each.
FAIR PARTNER Weve increased our use of Fairtrade cotton from India and Africa, buying around a third of the worlds current supply.
In Fairtrade Fortnight in March we offered an outfit for all the family, including socks, t-shirts and jeans.
Next year we will sell over 20 million Fairtrade garments, equating to around 100m of sales.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 15 of this, offering affordable luxury from cashmere loungewear to It is vital that our core departments like womens formal Timothy Everest suits.
trousers and mens shirts remain easy to shop with good availability.
Our Petite and Plus ranges for women are helping We can give Autograph more authority.
Already worth us meet the needs of a diverse customer base.
The new 275m across clothing and home, we aim to double its value wedding range, which we launched in March with outfits for the in the next three years.
The launch of Autograph Weekend whole wedding party, and our extended maternity range have smart-casual clothes for women will help us achieve that.
both helped fill important gaps in our offer.
We are extending Limited Collection, like Ceriso in lingerie, is attracting younger this work through our website, providing the widest range of customers.
Along with girls ranges such as Girls Boutique, it colours, styles and sizes.
is bought on an eight-week cycle from Turkey, to keep stores We have also added to our home offer.
Our technology shops, fresh with up-to-the-minute trends.
However, we have not which we introduced to 12 stores and online in September, always offered new product frequently enough and were taking and to our Croydon store after the year end, offer a carefully action on this with a new three-weekly buying cycle and by selected range of branded goods from music systems to backing key trends in more depth.
microwaves, all with easy to follow instructions.
Everything Our much improved childrens ranges include organic cotton comes with a two-year guarantee except for our large televisions, babywear, trendier outfits for girls and plenty of popular which come with a five-year guarantee and free installation.
The enhanced childrenswear offer is We intend to add this offer to more stores during 2007 08. an important part of our efforts to provide great value clothing Outlook for all the family.
Its encouraging to see how customers have responded to Greater fashion appeal is very important.
But we havent the changes weve made across our clothing and home forgotten our customers who want classic style.
But they have made it clear they expect us to our Classic Collection which now spans sizes 8 to 24 and keep improving.
With competition intensifying, we will be also introduced a new Golf range of sport-styled casual working closely with our suppliers to do just that.
clothes for men and women.
FAIR PARTNER We have supported the Breakthrough Breast Cancer Campaign since 2001 and we are now its largest corporate partner.
We have raised over 6m in total, including 1.5m in 2006 07, and helped to educate and inform customers.
In March, we supported the Prostate Cancer Charity, to raise 90,000 funds and awareness for a disease which kills one man every hour in the UK.
CHOICE CLIMATE CHANGE We want every one of our Later this year, we will introduce a new customers to find something green home department selling they love every time they visit, products like energy efficient whether that be the perfect lightbulbs, hand-charged dynamo Autograph cashmere jumper or torches and household composters a trend-led item from Limited to help people live greener lives as part Collection or per una.
We also of our commitments under Plan A.
As filled gaps with new offers such we add to this exciting range, well as our range of bridal and look to sell bigger items through the occasionwear with everything website.
from wedding dresses to morning suits, launched in March 2007.
16 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 product INNOVATION Innovation in food is what sets diet of wild salmon, one portion Introduced in October 2006, the M&S apart from our competition of the salmon provides the range already represents 25% as we continue to develop new Governments recommended of our total ready meal offering.
products and new methods of weekly allowance of Omega-3.
Developed in response to production.
growing customer awareness From September 2006 we about health, the range took We introduced new, tastier fish replaced all fresh farmed salmon 18 months to develop and and meat products from unique with Lochmuir Salmon.
By includes dishes inspired by breeds that we developed with autumn 2007, all our chilled cuisines from around the world.
our suppliers, such as our salmon products will be made Lochmuir Salmon.
All of the new dishes are based on Government guidelines for Developed using similar As part of our additive reduction balanced calorie, fat, salt and principles to our Oakham programme we were the first sugar content and, like all M&S Chicken, the salmon are kept in major retailer to remove ready meals, the range is free large saltwater pens with lower hydrogenated fats, which have from artificial colours, flavours stock levels than recommended been associated with the risk of and hydrogenated fats.
higher cholesterol levels, heart products in the range are total disease and diabetes, from all The farms have been selected meal solutions, which means our the food we sell.
for their lower environmental customers dont need to add any impact and our high standards We also launched a new range accompaniments which would of fish care are recognised by the of 120 Nutritionally Balanced impact on the nutritional content RSPCA.
Thanks to a specially ready meals to help customers of the whole meal.
formulated feed, similar to the maintain a healthy, balanced diet.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 17 We continue to provide customers with delicious, high quality, innovative food sourced both responsibly and SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN sustainably.
We have always worked and in February 2007, we closely with suppliers to increased the price we pay It is a credit to our food team and suppliers that weve produce great food for milk under our Milk produced our best ever period of sustained growth in recent responsibly and sustainably.
Pledge scheme, which Because our food is 100% guarantees farmers a history.
In 2006 07, total food sales grew at twice the market own brand, we can do this fixed price for their milk, rate at 9.7% to 3.97bn.
Sales from existing stores grew by with real authority.
giving them greater 4.2% on a like-for-like basis and we reached more customers security.
In 2007 08, we We had already improved will be consulting with through new stores and formats, particularly Simply Food animal welfare standards farmers on ways to extend stores.
Total market share grew to 4.3%, its highest ever level.
with breeds like Oakham this scheme into other Chicken and Muir Den product areas.
Although competition is fierce and food trends are changing Pork which are less intensively farmed.
As part Under Plan A we will faster than ever, we are confident we can continue to of our Plan A commitments reduce the proportion of make gains.
we will convert our fresh, food we air freight.
whole turkey, goose and Additionally, we have New trends in eating duck to free range within started to introduce an Around seven million people buy food from M&S each week.
We aeroplane symbol onto Given our relatively small share of the UK market, we are already have also committed to packs of products that convert our fresh pork to we do air freight.
reaching a wide audience, attracted by our outstanding quality free range as well.
We are To help our suppliers to offer, convenient locations and mouth-watering advertising.
also working with the make changes in their Marine Stewardship People shop with us for a wide range of reasons.
For some own businesses, we are Council and other introducing a web-based customers, M&S simply stands for high quality food from organisations to achieve Supplier Exchange.
Some just love food and like the way we Together we aim to share for the fisheries we interpret new eating trends in our prepared meals.
Others want best practice, stimulate source from.
innovation and help high quality traditional ingredients to make their own dishes.
For We want to be a fair suppliers secure funds for many people, M&S is a place to come at special times of the partner to all our suppliers investment.
year and for indulgent treats: and for others M&S stands for great food on the go.
For all of these customers, different food trends are important and we must stay a step ahead of them, using great innovation to meet their changing preferences.
The trend in healthy eating shows no signs of easing.
Demand for fresh, natural food as well as the healthy prepared meals, at which we excel, is rising fast.
But indulgent products are also in high demand such as our Gastropub range and special desserts, like the recently advertised lemon souffl, which has been very successful.
Increasingly, customers want to know precisely where their food comes from right down to individual farms and growers.
Customers want assurance that their food has been sourced ethically with proper care taken over nutrition, fair trading, the environment and animal welfare.
And they want it to be labelled clearly and packaged responsibly.
Fresh, natural and healthy Healthy eating is a priority for us and our customers.
Facilitated by our 100% own-brand offer, our work to remove unnecessary ingredients from our products is industry leading.
In 2006, M&S became the only major retailer to have removed hydrogenated fats from all our food and we remain ahead of the industry in reducing salt.
We are also continuing to meet the growing demand for fresh food which has had the minimum of processing.
range, our ready meals and all of our Eat Well childrens prepared meals are now free of artificial colours, flavourings, sweeteners and have no added preservatives.
All of 18 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 WASTE We are trialling Closed Loop Recycling in five of our Caf Revive coffee shops in London.
Teams sort used caf product packaging into recyclable and non-recyclable materials in store.
The recyclable material is collected and turned back into raw materials for use in more packaging.
HEALTH FAIR PARTNER As part of our additive reduction The M&S Milk Pledge, which we programme, none of our products launched with our dairy farmers contain hydrogenated fats.
All of our in 2003, agrees prices for six Nutritionally Balanced ready meals are month periods and pays one based on Government guidelines for of the best rates in the industry.
calorie, fat, salt and sugar content It also supports our regional and, like our Marks & Spencer Cook!
sourcing work, with milk products and Eat Well childrens sold in the region in which prepared meals, they are free from it is produced.
artificial colours, flavourings, sweeteners and preservatives.
our Nutritionally Balanced meals are based on Government seeing superb growth.
Last year we enjoyed 12% of the UK guidelines for calorie, fat, salt and sugar content.
champagne market, 22% of the pre-packed shellfish market, and 10% of the boxed chocolate market.
We have also adopted what we think is a leading position in food labelling.
Starting with selected ranges we are combining Our indulgent food remains distinctive and is often unique.
both the Governments traffic light system and Guideline Daily At Easter, for instance, all our childrens chocolate was organic Amount GDA percentages to help our customers make healthy and nut-free.
We are now working towards making sure all our choices about the amount of fat, sugar and salt they eat.
This will childrens cakes are made using only naturally-occurring colours be extended to all relevant ranges by end of the 2007 08 and flavours.
Increasingly, these products are helping us stand financial year.
out at key times like Christmas and Easter.
Our Eat Well sunflower logo identifies food which is either Authenticity and provenance naturally healthy or nutritionally balanced, as endorsed by the Our customers want exciting new dishes, but they are also British Nutrition Foundation.
Some 1,300 food products as of increasingly interested in real food, simply prepared, from January 2007, or around 30% of our food sales, come under known sources.
Our target, under Plan A, is to make that M&S has always been known for the provenance of its food 50% in five years.
and the Speciality range, launched in April 2006, taps into Our organic food offer now stretches to 350 lines.
Carefully selected foods, many from smaller we aim to triple our sales of organic food within five years.
specialist producers in the UK and overseas, are what this Prepared meals made with organic ingredients have become range is all about.
more popular and, in February, we launched Organic Food to Already over 300 products strong and accounting for a Go, with over 20 products from sandwiches to smoothies.
significant proportion of food sales, the range includes Indulgence and celebrations Brecknock lamb from Wales, Scottish langoustines from While healthy eating is increasingly important to customers, fisherman Sandy West and Giuliano Baronis exclusive 24- we have to remember that many people come to M&S for month matured parmigiano reggiano.
We will increase this a treat.
Some of the products we are most famous for are range to 400 products next year.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 19 FAIR PARTNER SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS We now have over 70 Fairtrade In February 2007, we launched our first certified food products on our organic fruit and vegetable box.
During 2006 07, we Available in two sizes and presented in launched Fairtrade wine: a 100% recycled cardboard box, each expanded our range of fresh comes with information on the origin of Fairtrade produce to include the products, shelf life and details on whole and prepared pineapples the environmental benefits of organic as well as grapes: and in February produce.
The boxes also allow us to we converted all of our conserves offer a wider range of produce to and jams to Fairtrade.
And we are customers in our smaller stores.
still the only major retailer to sell only Fairtrade tea and coffee.
AWARDS In 2006, we won a number of awards for our excellence in food.
We are particularly proud of the awards we have won for our fish.
Greenpeace, the Marine Conservation Society, the Seafood Choices Alliance and Fish Farmer Magazine have all recognised our commitment to sustainable fish sourcing.
New stores and food hospitality beverage offer to eat-in or take-away.
It targets customers who We see scope for growth in our food business by opening food want to enjoy lunch, brunch or supper in a more sophisticated halls in new main chain stores and new Simply Food stores, setting.
which you can read about on page 23.
But expanding space Trust is not the only way to grow.
The eating-out market is worth Trust is one of the cornerstones of our business and our around 28.4bn source: TNS Outlet tracker we think we can customers expect us to take the lead on ethical trading and the take a bigger share of this market.
We are concentrating on five environment.
Through Plan A we will continue to improve our different formats.
Caf Revive, with 217 in-store cafs and around 40 more One of the big issues we are tackling is packaging.
We currently planned this year, is the third largest UK chain of coffee shops.
use around 79,000 tonnes of food packaging annually.
Of this, In 2007 08, we will introduce a stronger food offer, including about 25,000 tonnes is glass, mainly wine bottles, for which more choice for children, and more bakery and hot food.
Hot recycling schemes already exist.
We are committed to reducing Food To Go counters have been successfully trialled in 15 non-glass packaging by 25% by 2012 this applies to all our stores and will go to a further 21 stores this year, leading to an packaging, not just food.
eventual roll-out further down the chain.
To reach this target we will unpack some less fragile produce, Our four Deli Bars provide a sophisticated place to relax over remove unnecessary layers, replace cardboard sleeves freshly prepared dishes with a glass of wine or fruit juice.
with labels and make packaging lighter.
We will also make Another four will open this year.
M&S Restaurant in Newcastle packaging from sustainable or recycled sources and clearly is our first in-store restaurant, with 130 covers, table service label it recyclable or compostable.
We have already labelled and classic M&S dishes made to order.
Its one of the best some 12% of our food products with this information.
examples of how we are reaching new customers and four more are planned this year.
As we grow our food business we expect trust to be increasingly important to our customers.
Independent research M&S Kitchen, currently a one-store pilot attached to our shows we are one of the UKs most trusted retailers, but to Canterbury store, has a strong hot and cold food and alcoholic maintain this position we must continue to tackle the big issues.
20 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 OUR CUSTOMERS Our core customers continue to be Customers views about our We have more Simply Food those aged 45 plus.
In fact, some products have improved.
However, stores in more convenient 75% of turnover comes from this those aged between 45 and 54 locations and this is helping group.
However, we continue to told us that they wanted more us to attract new and younger appeal to a broad church of evidence that we will continue customers.
The drive for fresh, customers and are growing to make our products better, healthy food cooked from customer numbers and sales increase choice and continue scratch at home or partially across every age group.
Listening to be competitive on price.
prepared also means that to all these customers is crucial customers are buying from us Attitudes were most favourable to ensure we get our offer right.
more regularly, across different among our core customers stores and in more than one During the year, we conducted but we saw gains across all location.
around 200 customer focus age groups.
As well as shopping more Scores on the style of our These sessions cover everything frequently across different clothes went up 16% and 9% from what our customers think store formats, customers are more customers said they of the quality and value of our increasingly looking for the were finding products that clothing to our new website convenience and flexibility appealed to them.
As a result of these offered by other channels such feedback also highlighted that sessions some products might as online.
In March, we rethere is much more to do, such not make it onto the shop floor launched our website to better as improving the consistency of while others will be changed or meet this growing demand.
service OUR PEOPLE Weve made important changes in people management in the last two years.
In 2005 06, we provided staff with more opportunities to progress within the Career Path structure introducing additional responsibility steps coupled with more competitive pay rates.
We continue to offer among the top rates of pay in retail.
In 2006 07, we extended the Career future food trends started in May 2007. consulted on all important changes Path approach to store management.
We have built elements of the training in the business.
As well as defining Management Career into our induction programme for One important issue we consulted with Paths we carried out a skills audit new starters.
them on during the year was the Final across all our store management teams.
Our graduate scheme is one of the Salary Pension Scheme.
We needed This allows employees to easily map most popular in the sector.
Last year to put the Scheme on a more secure their own competencies against those we received over 6,500 applications for footing and to do this we had to make required for development.
The Company agreed to also developed more tailored training an intensive year working in a number reduce the deficit by 500m using an programmes to help management of stores across food, general M&S property-backed structure and enhance their skills.
merchandise, human resources and we asked members to consider three In 2007 08, we will complete the career store operations.
In April 2007, we won options about how their pension builds development structure, with improved three awards for our programme and up in the future.
As a result of the training for our 4,000 section managers.
moved up to number 17 in The Times consultation we have made changes Top 100 Graduate Employers list.
to the choices we are offering our In head office, following the successful members, one of which involves making introduction of our general merchandise Some 3,500 people, both in stores contributions.
The changes will come Buying Academy in 2005, we launched and head office, act as elected into effect in October 2007. a Culinary Academy for our Food representatives on our Business Group, designed to improve individuals Involvement Groups BIGs.
They play For the second year running we have sensory, ingredient and culinary a crucial role in maintaining an open also completed our Your M&S, your knowledge.
The first phase covering all dialogue between senior management say survey which helps us to categories was completed during the and their colleagues.
The BIG is understand our employees concerns year and phase two which will cover and priorities better.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 21 Our customers expect consistently great service, no matter when or where they visit us.
We were clear when we developed our plan to return M&S to growth that improving service should be one of our three top priorities, alongside improving products and modernising stores.
While theres more we need to do here, I believe we have made progress.
This has been driven in large part by our service training programme, which involved over 60,000 store staff and was completed in June 2006.
This Our Service Style training is now incorporated into all store induction programmes with our 8,000 specially trained coaches taking on the responsibility for continuous service training.
Mystery shopping We wanted to make sure this training was translating into improvements in-store.
In May, we introduced a mystery shopping programme to measure the quality of our customer service.
Stores are visited by mystery shoppers once a month, with our biggest stores checked twice a month, in total around 6,500 visits a year.
Each is scored on a range of measures chosen by customers, from product knowledge to tidiness and respect.
Our overall scores showed steady improvement during the year, rising from 70% in May 2006 to a progressive average of 79% for 2006 07.
This is a good result not least because we recruited 19,000 extra staff at Christmas and faced a big challenge in bringing them up to speed at a very busy time.
However, some stores are still not performing as they should and we have work to do to make sure improvements continue.
Mystery shopping In addition, the senior management team, myself included, visit stores frequently.
We spend a lot of time talking directly to our 84% 83% 82% 82% 82% 81% 79% customers and employees.
Our customer services team talks to 80% 78% 73% 12,000 customers a week.
We also 73% 70% 70% conduct regular customer focus groups, which you can read about on the page opposite.
60% We know we are not perfect and need to make further 50% improvements.
In order to help facilitate this in 2007 08 we will link the bonus payments of our store teams to their mystery 40% shop scores.
Weve set our sights high where service is May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar concerned.
We are looking for excellence getting by wont do.
Average number of employees Productivity As more and more people come into our stores, it is more 75,871 important than ever that our customer service is effectively 70,000 managed.
Getting the right number of people with the right 68,304 skills on the sales floor at the right time is the key.
It sounds 66,747 simple, but in the past we have found it difficult with staff often 60,000 distracted by store processes and bureaucracy.
So, on top of continued service training we have worked hard 50,000 to improve efficiency and to ensure that we maximise the number of customer-facing staff.
We have also worked to 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 define and clarify store standards.
UK Stores 61,132 62,288 69,309 Head office 3,505 3,057 3,246 Following this action, we saw productivity, the number of Other 2,110 2,959 3,316 individual items sold per full-time member of staff in clothing Total 66,747 68,304 75,871 and home, increase by 12.2% during the year.
22 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 MODERNISATION PROGRAMME Our store modernisation our priorities is keeping disruption renewable energy and sustainable programme is well under way.
to a minimum both for our materials and dealing with waste.
Around 40% of our portfolio is customers and for the business.
By April 2007, we had secured now in the new format and we We have increased the amount 175 GWh of renewable energy to are currently on site in over of night-time working we do and power all our stores in Scotland, 60 stores.
we have improved the way we all our Simply Food stores in separate the building works from The programme often involves England and Wales and our the store during opening hours.
radical changes, going beyond London head office, saving changes to fixtures and fittings.
It is important that our stores 55,000 tonnes of CO. 2 Alongside major construction work, are in the best state for the This year, the first of a new breed new flooring and refrigeration, we Christmas trading period and of green stores will open.
are also making changes to how we will continue to deliver the Bournemouth will use 25% less we lay out our stores and guide bulk of our programme before energy and emit 50% less CO 2 customers through departments.
every year or the equivalent of We are also starting to look at new However, where some of our the emissions of 244 return ways of allocating which products larger stores are undergoing flights from London to New York.
go into which stores, and how we major redevelopment work this Two other green stores are in the display them.
will not always be possible.
pipeline at Pollok and Galashiels.
Managing a programme of this We are also meeting Plan A scale, while keeping the stores objectives in our stores and open, is very challenging.
One of offices, particularly on sourcing environment Ipswich Tunbridge Wells Bluewater Completed August 2006 Completed October 2006 Completed October 2006 BEFORE BEFORE BEFORE Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 23 The UK retail property market has undergone radical change in recent years, with many of our competitors CAPITAL EXPENDITURE moving aggressively into new space in new areas.
We have Total 2004 05: 229m Total 2005 06: 338m Total 2006 07: 792m Ad minim veniam, quis nostrud exeration added more than 200 stores since 2002, but we need to m m m 479 ullam corper suscipit lobortis.
make sure we are in the right place in the right space.
In particular, we missed the move to develop out-of-town stores and to open on Retail Parks.
In November, we announced a far-reaching property 175 120 strategy that will see us increase our current space of around 114 80 56 52 13.2 million sq ft by 15-20% in the next five years.
We have 49 38 39 34 34 34 27 19 five priorities here: Enhancing our major city centre stores, mainly through expansion and major redevelopment: Finding more out-of-town stores of around 100,000 sq ft and expanding our space where we already trade through mezzanines and extensions: OUR STORE PORTFOLIO Opening more stores of between 40,000 and 60,000 sq ft STORE TYPE Number of stores on Retail Parks: Flagship stores 43 Examining our portfolio of high street stores to make sure High Street stores 221 Simply Food stores 144 they are the right size and in the right place.
There could be Simply Food franchise stores 61 some closures, but mostly we will relocate to better sites Retail Park stores 20 that suit our customers: and Outlet stores 30 M&S Kitchen 1 Doubling the number of Simply Food stores to more than 400, including franchise stores at stations, airports and Total 520 motorway services.
We will also extend our partnership with BP, adding Simply Food stores at up to 200 BP Connect sites within five years.
SIMPLY FOOD The way our stores look has been another big issue for us to We opened more Simply Food stores address and we now have a programme to modernise virtually in 2006 07 than in any other year.
all of our stores by the end of 2008 09.
At the year end we had sized units of 3,000 to In the year under review, we spent 479m modernising and 205 stores including 5,000 sq ft but increasingly redeveloping our stores as well as some 120m on new space.
61 run by our franchise we are targeting bigger partners, SSP and Moto, sites of 6,000 to 12,000 sq In total, capital expenditure for the year was 792m.
at airports, stations and ft to make the most of our This is an increase of around 250m on the guidance we gave motorway services and food offer.
you last year and is because we have brought forward a BP in their BP Connect In March 2006, we bought forecourts.
We opened 63 number of modernisation projects originally scheduled to start 28 Iceland stores, which new stores during the year in 2007 08 into the 2006 07 financial year.
By Christmas 2006 we converted into Simply and closed two.
Our trial Food stores and reopened we had over 220 stores in the new format, including almost all with BP has been in summer 2006.
We also of our Simply Food stores.
By Christmas 2007 we will have successful and we will bought an additional 12 open around 60 stores completed around another 130, equating to approximately 70% stores from Somerfield, during 2007 08, adding to six of which, including of our total space.
You can read more about our store remodel the 11 trial stores.
Westhill in Aberdeen and programme in the box on the opposite page.
The Simply Food opening Blackheath in London programme, together with re-opened during the With both our store modernisation programme and our property some new main chain year.
The remaining six strategy, we are testing out ideas carefully, and then rolling out stores and franchise stores, will open during summer successful formats at pace.
We want more food space by around stores in more convenient Moving with speed and consistency is essential.
The market is 30% in the last six years.
locations and intend to open 20-25% more food and will remain highly competitive, good space is at a premium Initially our Simply Food space in the next five and getting planning permission can be slow.
We are constantly expansion programme was years.
focused on conveniencelooking for appropriate sites, so we can reach a wider customer-base in more easily accessible, convenient locations.
Modernisation Programme New Stores International Supply Chain & IT Maintenance Modernisation Programme New Stores International Supply Chain & IT Maintenance Modernisation Programme New Stores International Supply Chain & IT Maintenance 24 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 Marks & Spencer is a well-recognised and increasingly Letterkenny and we will open another store in Tallaght later popular brand around the world.
We see scope to open in the year.
By reinforcing our position in key cities, particularly many more stores in selected markets.
Dublin and Cork, and by moving into new areas, we will grow the business here significantly in the next three years.
In a busy year we opened 36 new stores, most of which were in territories where we already have a presence.
We also opened During the year, our international business recorded a 16.8% stores in new territories including Switzerland, Latvia, Slovakia increase in sales to 610.6m last year 522.7m and a 33.2% and Bulgaria as well as our biggest overseas franchise store increase in operating profit to 87.5m last year 65.7m.
Operating profits from our franchises grew by 40.8% to We continue to actively manage the franchise operation and 42.1m, with sales up 21.5%.
Our two wholly-owned closed a number of poorly performing stores, often moving to businesses in Hong Kong and the Republic of Ireland recorded larger, more profitable sites.
a 14.0% increase in sales and a 26.8% increase in operating profit, to 45.4m.
At the end of March 2007, we had 219 franchise stores in 34 territories and had grown our total space by over 315,000 sq ft These are good results.
We believe the time is right to pick up to nearly 1.8 million sq ft. the pace of growth overseas.
Our strategy is to focus on markets where theres a strong demand for our products In the year ahead, our franchise operation will grow at a faster from a growing middle class.
pace, with around 40 more stores opening across Russia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
We have already Russia is a good example of this.
We opened our first store opened six new stores since April, including our first store in in late 2005 and now have nine stores in Moscow and Lithuania.
In May, we also opened our first store in Taiwan, St Petersburg, with four new openings planned during 2007 08. which is being run as a joint venture.
Where possible, we work with existing franchisees with local We continue to own eight stores in Hong Kong a mature knowledge and will often go into a new territory with a trusted but, for us, successful market.
We also see a lot of potential company weve worked with elsewhere.
Our partner in Turkey, in the Republic of Ireland and by the end of the year we for example, took us into Russia and we opened another store owned 13 stores.
In May 2007, we opened a store in with them in the Ukraine in May 2007.
Dubai Bahrain 1 Guernsey 3 Malta 3 Singapore 7 Bermuda 1 Hong Kong 8 Oman 1 Slovakia 1 Bulgaria 1 Hungary 8 Philippines 13 Slovenia 1 Croatia 3 India 11 Poland 4 South Korea 17 Cyprus 9 Indonesia 13 Qatar 1 Switzerland 1 Czech Republic 8 Jersey 3 Republic of Ireland 13 Tenerife 1 Gibraltar 1 Kuwait 1 Romania 4 Thailand 11 Gran Canaria 4 Latvia 1 Russia 9 Turkey 27 Greece 35 Malaysia 2 Saudi Arabia 8 UAE 5 13 STORES 9 STORES REPUBLIC RUSSIA OF IRELAND 31 STORES CENTRAL 61 STORES EUROPE EUROPE 27 STORES TURKEY International Retail 17 STORES MIDDLE EAST 8 STORES HONG KONG 2004 05 2005 06 2006 07 11 STORES INDI A Revenue m 455.8 522.7 610.6 63 STORES Operating profit m 60.7 65.7 87.5 SE ASIA Number of stores at year end KEY Owned 18 19 21 WHOLLY-OWNED STORES FRANCHISED STORES Franchises 191 198 219 Selling space at year end k sq ft Owned 586 586 632 Franchises 1,317 1,433 1,762 international Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 25 The explosion of internet shopping provides another big The photography is sharper, you can look at the item in all opportunity for us.
available colours, and a zoom function means you can home in on stitching and fabric detail.
Our customers already like shopping with us on the net.
In 2006 07, online sales grew by more than 60%, well ahead The site also offers tips and recommendations tailored to of the market, albeit from a fairly low base, reaching over customers shopping preferences.
This was driven by over 55 million We are also improving service levels, with standard delivery visits last year 30 million.
times shortened from seven days to three, in addition to our If you consider that we have an 11.1% share of UK clothing free standard delivery on all orders over 30.
We also offer next sales, but just 4.2% of online clothing sales, its clear that day and nominated day deliveries for a small premium.
theres a lot more we can go for.
Later in the year, web, phone and in-store ordering will be We have set a target to increase online sales to 500m in five linked together for the first time, providing more delivery years.
To reflect the size of the opportunity, e-commerce is now choices, something customers have said is important to them, a separate business unit reporting to me.
including collecting online orders from a store of your choice.
In March 2007, we launched our new website, developed with In line with Plan A, we are playing our part in making our Amazon, which has the widest selections of online clothing in operations more sustainable, with over 90% of our online delivery the UK over 15,000 items as well as 10,000 homeware and packaging now made from recycled, recyclable materials.
technology products, flowers, wines and exclusive online I believe we are now set up to offer one of the best e-commerce ranges, including jewellery.
sites in the UK for clothing, homeware, gifts and selected food As well as looking fresh and modern, the website includes a products with potential for further development.
range of new features, including a sophisticated, fast-search facility which lets you search by size, colour, style and price, or choose from over 50 departments.
500m We intend to grow our online sales from just over 100m in 2006 07 to 500m within five years.
THE ONLINE OPPORTUNITY Online shopping is growing at a rapid rate in the UK.
This is supported by the spread of broadband technology.
Industry forecasts for the UK online clothing and footwear market predict an increase in sales this year of 42% to 3.5bn source IMRG.
online 26 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 Looking ahead I said when I rejoined the business in 2004 that M&S was a However, we wont see the full benefit of this work unless we great business with significant strengths, but one that needed offer first-class service.
We know we need to make further radical change to become world-class again.
improvements here, despite the great strides we have made already.
Three years on, this review of our operations in 2006 07 aims to give you an insight into the scale of the changes we have made We also still have a great deal of work to do to modernise our and a sense of the ambitions we have for the business in the infrastructure so that everything from our warehouses to the years to come.
technology behind our tills and financial systems is fit for the growth we are aiming to achieve in the years ahead.
The year ahead will, as I said at the beginning of this review, be critical in creating a sustainable future for the Company.
Through all of this, we will keep listening to our customers.
Their views and demands have moulded M&S in recent years We believe that we can carve out a unique position for M&S and I want this to continue.
through our commitment to a simple, rigorous plan and to our core values of quality, value, service, innovation and trust.
This is crucial in areas such as customer service and product, but also just as important in terms of how we are dealing with This, coupled with our scale, provides us with an authoritative social, ethical and environmental challenges through Plan A. and well-differentiated position in the markets in which we trade and sets us up well to continue to earn peoples trust and to Our customers want us to succeed, but they want proof that deliver consistent, profitable growth.
success does not come at a cost to society or the environment.
The management changes that we have made over the past 12 The progress we have made has only been achieved through months will be crucial to our ability to deliver on this simple plan.
team effort which, for us, means all our 75,000 staff.
I am grateful for their commitment and support and delighted that The immediate economic outlook is undoubtedly more difficult.
we were able to pay everyone in the Company a bonus, at a We expect costs to rise ahead of overall growth in the markettotal cost of 91m, for the second year running.
place, which means that we must find new ways to increase our sales.
In future we will be linking all bonus payments more closely to performance and improving service standards.
We are geared In the coming 12 months, we will remain relentlessly focused on up to reward people well for great work.
our plan of offering great products, in great stores with great customer service.
Our suppliers play a crucial role in ensuring that we offer great value, innovative products.
Their continued dedication to M&S We will also pursue new opportunities through new space at and our customers is highly valued.
home and abroad, new product and service offers, and our relaunched website.
Lastly, Id like to thank shareholders for their continuing support, which has been vital in allowing us to take a long-term view and We will continue to improve our product offer, both within our prepare the Company for future growth.
existing ranges and by filling gaps with new products we havent offered before.
Our major brands, from Autograph and per una to Limited Collection and Blue Harbour, will be key in segmenting this offer and making it easy to shop.
Great prices and excellent quality, combining to provide Stuart Rose outstanding value for our customers, will remain key to our Chief Executive competitiveness in the year ahead.
Our property strategy will increase our reach significantly, as will our direct business, starting with our new website.
This, coupled with our store modernisation programme, will help to ensure we have the right offer, in the right space, in the right place.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 27 Independent Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Your Board Nomination Committee Lord Burns Chairman Chairman Jeremy Darroch Appointed as Deputy Chairman in October Non-Executive Director Chairman 2005 and as Chairman in July 2006.
Jeremy He is Chairman of Abbey National plc and Glas was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee Cymru Ltd Welsh Water and a non-executive in September 2006.
He is the Chief Financial director of Banco Santander Central Hispano Officer at British Sky Broadcasting Plc.
He was SA and Pearson Group plc.
He is a former previously Retail Finance Director at Dixons Group non-executive director of Legal & General Group plc, where he became Group Finance Director Plc and The British Land Company PLC and in 2002.
He spent 12 years at Procter & Gamble a former Chairman of the National Lottery in a variety of roles.
He qualified as a Chartered Commission.
He was Permanent Secretary Accountant with Deloitte Haskins and Sells.
to HM Treasury from 1991 to 1998 and Chief Economic Advisor from 1980 to 1991.
Martha Lane Fox He was appointed a Life Peer in 1998.
Non-Executive Director To be appointed on 1 June 2007.
Martha is a non-executive director of Channel 4 Stuart Rose Chief Executive Appointed in May 2004.
Stuart is a Television and Trustee of the charity Reprieve.
She is founder of a chain of private room non-executive director of Land Securities plc and Chairman of the British Fashion Council.
He karaoke clubs, Lucky Voice, and of her own charity foundation, Antigone.
Martha co-founded began his career in retail at Marks & Spencer in 1972 before going on to the Burton Group in lastminute.
com in 1998, taking the company public in March 2000, she remained on the 1989, becoming Chief Executive of the Multiples Division in 1994.
He left the Group Board until the company was purchased by Sabre Holdings in 2005.
Martha is also a Patron following the demerger in 1997.
Stuart was Chief Executive of Argos plc in 1998 and later of CAMFED.
became Chief Executive of Booker plc.
Before re-joining Marks & Spencer as Chief Executive Steven Holliday in 2004, he was Chief Executive of Arcadia Non-Executive Director Group plc from 2000 until 2002.
Steve was appointed Group CEO of National Grid plc at the end of 2006, having at different times been Ian Dyson Group Finance Director Appointed in June 2005.
Ian was responsible for the UK Electricity and Gas businesses.
He was formerly an executive formerly Finance Director of The Rank Group plc.
Prior to this he was Group Financial director of British Borneo Oil and Gas.
Previously, he spent 19 years with the Exxon Group where Controller of Hilton Group plc.
He joined Hilton from Le Meridien, a division of Forte plc, where he held numerous senior positions.
His international business experience includes the he had been Finance Director.
His early career was spent with Arthur Andersen, where he US, China, Australia, Japan and Brazil.
qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1986 and was promoted to a Partner of the firm Jack Keenan in 1994.
Ian was a non-executive director of Non-Executive Director Misys plc until September 2005.
Jack will retire as a non-executive director at this years AGM.
He is CEO of Grand Cru Consulting Ltd and will retire as a non-executive director of Tomkins plc following their AGM on Steven Sharp Executive Director, 13 June 2007.
Jack was previously Deputy Marketing CEO of Guinness UDV, a board member of Appointed in November 2005 having joined Diageo plc until 2001 and senior non-executive the Company in May 2004.
He started director of The Body Shop International plc.
his career with Bejam in 1978, progressing Jack is Patron of Cambridge Universitys Centre to the Argyll Group and became Marketing for International Business and Management.
He joined the Board of Debenhams in 1989.
He later became Marketing Director of the Burton Group, Louise Patten Booker plc and Arcadia Group plc.
Steven is Non-Executive Director Chairman a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing Appointed in February 2006.
Louise and visiting professor of Glasgow Caledonian was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration University.
She is nonexecutive Chairman of Brixton plc, a nonexecutive director of Bradford & Bingley plc and a senior adviser to Bain & Co. She was formerly Sir David Michels Senior Independent Director a non-executive director of Hilton Group plc, GUS plc, Somerfield plc and Harveys Appointed in March 2006.
David was appointed Senior Independent Director in Furnishings plc.
He is a non-executive director of The British Land Company plc, easyJet plc, Graham Oakley Strategic Hotels & Resorts and RAB Capital Group Secretary and Head Plc.
He previously worked with Grand of Corporate Governance Metropolitan, Hilton International and Stakis Appointed in August 1997.
Graham before rejoining Hilton International in 1999 as is Secretary of the Audit, Remuneration and Chief Executive, becoming Chief Executive of Nomination Committees.
In 1985, he joined Hilton Group plc from 2000 to 2006.
He was Marks & Spencers Legal Department.
He was formerly a non-executive director of Arcadia appointed Head of Legal in 1990, Company Group.
David was knighted in June 2006.
Secretary and Chief Legal Adviser in 1997 and Head of the Corporate Governance Group in June 2002.
28 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 Financial review Revenue Operating profit UK Retail International Retail UK Retail International Retail 2007 7,977.5m 610.6m 2007 956.5m 87.5m 2006 7,275.0m 522.7m 2006 790.1m 65.7m Total 9.7% 16.8%Total 21.1% 33.2% Like-for-like 6.1% 8.3% Operating profit Operating profit before property disposals was 1,044.0m, Revenue up 22.0%.
Total revenues were up 10.1% with strong performances in both In the UK, operating profit before property disposals was up the UK and international businesses.
21.1% at 956.5m, reflecting strong revenue growth and further UK revenues were up 9.7% with like-for-like growth at 6.1% gross margin gains.
UK gross margin was 43.4%, an increase despite much tougher comparatives in the second half of the of 60 basis points on the previous year.
Although this was less financial year and disruption to our stores as we continued the than we had indicated at the half year end, it reflects our store modernisation programme.
During the year, we added decision to keep inventory clean at the end of the fourth quarter.
2.7% of space on a weighted average basis, 4.5% in food and At the same time we managed our operating costs tightly.
General merchandise gross margin was up 120 basis points to International revenues were up 16.8% with strong performances 52.6% driven by better buying.
Food gross margin at 34.0% in both owned and franchised stores, up 14.0% and 21.5% was level on the year.
This was driven by strong like-for-like performance UK operating costs, before bonus, were up 7.7% to 2,431.7m and 23 new store openings.
This reflected the ongoing investment in the growth of the business through our staff, stores and marketing.
Increasing underlying cost pressures in areas such as energy, fuel, rent and rates have been well managed.
Summary of results 2005 2006 2007 Group Summary m m m Continuing operations before property disposals and exceptional items Revenue 7,490.5 7,797.7 8,588.1 Operating profit 649.1 855.8 1,044.0 Net finance costs 93.0 104.4 78.8 Adjusted profit before tax 556.1 751.4 965.2 Profit loss on property disposals 0.4 5.7 1.9 Exceptional items 50.6 30.4 Group profit before tax from continuing operations 505.1 745.7 936.7 Revenue year on year 1.2% 4.1% 10.1% Operating profit year on year n a 31.8% 22.0% Interest cover 6.2x 7.0x 10.5x Dividend per share 12.1p 14.0p 18.3p Earnings per share from continuing operations Basic 17.6p 31.3p 39.1p Adjusted 19.2p 31.4p 40.4p Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 29 A breakdown of UK operating costs for the year is shown below: Net finance costs Net finance costs for the year, before exceptional items and 52 weeks ended pension finance income, were down 18.3% at 99.6m reflecting 1 April 2006 31 March 2007 Increase m m % the reduction in average net debt.
The average interest rate for the year was 5.9% last year 5.8%.
Fixed charge cover was Retail staffing 741.0 810.1 9.3 5.9x last year 4.9x.
Pension finance income, which reflects the Retail occupancy 682.1 717.3 5.2 difference between the expected return on pension scheme Distribution 306.2 321.6 5.0 assets and the interest on scheme liabilities, was 20.8m.
Marketing and related 113.8 144.7 27.2 Support 414.3 438.0 5.7 The exceptional finance costs of 30.4m represent a one-off Total before bonus 2,257.4 2,431.7 7.7 make-whole premium arising on the redemption of 317.2m Bonus 73.0 91.0 24.7 of secured bonds, together with the write-off of unamortised transaction costs.
This redemption enabled us to release the Total after bonus 2,330.4 2,522.7 8.3 secured properties for their transfer into a limited partnership with the UK Pension Scheme see Pensions on page 30.
The increase in retail staffing costs reflects the impact of the changes made to pay structures last year, as well as space Taxation growth and investment in additional staffing in our stores to The tax charge reflects a pre-exceptional effective tax rate for improve service for our customers.
The increase in retail the year of 29.4% last year 30.2%.
This reflects the refund of occupancy costs reflects space growth and higher energy prior year tax.
Distribution costs increased at a rate well below volume Earnings per share growth.
Further investment in marketing has contributed Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations, which towards our top line sales growth.
Support costs, which include excludes the effect of property disposals and exceptional items, non-store related overheads, were impacted by increased has increased by 28.7% to 40.4p per share.
We will be paying a record bonus of average number of shares in issue during the period was 91.0m last year 73.0m, which includes a 26m reward for 1,688.6m last year 1,667.0m.
our store staff and reflects the very strong performance of the business in 2006 07. Dividend per share The Board is recommending a final dividend of 12.0p per share.
The UK operating profit includes a contribution of 19.5m This will result in a total dividend of 18.3p per share last year last year 9.6m from the Groups continuing economic interest 14.0p per share, an increase of 30.7%.
This is in line with the in M&S Money.
This strong growth came from additional dividend policy announced in May 2006, to grow each half year account holders and lower costs.
dividend in line with adjusted EPS growth.
International operating profit before property disposals was 87.5m, up 33.2%, reflecting the strong sales performance of the business.
Franchised operating profits grew by 40.8% to 42.1m.
Owned store operating profits Ireland and Hong Kong, increased by 26.8% to 45.4m.
com annualreview2007 Financial review continued Capital expenditure Pensions Investing in the business is a key part of our strategy.
Capital A triennial valuation of the UK defined benefit scheme was expenditure for the year was 792.4m compared with 337.7m carried out as at 31 March 2006 resulting in an actuarial deficit last year.
The increase in spend on the modernisation programme reflects The Group has agreed a plan with the Pension Scheme Trustee the investment in our 2006 programme, with some 40% of our to address the deficit by transferring properties with a current space now under new format, as well as an earlier start to the market value of 1.1bn into a partnership established by the 2007 programme in order to complete the work by our peak Group.
A limited interest in this partnership was contributed to Christmas trading period.
In addition, we commenced the Pension Scheme on 13 March 2007.
The Group retains development work on major city centre stores such as London control over these properties, including the flexibility to substitute Pantheon, Edinburgh and Belfast, as well as extensions to some alternative properties.
The properties held in the partnership of our major out of town stores such as London Colney, have been leased back to Marks and Spencer plc.
The Pension Braehead and Cheshunt.
Capital expenditure on new stores Scheme is entitled to a distribution from the profits of the was up 71m, reflecting the Simply Food opening programme partnership of 50m per annum for 15 years.
The value of this and three new retail parks.
partnership interest on the date of contribution was 500m and this is recognised as an asset by the Pension Scheme.
Supply chain capital expenditure reflects investment made in new distribution centres in food and general merchandise.
The impact of this transaction on the Groups balance sheet is Technology capital expenditure reflects investment in information a reduction in the pension deficit of 500m and the recognition technology with the implementation of new financial systems as of an amortising liability in respect of the obligations of the well as a major project to start replacing our tills and point of partnership to the Pension Scheme.
IAS 19 retirement benefit deficit was 283m last year 795m and the amortising liability had a value of 497m last year nil.
Cash flow and net debt The Group generated a net cash inflow of 231.1m last year 550.5m, reflecting the strong cash generation of the business.
Cash inflow from continuing operating activities increased by 259.0m.
Working capital increased to 114.1m reflecting the additional bonus provision and a reduction in cash outflow on leasehold prepayments.
Cash outflow on capital expenditure, net of disposals, was 710.5m last year 264.3m reflecting a step up in the modernisation programme and major store developments in several of our major city centre stores.
The Group made a one-off, property-backed contribution of 500.1m to secure the future of the Groups defined benefit pension scheme.
This is accrued for as a liability of 496.9m at year end.
As a result, net debt at the end of the year increased to 1,949.5m, compared with 1,729.3m last year.
Group capital expenditure Net cash generated m m 500 1,500 114.1 710.5 479 1,329.2 400 1,200 300 900 282.6 200 600 175 215.7 120 114 100 300 3.4 231.1 56 52 49 39 27 19 0 0 Actual Actual 2005 06 2006 07 Modernisation programme New stores International Supply chain and technology Maintenance Modernisation programme New stores International Supply chain and technology Maintenance EBITDA Working capital and other similar movements Net capital expenditure Interest and taxation Dividends and share issues Other cash flow movements Net cash generated Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 31 Consolidated income statement 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 March 1 April 2007 2006 m m Revenue continuing operations 8,588.1 7,797.7 Operating profit continuing operations 1,045.9 850.1 Finance income 33.8 30.5 Finance costs 143.0 134.9 Analysed between: Before exceptional finance costs 112.6 134.9 Exceptional finance costs 30.4 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation continuing operations 936.7 745.7 Analysed between: Before property disposals and exceptional items 965.2 751.4 Profit loss on property disposals 1.9 5.7 Exceptional finance costs 30.4 Income tax expense 277.5 225.1 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation continuing operations 659.2 520.6 Profit from discontinued operation 0.7 2.5 Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 659.9 523.1 Basic earnings per share 39.1p 31.4p Diluted earnings per share 38.5p 31.1p Basic earnings per share from continuing operations 39.0p 31.3p Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 38.5p 31.0p Non-GAAP measure: Adjusted profit before taxation m 965.2 751.4 Adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing operations 40.4p 31.4p Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 39.8p 31.1p 32 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 Consolidated balance sheet As at A As s a at t 1 April 3 31 1 M Ma ar rc ch h 2006 2 20 00 07 7 restated m m m A AS SS SE ET TS S N No on n- -c cu ur rr re en nt t a as ss se et ts s 1 19 94 4.. 1 1 Intangible assets 163.5 4 4, 0 04 44 4.. 5 5 Property, plant and equipment 3,575.8 2 25 5.. 1 1 Investment property 38.5 9 9.. 3 3 Investment in joint venture 9.0 3 3.. 0 0 Other financial assets 3.3 2 24 47 7.. 0 0 Trade and other receivables 242.8 1 11 1.. 6 6 Deferred tax assets 83.9 4 4, 5 53 34 4.. 6 6 4,116.8 C Cu ur rr re en nt t a as ss se et ts s Inventories 4 41 16 6.. 3 3 374.3 Other financial assets 5 50 0.. 9 9 48.8 Trade and other receivables 1 19 96 6.. 7 7 210.5 Derivative financial instruments 2 2.. 4 4 76.4 Cash and cash equivalents 1 18 80 0.. 1 1 362.6 Assets of discontinued operation 69.5 8 84 46 6.. 4 4 1,142.1 T To ot ta all a as ss se et ts s 5 5, 3 38 81 1.. 0 0 5,258.9 L LI IA AB BI IL LI IT TI IE ES S C Cu ur rr re en nt t lliia ab biilliit tiie es s Trade and other payables 1 1, 0 04 43 3.. 9 9 867.8 Derivative financial instruments 8 8.. 3 3 8.0 Borrowings and other financial liabilities 4 46 61 1.. 0 0 1,052.8 Current tax liabilities 8 87 7.. 3 3 58.7 Provisions 5 5.. 7 7 9.2 Liabilities of discontinued operation 20.5 1 1, 6 60 06 6.. 2 2 2,017.0 N No on n- -c cu ur rr re en nt t lliia ab biilliit tiie es s 1 1, 2 23 34 4.. 5 5 Borrowings and other financial liabilities 1,133.8 4 49 96 6.. 9 9 Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme 2 28 83 3.. 3 3 Retirement benefit deficit 794.9 8 87 7.. 6 6 Trade and other payables 74.8 0 0.. 2 2 Derivative financial instruments 9.5 1 16 6.. 8 8 Provisions 19.1 7 7.. 3 3 Deferred tax liabilities 6.1 2 2, 1 12 26 6.. 6 6 2,038.2 T To ot ta all lliia ab biilliit tiie es s 3 3, 7 73 32 2.. 8 8 4,055.2 N Ne et t a as ss se et ts s 1 1, 6 64 48 8.. 2 2 1,203.7 E EQ QU UI IT TY Y Called up share capital equity 4 42 24 4.. 9 9 420.6 Share premium account 2 20 02 2.. 9 9 162.3 Capital redemption reserve 2 2, 1 16 68 8.. 5 5 2,113.8 Hedging reserve 4 4.. 4 4 8.0 Other reserve 6 6, 5 54 42 2.. 2 2 6,542.2 Retained earnings 5 5, 3 39 97 7.. 1 1 5,057.2 T To ot ta all s sh ha ar re eh ho olld fide er rs s e eq qu uiit ty y 1 1, 6 64 46 6.. 8 8 1,203.7 1 1.. 4 4 Minority interest in equity T To ot ta all e eq qu uiit ty y 1 1, 6 64 48 8.. 2 2 1,203.7 Approved by the Board 21 May 2007 S St tu ua ar rt t R Ro os se e, Chief Executive I Ia an n D Dy ys so on n, Group Finance Director Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 33 Consolidated cash flow information SUMMARY CASH FLOW STATEMENT AND RECONCILIATION TO NET DEBT 52 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 31 March 1 April 2007 2006 m m Operating activities Operating profit 1,045.9 850.1 Depreciation and amortisation 282.7 274.0 Share-based payments 27.3 24.7 Profit loss on property disposals 1.9 5.7 Increase in inventories 42.8 42.2 Decrease increase in receivables 12.5 4.1 Payments to acquire leasehold properties 13.5 38.0 Increase in payables 136.6 128.0 Exceptional operating cash outflow 4.2 14.6 Cash generated from operations - continuing 1,442.6 1,183.6 Cash generated from operations - discontinued 0.7 13.9 Tax paid 150.8 101.5 Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,292.5 1,096.0 Net interest paid 110.2 129.9 Exceptional interest paid 21.6 Capital expenditure and financial investment 710.2 267.3 Disposal of subsidiary, net of cash disposed 48.8 Equity dividends paid 260.6 204.1 Other equity financing 9.2 55.8 Debt financing net of liquid resources disposed with subsidiary 16.8 Fair value movements 67.0 3.7 Partnership liability to the Marks & Spencer UK Pension Scheme non-cash 495.6 Exchange and other non-cash movements 22.7 1.1 Movement in net debt 220.2 547.9 Opening net debt 1,729.3 2,277.2 Closing net debt 1,949.5 1,729.3 34 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 Group financial record IFRS IFRS IFRS UK GAAP UK GAAP 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks restated m m m m m Revenue - continuing operations United Kingdom 7,977.5 7,275.0 7,034.7 7,293.7 7,027.1 International Retail 610.6 522.7 455.8 434.4 371.9 1 Operating profit - continuing operations United Kingdom 956.5 790.1 588.4 762.0 643.8 International Retail 87.5 65.7 60.7 45.8 34.9 Profit before taxation - continuing operations Before property disposals and exceptional items 965.2 751.4 556.1 746.1 665.1 After property disposals and exceptional items 936.7 745.7 505.1 722.7 622.8 Basic earnings per share from continuing operations pence 39.1 31.3 17.6 24.2 21.8 1 Adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations pence 40.4 31.4 19.2 24.7 23.3 Dividend per share declared in respect of the year pence 18.3 14.0 12.1 11.5 10.5 Balance sheet Net assets including retirement benefit deficit 1,648.2 1,203.7 957.6 2,454.0 2,108.3 Net debt 1,949.5 1,729.3 2,147.7 1,994.7 1,831.4 Capital expenditure 792.4 337.7 229.4 433.5 311.0 2 UK Retail footage 000 sq ft 13,619 13,093 12,896 12,782 12,349 International Retail footage 000 sq ft 629 586 586 470 479 Staffing full-time equivalent UK Retail 50,355 44,883 43,724 41,915 43,108 International Retail 2,315 2,106 1,573 1,438 1,456 1 Adjusted for property disposals and exceptional items.
Auditors statement INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT TO THE This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for MEMBERS OF MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other We have examined the summary financial statements which purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume comprise the summary consolidated income statement, responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to summary consolidated balance sheet and summary whom this statement is shown or into whose hands it may consolidated cash flow information.
come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors writing.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual review and Basis of opinion summary financial statement in accordance with applicable law.
We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6, Our responsibility is to report to you our opinion on the The auditors statement on the Summary financial statements consistency of the Summary financial statement within the issued by the Auditing Practices Board for use in the United Annual review and summary financial statement with the Annual Kingdom.
report and financial statements, the Group directors report and Opinion the Remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant In our opinion the Summary financial statements are consistent requirements of Section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and with the full Annual report and financial statements, the Group the regulations made thereunder.
directors report and the Remuneration report of Marks and We also read the other information contained in the Annual Spencer Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 and review and summary financial statement and consider the comply with the applicable requirements of Section 251 of the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Summary  LLP financial statement.
Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors, London 21 May 2007 Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 35 Summary reports The Summary financial statements on pages 31 to 34, the Summary remuneration report on pages 36 to 41 and the Summary Group Directors report on this page are summaries of information contained in the Annual report and financial statements.
The aim is to provide shareholders with the key financial information in a clear and concise manner.
For this reason, the Summary financial statements do not contain all the information to give a full understanding of the results and state of affairs of the Company and the Group.
The Group Directors report, the full accounts and the Auditors report on those accounts, which is unqualified, are contained in the Annual report and financial statements 2007.
Copies may be obtained free of charge from the Company as noted on page 43 of this report.
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
SUMMARY GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activities Marks and Spencer Group plc is the holding company of the Marks & Spencer Group of companies the Group.
We are one of the UKs leading retailers of clothing, food and home products with over 15.8m people visiting our stores each week.
We employ over 75,000 people and have around 520 UK stores including franchise stores, as well as an expanding international business.
Profit and dividends The profit for the financial year, after taxation, amounts to 659.9m last year 523.1m.
The directors have declared dividends as follows: Ordinary shares m Paid interim dividend of 6.3p per share last year 4.8p per share 106.0 Proposed final dividend of 12.0p per share last year 9.2p per share 204.0 Total ordinary dividend, 18.3p per share last year 14.0p per share 310.0 The final ordinary dividend will be paid on 13 July 2007 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 1 June 2007.
Directors Current members of the Board are shown on page 27, together with their biographies and committee membership details.
SUMMARY CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
For the year ended 31 March 2007 the Company complied with all the provisions of the Combined Code 2006 on Corporate Governance.
A statement explaining our governance policies and practices is given in the Annual report and financial statements.
A detailed account of how we comply with the Codes principles can be found at www.
com investorrelations, together with the matters reserved to the Board and terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 July 2007 is given, together with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies this report.
36 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 Summary remuneration report The Remuneration Committee has adopted the principles The Board considers the principles of good governance when of good governance relating to directors remuneration as deciding the remuneration strategy, and recognises that the level set out in the Combined Code.
The full report complies with the of remuneration and benefits we offer is key to recruiting and Companies Act 1985, amended by the Directors Remuneration retaining talented individuals and maintaining our market position Report Regulations 2002 and the Listing Rules of the Financial as an employer of choice.
The report has been prepared on behalf of Remuneration policy the Board by the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee continually reviews the remuneration strategy PART 1: UNAUDITED INFORMATION to ensure it will enable the recruitment and retention of highly skilled individuals who are key to the long-term growth of Remuneration Committee Marks & Spencer.
The Company is delivering significantly The Remuneration Committee comprises four independent nonimproved performance and generating substantial increases executive directors.
Louise Patten took over as Committee in profit and shareholder value, and to ensure this continuing Chairman on 1 January 2007.
The other members are Steven growth in a highly competitive retail sector, it is essential that Holliday, Jack Keenan Committee Chairman until 31 December the Senior Team is incentivised, motivated and retained.
2006, and Sir David Michels, who joined the Committee on 26 Reviews in 2005 and 2006 resulted in changes to the long-term May 2006.
Kevin Lomax was a member of the Committee until incentive arrangements to rebalance the package and provide he retired from the Board on 31 August 2006.
Martha Lane Fox a more effective link between pay and performance for the will join the Committee on 1 June 2007.
There were eight various levels of executive and to ensure the most senior meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the period executives have a high proportion of pay at risk.
under review and all individuals who were members of the Committee at that time attended the meetings, with the Executives are required to achieve demanding targets under exception of Louise Patten who was absent on 10 May 2006 the annual and long-term arrangements to receive rewards.
and Steven Holliday who was absent on 24 January 2007, The overall package supports the Companys strategy and due to prior commitments.
its commitment to continuous and sustainable enhancement of shareholder value.
The Committee keeps itself fully informed of all relevant developments and best practice in the field of remuneration Total remuneration for executive directors comprises salary, and seeks advice where appropriate from external advisors.
variable pay, pension and benefits.
Salary and benefits are New Bridge Street Consultants LLP has provided material set having regard to market practice and levels paid by similar advice to the Committee on directors remuneration and companies.
Variable pay provides the opportunity to earn share schemes in the past year.
greater amounts for the highest standards of performance.
The performance-related element forms a significant proportion The Company Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Secretary of the total potential package.
and the Head of Senior Remuneration also materially assisted the Committee in its deliberations, except in relation to their There are two key components of variable pay: an Annual own remuneration.
Bonus Scheme incorporating a deferred share element and a Performance Share Plan.
The ability to earn variable pay is The Remuneration Committees remit is set out in the terms linked to the delivery of significant Company performance and of reference which are reviewed annually by the Board.
A copy the expected value of the package both at on-target and of the terms of reference is available on the Companys website.
The primary purposes include: Expected value of future annual remuneration package to recommend to the Board the senior remuneration for executive directors strategy and framework, giving due regard to the financial On-target performance and commercial health of the Company: Annual to determine the individual remuneration packages within Salary cash Long-term incentives that framework for the executive directors and one level 36% bonus 46% below the Board senior management : 9% to approve the design of annual and long-term incentive Maximum performance arrangements and agree the targets and levels of award: Annual to determine and agree the general terms and conditions Salary cash Long-term incentives of service contracts for senior management and the specific 10% bonus 77% terms for an individual either on recruitment or termination: 10% and to determine the policy for, and scope of, senior management pension arrangements.
Pension 3% Pension 9% Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 37 The value placed on long-term incentives comprises the Annual Bonus Scheme expected cash value to executives after three years, discounted The Annual Bonus Scheme is designed to focus and reward back to its present value, of i bonus compulsorily deferred into executives for specific operational improvements which will drive shares and ii performance shares awarded under the the Companys performance.
The 2006 07 bonus for directors Performance Share Plan.
was at 60% of salary for on-target performance rising to a maximum of 250% for exceeding targets.
Chairmans Remuneration The remuneration for the Chairman is determined by the Chief The targets for the Company are determined annually by the Executive and the other members of the Board.
The level of Remuneration Committee and incorporate a mixture of remuneration for the Chairman reflects the commitment and corporate profit before tax and business unit and retail sales and responsibilities of this role and is set having regard to market profit as appropriate.
For 2006 07, the targets for the executive practice.
The fee is reviewed annually and is increased to directors were entirely based on the delivery of corporate profit 450,000 from 1 April 2007.
The Chairman has committed to before tax.
The Committee assesses the achievement of targets use 25% of his net fees to purchase shares in the Company for all executive directors and senior management prior to any on a quarterly basis.
Non-executive directors remuneration This year, the corporate profit before tax targets have been The remuneration for the non-executive directors is determined delivered in full and represent a significant improvement both by the Chairman and executive directors and is designed both on the reported profits for 2005 06 and against market to recognise the responsibilities of non-executive directors and expectations at the beginning of the financial year.
As a result, to attract individuals with the necessary skills and experience maximum awards under the scheme of 250% of salary have to contribute to the future growth of the Company.
The nonbeen made to Stuart Rose, Ian Dyson and Steven Sharp.
executive directors are paid a basic fee with additional fees From the 2006 07 bonus payment, the executive directors are payable for Committee membership and to the chair of the required to defer 60% of any bonus paid into shares which will Committees.
These fees are neither performance related nor be held for three years.
The value of any dividends accrued pensionable.
Non-executive directors do not participate in either in the form of dividend equivalents or through a Dividend any of the Companys share schemes nor the Annual Bonus Reinvestment Plan will be paid at the end of the period.
The fees shown in the emoluments table reflect emoluments table and notes on page 40 give the level of cash the fees paid during the year.
The basic fee increases from payments and the value of deferred shares to be awarded at the 50,000 to 55,000 per annum, the additional fees for acting beginning of June 2007, which will be based on the average as Committee Chairman increases from 10,000 to 12,000 and share price over the preceding five trading days.
for Committee membership from 5,000 to 6,000 per annum.
These new fee levels are effective from 1 April 2007.
The annual For 2007 08, the bonus scheme remains unchanged for fees for each individual are shown in the contract terms table on executive directors i. e. 60% of salary for on-target performance page 39. rising to a maximum of 250% for exceeding targets, with 60% paid in deferred shares.
The performance measure will continue Executive directors remuneration to be corporate profit before tax.
Salaries and benefits Salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually and Long-term Incentive Schemes any change to salary is normally effective from 1 January.
The Performance Share Plan Remuneration Committee takes into consideration a range of The Performance Share Plan is the primary form of long-term factors when reviewing salaries such as Company performance, incentive for the top 100 senior management.
Under the plan, level of salaries for large retailers and for other major FTSE 100 annual awards of up to 200% of salary may be offered based companies, market conditions, the level of increase awarded to on performance and potential up to a maximum of 400% in employees throughout the business and the responsibilities and exceptional circumstances, including those for recruitment and skills of individual directors.
Current annual salaries for executive retention.
directors are set out in the contract terms table page 39.
Awards in excess of 200% of salary, up to a maximum of 400% were made to a small number of senior management this year Stuart Rose, Ian Dyson and Steven Sharp received payments including the executive directors.
The Committee considers of 25% of total salary in lieu of pension and are not members that it is necessary to make further awards in excess of 200% of of the Marks & Spencer Pension Scheme.
Life Assurance for salary in 2007 08 to a few key individuals, including directors, in these individuals is provided through a separate policy and the order to ensure that the incentives provided by the Company value of these benefits is shown in the emoluments table, under are sufficient to retain them over the coming years and to cash allowance and benefits on page 40. reward them appropriately for achieving excellent results.
For executive directors, where applicable, the provision of a car or car allowance, fuel and chauffeur is included in the emoluments table as part of cash allowance and benefits.
38 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 Summary remuneration report continued Performance targets are based on Adjusted Earnings per Share All-Employee Share Schemes EPS growth, measured over a single three-year period which Executive directors can also participate in the share schemes the Remuneration Committee considers to be the key measure open to all employees of Marks & Spencer, currently Sharesave, of management performance to generate significant increases in the Companys Save As You Earn scheme SAYE.
Details of profits and enhance shareholder value.
The Committee reviews participation by executive directors in Sharesave are given in both the choice of measure and the level set each year to part 2 of this report.
ensure it is appropriate in light of the business strategy and the A SAYE scheme was approved by shareholders in 1981 and levels are demanding in the context of the Companys renewed by shareholders in 1987 and 1997 and shareholder circumstances.
approval is being sought at the 2007 AGM to renew the scheme The targets for the 2007 award have been set by the for a further 10 years.
HMRC rules limit the maximum amount Committee following consultation with leading investors.
When the savings contract is started, will be two different targets.
The first for any award up to 200% options are granted to acquire the number of shares that the and a more stretching target for the exceptional awards above total savings will buy when the contract matures, at a discounted 200%.
The Committee considers that this range of growth price set at the start of the scheme.
Options cannot normally be targets is as least as challenging as target ranges were for exercised until a minimum of three years has elapsed.
previous awards when they were chosen.
In coming to this Service contracts and terms conclusion, the Committee took into account the significantly Chairman higher base point for this award from which growth is Lord Burns was appointed Chairman post the AGM on 11 July measured as a result of the much improved result for 2006 07, 2006 following the retirement of Paul Myners.
Lord Burns has the future business outlook for the Company and EPS targets a service agreement which requires 12 months notice from the and trends in other retailers and FTSE 100 companies.
The Company or six months notice should he wish to terminate targets are as follows: the agreement.
Average Annual EPS Growth Adjusted EPS for Non-executive directors 1 in excess of inflation RPI start of scheme The non-executive directors have service agreements with the Award 20% vesting 100% vesting Original Restated Company for an initial three-year term, which are terminable 2005 8% 15% 23.5p 22.2p on three months notice by either party.
Kevin Lomax retired 2006 5% 12% 31.4p 31.4p from the Board on 31 August 2006 and Jack Keenan has 2 2007 4% 10% 40.4p 40.4p given notice that he will be retiring from the Board with effect 3 2007 4% 12% 40.4p 40.4p from 10 July 2007.
Martha Lane Fox will join the Board on 1 June 2007.
1 The base EPS figure was 23.5p, which was the adjusted EPS figure for 2004 05 on a pro forma basis.
The figure has been restated to 22.2p as the Group is now Executive directors reporting under IFRS.
All members of senior management, including executive 2 Awards up to 200% of salary.
These contracts can be 3 Awards between 200% 400% of salary.
terminated by the Company giving 12 months notice and by the employee giving six months notice.
Executive Share Option Scheme The Company retains the right to terminate the contract of any Executive Share Option Schemes have operated for over executive director summarily, in accordance with the terms of 20 years and in recent years have been open to approximately their service agreement, on payment of a sum equivalent to the 400 members of management.
Although a new Executive Share contractual notice entitlement of 12 months salary and Option Scheme was adopted at the 2005 AGM, the Committee specified benefits.
In the case of all current executive directors, does not intend to use this Scheme on a regular basis.
However, the Company reserves the right on termination to make phased it does wish to have the flexibility to make grants from time to payments which are paid in monthly instalments and subject to time if it considers it appropriate to do so in the future.
Entitlement to participate in future share scheme have been made under this Scheme in the year under review.
There are options outstanding for management under a number of previous schemes which will vest, subject to the delivery of the performance conditions, in 2007 and 2008.
Performance targets are assessed over an initial three-year period from the date of grant.
There is no ability to retest any grants made since 2004 05, which includes all grants made to the executive directors.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 39 Contract terms and current annual salaries fees for all members of the Board Committee Committee Current annual 1 Date of Notice period Basic salary fee member fee chair SID fee salary fee Name appointment unexpired term 000 000 000 000 Chairman Lord Burns 01 10 2005 12 mths 6 mths 450 450 Chief Executive Stuart Rose 31 05 2004 12 mths 6 mths 1,050 1,050 Executive directors Ian Dyson 27 06 2005 12 mths 6 mths 525 525 Steve Sharp 08 11 2005 12 mths 6 mths 525 525 Non-executive directors Jeremy Darroch 01 02 2006 3 mths 3 mths 55 6 12 73 Steven Holliday 15 07 2004 3 mths 3 mths 55 12 67 Jack Keenan 01 09 2001 3 mths 3 mths 55 12 67 Sir David Michels 01 03 2006 3 mths 3 mths 55 12 12 79 Louise Patten 01 02 2006 3 mths 3 mths 55 6 12 73 1 From 1 January 2007, for Chief Executive and executive directors and 1 April 2007 for Chairman and non-executive directors.
Shareholding policy The current shareholding policy for executive directors was introduced from 1 June 2002.
All executive directors are required to hold a defined percentage of salary 200% for Chief Executive and 100% for all other executive directors within a five-year period from their appointment.
The relevant salary is either the salary as at 1 June 2002 or as at date of appointment, whichever is the later.
The share market value is measured at the current date.
Directors interests The beneficial interests of the directors and connected persons in the shares of the Company are shown below.
Name Ordinary shares as at 31 March 2007 Ordinary shares as at 1 April 2006 1 Lord Burns 12,275 5,545 Jeremy Darroch 2,000 2,000 Ian Dyson 60,000 60,000 Steven Holliday 2,500 2,500 Jack Keenan 53,238 53,238 Sir David Michels 4,000 4,000 Louise Patten 8,000 4,000 Stuart Rose 500,416 500,416 Steven Sharp 28,473 27,816 1 Lord Burns bought 2,197 shares on 2 April 2007 under the terms of his appointment, being the purchase of shares on a quarterly basis, using approximately 25% of his net income from the Company, increasing his shareholding to 14,472 ordinary shares.
External appointments The Company recognises that executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that such appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience, to the benefit of the Company.
The individual director retains the fees.
Stuart Rose serves as a non-executive director at Land Securities and received a fee of 50,000 during the year under review.
40 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 Summary remuneration report continued PART 2: AUDITED INFORMATION Directors emoluments Cash Salary allowance Total Total 5 4 fee and benefits Bonus 2007 2006 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman 1 Lord Burns 337 2 339 88 Chief Executive 2 Stuart Rose 975 277 1,050 2,302 2,305 Executive directors 3 Ian Dyson 486 140 525 1,151 685 3 Steven Sharp 488 152 525 1,165 364 Non-executive directors Jeremy Darroch 61 61 8 Steven Holliday 60 60 50 Jack Keenan 68 68 60 Sir David Michels 68 68 4 Louise Patten 58 58 8 Directors retiring from the Board during the year 6 Kevin Lomax 29 29 60 7 Paul Myners 67 57 124 203 8 Former directors 251 1,282 Total 2,697 628 2,100 5,676 5,117 1 Lord Burns was appointed Chairman on 11 July 2006.
His fee on appointment increased to 400,000 from his previous salary as Deputy Chairman of 175,000.
2 Stuart Rose received a salary increase from 950,000 to 1,050,000 effective from 1 January 2007.
3 Ian Dyson & Steven Sharp received a salary increase from 475,000 to 525,000 effective from 1 January 2007.
They each received a total bonus of 1,312,500 for 2006 07.
4 For all executive directors, 40% of the total bonus is paid in cash as shown in the table, and 60% paid in shares as part of the Deferred Share Bonus Plan as described under the Annual Bonus Scheme on page 37.
The Deferred Share Bonus Plan shares will be granted in June 2007.
5 The elements included in the Cash allowance and benefits column of the table are described in detail in the Salaries and benefits section on page 37 and have been audited.
In addition, non-executive directors are entitled to reimbursement of any expenses incured as a result of their Board duties.
For 2006 07 this included 20,000 for Sir David Michels, Senior Independent Director, who was reimbursed for general office and administration costs related to his Marks & Spencer Board duties.
6 Kevin Lomax retired from the Board on 31 August 2006.
7 Paul Myners retired from the Board on 11 July 2006.
The Company agreed to provide Paul Myners with the services of a driver and fleet vehicle for a period of up to two years from August 2006.
The cost of that arrangement for the period August 2006 to March 2007 inclusive was 56,245.
The remaining 838 were benefits received between April and July 2007 whilst he was Chairman.
8 The 251,000 in 2007 last year 246,000 relates to payments for former directors under the Early Retirement Plan.
Under this plan, the Remuneration Committee could, at its discretion, offer an unfunded Early Retirement Pension, separate from the Company pension, which was payable from the date of retirement to age 60.
With effect from 31 March 2000, the Early Retirement Plan was withdrawn but payments continue for awards made before this date.
The former directors are James Benfield who received 78,686 last year 76,992 payable until 22 April 2009, and Derek Hayes who received 73,202 last year 71,626 payable until 19 November 2008.
The pension scheme entitlement for Clinton Silver is supplemented by an additional, unfunded pension paid by the Company, which for 2007 was 98,873 last year 96,745.
For 2006, the additional 1,036,000 relates to payments to directors who retired from the Board during that year.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 41 Performance graph This graph illustrates the performance of the Company against the FTSE 100 over the past five years.
The FTSE 100 has been chosen as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which the Company has been a member throughout the period.
Performance, as required by the legislation, is measured by Total Shareholder Return which is share price growth plus any dividends paid.
250 200 150 100 50 0 30 Mar 02 29 Mar 03 3 Apr 04 2 Apr 05 1 Apr 06 31 Mar 07 The above graph looks at the value, at 31 March 2007, of 100 invested in Marks & Spencer Group on 30 March 2002 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
The other points plotted are the values at the intervening financial period-ends.
Marks & Spencer Group FTSE 100 Index Source: Thomson Financial The above graph does not form part of the audited information of the Remuneration Report.
Value 42 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 FINANCIAL CALENDAR Record date to be eligible for the Shareholder information final dividend 1 June 2007 ORDINARY SHARES AGM Earls Court 2 As at 31 March 2007 there are 232,802 holders of ordinary shares whose shareholdings are analysed as below.
uk consumer Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Financial Review Summary Reports Information www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 43 SHAREHOLDER VOUCHERS Enjoy shopping at M&S stores and online with your annual shareholder vouchers.
com  44 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreview2007 UK store portfolio as at 11 May 2007 Abbeycentre Belfast Aberdeen Accrington Aldershot Outlet Altrincham Andover Ards Shopping Centre Arena Park Coventry Arnison Centre Durham Ashford Ashford Outlet Ashton-under-Lyne Astle Park Outlet Avonmeads Aylesbury Ayr Balham Ballymena Banbridge Outlet Banbury Bangor, Northern Ireland Bangor, Wales Banstead Barnsley Barnstaple Barrow Basildon Basingstoke Bath Bath Road, Slough Bayswater Beaconsfield Bearsden Beckenham Bedford Belfast Beverley Bexleyheath Bicester Biggin Hill Birch West Services Birkenhead Birmingham Birmingham New Street Station Bishop Auckland Bishop Stortford Blackburn Blackheath Blackpool Blackrock Blanchardstown Bluewater Bolton Bolton Middlebrook Bond Street Station Bootle Borehamwood Boston Bothwell Street, Glasgow Boundary Mill Outlet Bournemouth Brackley BP Bracknell Bradford Bradwell Abbey, Milton Keynes BP Braehead Braintree Braintree Outlet Breakspear Way BP Brent Cross Brentwood Bridgend Outlet Bridlington Brighton Brighton Station Bristol Brixton Road Bromley Brompton Road Brooklands Broughty Ferry Burnley Burton Bury Bury St. Edmunds Buxton Byker Outlet Byres Road, Glasgow Camberley Cambridge Cambridge Station Camden Town Canary Wharf Cannon Street Station Canterbury Cardiff Cardiff Station Cardinal Place, Victoria Carlisle Carmarthen Castleford Castleford Outlet Castlepoint Caversham Charing Cross Station Chatham Outlet Chelmsford Chelsea Cheltenham Cherwell Valley Services Cheshire Oaks Outlet Cheshunt Chester Chesterfield Chichester Chieveley Services Chiswick Christchurch Church View, Tunbridge Wells BP Cirencester Clacton Clapham Clapham South Claredon BP Clarion Quay, Dublin Cleveleys Colchester Coleraine Coliseum Colmore Row Cork Covent Garden Coventry Craigleith Cranleigh Crawley Crescent Link Crewe Cribbs Causeway Cross Gates, Leeds Crouch End Croydon Culverhouse Cross Cwmbran Dalton Park Outlet Darlington Deal Denton Outlet Derby Devizes Dewsbury Didsbury Doncaster Doncaster Outlet Donington Park Services Dorchester Dorking Douglas Dover Drogheda Grafton Street, Dublin Mary Street, Dublin Dumbarton Dumfries Dun Laoghaire, Dublin Dundee Dundrum Dunfermline Durham Ealing Broadway Earls Court East Kilbride East Reading Services Eastbourne Edgware Broadwalk Edgware Road Edinburgh Edinburgh Waverley Station Elgin Eltham Enfield Epsom Euston Station Evesham Exeter Exeter Services Falkirk Falmouth Fareham Felixstowe Fenchurch Street Ferrybridge Services Fforestfach Finsbury Pavement Fleet Fleetwood Outlet Formby Fort Kinnaird Fosse Park Fourways, Corby BP Foyleside Frankley South Services Frome Fulham Island Gainsborough Galway Gatwick North Gatwick South Gemini, Warrington Gerrards Cross Glasgow Argyl Street Glasgow Central Station Glasgow Sauchiehall Street Gloucester Godstone Park BP Grafton Centre Cambridge Grantham Gravesend Green Park Greenock Greenwich Gretna Outlet Grimsby Guildford Guiseley Gunwharf Quays Outlet Gyle Hackney Halifax Hamilton Hammersmith Hammersmith Flyover BP Hampstead Handforth, Wilmslow Harborne Harbourside, Bristol Harlow Harpenden Harrogate Harrow Hartlepool Hastings Hatfield Outlet Haywards Heath Hazel Grove Heathrow Terminal 3 Hedge End Hemel Hempstead Hempstead Valley Hereford Hertford High Wycombe Hilton Park North Services Hitchin Holloway Road Honiton Horsham Hounslow Outlet Huddersfield Hull Huntingdon Ilford Ilkeston Inverness Ipswich Irvine Islington Junction One Outlet Keighley Kendal Kensington Kenton Bar Kettering Kew Kidderminster Weavers Wharf Kilburn Kilmarnock Kings Cross Station Kings Lynn Kings Road Kingsditch Kingston Kingston Park Milton Keynes Kingsway Derby Kirkcaldy Knutsford Services Lancaster Lancaster North Services Leamington Leeds Leeds Central Station Leeds Moortown Leicester Leigh Delamere East Services Leigh Delamere West Services Letchworth Lewisham Lichfield Liffey Valley Lincoln Lisburn Liverpool Liverpool Lime Street Station Liverpool Street Station Livingston Livingston Outlet Llandudno Llanelli Llanishen London Bridge Station London Colney Loughborough Loughton Lower Earley Lowestoft Lowry Outlet Luton Luton Airport Lytham St. Annes Macclesfield Maidenhead Maidstone Malone Manchester Manchester Piccadilly Plaza Manchester Piccadilly Station Mansfield Mansfield Outlet Marble Arch Market Harborough Marlow Marylebone Station Meadowhall Melton Mowbray Merry Hill Metro Centre Middlesbrough Mill Hill Milngavie Milton Dumbarton BP Milton Keynes Monks Cross Monmouth Morningside, Edinburgh Morpeth Mount, St Albans BP Muswell Hill Naas Neath New Mersey Newark Newbridge Newbury Newcastle Newcastle-under-Lyme Newmarket Newport Newport, Isle of Wight Newry Newton Abbot Newton Mearns Newtownbreda North Stafford Services Northallerton Northampton Northolt Park BP Northwich Norwich Notting Hill Gate Nottingham Nuneaton Oadby Ocean Terminal Omagh Ormskirk Orpington Orsett South BP Oxford Paddington Station Paisley Palmers Green Pantheon Paternoster Square Pease Pottage Services Perth Peterborough Pinner Plymouth Pontardulais Pontefract Pontypridd Poole Portsmouth Preston Prestwich Princes Risborough Princess Park Pudsey Putney Reading Reading Station Redcar Redditch Redhill Reigate Rhyl Richmond Rickmansworth Ripon Rochdale Romford Rotherham Parkgate Roundacre Basildon BP Royal Quays Outlet Rugby Ruislip Sale Salisbury Scarborough Scunthorpe Sevenoaks Sheaf Street Station Sheffield Shepherds Bush BP Shirley Shoreham Shrewsbury Skegness Slateford Road, Edinburgh BP Slough Solihull Sonning Cutting, Reading BP South Shields South Woodford Southend-on-Sea Southgate Southport Southwaite South Services Spalding Speke Springfields Outlet St Albans St Helens St Neots Stafford Staines Stamford Stevenage Stirling Stockport Stockton Stoke-on-Trent Straiton Stratford Street Outlet Sudbury Summertown Sunbury Cross Sunderland Surbiton Sutton Sutton Coldfield Swansea Swindon Swindon Outlet Swiss Cottage Talbot Green Tamworth Tamworth Services Taunton Teddington Teesside Telford Temple Fortune Tewkesbury The Forge Outlet The Fort Birmingham The More, London Thurrock Thurrock Outlet Thurrock Services Tiverton Toddington North Services Toddington South Services Tolworth Tooting Torbay Torquay Tottenham Court Road Trafford Park Trowbridge Trowell North Services Truro Lemon Quay Tunbridge Wells Twickenham Upper Road Belfast Uxbridge Valley Park Croydon Victoria Station Wakefield Walsall Walsall Outlet Walworth Road Warrington Waterloo Station Watford Welwyn Garden City West Bridgford West End Glasgow West Quay West Reading Services West Wickham Westbourne Westcliffe-on-Sea BP Westhill Weston-Super-Mare Westwood Cross Wetherby Weymouth Whetstone Whitley Bay Wigan Wimbledon Winchester Windsor Woking Wokingham Wolverhampton Wood Green Woolley Edge South Services Woolwich Outlet Worcester Workington Worthing Wrexham Wrythe BP Wycombe Marsh Yarmouth Yeovil York York Outlet York Retail Park www.
com annualreview2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 45 Glossary Better buying Gross margin Refers to the way we now buy our clothing at the right time, Sales less the cost of goods sold, as a percentage of sales.
com P Pr riin nt t:: Royle Corporate Print www.
