14474Back final AW:Layout 1 10 12 07 16:39 Page 39 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 NOTES 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation The Company financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain freehold and leasehold properties, and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable UK accounting standards.
Cash flow statement and related party disclosures The Company is exempt from preparing a cash flow statement under the terms of FRS 1 as it is included within the consolidated Group cash flow statement presented in this annual report.
The Company is also exempt under the terms of FRS 8 from disclosing related party transactions with entities that are part of the Marstons PLC formerly The Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries, PLC Group.
Revenue and other operating income Revenue represents rents receivable from licensed properties, which is recognised in respect of the period to which it relates.
Other operating income comprises mainly rents from unlicensed properties.
Deferred tax Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed by the balance sheet date that give rise to an obligation to pay more or less tax in the future.
Timing differences are differences between the Companys taxable profits and profits as stated in the financial statements.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted and assets are only recognised where recoverability is probable.
Fixed assets Freehold and leasehold properties are stated at valuation or at cost.
Plant, furnishings, equipment and other similar items are stated at cost.
Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis to provide for the cost of the assets less residual value over their useful lives.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated to residual value over 50 years.
Short leasehold properties are depreciated over the life of the lease.
Other plant and equipment is depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 15 years.
Own labour directly attributable to capital projects is capitalised.
Properties are revalued by qualified valuers at least once in each rolling five year period, on an existing use basis.
When a valuation is below current carrying value, the asset concerned is reviewed for impairment.
Impairment losses are charged to the revaluation reserve to the extent that a previous gain has been recorded, and thereafter to the profit and loss account.
Surpluses on revaluation are recognised in the revaluation reserve, except where they reverse previously charged impairment losses, in which case they are recorded in the profit and loss account.
Assets held for sale Assets, typically properties, are categorised as held for sale when the value of the asset will be recovered through a sale transaction rather than continuing use.
This condition is met when the sale is highly probable, the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition and is being actively marketed.
In addition, the Company must be committed to the sale and the completion should be expected to occur within one year from the date of classification.
Disposals of fixed assets Profit loss on disposal of fixed assets represents net sale proceeds less carrying value of the assets.
Any element of the revaluation reserve relating to the fixed assets disposed of is transferred to retained earnings at the date of sale.
Leases Rental costs under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account over the term of the lease.
The cost of assets held under finance leases is included within tangible fixed assets and depreciation is provided in accordance with the policy for the class of asset concerned.
The corresponding obligations under those leases are shown as creditors.
The finance charge element of rentals is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost, less any provision for diminution in value.
