14474Back final AW:Layout 1 10 12 07 16:38 Page 6 MARSTONS ANNUAL REPORT 2007 NOTES 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Basis of preparation These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee IFRIC and Standing Interpretations Committee SIC interpretations adopted by the European Union and with those parts of the Companies Act 1985 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of land and buildings and derivative financial instruments.
IFRS 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures will be mandatory for the Group in the period ending 27 September 2008.
This will require the Group to amend certain disclosures in relation to its financial instruments, but will have no impact on the results presented.
The Group does not consider that any other standards or interpretations issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, but not yet applicable, will have a significant impact on the financial statements in the future.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the audited financial statements of Marstons PLC formerly The Wolverhampton & Dudley Breweries, PLC and all of its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of new subsidiary undertakings are included in the Group accounts from the date on which control transferred to the Group or, in the case of disposals, up to the effective date of disposal.
Transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.
The Group has applied the purchase method in its accounting for the acquisition of subsidiaries.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the consideration, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date.
The excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of acquisition is less than the fair value of the Groups share of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised immediately in the income statement.
The consolidated financial statements also incorporate the results of Marstons Issuer PLC formerly W&DB Issuer PLC, a company set up with the sole purpose of issuing debt secured on assets owned by the Group.
The Directors consider this company meets the definition of a special purpose entity under SIC 12 Consolidation special purpose entities and hence for the purpose of the consolidated financial statements it has been treated as a subsidiary undertaking.
Details of this company are provided in note 36.
Revenue and other operating income Revenue represents the value of goods drink and food and services accommodation and gaming machines supplied to customers, and rents receivable from licensed properties.
Revenue for drink, food and accommodation is recognised at the point at which the goods or services are provided.
Gaming machine income is recognised as earned.
Rental income is recognised in respect of the period to which it relates.
Revenue is recorded net of discounts, intra-Group transactions, VAT, and excise duty relating to the brewing and packaging of certain products.
Other operating income comprises mainly rents from unlicensed properties.
Segmental reporting For primary segment reporting purposes the Group is considered to have four distinguishable business segments, being Marstons Inns and Taverns formerly Pathfinder Pubs, Marstons Pub Company formerly The Union Pub Company, Marstons Beer Company formerly WDB Brands and Marstons Group Services formerly Central.
This mirrors the Groups internal organisation and management structure, and reflects the different risk profiles to which the business is exposed.
An element of Marstons Group Services costs is allocated to each of the trading divisions.
Acquired businesses are treated as separate reporting segments, where material, until they have been fully integrated with the Groups trading divisions.
Exceptional items Exceptional items are defined as those that, by virtue of their nature, size or expected frequency, warrant separate disclosure in the financial statements in order to fully understand the underlying performance of the Group.
Intangible assets Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any impairment losses.
Intangible assets arising on acquisition of subsidiaries are recognised separately from goodwill if the fair value of these assets can be identified separately and measured reliably.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the intangible asset.
Where the useful life of the asset is considered to be indefinite no annual amortisation is provided but the asset is subject to annual impairment reviews.
Impairment reviews are carried out more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may be impaired.
The useful lives of the Groups intangible assets are: Computer software 5 years Brands Indefinite Any impairment of carrying value is charged to the income statement.
