MITIE at a glance Growing together Ever since MITIE started, there has been a common theme to our progression as a company growth.
The Group has not only grown financially.
Over the years we have also grown our people, the number of customers and the level of service we provide to them.
Central to this commitment is our unique business model.
MITIE, which stands for Management Incentive Through Investment Equity, stands out from its peers because it offers entrepreneurs the chance to develop a business idea in line with the core services offered by the Group.
With the hard work, enthusiasm and customer dedication of a small company, and the support and professionalism of a large plc, these businesses can then develop and grow.
We place particular emphasis on enabling our people to develop to their full potential, in the belief that if we look after them, they will look after our customers.
Our employees are therefore focused on working hard together, and supporting and listening to their customers.
We serve many sectors, both public and private, and provide an extensive range of services, with one common focus our customer.
39,000 employees 6,128 customers 19 years of growth 1MITIE 2 MITIE Group PLC Our values Together we are MITIE MITIE people are motivated, knowledgeable and passionate about their customers.
They are also rewarded, respected and properly equipped for their jobs.
We train and develop our staff and we care about their health and safety.
We provide opportunities for our employees to grow so that our customers receive loyalty, added value, the ability to focus on their core business, flexibility, quality services, responsiveness and choice.
We listen to our customers needs, communicate effectively and work in partnership to provide multiple services.
This means that our shareholders and the communities in which we operate receive sustainable performance, long-term commitment and corporate responsibility.
MITIE is an entrepreneurial company with good governance, strong management, financial stability and a clear strategy.
2005 restated under IFRS Profit by segment Turnover by service Support Services 34.5m Cleaning 204.7m Property Services 9.0m Catering 13.6m Engineering Services 7.2m Landscaping 4.4m Pest Control 4.7m Security 87.2m Managed Services 82.3m Business Services 16.8 Engineering Maintenance 102.3m Property Services 163.5m Engineering Services 256.1m Profit before tax pre-amortisation MITIE Group PLC 3
