02 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 At a Glance Marketing and Distribution Division Five closely-related businesses serving the small order and highly mixed product and service requirements of electronic design engineers, small scale production units, procurement specialists and maintenance engineers in industry and the public sector.
Customers share a common need for a broad product range, fast and reliable delivery and specialist technical support.
Marketing & Distribution Division Percentage of Group sales Sales 1 87% 706.4m 2.5% Americas UK Mainland Asia 44% 37% Europe Pacic 15% 4% Notes: Operating profit 1 Based on sales per day for continuing businesses at constant exchange rates.
2 2 Before one-off charges of 11.7 million in the year comprising a 6.6 million provision in respect of estimated obsolete and slow 68.6m moving non-compliant inventory across the Group resulting from the implementation of RoHS legislation, 3.9 million in respect of the restructuring of BuckHickman InOne and 1.2 million in respect of the headcount reduction in the second half of the year.
Employees: 4,090 Industrial Products Division A group of businesses that supply high-performance products to specialist industrial markets in Europe and North America.
Industrial Products Division Percentage of Group sales Sales 1 13% 107.6m 9.2% Operating profit 14.1m Notes: 1 Based on sales per day for continuing businesses at constant exchange rates.
Employees: 970 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 03 Farnell InOne www.
com MDD increased Markets and distributes electronic components, test equipment, maintenance and repair 2 operating profits products in Europe and the Asia Pacic region.
The business also provides procurement in the second half services and technical support tailored to individual customer needs.
of the year, driven Newark InOne www.
com A marketer and distributor of electronic by efficiency components through call centres, via the web, and through a network of sales ofces across the measures, US and in Canada, Mexico and Brazil.
improving markets BuckHickman InOne www.
com A UK marketer and distributor of tools, consumables and health and safety equipment and continued typically needed in industrial working environments.
A specialist in supply chain out-performance management and vendor managed inventory.
com A North American distributor of quality electronic mainland Europe equipment and related products to engineers who install and repair consumer electronics and similar equipment.
co. uk A distributor of electrical and electronic equipment, components and accessories to smaller companies across the UK.
A specialist in the promotion of new products and special offers through direct mail and via the web.
com IPD performed A manufacturer and distributor of high-performance re-ghting equipment for strongly with both re truck manufacturers, public re services and industrial facilities.
sales and operating Kent www.
com A pan-European distributor of high-performance profit signicantly own-brand consumables including tools, adhesives and chemicals for the automotive ahead of the prior servicing and crash-repair markets.
com A distributor of high-performance electrical cable and connector assemblies for use in hostile or heavy-duty industrial environments.
Customers include the steel and automotive industries in North America.
com A distributor of electrical and industrial automation products and engineered solutions to manufacturers in the United States.
