Social performance summary 6 Premier is keenly aware of its responsibilities as a corporate citizen.
Backed by a strong Board-level commitment, we have designed and implemented a coherent set of policies that lay down the principles by which we manage our operations, our relationships with communities and our impact on the environment.
We are engaged in the business of finding and producing oil and gas.
More specifically, we specialise in carrying out this task in remote locations and developing countries where both the risks and rewards may be greater than in less hazardous and more mature countries.
Our aim is to manage the risks and maximise the rewards to the benefit of all our stakeholders.
All of our investment and operational decisions take account of the social and environmental impacts that they will cause.
Our commitment to corporate social responsibility is structured to create alignment between our commercial objectives and the ethical standards that we believe are necessary to maintain our reputation.
As part of this commitment, we regularly publish information about our social and environmental performance.
During 2006, we continued to work closely with local communities, business partners and regulatory authorities to make a positive difference within the localities where we operate.
Social initiatives In Indonesia, we funded and participated in a Jakarta-based initiative aimed at improving the future prospects of street children.
This included the provision of constructive activities for the children, facilitating educational opportunities, and strengthening the communitys ability to develop sustainable local initiatives to address their needs.
This programme was implemented by Save the Children USA with whom we have a global partnership and locally based NGOs.
On Matak Island, where we have had an operations base since 998, we have continued to pursue our sustained development programme focused on improving public health and education facilities for the community.
The new health clinic in the village of Payamalan, funded by Premier and managed by the local authorities, has significantly upgraded the standard of healthcare on the island.
We donated money to help local communities to build shelters in Yogjakarta after an earthquake destroyed many homes.
We also donated money to the Philippines Red Cross to help their relief efforts following Typhoon Durian in late 2006.
In India, we supported several local schools in Assam by donating new educational equipment, rebuilding playgrounds and supplying new furniture.
After local community consultation, we upgraded access roads and water supplies, and provided first aid training and information on snakebites, malaria and dysentery to key community representatives.
In Vietnam, Saigons Childrens Charity and Premier opened two classrooms for Tan Hung Primary School in the Dong Phu District, Binh Phuoc Province in collaboration with the local Education Department of Binh Phuoc.
46 children aged 5 to 2, most of whom are from ethnic minorities, will attend this new school.
Climate change As a company with a strong awareness of the impact our operations have on those around us, we have a responsibility to examine our position with respect to climate change.
We believe that we should continue to look for ways in which we can help address global concerns about this issue, at the same time as striving to meet the worlds growing demand for energy.
We have developed a strategic approach which we believe will enable us to maintain our operational efficiency, while minimising our impact on the environment.
Firstly, we monitor, measure and report our emissions, and have been contributing safety and environmental data to the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers OGP Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Performance for the past five years.
Then we manage the emissions from our operations, in accordance 7 with our policy of minimising the release of hydrocarbon gases through venting and flaring, as far as reasonably practicable.
We are continuously making efforts to improve environmental performance across all our offices around the world.
At our London Head Office, for example, we have changed our electricity service provider, so that all our electricity is now supplied from renewable sources.
We have launched a scheme to reduce the volume of hard copy company information including the Annual Report sent out to shareholders and stakeholders by encouraging them to receive this information electronically.
Under this scheme, we have pledged to donate to Climate Care for every shareholder that registers for e-communication.
org is a not-for-profit organisation that funds global sustainable energy and forest restoration projects aimed at reducing greenhouse gases.
An ethical approach to business At Premier we see the social and political dimensions of our business not only as potential risks areas for damage limitation but as potential opportunities.
We continue to incorporate an awareness of environmental, social and political issues systematically into the way we make decisions and carry on our operations.
We are an active participant in the global dialogue on corporate social responsibility issues.
As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact www.
org, we have made an undertaking to participate in a rapidly growing movement to underpin global markets with universal principles and thereby help realise the Secretary Generals vision of a more sustainable and inclusive global economy.
We are a participant in the UN Environmental Programmes Proteus Project, which seeks to create a system for monitoring and managing biodiversity issues on a global basis.
We support Monash Universitys Centre for Human Rights, which monitors and reports on human rights issues around the world.
In June 2006 we published our baseline Social and Environmental Report, the first since the company was restructured.
This report highlighted our initiatives in local communities along with our environmental and safety performances.
The preparations for our next Sustainability Report are already under way.
As a framework for this document, we have decided to use a combination of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI guidelines and the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Associations IPIECA social and environmental performance indicators.
Corporate social responsibility has both practical and ethical dimensions for Premier.
It is about doing the right thing as well as managing risk and protecting our reputation.
It is about investing in the community, protecting the environment and creating a culture which promotes fairness, understanding of others and a positive approach to life.
People We aim to attract, develop and retain talented and committed people in order to maintain the capability of the group to deliver our business objectives.
Our policy is to ensure equal opportunity in career development, promotion, training and reward for all of our employees.
We aim to ensure that all our employees understand our business goals and our values.
As an international group, we believe that our workforce should reflect the communities in which we operate.
It is therefore important that we increase the quality and experience of our local employees in order to increase the number of local leaders throughout the group.
We are therefore running programmes designed to ensure that as many of our local staff as possible are given the opportunity to spend time working in other offices in the group and thus develop a greater perspective of our activities.
Premier Oil Annual Report and Accounts 2006
