The Restaurant Group plc Operating and financial review 02 Annual Report 2006 At a glance Our locations Frankie & Bennys Scotland 27 13 Frankie & Bennys 04 Chiquito 09 Garfunkels 01 TRG Concessions North East 26 18 Frankie & Bennys 06 Chiquito An unbeatable combination 02 TRG Concessions of classic American & traditional Italian dishes Midlands 35 Among the most popular family 25 Frankie & Bennys restaurant brands in the UK 07 Chiquito today, Frankie & Bennys now 03 TRG Concessions trades successfully in leisure, retail and airport locations nationwide.
It remains a East 35 favourite with families, couples, 19 Frankie & Bennys friends and business diners.
02 Chiquito Frankie & Bennys brings 03 Blubeckers & Edwinns together the best of classic 11 TRG Concessions American-Italian style cuisine.
Alongside favourites including char-grilled burgers, steaks, London 24 01 Frankie & Bennys pizza and pasta are house 01 Chiquito specialities such as chicken 19 Garfunkels parmigiana, BBQ ribs and 03 TRG Concessions seafood dishes.
Inside, Frankie & Bennys has the atmosphere of a favourite family-run South East 78 25 Frankie & Bennys restaurant.
From the clear view 09 Chiquito of the open kitchen to the bottle 19 Blubeckers & Edwinns lined bar, it takes you back to 25 TRG Concessions 1950s New York.
Take a seat in a cosy booth and look at the family snapshots showing life North West 34 South West 16 Wales 06 21 Frankie & Bennys 10 Frankie & Bennys 04 Frankie & Bennys in the Lower East Side of the 09 Chiquito 05 Chiquito 02 Chiquito Big Apple.
Music is classic 50s 04 TRG Concessions 01 Garfunkels American swing.
With more than 130 outlets across the UK, Frankie & Bennys delivers a family restaurant appealing and familiar to everyone.
In addition, the Group operates 3 restaurants outside the UK Growing 25 our brands new restaurants Frankie & Bennys opened 25 new restaurants in 2006 including nine Little Frankies and will open a further 15-20 in 2007 This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
This information in itself does not constitute statutory accounts within the meaning of section 240 Companies Act 1985.
The Restaurant Group plc 03 Annual Report 2006 Chiquito Blubeckers Garfunkels TRG Concessions The best of traditional Friendly people serving Legendary & Loved Our Concessions division has Mexican and Tex-Mex cuisine fresh food in delightful an established reputation for surroundings How many restaurant brands its ability to deliver catering With its unique blend of sizzling have traded successfully in solutions across a range of food and cooling margaritas, Friendly, professional service the UKs most competitive market sectors Chiquito takes you across the from the moment you arrive, locations for more than 25 Rio Grande!
Now with well over ensuring that all your needs years?
Garfunkels provides Operating in the UKs busiest 40 outlets, Chiquito features are taken care of.
Our chefs the reassurance of a familiar airports and shopping centres, a sunny, spicy extravaganza of are busy, from early each face, well-known for its quality TRG Concessions has over Mexican cuisine, tasty Tex-Mex morning to the last pudding of service, great menu choice 15 years of experience with a and classic American favourites, of the night, preparing and affordable prices.
The diverse brand portfolio covering all served in a fun and lively fantastic food using the best, menu features favourite a wide range of market sectors atmosphere.
There are burritos, freshest ingredients we can dishes from around the globe, including table service, counter chilli, nachos, wraps and find.
The menu combines including a range of steaks, service, sandwich shops, pubs meatballs never forget the traditional favourites with burgers, pasta, chicken, grills, and bars.
Using existing TRG famous sizzling fajitas, smoking contemporary influences.
omelettes and the famous brands, creating entirely new on a red-hot skillet!
Or you can Seasonal & local specials salad bar.
Whether you want brands and establishing overload on Texas BBQ ribs, regularly feature, but our coffee and a pastry, breakfast, partnerships to franchise with juicy burgers or steaks.
The signature burger and ribs lunch, a light snack, afternoon third parties, we are established Kids Menu offers a wide range have been there since Day 1!
tea, dinner or just a relaxing operators delivering excellence of less spicy dishes for Blubeckers mixes the best of drink while you watch the world through a clear understanding children that are tasty and the past with the best of the go by, you will always receive a of the unique trading patterns nutritious, ensuring that present to create a relaxing, warm welcome at Garfunkels.
Chiquito appeals to all ages.
welcoming restaurant for Currently operating at seven The bar showcases signature every day.
major UK airports, and within margaritas, classic tequilas and shopping centres and railway cocktails alongside refreshing Edwinns Brasseries are stations, our Concessions ice-cold beers and soft drinks.
known for attentive service Division is creating new and Cantina-inspired interiors and and creative menus featuring exciting dining experiences.
lively Latin American music add traditional English food with to the atmosphere, whether you a contemporary twist.
Taken We are a market leader in this visit for lunch, a lazy afternoon, together, Blubeckers and exciting sector.
an exciting evening, a family Edwinns provide TRG with a party or fiesta occasion!
platform to develop into an area of the eating out market which is set to appeal to an increasing number of customers.
44% 5 27 24% increase in new restaurants years and operating profit growth operating profit still improving in Concessions Chiquito saw the highest rate of growth Added to our Blubeckers and Still popular and successful after Despite challenging operating conditions, in the Group for like-for-like sales and Edwinns portfolio 27 years, Garfunkels saw increased the Concessions team delivered an operating profits revenues and profits in 2006 impressive 24% growth in operating profit in 2006 This information has been extracted from the statutory accounts of the group which were approved on 4 April 2007.
