Quick read At a glance Group Severn Trent is a leading Turnover FTSE 100 water group, with 2,295.0m revenues of 2.3 billion.
16,312 employees We intend to create value through a strategy that will focus on water.
We intend to demerge Biffa by the end of October, increase gearing and return capital to shareholders.
By concentrating our efforts on raising standards, customers will receive the benets of reliable, high quality and cost effective services for clean water and sewerage.
You can nd out more about Severn Trent Plc and the businesses within our group at www.
com 2 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Quick read Water and Sewerage Waste Management Laboratories Water Purication and Operating Services Turnover Turnover Turnover Turnover 1,150.9m 712.3m 167.0m 267.8m 48.8% 30.2% 7.1% 11.4% of group turnover of group turnover of group turnover of group turnover 5,188 employees 5,552 employees 2,797 employees 2,425 employees Severn Trent Water provides Biffa is one of the largest Severn Trent Laboratories Water Purication and Operating water and sewerage services to integrated waste management provides environmental testing Services is one of the worlds around 3.7 million household companies in the UK.
It provides services in the UK and the US.
largest water and wastewater and business properties in collection, recycling, landll and From service centres and treatment companies.
hazardous waste services to laboratories across the US and operational efficiency and commercial, industrial and UK, it serves a client portfolio of investment in technology and local authority customers.
product development have delivered an excellent track record of organic growth.
Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Key strengths Strong and sustained track Competitive advantage Market leaders in the US Strong market position and record in Ofwat efficiency and in commercial and and UK, with strong brand brand recognition performance assessments industrial collections recognition Strategy of focusing on high Drinking and wastewater Modern, specialist eet Reputation for technical margin business opportunities quality consistently above with high levels of fuel excellence and responsive Continually expanding average and operational efficiency customer service product and technology base Leadership role in its sector 35 landll sites throughout Record of innovation and Emphasis on cost control and and region on climate change the UK, all with ISO14001 being at the forefront of operational efficiency adaptation certication new markets, such as Strong product and Excellent record in Excellent special waste vapour intrusion technology base in growing biodiversity, community capabilities covering Good progress on major IT markets such as arsenic investment, and education.
hazardous and projects which will further removal and global metering non-hazardous waste.
and help us exploit scale.
For further information please visit For further information please visit For further information please visit For further information please visit www.
com before elimination of intra-group sales Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 3
