annual report 2006 During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by the Company which indemnifies the Directors against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
The terms of reference for the Board and its Committees are available for inspection on request from the Company Secretary.
The table below details the number of formal Board and Committee Meetings attended by each Director.
During the year ended 31 March 2006 there were ten Board meetings, four Audit Committee meetings, five Remuneration Committee meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings.
In addition, the Board held a two day strategy meeting with senior operations management attending for part of the time.
There was one meeting of the Non-executive Directors without the presence of the Executive Directors.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Possible Possible Possible Possible to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended A Auer 9 9 445511 M Averill 10 10 4 4 n a n a n a n a R Biffa 3 2 1 12211 I Clubb 10 10 4 45522 P Delaunois 10 10 4 45422 D Downes 7 7 3 3 n a n a 1 1 P Johnson 97425411 R Pointon 10 10 4 45522 F Welham 10 10 44 n a n a n a n a Invited by the Audit Committee to be in attendance for part of the meeting.
Invited by the Nomination Committee to be in attendance at the meeting.
Invited by the Board to attend the April meeting.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference.
It was chaired by Mr R Biffa for the period up to his retirement and then by Mr A Auer for the remaining part of the year.
Mr P Johnson will be taking on this role from July 2006.
It comprises the Non-executive Directors see page 16.
Normally, it meets three times a year.
The external auditors and the Executive Directors are regularly invited to attend meetings and the Committee has access to the external auditors advice without the presence of the Executive Directors.
The Audit Committee has the authority to examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of the Group.
This includes the appointment, terms of engagement, objectivity and independence of the external auditors, the nature and scope of the audit, reviews of the interim and annual financial statements, internal control procedures, accounting policies, adherence with accounting standards and such other related functions as the Board may require.
The Board considers that both Mr A Auer and Mr P Johnson have recent and relevant financial experience under the requirements of the Combined Code.
There is a whistleblowing and security reporting procedure which encourages a free and open culture within the Group in all its business dealings.
The policy on engagement of the external auditors for non-audit services is that where the work is closely related to the audit, or if the work requires a detailed understanding of the Group, or when a significant benefit can be obtained from work previously conducted, the work may be awarded to the auditors without compromising their independence.
During the year the performance of the external auditors and that of the Audit Committee itself was reviewed by means of completing a detailed questionnaire.
