All shareholders will receive the Sterling equivalent of 3.41p per Ordinary share.
The second interim dividend willbe paid on 11 May 2007 toshareholders on the register atthe close ofbusiness on 20 April2007.
ii Dividends in 2005 were declared in pence.
Change in Functional and Reporting Currency As the Groups principal assets and operations are in the US and the majority of its operations are conducted in US Dollars, the Group changed its presentational currency from Pounds Sterling to US Dollars with effect from 1 January 2006.
The Company redenominated its share capital into US Dollars on 23 January 2006 and will retain distributable reserves and declare dividends in US Dollars.
Consequently its functional currency became the US Dollar.
This lowers the Groups exposure to currency translation risk on its revenue, profits and equity.
Financial informationfor priorperiods has been restated from Pounds Sterling intoUS Dollars inaccordancewithIAS 21.
Restatement and Change in Accounting Policies Prioryear IncomeStatements and Balance Sheets have been restated for the followingitems: a To correct the method of calculating the elimination of intra-group profit carried in inventory, the effect of which is to reduce the amount of overhead expense included in inventory valuation.
The impact of correcting this error is to reduce inventory at 31 December 2005 by $53m 2004 $49m and trading profit for the year ended 31 December 2005 by $9m 2004 $8m.
In addition, deferred tax assets at 31 December 2005 increased by $17m 2004 $16m and taxation for the year ended 31 December 2005 reduced by $3m 2004 $3m.
b To correct the classification of certain indirect production overhead expenses from Administration expenses to Cost of goods sold.
There is no effect on inventory or trading profit.
In the year ended 31 December 2005 Cost of goods sold is increased by $37m 2004 $39m and Administrative expenses reduced accordingly.
c A change in accounting policy for the recognition of the death-in-service benefits liability in the UK pension plan.
Under IFRS alternative treatments are permissible however management believes that it is more appropriate to apply the projected unit credit method rather than the value at risk approach previously adopted as this better reflects the Groups obligations and costs.
The effect was an increase of $17m in Retirement benefit obligation at 31 December 2006 2005 $16m, 2004 $20m and a decrease in deferred tax liabilities of $5m 2005 $5m, 2004 $6m.
There was an immaterial impact on trading profit and financeincomeinall years presented.
Special Note Regarding  The Groups reports filed with, or furnished to, the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
In particular, statements regarding planned growth in our business and in our trading margins discussed under Outlook and Trend Information are forward-looking statements as are discussions of our product pipeline and discussions of the costs of future revisions of the macrotextured knee product under Recent Developments, Legal Proceedings and Operating and Financial Review Liquidity and Prospects.
When used in this Annual Report, the words aim, anticipate, believe, consider, estimate, expect, intend, plan, target, well-placed and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other important factors including, but not limited to, the outcome of litigation and regulatory approvals that could iii cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Smith & Nephew, or industry results, to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Specific risks faced by the Group are described underRisk Factors onpage 21 of this AnnualReport.
All forward-looking statements in this Annual Report are based on information available to Smith & Nephew as of 20 March 2007.
All written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to Smith & Nephew or any person acting on behalf of Smith & Nephew are expressly qualified in their entirety by the foregoing.
Smith & Nephew does not undertake any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement contained herein to reflect any change in Smith & Nephews expectation with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or  suchstatement is based.
Market Data Market data and market share estimates throughout this report are derived from a variety of sources including publicly available competitors information, internal management information and independent market research reports.
Documents on Display It is possible to read and copy documents referred to in this Annual Report at the Registered Office of the Company.
Documents referred to in this Annual Report that have been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the US may be read and copied at the SECs public reference room located at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington DC 20549.
Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information on the public reference rooms and their copy charges.
The SEC also maintains a web site at www.
gov that contains reports and other information regarding registrants that file electronically with the SEC.
This Annual Report and some of the other informationsubmitted by the Group to the SEC may be accessed throughthe SEC website.
