04 telent Annual Report 2006 telent at a glance Telco Services telent is a dynamic services business Revenue split focused on the delivery of high-quality communications and network services to enterprises, equipment vendors, public sector organisations and telecommunications 63% operators in the UK and Germany.
Markets telents experience spans every element of the modern network and has developed Telecommunications an unrivalled combination of technical and practical resources to offer a full portfolio of services to plan, build and operate mission critical networks in Europe.
Overview telent has a unique pedigree in Telco Services, achieved over many decades.
Our service and support infrastructure is based on skilled people, fully operational, tried and trusted systems and processes that are supporting some of the largest and most complicated public networks in Europe.
We have a large, mobile field force of multi-skilled communications engineers who are experts in the installation, commissioning, maintenance and operation of multi-vendor assets in live networks.
Activities include Civil Engineering and Street Network strategy and evolution Works management Network design and planning Technology introduction and Transition management type approval Project management Multi-vendor system integration Multi-vendor Network Managed operations Equipment installation Network outsourcing Multi-vendor Network Spares and repairs management Equipment commissioning Network support and Fibre and Copper Cable surveillance installation Data assurance and Overhead Network installation performance monitoring Site acquisition, design Corrective and preventive and construction maintenance Site engineering New Roads and Street Works Act management 05 telent Annual Report 2006 Enterprise Services Revenue split telent is motivated by three core principles that underline its commitment to deliver service excellence to customers.
Service 37% Service means providing customers with the services and solutions they want to Markets make a difference to their business through recognised excellence and guaranteed Emergency services Metro satisfaction.
Government Rail Major enterprises Roads Commitment and utilities Commitment means putting customers first and keeping our promises: taking ownership: being accountable for our actions: Overview and acting in our customers best interest.
telent delivers advantage to a wide range of businesses and organisations.
telent has the flexibility to provide services either directly Value or in partnerships with other leading companies.
Addressing the needs Value means using our knowledge and of mission-critical networks, Enterprise Services support distinct business sectors, with appropriately trained, highly skilled and accredited staff, expertise to our customers advantage.
and sector-specific systems and processes.
In all activities, quality and safety are paramount.
Activities include Systems definition Managed terminal services Systems design Resignalling telecom schemes Systems integration GSM-R systems Project management CCTV and security systems Security and surveillance Vehicle tracking systems Whole life asset Real-time passenger management system information systems Complete managed services Road tolling Wireless networks and Intelligent transportation infrastructure works systems Command and control systems
