4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:19 PM Page 22 Customer Sector Group highlights Commodity markets remain strong, underpinned by supply restrictions and a generally constructive global economy.
Record annual production volumes at 14 of our assets right across our commodity range, including record production in five key commodities: aluminium, copper, iron ore, nickel and natural gas at a time of high prices and tight demand.
We continue to approve new projects in line with market demand.
This year, four major growth projects were completed and seven major growth projects approved, resulting in volume growth in high margin operations and representing a forecast total capital spend of just over US$5 billion.
This together with new projects added in the feasibility phase brings our project pipeline to 23 projects with investment approaching US$13.8 billion.
We market a range of mostly premium light sweet crude oils and condensates to refining and petrochemical customers in the Asia Pacific and Atlantic regions.
Petroleum We sell gas via pipelines into local markets in Australia, the UK, Pakistan and the US.
The markets for LNG from our North West Shelf operations are Japan, Korea Underlying EBIT increased and China.
Results 24% Underlying earnings before interest and tax EBIT were US$3 billion, compared with US$2.4 billion in 2005, an increase of US$573 million.
This increase was mainly US$ million attributable to higher average realised prices for all petroleum products.
Aside Turnover 5,876 from price, volumes from new operations were a significant contributor with full year contributions from ROD, Mad Dog, Angostura and Minerva adding Underlying EBIT 2,968 US$360 million to EBIT.
Capital expenditure 1,124 Net operating assets 5,323 Highlights Three major projects were sanctioned during the year, Stybarrow, Angel and Shenzi, bringing the total Petroleum Our Petroleum Customer Sector Groups pipeline to nine projects in development or feasibility at a principal activities are oil and natural gas capital cost of US$5.2 billion.
Pyrenees advanced into exploration, production and development.
We produced record annual We produce and market crude oil and volumes of natural gas due to the commissioning of Minerva condensates, natural gas, liquefied natural and North West Shelf Train 4. gas LNG, liquefied petroleum gas LPG and ethane.
22 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:19 PM Page 23 Results Underlying earnings before interest and tax EBIT were US$1.2 billion, Aluminium compared with US$959 million in 2005, an increase of US$232 million.
This increase was mainly attributable to higher prices for aluminium and alumina, Underlying EBIT increased adding US$591 million to EBIT.
Highlights 24% The benefits of our technical expertise are clearly evident at the Mozal and Hillside smelters where consecutive production records were again achieved from US$ million the same number of pots.
Commissioning has been successfully completed at our Turnover 5,084 Worsley expansion and we will see the benefits of increased alumina production Underlying EBIT 1,191 in future periods.
Capital expenditure 377 Net operating assets 5,895 Our Aluminium Customer Sector Group mines bauxite, refines bauxite into alumina and smelts alumina into aluminium metal.
We are the worlds sixth largest producer of primary aluminium, with a total operating capacity of approximately 1.3 million tonnes of aluminium.
We sell aluminium metal to customers around the world, generally at prices linked to the London Metal Exchange LME price.
Results Underlying earnings before interest and tax EBIT were US$5.4 billion, compared Base Metals with US$2.2 billion in 2005, an increase of US$3.2 billion.
This increase was mainly attributable to higher prices for copper, silver, zinc and lead.
Underlying EBIT increased Highlights We had record copper production during the period with the highest ever 14 9% production from both Escondida and Antamina.
The integration of Olympic Dam was successfully completed, also making a significant contribution to the higher US$ million result.
During the year the Escondida Sulphide Leach and Norte Turnover 10,294 projects were completed on schedule.
Underlying EBIT 5,400 Capital expenditure 1,250 Net operating assets 10,307 Our Base Metals Customer Sector Group mines copper, silver, lead, zinc, uranium, molybdenum and gold.
We provide base metal concentrates to smelters worldwide, copper cathodes to rod and brass mills and casting plants, and uranium oxide to power utilities.
Our portfolio of large, low-cost mining operations includes the Escondida mine in Chile, the worlds largest source of copper, and the Olympic Dam copper, uranium and gold mine in South Australia.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 23 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:19 PM Page 24 Customer Sector Group highlights continued Results Underlying earnings before interest and tax EBIT were US$4.5 billion, compared Carbon Steel Materials with US$2.8 billion in 2005, an increase of US$1.7 billion.
This increase was mainly driven by higher prices and record sales volumes for iron ore as well as increased Underlying EBIT increased prices for metallurgical coal.
Highlights 61% With seven Carbon Steel Materials projects in our pipeline, volume growth will continue to be delivered in all three commodities iron ore, metallurgical coal US$ million and manganese.
Returns for this business continue to be excellent and margins Turnover 9,760 were outstanding at both WA Iron Ore and Queensland Coal.
These were the Underlying EBIT 4,503 highest year-on-year margin expansions at any of our operations.
With continued strong demand and prices for these key Capital expenditure 1,606 commodities largely locked in until April Net operating assets 5,217 next year, the outlook continues to be very positive.
Our Carbon Steel Materials Customer Sector Group is a leading supplier of core raw materials and services to the global steel industry, producing and marketing a full range of steelmaking raw materials iron ore, coking coal and manganese ore and alloys.
BHP Billiton is the worlds largest supplier of seaborne metallurgical coal, marketing almost 50 per cent of global production.
Our interest in titanium minerals consists of a 50 per cent effective interest in Richards Bay Minerals RBM in South Africa, a leading producer of titanium slag, Diamonds and Specialty Products high purity pig iron, rutile and zircon from mineral sands, and the Corridor Sands and TiGen minerals sands projects in Mozambique.
The zircon, rutile and pig iron Underlying EBIT decreased are sold as end products.
Approximately 90 per cent of the titanium dioxide slag is sold internationally.
38% Results Underlying earnings before interest and tax EBIT were US$ million US$345 million, compared with US$560 million in 2005, Turnover 1,263 a decrease of US$215 million.
This decrease was mainly impacted by the processing of lower grade and lower Underlying EBIT 345 value material at our EKATI Diamond Mine.
Diamond Capital expenditure 202 revenues were positively impacted by sales from Net operating assets 1,755 inventories carried over from 2005.
Highlights The Diamonds and Specialty Products EBIT for EKATI in this current financial year will Customer Sector Group encompasses continue to be impacted by the processing our diamonds and titanium minerals of lower grade and lower value material and businesses.
The cornerstone of our will not benefit from sale of back stocks.
diamonds business is the EKATI In the medium term, however, increasing Diamond Mine.
Annual sales underground production from Panda and represent around 3 per cent of Koala will help restore profitability to current world rough diamond historical levels.
supply by weight and 6 per cent by value.
24 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2006 4984 BHPB Ann Rev Pt 1. qxd 08 09 06 2:20 PM Page 25 Results Underlying earnings before interest and tax EBIT were US$327 million, compared Energy Coal with US$587 million in 2005, a decrease of US$260 million.
Prices and volumes were largely flat but cost pressures experienced across the industry also affected Underlying EBIT decreased all Energy Coal assets.
Highlights 44% Annual production records were achieved at both Cerrejon Coal and New Mexico operations.
A recovery plan at Ingwe is starting to take hold and we are looking US$ million for an improved result in the medium term.
Turnover 3,319 Underlying EBIT 327 Capital expenditure 131 Net operating assets 1,928 Our Energy Coal Customer Sector Group is one of the worlds largest producers and marketers of export thermal coal.
We mine energy coal in South Africa, Australia, Colombia and the US.
Most of our energy coal sales are under medium and long-term contracts with power generation companies and utilities in domestic markets and export markets in Europe, Asia and the US.
We produce nickel in the form of compacts, high purity nickel briquettes and powders, high purity ferronickel granules and chemical-grade nickel oxide: and Stainless Steel Materials cobalt in the form of Chemgrade cobalt oxide hydroxide and electrolytic cobalt cathodes.
We also market chrome and ferrochrome produced by the chrome Underlying EBIT increased business we owned until June 2005.
Results 27% Underlying earnings before interest and tax EBIT were US$901 million, compared with US$712 million in 2005, an increase of US$189 million.
This increase was US$ million mainly attributable to the inclusion of a full year of results from the Nickel West Turnover 2,955 operations Australia, acquired in June 2005.
Underlying EBIT 901 Highlights Capital expenditure 1,423 The successful integration of Nickel West has been Net operating assets 4,794 completed and we are now looking to optimise this business.
Cerro Matoso had record annual production and we are looking to further increase production in the Our Stainless Steel Materials Customer medium term from improved recoveries of metal from slag.
Sector Group is the worlds third largest The Yabulu expansion is on track for delivery early next nickel producer.
The group primarily year and the gas conversion project at this refinery is now services the stainless steel industry through completed and is expected to have a positive impact on its wide range of high-quality nickel costs for the 2007 year.
While it is disappointing that products.
In addition, we supply nickel the budget and schedule for Ravensthorpe are and cobalt to other markets including under review, this project will enable us to the specialty alloy, foundry, chemicals, deliver increased nickel volumes into a and refractory material industries.
For structurally tight nickel market.
the year, approximately 80 per cent of our sales were to the stainless steel industry under a mix of long-term and medium-term contracts with prices linked to the relevant LME prices.
