10 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Business highlights of the year Caledonia has developed a distinctive and successful investment style and philosophy.
It is centred on our long term approach, our close supportive relationship with the management teams we back and our determination to guard our reputation as a good, reliable equity partner.
All this differentiates us, in the case of unquoted investments, from the mainstream private equity and venture capital markets and, for our listed investments, from more traditional fund managers.
The business highlights of the year under review illustrate our approach.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 11 Generating shareholder value by responding to market opportunities Supporting management and developing long term relationships Wallem In 1992, Caledonia became a significant shareholder with a 74% economic interest in Wallem, a Hong Kong-based group, best known for its leading position in the ship management industry.
There had been strong links with Wallem since the 1970s through the involvement of one of Caledonias directors in Wallems business, but the opportunity then arose for us to acquire the stake of the major shareholder.
So, in 1992, we invested alongside the chairman of Wallem, who had then been working in the Satellite Information Services business for some 30 years.
It was this close relationship and knowledge of the business which gave us the We acquired a 22% stake for 18.0m in Satellite Information confidence to invest in a company with its headquarters Services SIS, the provider of integrated information systems in Hong Kong.
The presence of Wallem at the gateway to to the betting industry and outside broadcast services.
China and its success in servicing burgeoning Chinese trade Our ability to take a long term view and acquire an existing have both helped us to develop an investment presence in shareholding in a well established business, without requiring that part of the world.
a shorter term exit mechanism, meant that we could respond Wallem performed very well in the mid-1990s, to the desire of an existing investor to realise its minority generating cash which it paid out as dividends, but suffered a stake at what we believe was a highly attractive entry price.
significant downturn during the Asian crisis of the late-1990s.
Broadcasting remains a key area of expertise for SIS.
In response to this, Wallem restructured its operations, It is one of the most experienced television and production selling its shipping investments, and has subsequently seen and outside broadcast companies in Europe, and the leading a substantial improvement in its fortunes.
supplier of television programming and sports data to Then, an unsolicited approach from an interested licensed betting offices.
In 1987, SIS became the first purchaser, closely connected with the founding Wallem broadcaster to create a dedicated specialist sports channel family, coincided with discussions we were holding in 2005 for the UK betting market.
Betting markets around the globe with our shareholding partner about how we might help now receive a service from SIS that includes live worldwide him realise his interests in Wallem.
Consequently we were sports coverage.
able, over the course of almost a year, to work with our Employing over 400 people across Europe, SIS operates co-investor, Wallems management, advisers and the a number of dedicated television channels and is one of potential purchaser to achieve a successful exit at the the small number of television companies in the world end of our financial year.
We are satisfied that this sale, able to cover and deliver live televised racing and provide to knowledgeable trade investors with sound financial a continuous supply of support data.
backing, was both at an attractive value and ensured that SIS is an established and successful business, which is the excellent reputation Wallem enjoyed with its clients owned by a small group of both strategic and financial remained in good hands, so that the business and its people investors.
Through having a Caledonia executive on the should continue to prosper.
board, we look forward to supporting management and Cash received for our stake totalled some 35m.
developing our relationship with our fellow shareholders We believe the Wallem story is an excellent example of and we have been impressed with the results to date of SIS.
how Caledonias flexible response to market opportunities During the year, our holding has increased to 24%.
We believe works well through the economic cycle for shareholding that our long term investment approach is well suited to partners and management teams and generates value for a business like SIS, which will benefit from a stable and our shareholders.
12 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Securing beneficial outcomes through supportive relationships with management Paladin Resources Business highlights We realised our investment in Paladin Resources for of the year 108.2m towards the end of 2005 by supporting a recommended offer from Talisman Energy Resources.
To achieve this, we worked closely with management, whom we had known from the 1990s when they had been responsible for the development and successful sale of Clyde Petroleum.
We had originally invested in Paladin Resources in 1994 and then built up a 9% stake, principally during 2002 and Backing management 2003, at a total cost of 19.8m.
in listed companies Paladin Resources was one of the UKs most successful independent oil and gas exploration and production through cornerstone companies.
Its strategy was to position itself as a natural partner for oil majors wanting to dispose of assets and to fundraising support purchase assets where further active investment would enhance production.
Assets acquired included a package of North Sea oil interests from BP and Amerada Hess and various permits in the Timor Sea off the coast of Australia.
For the offer to proceed, the purchaser needed to minimise the transaction risk from a potential competing offer.
We helped achieve this through committing our stake to the offeror a good example of how our supportive relationship with management can help to secure an outcome which benefits all the companys shareholders.
Avanti Screenmedia We invested 10.0m for a 17.9% stake in Avanti Screenmedia, the AIM listed supplier of screen media systems, and now have a Caledonia executive on the board.
We were introduced to Avanti by the companys brokers who were well known to us and recognised the benefit of Caledonias investing philosophy.
The investment demonstrates how Caledonia is able to assist listed companies through being able to cornerstone an issue of equity, such as an IPO or, as in this case, a 25m equity placing to fund the growth of the business.
Avanti is the market-leading provider of screen media services for the retail, leisure and shopping mall sectors in the UK, with a 30% market share.
Their screen media channels reach over 12m consumers per week, including a high proportion of the highly desirable 18-34s market through its pub and bar channels.
Avanti currently rents satellite space for relaying its services, but is keen to own its own satellite as a more efficient way of securing long term revenues.
It was awarded a satellite licence by Ofcom, the UK communications regulator, in August 2005 and plans to build and launch its 70m satellite by 2008, in conjunction with the European Space Agency.
Having appraised the opportunity in a relatively short period through detailed discussions with management and other due diligence, we decided that there was considerable upside in the value of the business and look forward to working with our Avanti board colleagues and management to realise this potential.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 13 Helping management reposition and restructure businesses Sterling Industries Caledonia has been closely involved with Sterling Industries, The remaining businesses in Sterling Industries are specialising in hydraulic valves and combustion heat transfer performing well.
Bloom, which designs and manufactures systems, since acquiring a 25% stake in 1989.
We acquired burners for the iron, steel and aluminium industries, is 100% ownership of the Sterling Group in 2000 in order expanding its market into China: PCC, a specialist in providing to be able to help management reposition and restructure thermal solutions for pollution control, is performing well in the business.
This was achieved through recruitment the US, and GCD, an Australian business that designs and both at board and management levels and we supported manufactures fibreglass ovens for a range of customers and operational management through some challenging market applications, is enjoying a strong market in its sector.
During these, the cost base was reduced and a clearer market focus introduced, capitalising especially on growth in China.
Our efforts were rewarded in 2005, when Sterling Industries took advantage of industry consolidation and sold its hydraulic valves business to Parker Hannifin of the USA for 33.2m, realising a book profit of 22.3m.
14 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 Business highlights of the year Building our portfolio of direct investments in India Alok Industries In 2003, Caledonia made a decision to build a portfolio of direct investments in India, extending geographically the successful strategy of backing proven management teams over the long term.
Working with local advisory partners, we initially gained experience through building a modest portfolio of small stakes in a number of companies introduced to us.
One of these businesses was Alok Industries, a listed textile manufacturer based in Mumbai, and we were impressed by their achievements and ambitions, not only in the domestic field but more particularly in export markets.
We were aware that they should be able to benefit substantially from the imminent removal of WTO quotas on textile exports and were preparing to raise capital to expand production for this purpose.
We initially acquired a small stake through a convertible bond issue in 2004 and then in July 2005, once we had really got to know the major shareholding family, we made a more substantial investment by participating in Aloks second convertible bond issue.
We have subsequently converted all our bonds into equity and added to the investment at various times through market purchases, giving us an 11.8% stake as at 31 March 2006 at a total cost of 13.9m.
We have also accepted the offer of a board seat.
The rapid expansion of Aloks already substantial manufacturing plants represents a considerable management challenge which we think is being skilfully met.
Recent good results reflect the quality of the management team and the longer term opportunities open to them.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2006 15 Offering exible investment support to proven management teams Easybox In the 1990s, we invested in a UK self storage business called Abacus.
The early days of the business required considerable input and some further investment from Caledonia.
Abacus became one of the largest European self storage companies and was sold in 1998 for a substantial profit.
Some two years later we were asked by the former Abacus management to join in a new venture establishing self storage sites in Italy and Spain.
In 2000, Easybox was created and quickly established itself with two sites in Spain and four in Italy.
It has proven much harder than expected to expand the business in Spain due to high property prices, so we decided to sell this part of the company and concentrate our efforts on Italy.
The Spanish operations were sold for 13.5m, a substantial profit on the cost of 6.9m.
7.0m was returned to Caledonia by way of loan repayments.
All sites in Italy have been trading well, a new site in Rome will be opening this autumn, and a number of new properties are being considered.
The Abacus Easybox history demonstrates our principles of seeking out able management, establishing a strong, long term relationship and being a flexible and supportive investor.
Treasury management Over the year, Caledonias liquidity increased from 40m to 180m.
The principal role of Group Treasury is to ensure that we have the cash available to meet our investment commitments and also to maximise the return from surplus liquidity consistent with maintaining an approved level of risk.
Traditionally, Caledonia has mainly held surplus cash in term deposits, but we have recently invested 75m in a range of money market funds that aim to deliver a return above bank deposits, whilst protecting our capital.
