Total revenues increased 3% on an BURBERRY 2005 06 BURBERRY 1 underlying basis to 742.9m YEAR AT A GLANCE 2005 06 Retail revenue increased FINANCIAL 11% underlying HIGHLIGHTS Wholesale revenue decreased 4% underlying Licensing revenue increased 6% underlying Operating profit before Project Atlas 2 costs increased 3% to 165.6m Operating profit after Project Atlas costs decreased 4% to 154.5m Retail initiatives in the US saw the The autumn winter 05 advertising Burberry continued its expansion Operating margin before Project Atlas re-launch of renovated stores in Boston, campaign featured actor Hugh Dancy programme across emerging luxury Denver, Philadelphia and Washington as and models Kate Moss and Gemma markets with the openings of premier costs of 22.3% vs 22.5% in prior period well as new stores In San Antonio, Palm Ward in a series of iconic portraits with locations in Warsaw, Poland pictured Beach and Naples.
London streetscapes as the backdrop.
Diluted EPS before Project Atlas costs increased 9% to 24.1p Apr 05 May 05 Jun 05 Jul 05 Aug 05 Sep 05 Oct 05 Continued strong free cash flow with 79 million generated in the year Completed 250m share repurchase programme with 192m repurchased during 2005 06 Achieved targeted cash neutral capitalisation Final dividend of 5.5p per Ordinary Share proposed 8.0p for full year, a 23% increase Expansion in Korea saw seven shop The spring summer 06 Prorsum Key to the collection were sophisticated The ad campaign images received The spring summer 06 Prorsum As a result of the Taiwan acquisition in openings over the course of the year Menswear Collection was presented to variations on the classic trench and worldwide exposure in leading fashion Womenswear Collection celebrated the August, Burberry now directly owns its commencing with the Lotte Jamsil golf buyers from around the world and the sharply tailored suiting reinforcing and lifestyle publications as well as in brands design leadership in outerwear 12 stores in the market.
The Breeze shop in Seoul and including the international press at a runway show Burberrys outerwear heritage and outdoor media, store windows, store with innovative interpretations of the Centre in Taipei pictured was the first Dongwha Duty Free store pictured.
tradition of sartorial British style.
Turnover m EBIT m EBIT margin % 2005 06 2005 06 2005 06 3 742.9m 165.6m 22.3% 2004 05 2004 05 2004 05 4 715.5m 161.3m 22.5% 2003 04 2003 04 2003 04 5 675.8m 142.6m 21.1% 1 Underlying figures exclude the financial effect of the Taiwan Acquisition and the portion of 2 Project Atlas costs of 11.1m 2005: nil relate to the Group's infrastructure redesign initiative Burberry's business in Spain affected by the retail conversion, in both reporting periods.
In announced in May 2005. addition, underlying figures are calculated at the same exchange rates used in the 2004 05 3 Before Project Atlas costs.
year's reported results for the period.
Burberry completed the acquisition of the operations 4 Under IFRS.
and assets of its distributors in Taiwan in August 2005 the Taiwan Acquisition and initiated actions related to the retail conversion in Spain during the third quarter of 2005 06.
5 Under UK GAAP, excluding goodwill and exceptional items.
Development in emerging markets In August, Burberry Brit Gold, a limited The collection was voted among the continued, with four openings in the edition complement to the successful top 10 of the season by industry Middle East.
May and June heralded Burberry Brit fragrance family, was publication WWD and earned Creative the opening of stores in Riyadh and launched with strong editorial coverage Director Christopher Bailey The British Jeddah, Saudi Arabia pictured.
Designer of the Year Award.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 3 Burberry has delivered a solid performance this year, while undertaking 2005 06 WAS MARKED a series of important initiatives and strategic investments aimed at taking the Group into another phase of significant growth.
BY MANY IMPORTANT As announced in October of last year, Rose Marie Bravo, after 9 years at the helm of Burberry, is moving into the role of Vice Chairman with MILESTONES FOR effect from 1 July 2006.
Rose Marie has been the architect of Burberrys brand and company revitalisation during her tenure as Chief BURBERRY Executive which began in 1997.
We take this time to salute Rose Marie and register our respect for the huge contribution she has made to shareholder value.
A TRANSITION IN Burberry now welcomes Angela Ahrendts to her new role as Chief Executive with effect from 1 July.
Angela brings to the position LEADERSHIP extensive experience in the apparel, retail and luxury goods sectors.
Since she joined the Group in January of this year, Angela has already demonstrated the leadership skills and industry insight that will guide SIGNIFICANT STRATEGIC Burberrys ongoing growth strategies.
INVESTMENT IN LONG In other Board changes during the year, Brian Blake, an executive director, and Caroline Marland, a non-executive director, stood down.
TERM GROWTH We would like to thank Brian and Caroline for their valuable contributions to the business.
Burberry continued to focus on identifying opportunities and THE COMPLETION OF programmes to drive growth and shareholder value.
Among the major initiatives was the launch of Project Atlas, which is a programme for the OUR EVOLUTION TO A full redesign of our sourcing and supply chain business processes and systems.
Acquisition of the Groups distributor in Taiwan and the FULLY PUBLIC COMPANY conversion of parts of our wholesale business in Spain to retail concessions represented significant strategic investments designed to further Burberrys goal of establishing retail as the main channel of distribution.
We also took steps to begin the direct distribution of ACCOMPANIED BY products into Japan, a geographic market that has been primarily licensed for the past 40 years.
In addition, the Group completed its CONTINUED FINANCIAL 250m share repurchase programme as part of its financial plan to maintain a cash neutral capitalisation policy.
Approximately 192m was MOMENTUM repurchased in 2005 06 and, when appropriate, we expect to employ future excess cash in the repurchase of shares.
In December 2005, Burberry concluded its successful transition to a fully public company when GUS plc, formerly the Groups majority shareholder, distributed its Burberry holding directly to GUS shareholders through a demerger process.
We warmly welcome our new shareholders and thank them and all of our shareholders for the confidence they have placed in us.
Importantly, the Group accomplished the initiatives highlighted above accompanied by a good set of financial results.
Revenues rose 4%, 3% underlying, and diluted EPS before Project Atlas costs increased 9%.
Burberry also continued to achieve outstanding returns on capital, 33% per share after tax for the year.
The full year dividend is recommended at 8p, a 23% increase.
Looking forward, the year 2006 marks the 150th anniversary of when Thomas Burberry founded the Company and is therefore a very special one for us.
It is also a reminder of Burberrys unique heritage and of the enduring attributes of innovation, quality and style that continue to propel our momentum.
During the past twelve months, we have successfully laid a foundation for significant future growth and I would like to thank everyone at Burberry for the dedication and hard work that underpins our success.
John Peace Chairman Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 5 Burberry has delivered a solid performance this year, while undertaking 2005 06 WAS MARKED a series of important initiatives and strategic investments aimed at taking the Group into another phase of significant growth.
John Peace Chairman Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 5 renowned for innovation with its proven performance outerwear serving COMPANY OVERVIEW ESTABLISHED IN 1856, as vital equipment for early polar explorers.
With its lifestyle character, the brand maintains a broad appeal across age groups and genders.
AND STRATEGY Burberrys portfolio of brand icons the trench coat, trademark check BURBERRY IS and Prorsum horse logo are recognised worldwide.
A BRAND DISTINGUISHED Targeted brand expressions The Burberry brand encompasses a number of individual expressions to address multiple consumer BY A RICH HERITAGE AND segments.
The runway collection is the brands most luxurious and fashionable expression.
This collection of womens and mens apparel A BUSINESS DEFINED and accessories shown four times per year in Milan validates the brands style credentials, offers a focal point for media coverage and BY A PROVEN STRATEGY provides design leadership to all Burberry collections.
Burberrys core collections offer a range of products in a modern-classic aesthetic for a WHICH HARNESSES THE wide consumer audience.
In selected markets, Burberry creates lines Burberry Blue Label and Burberry Black Label in Japan, and Thomas Burberry in Spain targeted at young adults.
STRENGTH OF THE PAST Balanced product portfolio Burberry maintains a balanced product TO FUEL FUTURE GROWTH portfolio consisting of womens, mens and childrens apparel and accessories.
In apparel, the Group offers a range of tailored and casual AND SHAREHOLDER VALUE items with outerwear as a core part of the product offering.
Accessories include handbags, scarves including Burberrys iconic cashmere scarf, silks, shoes and umbrellas.
In selected categories outside of its primary expertise, including fragrance, eyewear, OUR 150TH ANNIVERSARY timepieces and childrens apparel, the Group combines its skills with those of licensing partners for the design, manufacture and distribution IS A TESTAMENT TO of products under the Burberry brand.
Multi-channel distribution Burberry distributes products in THE ENDURING ATTRIBUTES major consumer markets globally through its retail, wholesale and licensing channels.
OF INNOVATION, QUALITY Directly operated stores With 43% of revenues in the 2005 06 financial year, retail is becoming Burberrys primary channel of AND DESIGN LEADERSHIP distribution.
The channel offers the greatest ability to manage the Burberry brand full control over brand presentation, including THAT CONTINUE TO merchandise and physical environment and greatest proximity to the consumer.
Retail operations also offer strong financial returns.
Established in 1856, Burberry is an international luxury brand.
MOTIVATE OUR TEAM, Stores and concessions are positioned in prestigious and high Through its operations, the Group designs, sources, markets, licenses quality locations in important consumer centres worldwide.
and distributes apparel, accessories and other lifestyle products for ENGAGE OUR CUSTOMERS At 31 March 2006, the Group operated 65 stores, 165 concessions women, men and children.
Burberry products are sold worldwide and 30 outlets locations.
In the US market, Burberry offers a limited through a network of 260 directly operated stores and concessions, AND DRIVE OUR PERFORMANCE assortment of its products through an e-commerce operation.
71 third-party operated retail locations and a network of wholesale customers, which include leading prestige retailers in each market.
Wholesale The wholesale channel works in tandem with retail In the financial year to 31 March 2006, the Group generated total operations.
Burberry products are distributed through a network of revenue of 743m across its retail, wholesale and licensing channels.
leading department and specialty stores and duty free retailers WE LOOK TO THE YEAR AHEAD For that period, the Group estimates the total retail value of products worldwide.
The wholesale channel allows Burberry to extend its sold bearing the Burberry brand was in excess of 2.7 billion.
reach to consumers who prefer to shop in multi-brand stores.
WITH CONFIDENCE AS WE In selected markets where the Group decides not to invest directly, Unique luxury brand The brand is uniquely positioned within the wholesale partners operate Burberry franchised stores.
Burberry offers a broader range of products and CARRY THIS LEGACY FORWARD 2006, partners operated 17 Burberry stores across several markets, price points relative to many traditional European luxury businesses.
including Eastern Europe, the Middle East, India and South America.
The brand has a rich heritage associated with Britain outfitting military officers during the early twentieth century.
Equally, Burberry is Estimated brand sales at retail value Turnover by product category Turnover by channel of distribution 2005 06 total: 2.7bn 2005 06 total: 742.9m 2005 06 total: 742.9m Womenswear 34% Retail 43% Europe 35% 249.3m 318.5m Menswear 28% Wholesale 46% North America 15% 206.2m 343.3m Accessories 26% Licence 11% Non-Japan Asia 10% 203.2m 81.1m Licensing 11% Japan 36% 81.1m Other 1% Other 4% 3.1m Includes childrenswear 8 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 06 1
