Kensington Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Distribution Risk management Funding efficiency Partnership management At Kensington we have four key 2.
They are Kensingtons model of risk and reward embedded in our business, driven is built on sustainability both for the by our people and are implicit in our businesses and their borrowers.
success and continued future growth.
Distribution With more than a decade of experience, Kensington harnesses complementary Kensington knows how to get the most distribution strategies to ensure that from its funding lines using a balance the right products are delivered to of securitisation and whole loan sales.
the right customers through the most suitable channels.
Partnership management The ability to build strong, mutually beneficial relationships with business partners has been central to Kensingtons success.
Business structure at a glance Wholly owned subsidiaries Kensington Mortgages KM KM is a leading income or adverse credit history.
Regarded as specialist UK lender, offering secured residential a pioneer in the specialist market, last year KM mortgages and complementary insurance became the only mortgage lender ever to win products to customers who do not conform to the Queens Award for Enterprise, collecting the the criteria of traditional lenders, often because honour in the category of Innovation.
they are self-employed, have an irregular Kensington Personal Loans KPL Launched in September 2006, KPL has been developed to set new industry standards in the second charge loan market, offering market leading products to a range of borrowers, from near prime to unlimited adversity.
TML Financial Solutions TML TML was acquired by Kensington Group Kensington in 2002.
It is a direct to consumer distributor of specialist mortgages, using a variety of direct response media such as TV, press, web and direct mail to generate enquiries for residential mortgages.
In January 2007 Kensington announced the sale of TML.
Equity Partnerships Money Partners Limited Money Partners Money Partners is a business partnership Money Partners is a specialist lender offering that was launched in 2004.
Kensington holds a range of first and second charge mortgage a 57.5% equity stake in the lender and holds products via a nationwide network of one of two Founder Shares which have voting intermediaries that have not historically rights over key operational and business distributed Kensington products.
Kensington has an option to purchase the remaining equity in Money Partners in 2008.
Start Mortgages Start Start was launched in The lender is achieving substantial year-on-year November 2004 and is a specialist mortgage growth, has secured 15,000 square feet of lender in the Republic of Ireland.
Kensington premises and recruited an additional 50 people.
currently holds a 65% equity stake in Start and This has helped it to enhance its service has options to purchase the remaining equity proposition and further develop its operating in Start over the next three years.
2006 saw Start record another highly successful year, consolidating its leadership of the specialist mortgage market in Ireland.
Bluestep Bostadsln AB Bluestep Operating since 2005 from its head office based in Stockholm, Bluestep provides mortgages to specialist borrowers in Sweden whose circumstances do not fit the criteria of traditional lenders.
Key features Channels to markets Completions in 2006 Customers since inception Offers a wide range of products at Lender referrals competitive rates Broker direct 2,128m 107,984 Caters for most levels of adversity Packaging partners Employees Risk-based pricing Branded lending partners Multi-channel distribution strategy Direct to consumer operation 417 Self-employed specialist Second charge loans Packager partnerships Caters for most levels of adversity Risk-based pricing Same-day payment to customers Regulation proof products with 1 1 early repayment charges Completions in 2006 Customers since inception Provides solutions for a variety of Direct to consumer adversity levels 189m 20,172 Competitively priced Employees Specialist products Self-employed specialist 193 Key features Channels to markets Completions in 2006 Customers since inception Specialist lender Broker direct Service-oriented relationship management Packaging partners 1,294m 42,237 Flexible underwriting criteria Employees First and second charge products Wide range of products 155 Risk-based pricing Completions in 2006 Customers since inception Broadest range of specialist mortgage Broker direct products available in the Irish Packager partnerships 680m 6,500 mortgage market Employees Caters for an extensive customer range Risk-based pricing 80 Competitive fees and charging Offers specialist mortgages in a relatively Direct to consumer undeveloped market Caters for most levels of adversity Risk-based pricing
