Rathbones at a glance Business activity Investment Management The investment management division provides mainly discretionary investment management services to private investors and charities with portfolios held in discretionary accounts, trust structures, PEP or ISA accounts or self-invested personal pensions from ofces in the UK and Jersey.
The majority of clients have a fee-based service with securities held in a Rathbone nominee company and surplus cash held by Rathbone Investment Management, an authorised banking institution.
Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services advises clients on retirement planning options and offers the Rathbone SIPP.
1 Funds under management 10.3bn 2 Operating income 90.9m 2 profits before tax 34.1m Principal trading names Rathbone Investment Management Rathbone Investment Management International Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services 1 Employees full time equivalents 503 Ofces Bristol Kendal Cambridge Liverpool Chichester London Edinburgh Winchester Jersey Business head Richard Lanyon Investment management Ian Buckley Pension and advisory services Website www.
com Ethical investment 1 as at 31 December 2006 2 for the year ended 31 December 2006 4 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI Unit Trusts Trust and Tax The unit trust division has a In the UK, the trust business range of unit trusts which are provides taxation services distributed mainly through compliance and planning, independent financial advisers probate services, trust services in the UK.
trust formation, administration, accounting and provision These funds are purchased of trustees and protectors, through financial supermarkets, and family ofce services.
life assurance companies and through direct contact with Outside the UK, under the financial advisers banner of Rathbone Trust International, the trust business Funds cover the UK stockmarket, specialises in the provision of embracing small, medium and trustee, corporate and family large companies to achieve growth ofce services from ofces in and income.
In addition we Jersey, Switzerland Geneva manage an ethical bond fund and the British Virgin Islands.
and one global fund focused on international opportunities.
1.9bn 14.0m 21.2m 5.1m 2.3m Rathbone Unit Trust Management Rathbone Trust Company Rathbone Trust International 32 201 London Jersey St Helier UK London and Liverpool BVI Tortola Switzerland Geneva Peter Pearson Lund Ian Buckley www.
com rat services onshore www.
com Offshore services 5 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2006 5 KE 5 $ GI
