Royal & SunAlliance 2 Annual Report & Accounts 2006 R&SA at a glance UK A strong portfolio of Net written premiums 2,61 8m businesses, balanced Commercial 1,770m between mature markets and emerging markets with Personal 848m higher growth potential We are the largest Commercial insurer in the UK, with 13% market Key business areas share, writing property, motor, liability and marine insurance.
Property is the largest segment, accounting for over 35% of Commercial net written premiums.
The business has a strong reputation for technical excellence, it insures 70% of FTSE 100 retailers and is one of the leading carriers of Professional & Financial and Marine risks outside of Lloyds of London.
Our Personal business is ranked third largest in the UK with around four million covers in place.
UK Personal primarily provides household, motor and travel insurance through MORE TH N our direct business.
In Affinity, we provide the retail customers of our corporate partners with a range of insurance products.
We are aiming to become number one in the broker market for reputation, Key strategies capabilities and profitability.
In Commercial we are leveraging our reputation for technical excellence in our target markets to deliver profitable growth and manage retention.
In Personal, we are aiming to strengthen our number three retail position by enhancing our customer focus.
By 2010, we plan to grow our Affinity business by more than 50% from 2005 levels.
We will grow organically and will consider acquisitions that strengthen our portfolio.
We are targeting 70m of annualised cost savings by mid 2008 and an expense ratio of below 15%.
In 2006, the UK delivered a COR of 92.3%, almost one point better than 2006 highlights last year and a 4% increase in the underwriting result.
Commercial delivered a COR of 92.6% and the Personal COR improved 4 points to 91.6%.
In Commercial, our most competitive market, retention remains strong at 84% and we increased new business by 31% to 298m.
In November, we acquired Martello Underwriting Limited, a specialist provider of professional indemnity insurance which is expected to generate premiums of around 40m in 2007.
In Personal, MORE TH N delivered a 28% increase in new business and is making good progress in achieving a sub 20% expense ratio by the end of 2007.
In Intermediated, we signed 11 distribution agreements, including Paymentshield, the largest independent provider of mortgage related products in the UK, which is expected to contribute over 200m in premiums in 2008.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2006 3 International Emerging Markets Net written premiums 2,334m Net written premiums 531m Scandinavia 1,280m Canada 662m Other Europe Latin America 392m 314m Baltics 114m Asia & Middle East 103m International comprises our businesses in the mature insurance markets Emerging Markets is our fastest growing business, covering 20 markets of Scandinavia Sweden, Denmark and Norway, Canada, Ireland and Italy.
which offer high growth potential.
Scandinavia accounts for 55% of International premiums.
In Denmark Latin America is the largest operation accounting for 59% of Emerging and Sweden, our businesses are ranked third largest, operating under Markets net written premiums.
Our largest operations are based in Chile, the Codan brand in Denmark and Trygg-Hansa in Sweden.
where we are the market leader, Brazil and Mexico.
Canada comprises our direct business, Johnson Corporation, as well Our businesses in Latvia and Lithuania are ranked number one in each of as Personal Intermediated and Commercial.
their markets and we are launching a new operation in Estonia in 2007.
In Ireland, we are the leading provider of household insurance.
We are located in 10 countries across Asia and the Middle East, including India and China.
The Asia and the Middle East portfolio accounts for 19% Our Italian business distributes the majority of its products through of Emerging Markets net written premiums and consistently delivers non tied agents, with a network focused on Northern Italy.
In International, our objective is to drive the business harder.
We are We are targeting double digit growth per annum in these exciting targeting sustainable profitable growth ahead of the market and building markets by expanding distribution, disciplined underwriting and market share in our target segments.
We will complement organic growth with acquisitions that accelerate the delivery of our strategic objectives.
We are also successfully driving growth by exploiting alternative distribution channels and taking a segmented approach to our target We are targeting 15% growth per annum in Latin America, Asia and the customer base to develop new customer propositions.
We will consider Middle East and the Baltics, in order to double premiums by 2010 from supplementing organic growth with acquisitions in existing territories.
Over the same period, we intend increasing gross written premiums in India to 200m.
All targets are on a local currency basis.
Our cost reduction and operational improvement programmes are further enhancing profitability across the region.
In 2006, International delivered above market premium growth and Emerging Markets delivered an excellent 21% increase in net written a COR of 93.1%.
premiums in 2006 and a combined operating ratio of 97.3%.
In Scandinavia, we continued to develop our motor proposition, signing Premium growth was strong across the region, with a 26% increase additional agreements with car dealers in Denmark and Sweden.
We in Latin America, 38% in India and 32% in the Baltics.
In Latin America, acquired White Label Holding and Duborgh Skadeforsikring in Norway.
the increase reflects double digit organic growth as well as the integration of our 2005 acquisition, Cruz del Sur.
Asia and the Middle East also Canada increased net written premiums by 15%, reflecting strong delivered double digit premium growth, after adjusting for the disposal organic growth in Johnson and the successful integration of the Morgex of the Japanese business in 2005. and Shillington acquisitions.
Emerging Markets increased the underwriting result by 83% to 11m, Ireland produced another good result in a competitive market.
The driven primarily by Asia and the Middle East which delivered another acquisition of EGI Holdings Limited extends our expertise and product excellent result improving its COR by 6.4 points to 83.1%.
offerings in selected liability and motor lines.
Italy outperformed the market in terms of top line growth, and delivered a strong increase in underwriting profits.
