AT A GLANCE 04 Carillion plc Section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 What We Do In the UK, Carillion has eight principal market sectors Defence, Education, Health, Building, Facilities Management and Services, Roads, Rail and Civil Engineering.
In the Middle East, our two principal market sectors are Construction and Facilities Management.
In Canada and the Caribbean, our main market sectors are Health, Roads Maintenance and Construction.
Carillion is a leader in Public Private Partnership PPP projects, particularly in the Defence, Education and Health sectors in the UK and in the Health sector in Canada.
Defence Education Health We deliver integrated We design, build, maintain We provide a range of solutions including design, and provide facilities integrated service solutions construction, maintenance management services for for the NHS, from Public and facilities management schools and universities, Private Partnership hospitals services to the Ministry of particularly through Public to community-based clinical Defence and security sector.
Roads Rail Civil Engineering We provide road construction We provide rail infrastructure We provide a variety of civil and maintenance services to services for Network Rail the engineering services focused the Highways Agency and a Channel Tunnel Rail Link, mainly on the transport, number of Local Highway Transport for London and marine, water and industrial Authorities.
05 Carillion plc Section 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 What We Do Financial Reporting Order book segments We report our financial 16 billion results in three segments Investments, Support Services and Construction Services 16bn Facilities Management Middle East in which we group together and Services We have well-established joint activities of a similar type and We provide integrated venture businesses based in risk profile to make it easier service solutions for building Dubai and Oman providing to value our earnings on a maintenance, facilities construction and facilities consistent basis.
management and other management services for support services for public high quality developments and private sector customers.
such as Dubai Festival City.
In Investments we report 7bn the equity returns on our investments in Public Private Partnership PPP projects.
In Support Services we report the results of our activities 2005 2006 in rail infrastructure, roads maintenance, facilities Building Canada and Caribbean management and other Construction Services Our national and regional In Canada we have market support services.
Support Services building activities are focused leading positions in Public Investments on the retail, offices, mixedPrivate Partnership hospitals In Construction Services we use developments, nuclear, and road maintenance.
report the results of our prisons, industrial and urban In the Caribbean we have regeneration sectors.
well-established positions in building and civil engineering building and civil engineering.
