Strategy in action Progress to date implementing the three elements of the strategy has been excellent.
Management teams have been strengthened, companies rationalised, PV investment increased and collaboration between the divisions radically improved.
There is a common goal, six divisions, one standard bringing the best of Cobham to the customer.
Portfolio reshaping has removed Encouraging progress has The drive to improve the a number of underperforming been made strengthening the operational performance of businesses from the Group capabilities of people across the Group is delivering tangible and enabled resources to be the organisation to help ensure benefits.
In Marlow, UK, production concentrated on core technologies.
that products are developed facilities previously in five separate For example, Cobhams new that meet the current and future buildings are being consolidated Integrated Digital Soldier System needs of customers.
The advert into one purpose designed facility, IDSS which provides command, produced by The Boeing Company significantly reducing the handling control, communications and is testimony to the progress made.
time and movement needed for tactical situational awareness each product.
For the highest capability to infantryman has It takes an excellent company volume electronic assembly, a now gone into service with the to do one thing well.
It takes reduction in travel of 21km per UK Army.
It will form the basis of an extraordinary company to assembly is projected throughout 4 the FIST C I Lite system, which is do many things well.
Which is the production process with a scheduled for evaluation by the UK precisely why Boeing values its 90% reduction in lead time.
MoD in 2007. partnership with Cobham.
A partnership that produces stateof-the-art results on projects ranging from Unmanned Air Vehicles to Future Combat Systems.
One of the many things Cobham does well, is being a good partner.
8 Cobham plc 9 focus capabilities performance Left: Cobham is producing the weapons carriage and release system for the Small Diameter Bomb.
Business review Cobham Air Refuelling and Cobham Auxiliary Mission Equipment Antennas Further orders for A400M The financial performance in 2006 reflects Auxiliary mission equipment Record trading year despite Improvements in orders, revenue and the Veterans Administration Hospitals, the anticipated dip in business prior to Auxiliary mission equipment sales trading profit helped the Division to the State of Florida and the Red Cross.
tanker equipment considerable currency new programmes progressively coming continue to grow.
In the USA, Cobham achieve a record trading year despite headwind on stream and the expected significant is producing the weapons carriage and considerable currency headwind following Sea First refuelling pods re-capitalisation programme for many of release system for the Small Diameter the expiry of particularly favourable In the satellite communication market delivered for A330-200 MRTT Growth reflects increased the worlds air forces.
This follows strong Bomb and secured a US$20m production US dollar hedging rates.
Overall growth orders and sales have been strong trials for Australia demand for mobile performances in 2004 and 2005.
The contract from The Boeing Company for reflects increased demand for mobile for broadband internet at sea products, communication systems Division has continued to win all major over 300 units enabling full rate production communication systems for land, sea in particular stabilised marine antenna Small Diameter Bomb refuelling programmes and to position to start.
and airborne applications, particularly systems.
carriage entering full Lean manufacturing its technology and products for new broadband satellite, and the positive scale production improvement programme market opportunities and benefited in the In the UK, following PV investment impact of Cobhams lean manufacturing Air generating benefits second half year from work associated in a new generation of missile improvement programme.
The Divisions products were also Follow-on orders received with tranche two of Eurofighter Typhoon.
launchers, the Division received its first selected by The Boeing Company for the telescopic refuelling The Division should at least maintain its order for equipment to be fitted to the Land and Embraer for a number of major Revenue Trading profit probe on the V-22 Osprey trading profit in 2007 and start to revert to Hungarian Air Forces Gripen aircraft.
There continues to be a growing need for aerospace programmes.
m m its medium term growth trend in 2008 as The contract covers the supply of 45 secure multiple communication systems new orders are won and programmes NATO Multi Mission Launchers NMML to operate in close proximity, with limited In Europe, contracts were secured for 200 45 Revenue Trading profit already secured come on stream.
Reflecting Direction Finding DF and Tetra products m m The Division has continued to invest this demand, an order for the Groups for the UK Coast Guard S92 and AV139 160 36 Air refuelling in pneumatic technology for weapons innovative interference cancellation system helicopters respectively, and for a high 200 45 In air refuelling, further orders were carriage and release systems.
Further mINCAN was secured from Lockheed gain antenna for the Airbus EADS-CASA received for equipment to be fitted to successful trials were held of a Martin for the US Marine Corp Light A400M programme.
Supply of the 15 120 27 160 36 the South African and Malaysian tanker pneumatic multi-store carrier Viper Armoured Vehicle Command and Control different radome types for tranche two of versions of the A400M.
The Divisions in advance of the US Navy MultiLAV-C2 programme.
first deliveries of A400M equipment Purpose Bomb Rack competition 80 18 120 27 are scheduled to commence in 2010. to be held in 2007.
The Satcom-On-The-Move SOTM Synergies are now being realised as a result Engineering and development work market is expected to grow significantly of Group and Division led rationalisation of 40 9 has continued with the 90X technology Management remain focused on and first deliveries of a medium profile product development, manufacture and 80 18 platform, which forms the basis for implementing lean manufacturing and tracking antenna were made to ViaSat in sales and marketing.
In Marlow, production the A330MRTT and A400M refuelling plans are being finalised to relocate the USA during the year.
facilities previously in five separate 0 0 40 9 systems.
The 90X technology is the operations in Wimborne to a purpose buildings are being consolidated into one 05 06 05 06 foundation for an all speed drogue built facility on an adjacent Cobham Contracts were also secured for mobile purpose designed facility, significantly which will allow refuelling of helicopter, owned site.
Ku band auto-tracking TX RX systems reducing the handling time and movement 0 0 rotorcraft and fast jets in a single mission.
for use in emergency and hostile needed for each product.
Five composite 05 06 05 06 environments by the US National Guard, sites have also been consolidated to two.
Follow-on orders were received for the Divisions space saving telescopic refuelling probe for the V-22 Osprey and significant investment in new technology for the emerging UAV market continues, using a probe and drogue system.
Good progress has been made demonstrating autonomous air refuelling of two unmanned air vehicles.
Right: Cobham provides the Satcom antenna for the Embraer Legacy.
