Chief Executives review continued Key performance indicators Supporting narrative for the measures can be found in the employees and driving operating performance to create the Financial review on page 16, Corporate Responsibility on capacity for further investment in our employees, facilities Results Strategy page 22 and below.
The KPIs relate to these mitigating activities.
Our vision: To be the pre-eminent supplier of The markets we operate in The US defence budget represents more than 50% of global leading technology products and through life defence spending and continues to dominate the overall Performance 2005 2006 support in each of our markets.
indicator Definition actual actual Target military landscape.
Overall, the outlook for US defence budgets remains positive.
Defence electronics spending is Technology Organic revenue growth represents the growth of 8.9% 5.8% High single PV investment continues to be a major area of focus for continuing to grow faster than spending on new platforms and division organic technology division companies for the period they digit the Group with company funded investment achieving programmes, reflecting the need by the armed forces for growth are within the Groups control, translated at constant exchange rate the near term goal of 6% of technology Division revenues.
greater capability, but on fewer platforms.
The trend towards This in line with the target to increase investment by 25% life extension programmes by using electronic upgrades rather Underlying Underlying profit after tax divided by the average 16.0% 0.2% High single from 2005 levels.
than replacing ageing but still competitive platforms continues.
EPS growth number of shares in issue digit In the USA and Europe, much of the defence spending is Operating cash Operating cash flow after capex and R&D as a percentage 98.6% 84.3% 80% Work is ongoing to develop a standardised performance channelled towards new technologies that enable the use of conversion of trading profit, excluding profit from joint ventures measure effective across the Group to reflect staff retention smaller, better equipped, rapid reaction forces with higher and development.
In countries such as India, where Cobham PV investment Company funded investment in R&D as a percentage of 5.3% 6.0% 7% has supplied equipment for 20 years, the military aerospace the five technology division revenues mid term A consistent approach to measuring customer satisfaction market is anticipated to grow by approximately 8%.
across the Group has yet to be fully developed.
However, Staff safety The total number of reportable injuries and other 677 720 800 occurrences per 100,000 employees tangible third party evidence does exist of improvements The commercial aerospace industry enters 2007 with strong during the year.
For example, Lockheed Martin and Northrop underlying delivery fundamentals already established.
Air Grumman presented a Cobham Defence Electronic Systems traffic growth remains the core driver for the commercial to the air freight contract for Australian Air Express AaE in Light Utility Vehicle LUV and HMMWV applications.
CDES Division company with an Outstanding Supplier Award aerospace cycle and current overall growth is estimated to be was agreed and an AUS$1bn contract to provide surveillance In Australia, the conversion of the first of ten fully electronic in December 2006, for its support of the B-2 Modernisation 4.8% per year over the next 25 years.
However, within this activities around the Australian coastline, called Project Bombardier Dash 8 aircraft for the Sentinel contract was Program RMP.
This was followed by a Supplier Recognition overall figure, there are wide variations, from high growth Sentinel formerly Coastwatch.
In December a supplementary completed, as was the transition from a BAe 146 fleet Performance plaque from General Dynamics in January 2007. economies, such as India 12% growth per annum to more AUS$80m contract was received for a Surveillance Information to an eight aircraft B717 fleet operating on QantasLink In February 2007 a Cobham Air Refuelling and Auxiliary mature markets such as domestic USA 2.7% growth per Management System to be fitted to all ten Sentinel aircraft.
Mission Equipment Division company was recognised with annum.
Following the record year in 2005, order intake for The Boeing Company by the US Air force with the award 2006 held up very well, with over 1,800 new aircraft booked Major programmes In the UK, the 20-year E-3D Sentry Airborne Warning and of the 11th William J Perry Precision Strike Award for between The Boeing Company and Airbus, resulting in a Across the Group a number of facilities have been integrated Control Systems AWACS support contract completed its exceeding expectations.
record industry order book of over 4,300 aircraft.
in line with the strategy to increase collaboration and improve first full year on time and to budget.
The contract to provide operating performance.
In Cobham Life Support, the air warfare training to the UKs Royal Air Force and Royal Navy To enable the Chief Executive to give greater focus to The outlook for communications equipment for the general programme to integrate operations at H Koch & Sons in to 2014 continued to operate at high performance levels.
the strategy and long term growth of the Group, talent aviation, business jet and marine markets remains strong, California with existing facilities in Florida, is on schedule and management and senior customer relationships, Andy driven by the requirement for communication on the move.
planned to complete in the first half of 2007.
In Cobham The AirTanker FSTA project made encouraging progress Stevens, the Chief Operating Officer, assumed full dayAlthough the Law Enforcement and National Security Antennas, Marlow, production facilities previously in five in negotiations with the MoD and its suppliers and should to-day responsibility and accountability for the operational LENS market is still relatively immature and fragmented, separate buildings are being consolidated into one purpose progress to contract closure in 2007. management and performance of the five technology it is a growing and attractive market.
designed facility and five composite sites have been Divisions from the 1 March 2007. consolidated to two.
Achieving our goals Outlook and future prospects After 18 months into the anticipated three year Across the Group there is a common goal, Six Divisions, One 2006 has been a successful year for Cobham, during which Engineering and development work has continued with transformation programme, progress implementing the Standard bringing the best of Cobham to the customer.
the Group has again achieved strong organic revenue growth the 90X technology platform, which forms the basis for three elements of the strategy has been excellent.
Portfolio and double-digit growth in earnings and dividend per share.
Following reshaping has resulted in the Group exiting three low The challenges we face A year ago, it was indicated that there would be additional successful customer reviews, the first units have been growth niche markets and exiting seven companies which Cobhams risk management process is designed to identify, benefits from portfolio reshaping, operational performance delivered to support ground and flight testing of the were not a strategic fit.
The proportion of the business in manage and mitigate business risk.
The following comprises improvements and increased PV investment.
All three have A330-200 MRTT for Australia.
faster growing technologies and markets has increased and a summary of the main risk factors that could impact the been realised in 2006, with management actions contributing resources have been concentrated on further development Groups operating and financial performance.
to a two percentage point trading margin improvement.
Focus remains on high priority advanced tactical programmes of core technologies.
During 2006 Cobham opened an Increased PV investment underpins record order intake.
for the US Department of Defense DoD.
Microwave office in India and expanded its presence in South Africa.
Cobham operates in global competitive markets and has modules continue to be supplied for ongoing production a portfolio of businesses competing across a range of Entering 2007, Cobhams businesses are well placed in requirements for radar, EW, and communications, and The five technology Divisions have established clear geographic and product markets.
The Group may be growth markets, where there are many opportunities to navigation systems for the F-16, F-18, F-22 and the F-35 identities with teams strengthened to enable participation in adversely affected if it does not: leverage the Groups products, services and technologies.
aircraft programmes, as well as several missile programmes.
These include the development of continue to develop innovative products that satisfy Further benefits are expected to be realised from ongoing A number of key R&D programmes started in the year, using technology roadmaps, strategic marketing and key initiatives customer needs and preferences operational improvements and the Group remains committed funding from primes and the US DoD.
around lean manufacturing, procurement and working develop new technology or enhance existing technology to further investment.
Cobham will continue to focus on capital improvements.
that supports product development PV investment and seek acquisitions that are a strong fit Ground Vehicle Intercom Communication system sales retain and attract skilled employees who are key with the Groups strategy.
remain extremely strong, with an additional production The Key Performance Indicators KPIs in the table above are to achieving these objectives.
capability established in an existing facility in the USA to used to monitor progress implementing the three underpinning Given the strength of the business portfolio, balance sheet meet demand.
The unique Air Warrior personal cooling elements of Group strategy: focus, capabilities and Cobhams strategy mitigates these risks and uncertainties and order book, the Board remains confident of achieving system, originally designed for helicopter applications, is performance.
Scorecards incorporating an appropriate subset by focusing on technology, developing the capabilities of further growth in 2007. proving successful in land based systems for the US Army of these indicators are used to manage each of the Divisions.
6 Cobham plc Annual Report & Accounts 2006 7 Focus Capabilities Performance
