02 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 GROUP AT A GLANCE Aegis is constantly pioneering the worlds of media communications and market research.
Were the only global marketing services group focused on the two most strategically significant disciplines in marketing today, and we consistently grow faster than our markets.
Aegis Media The worlds leading independent media communications network Founded in 2003, Posterscope has created Carat was the first ever Isobar is the largest Vizeum challenges the worlds first real outindependent media global digital network in conventional media of-home network, making communications agency.
the world, and the only thinking.
Combining an it the leading Today it is the worlds one to be truly global.
understanding of international outdoor largest independent The Isobar network has consumer motivation, media specialist.
As the media communications a total of 83 offices in with profound media out-of-home sector leader specialist.
Isobar is expertise, Vizeum helps in 20 countries across the countries, it is the leader dedicated to creating create stronger world, Posterscope is in the vast majority of its time for consumers to connections between constantly pushing the national markets.
technological boundaries core belief is that great does this across the full Vizeum has operations in and leading the way for communications can spectrum of digital 40 countries worldwide.
have the power to marketing, from search to transform clients transaction and webbusinesses.
net Synovate The fastest growing research company in the world Synovate is the worlds It achieves this through a & Development, most curious company.
comprehensive suite of Synovate Brand & One of the worlds top services and specialist Communications and survey-based research expertise.
firms, it helps clients Synovate Healthcare, Synovate is present in understand what their Synovate Motoresearch, 51 countries worldwide consumers around the Synovate Aztec, world like, and why they Synovate Censydiam, like what they do.
com 03 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Our advantages include an entrepreneurial spirit, a belief that digital is changing everything, and crucially, the way we put an understanding of how consumers think and behave at the heart of everything we do.
