02 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2006 Group at a glance Our business Market overview and trends How we work Overview We provide contract We work in partnership with our clients, Contract foodservice and support services offer usually in their premises, utilising their significant growth opportunities.
foodservice and support equipment and facilities to provide foodservice services to clients in and support services solutions tailored to the The global contract foodservice market has an needs of consumers.
approximate value of 150 billion with around over 70 countries.
50% outsourced to contractors like Compass Contracts with our clients are usually based and our market grows at around 5% a year.
around one of four models: The support services market including Management fee catering, soft services such as cleaning and All of the operating costs are paid by the hard services such as building maintenance contractor and recharged to the client along has an approximate value of 700 billion.
This type of arrangement is Circa 35% of this is outsourced to contractors most often used where the client is subsidising with the outsourcing market projected to grow the food offer.
Fixed price Trends The client pays an agreed price for a specified Both the markets in which we operate have range of services.
This may be varied, significant growth potential.
The trend by for example, if the number of consumers organisations over the last decade to reduce changes considerably.
subsidies and to outsource their foodservice requirements is continuing.
Clients are moving Profit & loss away from management fee contracts to The foodservice contractor has control over arrangements where the contractor bears the the offer to the consumer and sets the price.
Approximately 70% of our contracts are This type of arrangement usually occurs where now fixed price or profit & loss.
This means that there is little or no client subsidy.
we have to adopt different operating disciplines that are more retail orientated in order to grow Concessions profitability and returns for shareholders.
The foodservice contractor pays an agreed percentage of revenue for the right to trade at We are also seeing organisations accelerate the clients premises.
This type of arrangement the consolidation of a range of support services is widely used in the leisure sector.
such as cleaning and reception as well as catering under one outsourced contract.
We are ideally placed to offer an integrated solution to clients.
Our challenge is to leverage these growth opportunities profitably and sustainably in order to create value for shareholders.
Our market sectors Focused businesses operating in clearly defined Education Where there is a demand we can also offer market sectors.
From nursery schools to the worlds vending across any of our six market sectors.
most prestigious universities, we offer We operate in six clearly defined market sectors: tasty and nutritious food for tomorrows healthy generations.
Business & Industry Vending We are the world leader in providing a Sports & Leisure An integral part of the food and beverage wide range of consumer-facing foodservice From local museums to the most famous operation for most modern organisations.
solutions to people at their place of work.
sporting and iconic cultural venues, we We provide high quality and innovative provide foodservice solutions for consumers vending solutions for customers across the Fine Dining and corporate events.
We have an unrivalled reputation for fine dining in corporate boardrooms and at Defence, Offshore & Remote sites prestigious social and hospitality events In difficult and often inhospitable around the world.
environments we provide an integrated range of foodservice and support services on Healthcare & Seniors offshore oil and gas rigs, major construction This is the most sophisticated and sites and at remote mining locations.
demanding market in which we operate.
Success requires the highest standards of customer service and food safety plus a detailed understanding of the nutritional needs of those we care for.
