Smiths News at a Glance Smiths News is the UKs leading wholesaler of newspapers and magazines.
Right product, right time, right place we work 24 hours a day, 364 days a year to meet the needs of retailers and publishers.
Our publishers Our retailers We distribute newspapers on behalf We serve 22,000 retailers across England of all the major national newspaper and Wales, from the smallest corner publishers, as well as a large number shop to big supermarkets.
We supply of regional daily and weekly newspapers.
magazines and newspapers to large, We distribute magazines for large general retailers as well as smaller, more and small publishers alike.
As well as specialist independent newsagents.
distribution and copy allocation, we Our service to retailers, both independents undertake sales development activities and multiple groups, aims to maximise and provide publishers with sales data sales and availability as well as handling to grow sales.
Our customer service teams take over 70,000 retailer calls a week.
Process Distribution Information and technology We deliver 59 million newspapers and magazines every We have invested 22m implementing one of the biggest week.
We receive product in bulk from publishers and SAP installations in Europe.
Our sophisticated packing distributors which we then repack and distribute to retailers.
technology and state-of-the-art, hand-held scanning The newspaper and magazine supply chain is one of the and tracking devices enable products to be tracked from fastest moving in the world.
Copy allocation Returns processing We manage copy allocation for magazines and newspapers We handle 6m unsold newspapers and 5.5m unsold to increase sales and availability, and to minimise returns.
Returns are collected from retailers, We take a channel management approach to copy scanned and processed at distribution depots and sent for allocation, focusing on responding to the needs of recycling.
We pride ourselves on the level of recycling we retailers by type such as independent or supermarket.
achieve and are working with publishers and recycling companies to improve further.
Smiths News is We operate We have a 39 per We deliver the UKs largest 45 distribution cent share by value 59 million wholesaler of centres in England of the magazine newspapers and magazines and and Wales, market and a magazines every newspapers by serving 22,000 36 per cent share week 3 billion market share retailers daily by value of the items per annum and by value newspaper market 2 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006 Smiths News at a Glance Smiths News complements its core activities with four businesses.
These are InStore, NewsWorks, The Returns Company and Connect2U.
InStore The Returns Company Connect2U NewsWorks InStore is Smiths Newss Launched on 1 September Launched in 2000, NewsWorks is a customised eld-based supply chain 2005, The Returns Company Connect2U is a website software package, enabling solution for retailers and TRC handles returns that enables retailers to Smiths News to provide publishers.
Our team of processing for retailers and manage their newspaper a comprehensive IT over 350 merchandisers manufacturers.
Utilising and magazine orders online.
solution to publishers and offers impartial advice and modern technology and It offers an efficient and distributors.
NewsWorks professional consultations thorough processes, TRC cost-effective alternative offers a full support, for independent and multiple helps retailers to manage channel of communication maintenance and hosting retailers.
InStore uses their returns accurately and, between Smiths News and service, 24 hours a day, the latest hand-held data when appropriate, recapture our customers.
Connect2U seven days a week, capture and communication their maximum value.
TRC is also a valuable source 365 days a year.
Working in enjoyed a successful first of information designed directly from our close partnership with the major year, winning contracts to keep retailers up-to-date working partnership software company SAP, from WH Smith Retail with all the latest product with world-leading InStore has developed a and WH Smith Travel Retail news for newspapers technology businesses, bespoke scheduling and to handle book returns, and magazines.
In the including Oracle, SAP, monitoring package with entertainment products last year, Connect2U Business Objects, IBM, 2 GPRS transmission.
Most recently, underwent a series of Cap Gemini and EMC.
provides up-to-the-minute it agreed to process Ottakars improvements in response Areas covered by the data, ensuring fast, accurate book returns on behalf to customer feedback.
NewsWorks solution range briengs around the clock.
from returns processing and financial reporting to copy allocation and distribution management.
This year NewsWorks delivered solutions for Comag, one of the biggest magazine distributors in the UK, and Odyssey, a magazine distributor.
A day in the life of Smiths News 3 Smiths News PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2006
