Contents Chairmans statement 1 9,704m Chief executives review 5 Sales Regional highlights 8 Board of directors and executive committee 20 Financial and operational highlights 22 2,044m Summary financial statement 24 Summary directors remuneration report 30 Operating profit Shareholder information Inside back cover.......................................... 50.5p Annual review and summary financial statement This annual review Earnings per share and the summary financial statement on pages 24 to 32 do not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results of the group or the state of affairs of the company or of the group as is provided by the full financial statements, directors report, directors remuneration report and report of the auditor contained in the annual report.
1 p Any shareholder or debenture holder requiring more detailed information Recommended full year dividend per share has the right to obtain, free of charge, a copy of the companys annual report and may elect to continue to do so for future financial years.
The annual report is available by logging on to www.
Alternatively, to request a copy please telephone our agent, CMM Burnham, on 44 0 1622 794703 1, 361m or write to CMM Burnham International, Link 20, Bellingham Way, New Hythe, Kent ME20 6SP, United Kingdom.
Free cash flow Forward-looking statements This document contains certain forward-looking statements within the Before exceptional items meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts.
In particular, all statements that express forecasts, expectations and projections with respect to future matters, including trends in results of operations, margins, growth rates, overall market trends, the impact of interest or exchange rates, the availability of financing to Diageo, anticipated cost savings or synergy and the completion of Diageos strategic transactions are forward-looking statements.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Diageo does not undertake 31% to update forward-looking statements to reflect any changes in events, 36% conditions or circumstances on which any such statement is based.
The reader should, however, consult any additional disclosures that Diageo may make in documents it files with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
