qxd 28 9 06 17:01 Page 7 Gondola at a Glance Group Strategy Whilst the three core brands have their own distinct identities which the different management teams are set up to maintain, there are certain principles that they all follow: Focusing on the restaurant basics strategy - namely delivering superior food, service and overall experience to the customer, whilst offering good value for money - to profitably grow the core estate Introducing new, innovative dishes whilst improving existing classics Sourcing high quality, seasonal ingredients Delivering exceptional customer service Recruiting and motivating high-calibre people Designing and maintaining stylish restaurants Delivering a profitable roll-out 4 GONDOLA HOLDINGS PLC - ANNUAL REPORT 20O6 3502 - Financial Rep 06 Start Q7.
qxd 28 9 06 17:01 Page 8 Jo Fleet on Gondolas Harvey Smyth on Gondolas Chris Heath on Gondolas food strategy people strategy property strategy Executive Director, Executive Director, Executive Director, CEO of ASK and Zizzi CEO of PizzaExpress Group CFO and Commercial Director We are passionate about everything we do As well as maintaining our current estate to People are at the heart of any business, and that begins with our food.
Customers a high standard, our key strategy is to grow no more so than at Gondola and once look to Gondolas brands for a reliable, the estate through a disciplined roll-out again our employees have displayed high quality dining experience that they of the core brands.
By leveraging our commitment, enthusiasm and skill in know and trust, with food freshly prepared experience and knowledge, we are able all parts of the business.
This involves sourcing to deliver above average returns from the best ingredients and using them to our investment programme.
The key to success has been in hiring create some of the most innovative and high-calibre, motivated people who relish exciting menus around.
Having opened 23 restaurants in 2005 06, the opportunities and challenges that our current plan is to open 25 to 30 the Gondola brands present.
In return we Each of our brands dedicated food teams restaurants this year.
We aim to maintain are continually developing the menus and offer a fun, enjoyable working environment this rate of growth over the next decade, recipes to ensure we offer tempting new driven by a management team highly and great incentive, development and flavours and combinations, as well as experienced in restaurant roll-outs.
promotion prospects so that everyone improving our traditional favourites can reach their full potential.
While our brands broadly serve the same demographic profile of customers, each has We have introduced a range of initiatives to We have made the sourcing of high quality a distinctive appeal for different occasions.
ensure that staff perform at their very best, ingredients a fundamental part of the This complementary usage profile allows including centres of excellence, internal supply chain function.
With the flexibility to us to locate our restaurants in close training and motivation programmes and source from smaller, independent suppliers proximity to each other.
The ability to employee incentive schemes.
Training as well as large, established suppliers, the co-locate and perform well in different for staff across all areas of customer Group gets great quality products as well types of locations provides Gondola as value for money.
service continues to be linked to with extensive scope for roll-out.
effective measurement of restaurant Our highly visible, open kitchens continue We actively look to open restaurants in performance through Gondolas to pioneer the theatre of cooking to older, more unusual buildings where we Mystery Diner programme.
customers as chefs hand-make fresh work sympathetically to enhance the food in each restaurant.
As food is made buildings features rather than simply In 2006 07, the Group intends to further to order in the restaurants, customers impose a standardised fit-out.
Gondolas underline the motivational link between are able to request how much of a certain commitment to maintaining the characterful, successful performance and reward with ingredient is included in their dishes stylish environments of our existing estate is the implementation of a new range of depending on their tastes and food reflected in an investment of more than share schemes.
If you would like more 17m in refurbishment, repairs and or less of any ingredient, just ask.
9% BUSINESS DISTRICT This dynamic approach to 11% property is underpinned by RETAIL LEISURE PARK a strong financial covenant which is highly attractive to 58% landlords and developers.
HIGH STREET Group Restaurant Locations 22% NEIGHBOURHOOD 5 GONDOLA HOLDINGS PLC - ANNUAL REPORT 20O6
