14 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 ITV at a glance Introduction For more than 50 years ITV1 has been the UKs largest and most popular commercial channel.
Today ITV is a multichannel, multiplatform, content-driven business, firmly focused on the needs of viewers and advertisers.
PANTONE REF PROCESS COATED fide 303-1 C C 35 M 0 Y 100 K10 BLACK K 100 Our heritage Our people ITV sells advertising on behalf of all 15 Channel ITV employs almost 6,000 people worldwide.
ITV also produces much of The majority work in production centres the programming broadcast on ITV channels.
around the UK, with large centres ITV has played an important part in the in London, Manchester and Leeds.
Outside the growth of multichannel television, with the UK we have offices in Los Angeles, New York, launch of ITV2 in 1998, ITV3 in 2004 and ITV4 Sydney and Cologne with smaller in 2005.
In 2006 ITV launched more channels: representation in Rio fide Janeiro and including the childrens channel, Citv: and two Hong Kong.
We also employ a large body catch up channels, ITV2 1 and ITV3 1. of freelance writers, performers and technical staff who contribute to our ITV began broadcasting in the London programme production.
area in 1955, following the Television Act of 1954 which made commercial television in the UK possible.
By 1973 there were 15 separate Channel 3 regional companies, each with its own licence.
A period of consolidation between these companies began in 1993 and, in 2004, Carlton Communications Plc and Granada plc merged to form ITV plc, which today owns 11 of the 15 regional licences.
15 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Our businesses: At an operational level, the Company is based around three major businesses: Broadcasting, Content and Consumer.
pp p p Listen to what viewers Develop great content Deliver through our family Capitalise on other opportunities and advertisers want We invest in original UK content of digital channels We exploit content on an increasing We gain valuable insight into what across a wide range of profitable We broadcast the most successful number of media platforms, such as our audiences want through in-depth genres and formats.
commercial family of channels in the online and mobile, and our Worldwide viewer research and working closely UK, with each targeted to appeal to team create new opportunities through with our advertisers to ensure we distinct demographics.
We operate merchandising, licensing, distribution deliver the highest quality programmes complementary scheduling to ensure and international production.
that we attract the widest possible range of viewers to our channels.
Broadcasting Content Consumer Other businesses ITV has the most successful Our Content team comprises ITV ITVs Consumer team was established We own 100% of Carlton Screen commercial family of channels in the Productions in the UK and the in 2005.
The team works with the Advertising based in the UK and the UK.
Within Broadcasting the Channels businesses in ITV Worldwide.
Broadcasting and Content teams to Republic of Ireland.
In the UK, Carlton team are responsible for commissioning capitalise on opportunities to deliver Screen Advertising has exclusive rights ITV Productions is one of Europes and scheduling programmes on all the ITV content to consumers through to sell advertising on more than 2,200 leading commercial production ITV channels.
This fully integrated new platforms.
It consists of four cinema screens, accounting for 75% companies producing more than 3,000 television team ensures that ITV is main areas: platforms, broadband, of UK cinema admissions.
hours of original programming each strongly positioned for growth in the transactional and mobile.
It is responsible for some of the We have a 50% interest in both digital age and continues to deliver most popular brands on UK television Platforms manages our wholly-owned Screenvision Europe and attractive programming to viewers and including Coronation Street, digital terrestrial multiplex SDN and Screenvision US, joint ventures with advertisers.
ITV also owns 75% of Emmerdale, Im a CelebrityGet Me ITVs relationship with Freeview, Sky Thomson S. A. which operate leading GMTV, the holder of the Channel 3 Out of Here!, Dancing on Ice and and the cable operators.
cinema screen advertising businesses breakfast time licence.
It also produces in continental Europe and the United Broadband includes ITV Local, itv.
com The other key part of the Broadcasting highly-rated work for other channels States respectively.
and the community website Friends business is the Commercial team which such as The Street and The Royle Reunited.
ITV Local was tested in the We own a 16.78% interest in SMG plc, markets and sells our advertising Family for the BBC, Brainiac for Sky Meridian region and is now being which operates the two regional airtime and is also responsible for and Countdown and Longford for launched in London and Central.
ITV Productions also made It will be rolled out across the rest of created a new Integrated Planning the successful, critically-acclaimed and We hold a 40% stake in ITN the ITV during 2007. itv.
com will relaunch team to build stronger relationships Oscar winning feature film of 2006, national news provider for ITV and in the Spring of 2007 with extensive with strategic planning agencies, The Queen.
working alongside the Trading team, ITV Worldwide is made up of Granada We also have a stake of 9.99% who negotiate directly with media Transactional includes our International, Granada Ventures and in Arsenal Holdings plc and a: buying agencies selling airtime and participation TV brand, ITV Play, international production centres in sponsorship on ITVs portfolio of alongside our interactive and 50% share of Arsenal Broadband America, Germany and Australia.
Limited and 50% of Liverpool Granada International sells thousands The two teams work closely with our FC.
of hours of programming from ITV Mobile manages ITVs mobile portal advertisers to offer them bespoke Productions, and many other and arranges distribution of ITVs multimedia solutions for both mass independent producers, to more than channels and content on mobile audiences with ITV1 and targeted 200 countries worldwide.
Granada networks such as 3, Virgin, O 2 audiences across our digital channels Ventures is a major distributor of and Vodafone.
and new media platforms such as DVD entertainment in the UK and mobile and online.
exploits merchandising and licensing in the UK and worldwide from both ITV Productions bank of television programmes and other independent rights owners.
16 ITV plc Report and accounts 2006 Business Review Business Review by John Cresswell ITV is a vibrant company with many unique assets operating in a challenging business environment.
We are executing a clear strategy to manage ITV into the digital age, ensuring we deliver for all our viewers, customers, employees and shareholders.
John Cresswell Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director
