Year at a Glance Highlight of the Year In the US, Case completes a complex, two-year project to install water intake shafts in Lake Michigan for the Elm Road Generating Station.
01 02 03 04 05 06 January February March April May June 01.2006 02.2006 03.2006 04.2006 05.2006 06.2006 In the US, Hayward In Ukraine, Keller forms a In the UK, Keller In the UK, we acquire In France, Kellers Group In Europe, we agree Baker is awarded new company in pursuit receives the Best Phi, a specialist Technology Committee a licence to use some of the first of its strategy of taking Investor Communication contractor offering meets in Grenoble.
the Tubular Soil Mixed reconstruction work its technologies into Award at Londons PLC slope and excavation This is a regular forum TSM pile, a patented in New Orleans after new geographic regions.
retaining wall systems for sharing knowledge system for excavation Hurricane Katrina.
Our Polish company, to the UK construction on development projects walls and underpinnings.
which over some ten In Malaysia, grouting market.
The business around the Group years has grown from works continue is soon integrated with and discussing global a start-up position on the Stormwater Kellers existing earth trends in technology, to become the market Management and retaining business, markets and customer leader, will oversee Road Tunnel project.
to provide wide national requirements.
the development of Our works provide coverage, an extensive this nascent business stabilisation for the range of solutions In the US, Suncoasts We soon go on to in Ukraine.
construction of a and greater capacity Houston branch wins In the UK, Makers complete several dry 13m-diameter bored to undertake major the Post Tension wins the International soil mixing contracts tunnel over circa 10km contracts.
Institutes Award of Concrete Repair in the region, one of in Kuala Lumpur, which Merit in the slab-onInstitutes Project of which involves working will function mainly as grade category for the the Year 2006 award from a barge on the a stormwater storage Kubena Home project for the Mayorhold 17th Street Canal, and diversion channel in which they donated multi-storey car park strengthening the but will also incorporate the post-tensioning in Northampton.
This soft soils to enable In India, we are a 3km motorway.
materials and labour recognises the best the construction awarded a drilling to reinforce the entry from seven of a new oodgate, and grouting contract In the US, McKinney foundations for a categories of projects, which will close off for a new hydropower begins drilling work for new home for a local which are judged storm surge from scheme, forming the foundations of the disadvantaged family.
on uniqueness, use Lake Pontchartrain.
part of the Teesta new Dallas Cowboys of state-of-the-art Barrage Project.
methods, use of materials, functionality, value engineering, cost-effectiveness and aesthetics.
6 Keller Group plc Year at a Glance The Piling Contractors acquisition gives Keller good access to growth sectors in Australia.
07 08 09 10 11 12 July August September October November December 07.2006 08.2006 09.2006 10.2006 11.2006 12.2006 In Austria, we start In Australia, we acquire In the US, we acquire In Croatia, we complete In Germany, the upgrade work on a five-month Piling Contractors, Anderson, a provider a ground improvement of a manufacturing project at the Donau Australias second of heavy foundations, contract for the plant for a leading sheet Canal in Vienna, largest specialist serving the commercial, foundations of a new aluminium producer where we install small foundations contractor.
industrial and public factory involving demands special skills diameter piles and Its strong links with infrastructure markets the installation of over and a tight deadline.
soilcrete columns civil engineering, on the West Coast.
2,000 concrete columns To accommodate as part of the canal infrastructure and In Saudi Arabia, we to an average depth heavier machinery, wall reconstruction mining, in which complete a contract of around 10 metres.
This is Keller was previously for soil improvement The factory, on a bed is underpinned also the location for under-represented, and landlling works greeneld site in Istria, with jet-grouting and the construction of are expected to give for Phase III of the will deliver insulation micro piles installed a new bathing boat, Keller good access Shoiba Power Plant.
products to the growing to a depth of 17m.
for which we install to these growing This has involved us in markets of Southern Disruption to the plant small diameter bored sectors in Australia.
installing some 180,000 In the UK, Keller Europe.
is minimised by the piles to create reinforced linear metres of stone wins two awards completion of all 2 concrete foundations.
In Poland, we add to columns, 300,000m for the design and these works during the our product range with of site clearance and construction of a Christmas break.
the introduction of the levelling works, and permanent dewatering 2 full displacement pile, 100,000 m of imported scheme to protect an In the US, Suncoast as an alternative to preand placed backll historic tunnel on the announces its launch of cast and drilled piles material.
The power Glasgow underground the WAFFLEMAT an with which the Polish and desalination the Saltire Award alternative to traditional market is more familiar.
complex supplies for excellence in foundation methods In the UK, Keller energy and fresh civil engineering and for homebuilders.
installs 42.3 kilometres water to Makkah the Fleming Award of driven piles its and Taif, two major for excellence in highest-ever volume cities 100 and 150 geotechnical design of driven piles in kilometres inland.
7 Keller Group plc Year at a Glance
