Group highlights 23.6% Pre-tax profit Fourteenth successive Pre-tax profit up 23.6% to 59.1m year of growth 2005: 47.8m Yet again, the Group is pleased to report further growth in revenue, profit and earnings per share.
We remain firmly focused on continuing this pattern and are 25.1% well positioned to do this, backed Earnings per share by our highly talented and well Earnings per share up 25.1% to motivated management teams.
120.8p 2005: 96.6p Kier Group operates though five main divisions, each focused on being best in its class.
17.1% Dividend per share Construction Full year dividend increased by 17.1% to 26.0p A comprehensive building service delivered 2005: 22.2p through a nationwide network of locally managed businesses complemented by a major projects and social housing capability.
Civil engineering and mining in the UK and overseas.
96.6m Support Services Cash Comprehensive facilities management, reactive 96.6m of cash generated from and planned building maintenance, M&E design operating activities and installation, plant hire, engineering design solutions and other outsourced services for both private and public sectors.
Residential 2.7bn High quality private housebuilding through Construction and Support Service order books well respected and locally established brands.
Construction and Support Services order books at record levels Property Commercial property development with capacity to maximise potential across a broad range of schemes.
45% Homes order book at 31 August 2006 Homes order book at 31 August 45% Infrastructure Investment ahead of last year Promotes and manages the Groups interests in the Private Finance Initiative, bringing together Kiers expertise and resources in Pre-tax profits are stated after deducting worldwide construction, development and joint venture tax of 1.4m 2005: 1.2m facilities management.
Before exceptional items Inside front cover image: Front cover image: Designed & built by Kier London for Newlon Housing Trust, Kier Easterns fast track refurbishment of the central 105 key worker flats providing 300-bed spaces and catering facility at the University of East Anglia in Norwich.
Temporary works design It involved a total upgrade of all three servery areas and and accommodation were provided by Kier Engineering associated back of house facilities, the construction of a Services and Kier Plant respectively.
Sister company three storey steel frame and a glazed atrium.
Temporary works Wallis provided hoists.
design and accommodation were provided by Kier 01 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Engineering Services and Kier Plant respectively.
Working Building enthusiastically value Our highly motivated teams We are intent on passing value approach everything they do to our clients.
Our diverse skills professionally and with an mean that all our businesses infectious enthusiasm.
This can-do are backed by a Group-wide attitude is prevalent across the resource including specialist teams Group and is a major force in that can support and advise at the successful conclusion of even any stage of a project.
This means the most challenging schemes.
we are often able to save our A series of award-winning projects clients time, money, materials this year reflects the extraordinary and energy during the course of performances that brought them a project by proposing innovative, to fruition.
23% Annual growth rate in earnings per share Compound annual growth rate of 23% since flotation 10 years ago.
Artists impression of the completed development.
02 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Project: Brownfield redevelopment, Chichester Acquired as part of a six-strong development portfolio from Sainsburys property arm in 2004, this is a key retail-led regeneration scheme for Chichester.
The town centre mixed-use project will see the disused former Shippams food factory transformed into top-end retail and residential space that gels with the historical surroundings of this Roman town.
Henry Jones, part of Kier Regional, is carrying out the work which includes a retained faade.
03 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Working Building safely standards The need to conduct all our We remain focused on continuous operations safely and to protect improvement in all parts of the those around us is given top priority business.
Fuelled by the need at all times.
Our below-average to set standards for others to accident incident rate, together follow, our teams regularly share with numerous RoSPA and information with our supply chain British Safety Council awards in order to bring about the highest won, reflects our constant drive possible standards of workmanship towards accident-free sites and and service for all projects.
We our refusal to allow complacency now have ISO quality accreditation to stand in the way of continuous for most of our businesses and are improvement in all aspects of approaching our target for safety, health & environment.
1.8bn Revenue Revenue for the year at 1,838.3m was 13.3% ahead of last year.
Interior of the new canine rehoming centre built in Harefield for the Dogs Trust by Kier Southern.
04 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Project: Rehoming centre, Harefield for the Dogs Trust A canine rehoming centre at Harefield for the Dogs Trust, the UKs largest welfare charity, recently completed by Kier Southern.
The centre includes 75 kennels with air conditioning and underfloor heating and is likely to cater for some 2,000 dogs per year.
Kier Managed Services provides FM services for the centre.
Kier Plant and Kier Engineering Services provided equipment and temporary works design respectively.
05 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Working with Building commitment together An underlying commitment to There are few better examples of succeed is part of the Kier culture.
the saying greater than the sum Where possible Kier companies of its parts than the Kier Group.
maintain the same team from bid While each individual company process to completion, providing has its own expertise, we flourish continuity and predictability, and to greatest effect when combining ensuring that we live, breathe and our company strengths.
Kier exceed our clients expectations.
company partnerships operate to We are committed to developing great success throughout the UK our staff to enable them to get the on a wide range of mixed-use best from their career.
In return, we schemes, proving that we are seek commitment from them that one of very few who can truly they will work towards achieving offer a one stop shop.
their individual goals and ultimately, our vision as a Group.
96.6m Cash 96.6m of cash generated from operating activities.
The South Hook project used a 3,300 tonne capacity shearleg crane to remove sections of the old structure.
06 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006 Project: South Hook Jetty Kier Constructions project, in joint venture with Besix, at South Hook Jetty in Milford Haven will form part of the largest liquefied natural gas LNG terminal in Europe.
This new state-of-the-art facility will provide a significant import facility of natural gas to the UKs national transmission network.
Active work areas were encapsulated in order to minimise environmental impact.
Kier Engineering Services provided temporary works design to facilitate this.
Over 100 temporary accommodation units and crawler cranes were supplied by Kier Plant.
07 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2006
