ANGLO AMERICAN plc ANNUAL REPORT 2006 ANGLO AMERICAN AT A GLANCE Anglo American is a global leader in mining, focused on adding value for shareholders, customers, employees and the communities in which it operates The Group has a range of high quality, core mining businesses covering platinum, diamonds, coal, base and ferrous metals and industrial minerals OUR BUSINESSES Platinum Diamonds Base Metals Ferrous Metals Business pro le Business pro le Business pro le Business pro le The worlds largest primary fide Beers accounts for about Comprises primarily copper, Operations are mainly producer of platinum, 40% by value of global nickel, zinc and mineral in southern Africa, accounting for around 40% rough diamond production.
South America, Canada of the worlds newly mined The worlds largest supplier Operates in South America, and Australia.
and marketer of gem southern Africa and Ireland.
ore, manganese and steel Products and uses Products and uses products for the mining Primarily used in Products and uses Copper is used mainly in sector.
The majority of cuttable wire and cable, as well as Also used in chemical, diamonds are used in in brass, tubing and pipes.
Products and uses electrical, electronic, glass jewellery.
Zinc is chie y used for Iron ore is the basic raw and petroleum industries Some natural stones are galvanising.
material used in steel and medical applications.
used for industrial purposes Nickel is mostly used in the production.
such as cutting, drilling and production of stainless steel.
Manganese and vanadium other applications.
are key components in steelmaking.
02 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 KEY Geographical locations Platinum Diamonds Base Metals Ferrous Metals Coal Industrial Minerals Gold Paper and Packaging Indicates countries in which exploration is currently under way EXPLORATION OTHER BUSINESSES Coal Industrial Minerals Exploration Gold Business pro le Business pro le As one of the major diversi ed Business pro le Anglo Coal is one of the Tarmac is the No.
1 UK mining groups, Anglo AngloGold Ashanti is a worlds largest private sector producer of aggregates and Americans exploration major world gold producer.
asphalt and a leading activities cover many parts of It has 22 operations in Its operations are in South producer of ready-mixed the globe.
In its constant ten countries.
search for minerals, Anglo and Venezuela.
Its operations are primarily American is currently Products and uses in the UK, continental Europe prospecting in more than 30 Fabricated gold is used in Products and uses and the Middle East.
In addition to its jewellery, electronics, dentistry, About 40% of all electricity focus on areas surrounding its decorations, medals and coins.
generated globally is Products and uses existing mining operations, powered by coal.
Tarmac is involved in the Anglo American is now looking Around 66% of the worlds production of crushed rock, at relatively unexplored new Paper and steel industry uses coal and sand, gravel, concrete and frontiers, including in the Arctic Packaging it is an important fuel for mortar, lime, cement and region through an arc stretching other industries.
from Alaska to the Russian far Business pro le Copebrs is a Brazilian east.
During 2006, over Mondi is an integrated paper producer of phosphate $250 million was spent on and packaging group.
exploration $53 million on Its operations and interests base metals, $30 million on are worldwide.
platinum, $24 million on coal, $9 million on ferrous metals Products and uses and $140 million by fide Beers.
Mondi makes packaging and of ce papers, board, converted packaging and newsprint.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2006 | 03
