MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS 16 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS 2013 2012 Growth Visitors m 37.1 33.0 12.3% Revenue m 524 458 14.3% Underlying EBITDA m 212 179 18.7% Like for like revenue growth constant currency basis 9.3% 2013 WAS ANOTHER SUCCESSFUL YEAR FOR THE MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS OPERATING GROUP, WITH STRONG GROWTH IN OUR LONDON AND ASIAN MARKETS: THE CONTINUATION OF OUR MIDWAY ROLL OUT PLAN: THE SUCCESSFUL RE LAUNCH OF PARTS OF LIVING AND LEISURE AUSTRALIA AND THE ACQUISITION OF TURKUAZOO AQUARIUM IN ISTANBUL.
The existing estate saw good growth with strong performances In the UK, we created another cluster with the launch of a new coming from Asia and London.
The Eurozone crisis continues to SEA LIFE Centre in Manchester adjacent to the existing have an impact on our southern European businesses and a lower LEGOLAND Discovery Centre.
In addition, the London Dungeon than usual level of snow had a negative impact on our ski businesses was relocated from Tooley Street, near London Bridge to County in Australia.
Visitation to London post the Royal Wedding and Hall next to the London Eye and SEA LIFE London Aquarium.
London Olympics continued to be very strong in 2013 which This move was instigated by Network Rail due to the expansion benefited our central London attractions.
of London Bridge station: however, it has strengthened the London cluster with three attractions now adjacent to each other Our existing estate growth was underpinned by our strategy of in the popular South Bank area.
We also relocated the planned capital investment cycles across each brand.
Each midway LEGOLAND Discovery Centre from Duisburg in Germany to attraction has a high investment once every five years, and those in Oberhausen to enable us to form a strong cluster alongside the 2013 included a significant expansion of Madame Tussauds Hong existing SEA LIFE Centre.
During 2013, cluster attractions have Kong: the addition of a ride to the SEA LIFE Centre in Oberhausen, continued to represent more growth than standalone midway Germany, a new Marvel 4D cinema at Madame Tussauds in attractions due to cross-selling and shared costs in support Las Vegas: a Shark Mission attraction in the SEA LIFE Centre in functions.
Clustering will continue to be central to our midway Munich and a new Jurassic Seas area in the SEA LIFE Centre roll out strategy.
The relaunch of the LLA attractions which we acquired during In the intervening years, most attractions receive mobile features 2012 also commenced in 2013.
We successfully relaunched which we move around the world to several different locations Melbourne Aquarium and Mooloolaba Underwater World in maximising capital efficiency.
During 2013, Madame Tussauds had Australia as SEA LIFE Centres in September and December touring figure sets of The Beatles, Michael Jackson three different respectively.
We exited the management contract in Dubai which figures at different stages of his life, Bollywood, Abba, One Direction, we acquired as part of the Living and Leisure acquisition to enable William and Kate, the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, and four us to focus on our core assets.
We will continue to relaunch the Whitney Houston figures.
SEA LIFE has five mobile features Living and Leisure assets in Asia and Australia over the next three Octopus Hideout, Jellyfish Disco, Claws, Turtle Shelter and years.
In September we acquired Turkuazoo Aquarium in Istanbul Sea Stars.
LEGOLAND Discovery Centres have four Star Wars which has great potential to be relaunched as a SEA LIFE Centre themed mobile features.
Typically these attractions stay for one year and we hope will form a platform for a strong new cluster city.
and then move to a new location to refresh the experience.
In 2013 the rapid expansion of midway attractions continued December Change December around the world with the launch of a further six new attractions, Midway sites 2012 2013 2013 although the planned SEA LIFE Centre in Rome remains delayed UK 22 1 23 due to external circumstances specific to that location.
A new Dungeon in Berlin was launched to join the strong Berlin cluster Continental Europe 25 1 26 which now consists of four attractions.
We developed the cluster North America 13 2 15 in Tokyo with the launch of a full Madame Tussauds following the Asia Pacific 21 1 22 successful trial of a temporary attraction in 2012.
In Asia we added a new Madame Tussauds to the emerging market of Total 81 5 86 Wuhan in central China.
In North America a new cluster in New York was created by adding a LEGOLAND Discovery Centre in The 2013 change in the table above reflects the addition of six new midway attractions launched in 2013 and the acquisition of the Turkuazoo aquarium, offset by the terminated Dubai management Westchester and we completed our first attraction opening in contract referred to above and the disposal of a small non-core attraction in Belgium.
The other Canada in Toronto with another LEGOLAND Discovery Centre.
relaunches and site moves had no effect on the site numbers or the geographical analysis.
17 BERLIN DUNGEON WHAT DID WE DO?
We opened a new attraction in central Berlin in March 2013, approximately 200 metres from the SEA LIFE Centre.
This expanded the Berlin cluster to four attractions: Madame Tussauds: LEGOLAND Discovery Centre: SEA LIFE Centre: and the Berlin Dungeon.
We developed the attraction with our inhouse team with Merlin Magic Making responsible for finding the site, creating the experience and project managing the onsite teams to build the attraction.
We integrated the marketing, finance and HR functions with the existing cluster teams thereby enabling us to launch the attraction with much lower operating costs than if we had launched a standalone Dungeon.
We introduced significant crossselling between the new Dungeon and all the other Merlin attractions in the cluster.
This provided discounts to those customers wanting to visit more than one.
The Berlin Dungeon has had an excellent first year and is on course to achieve our 20 per cent.
Efficient development by our inhouse creative and project management teams have helped keep capital costs relatively low.
Operating costs are also relatively low as many of the functions are fulfilled by our existing Berlin cluster team.
We have achieved a higher level of cross-sales in Berlin as a consequence of the Dungeons launch.
Total cross-sales in 2013 accounted for 14 per cent.
Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS The Berlin Dungeon Boat Ride 18 CASE STUDY 19
