RESORT THEME PARKS 24 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT THEME PARKS 2013 2012 Growth Visitors m 11.2 10.5 6.5% Revenue m 314 290 8.4% Underlying EBITDA m 81 73 11.2% Like for like revenue growth constant currency basis 5.2% RESORT THEME PARKS OPERATING GROUP DELIVERED A BOUNCEBACK ACROSS THE PORTFOLIO IN 2013 FOLLOWING THE MARKET CHALLENGES FACED DURING 2012.
SOLID GROWTH WAS ACHIEVED THROUGH THE SUCCESSFUL DELIVERY OF MAJOR CAPITAL PROJECT LAUNCHES IN THE UK, IMPROVED WEATHER CONDITIONS DURING THE KEY SUMMER TRADING PERIOD AND ACTIONS TAKEN TO MITIGATE DIFFICULT TRADING CONDITIONS IN THE ITALIAN MARKET.
The strategic focus of the Resort Theme Parks Operating with the removal of the Holiday Inn brand, and the addition of a Group RTP is to create a portfolio of differentiated short break new 69 bed highly themed Azteca hotel including a unique 284 destinations that are centred around unique and compelling cover themed restaurant and indoor kids water play area.
Longer term plans are also well advanced for a new unique 2013 saw the continued implementation of our planned capital accommodation concept at Alton Towers and a second hotel at investment cycle to deliver new experiences at each of our Gardaland.
In addition to new accommodation offerings, the attractions.
Major launches such as The Smiler at Alton Towers marketing of our resorts as short break destinations plays an and Zufari: Ride into Africa!
at Chessington World of Adventures important role in raising awareness and encouraging advanced delivered significant volume and revenue growth.
During 2013 Alton Towers and Chessington trialled TV time the cost effective introduction of attractions leveraging third advertising for short breaks during January, the key industry party Intellectual Property such as Madagascar Live: Prepare to period.
Both trials proved successful and will be extended into Party at Gardaland and Heide Park, and Horrible Histories Foul 2014 including an extension of the trial to include Heide Park.
Fayres at Warwick Castle, enabled strong marketing messages in a low capital investment year.
Thorpe Park continued to broaden its customer base and focus on digital technology with the introduction of a new mobile ticketing platform and social media digital marketing initiatives.
Thorpe Park also continued its strategy of extending its trading day with successful Ministry of Sound club nights and evening only park events during the summer.
Trading conditions in Italy remained difficult during 2013, however actions taken by management enabled Gardaland to deliver year on year EBITDA growth.
A continued focus on targeting international tourists to visit Gardaland for a short break, as well as capturing tourists visiting the Lake Garda area both proved successful.
The introduction of a value season pass offer also delivered a significant increase in season pass sales during the year, supporting our strategy to grow pre-booked and repeat visitation.
During 2013 each of the six RTP resorts had accommodation on site.
Alongside existing accommodation offers, Thorpe Park, with on-site Crash Pad, and Warwick Castle, with Medieval Glamping, completed accommodation trials.
Both of these were invaluable test-beds for these innovative concepts, with the Thorpe Park Crash Pad trial in particular providing insight into the marketing, operating and financials of running this type of accommodation, with these learnings being built into the planned expansion of both concepts for 2014.
Plans have also been completed for the relaunch of the Chessington World of Adventures hotel in 2014 The Smiler the Worlds first 14 looping roller coaster 25 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and accounts 2013 OPERATIONAL REVIEW - RESORT THEME PARKS Warwick Castle Medieval Glamping 26 SHORT BREAK POTENTIAL AT WARWICK CASTLE WHAT DID WE DO?
In order to establish the potential for Warwick Castle as a short break destination we carried out a six week trial of a unique Medieval Glamping village adjacent to the castle.
Based on customer research indicating the appeal of staying overnight in the grounds of the castle, our attraction team worked with Merlin Magic Making to create a magical medieval village in the grounds of the castle comprising 35 themed tents.
The offering also included medieval activities and food for children and adults as well as a two day ticket to visit the castle.
During the six week trial, the overall occupancy reached 98 per cent.
and received extremely strong customer satisfaction and value for money scores.
As a result, plans are under way to enhance the offering and extend the trading period.
We are exploring further accommodation options to provide a more permanent and year round resort offering.
