Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 19 Marketplace and operating review Markets evolve, but opportunity remains Our sector continues to evolve and to present us with new and changing opportunities to help organisations in both the public and private sector access the advantages of outsourcing.
Thetrend for clients to move from outsourcing single services tobundling a number of them together, and then moving on tobuying integrated services, is now well-established.
However, what has become increasingly clear is the importanceof shaping our services and our structure to meet the fast-changing needs of our clients.
To this end, we have evolved the organisation of our business, focusing our efforts onfour business divisions: FacilitiesManagement, Property Management, Healthcareand Energy Solutions According to a report published in As the financial year came to a close, A challenging environment November 2012 by Oxford Economics we evolved our structure to reflect The UK economy has not improved and forthe Business Services Association, changing market conditions.
Research many companies in the private sector thetotal value of outsourcing in the UK is told us that clients view FM provision continue to tread water at best.
currently estimated to be in the region of asaset of similar services, so we have Facedwith tough market conditions 199 billion, with a 64%-36% split in favour now grouped these under a single FM andan ever-increasing need to cut costs of the private rather than the public division, which delivers a range of hard and improve efficiency, the outsourcing sector.
This equates to almost 7.5% of the and soft services as either specialist ofnon-core services is an attractive total economy-wide output, but perhaps single services, as bundles of services, optionfor many of these companies.
more importantly, the report found that oras fully integrated FM contracts.
the outsourced service sector pays Centralgovernment and local OurProperty Management division will 9.5%of government tax revenues and authorities are also cutting costs continue to provide a full suite of property employs 10.5% of the UK workforce.
wherever possible andthe public sector maintenance services for commercial continues to offersignificant opportunity.
During the year, we saw notably increased clients and the social housing market.
This is particularly true in the justice, social demand, not only from companies turning Atthe same time, we have elevated housing, education and health sectors, to outsourcing for the first time, but also in ourHealthcare and Energy Solutions all areas where we are active.
the growing number of large integrated businesses to standalone divisions.
FM contracts coming to the market, as Weoutline the opportunities facing Outsourcing is an industry that established clients recognise the benefits thefour divisions on the next page.
grewoutof response to recession, of outsourcing at the bottom line and look andhascontinued to evolve in to see them applied across a broader responseto economic pressures.
section of their non-core services.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20 Marketplace and operating review Divisional performance summary 2013 2012 1 1 Facilities Management Headline Headline Growth Revenue 1,542.8m 1,407.7m 9.6% 2 Operating profit 96.3m 88.6m 8.7% Operating profit margin 6.2% 6.3% -0.1pp 5 2 3 3 4 2013 2012 Property Management Headline Headline Growth Facilities Management Property Management Revenue 348.9m 348.1m 0.2% Revenue split % Revenue split % Operating profit 21.3m 21.1m 0.9% 1.
Social housing 66 environmental 20 Operating profit margin 6.1% 6.1% 0.0pp 2.
Engineering 2013 2012 Healthcare Headline Headline Growth maintenance 20 4.
C atering and Revenue 43.0m n a n a business services 11 Operating profit 5.7m n a n a 5.
Integrated FM 33 Operating profit margin 13.3% n a n a 2013 2012 Energy Solutions Headline Headline Growth Revenue 45.9m 70.5m -34.9% Operating profit 1.3 m 2.9m -144.8% Facilities Management Operating profit margin -2.8% 4.1% -6.9pp Our role is to help clients become Headline results exclude restructuring and acquisition related items and the results of businesses being exited.
moreefficient and effective by 2012headline results have been re-presented to exclude the results of businesses being exited.
takingresponsibility for their facilities, theirenergy needs and many of the people who deliver those services.
We provide a wide range of FM services across the UK, Ireland and Europe.
Theseare delivered as integrated FM 1 1 14 15 2 contracts, in bundles or as single services, 14 13 1 12 2 1 11 1 depending on client requirements.
3 13 10 2 12 12 Our specialist services include: 4 11 9 Catering Cleaning 10 Major markets: Sales pipeline: Creative services Custodial services Revenues 8.7bn 8 Data centre services 5 Document process outsourcing 3 9 Electrical inspection and testing 6 7 Fire and security systems Front of house services 7 8 Landscaping 6 4 5 Lighting Lone worker protection Public sector Private sector Public sector Private sector Mechanical and electrical engineering maintenance 39% | 0.8bn 61% | 1.3bn 54% | 4.7bn 46% | 4.0bn Mobile maintenance services 1.
Finance and Office services government 14% professional professional services 18% 2.
Local government 7% services 10% Pest control 2.
Education 3% Waste management and logistics 5% 6.
Property communications 4% Winter services management 4% 12.
Construction 3% MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 21 Outsourcing market evolution 1980 1990 2000 2010 2015 In-house Single service Bundled services Integrated FM Strategic outsourcing Security Broader cost savings Integrated delivery Buildings management and services M&E engineering Single point contact Management information systems Business process outsourcing Catering Standardised provision Property Management Technology Cleaning Best practice Overseas Data management Maintenance Asset investment Pest control Shift Add-on specialist services Energy carbon Consultancy Supply chain Project management Price Value Price remains a key differentiator in the FM We constantly seek new and better ways We are strong in the private sector security marketplace, reflecting the situation in the of working for example, our technology markets and envisage good opportunities broader economy.
Clients are looking for solution enables clients to see what they in the lone worker and certification value over all other considerations.
are spending on a floor-by-floor and markets in the coming year, aswell as at However, we believe that once economic building-by-building basis, and then to universities and NHS facilities which are pressures ease or when an outsourcing change service levels at the click of a now becoming more open to outsourcing.
project has brought a degree of stability mouse.
Self-delivery is a real strength for As a number of clients procure security toa clients budgets, the key focus will shift our cleaning services.
We have a national separately from the rest oftheir FM to delivery and performance.
At MITIE, presence but deliver at a local level and requirement, and see it as a specialist wehave a well-established reputation for we do so through our own, well-trained service, we continue to deliver through a helping clients reduce costs.
The coming year will be large number of single service contracts.
time, we are continuing to invest in our abig one for us, with the launches of However, we are always alive to ways in people, making sure that they have the bothour Environmental and MITIE Local which our security offer can form part of attitudes to deliver high levels of service initiatives.
Environmental builds on our larger integrated FM contracts.
success in cleaning but adds a further Integrated FM layer of related services such as waste The market for bundled and integrated Opportunities to work on large integrated management, pest control, landscaping services is complex, and clients are contracts continue to both grow and and gritting.
MITIE Local, which is being operating many different business evolve.
The ways in which clients use piloted in London before potentially being models.
There has been a move during theirworkplaces is changing and they rolled-out nationwide, focuses on offering the year towards greater involvement arelooking for outsourcing partners with excellent services via contracts of 50,000 byprocurement teams in outsourcing.
the flexibility as well as the high standards or less.
Theresult is that more services are being of service to help them improve efficiency.
bundled and some former single services In the waste industry, the increase in Asalways, a key MITIE differentiator is not are evolving into national or, in some landfilltax is creating opportunities for just what we do but the way that we do cases, pan-European contracts.
it and that includes a focus on service excellence, one point of contact and Looking at trends in our service lines, Our security teams have also risen to self-delivery through our own people.
landscaping has been buoyant, thechallenges posed by an intensely Weconcentrate on bringing together duetothe cold winter, and there has been competitive marketplace.
We provide awide range of services across a wide major expansion in the retail sectorwhere total security management, which involves geographic area for our clients.
This gives many services that have traditionally been assessing risks and then combining us the scale we need for growth and delivered by in-house teams, such as those services primarily people, technology theopportunity to add further services used inside distribution centres, are being and consultancy services to manage tothe mix over time.
Catering and hospitality those risks.
As with our cleaning offer, a key continue to show good growth for us, with strength is our capability to self-deliver, In the private sector, media, technology, revenue up by almost 400% in twoyears.
withno subcontracting of technology banking and industrial companies orremote monitoring services.
The market areallembracing integrated FM It has been a challenging year for our is evolving from one that is focused on procurement models.
Thepublic sector cleaning business, with renewed focus input and a commoditised service to one isnot yet responding atthe same pace oncosts.
where output is the key, such as the safety but webelieve thatopportunities here and security of a building.
will become increasingly evident duringthe year ahead.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 22 Marketplace and operating review Our Property Solutions business, which Property Management focuses on carrying out repairs and We provide a wide range of services maintenance for insurance companies, thathelp our clients reduce the cost continues to win business in what is a andimprove the effectiveness of the small but growing market.
We are now waythattheir buildings are managed, looking to build on this success by refurbished and maintained.
extending our offer into the private Property Management PM is a key landlord sector.
competence for MITIE and we have a The majority of our PM niche businesses long track record of delivering effective, performed well during the year.
efficient services including: Ourpainting business, for example, Planned and responsive maintenance hasattracted around 15 valuable Commercial painting newlong-term clients in the last Commercial roofing 12months and achieved high rates Insurance claims and repairs ofgrowth.
This market has evolved Interior fit-out fromone dominated by one-off projects Passive fire protection to one characterised by longer-term Building refurbishment andlarger scale contracts.
Although Healthcare Although margins in some sectors social housing has traditionally been continue to be under pressure, PM ourcore sector, we are now working We provide high quality homecare in the remains a core business that generates tomove further into the private and UK, delivering a wide range of services to significant revenue for MITIE and has commercial areas where we see good people who require help and support thepotential to drive further growth.
Our roofing businesses due to illness, disability or infirmity.
alsoenjoyed a positive year, while our In the social housing sector, we are Our core homecare capability includes relatively small presence in plumbing seeing consolidation and a very help with personal hygiene and dressing delivered less satisfactory results.
competitive marketplace as local needs as well as assistance with authorities look to increase their reliance The coming 12-24 month period will see preparations for sleep and also first thing on outsourcing.
As the austerity us focus on longer-term contracts with in the morning.
In addition, we provide: measures bite, some authorities are existing clients, providing extended Administration and assistance with medications joining forces toseek economies of scale services to organisations that already Liaison with clients GPs while others are moving towards a know and trust our capabilities.
We will Respite care for relatives and carers contract management or joint venture also invest in the planned maintenance Escorted outings and holidays Emergency assistance model.
Wehave a strong pipeline in aspect of our business.
Live in care place andanticipate good growth,  and central Against the backdrop of an ageing England.
Furthermore, we will explore population and a squeeze on NHS opportunities to bundle services andlocal authority budgets, healthcare together, including our energy offer, isan attractive market regardless inorder to drive margins up.
ofwhich government is in power.
Thehomecare market in England is valued at around 8billion per annum, of a total UK healthcare spend in excess of 100 billion.
With the number of people over the age of 85 expected Manufacturing todouble in the next 25 years, sectoropportunities weanticipate a growing trend towards During the year we made extending care in the home, which is considerable progress in the UK amore cost effective approach.
Wewere awarded a number of new We believe that over time the market contracts in this sector and now deliver services for a wide range willalso see the integration of social care of clients that manufacture and healthcare, with budgets for each goods including food, beverages, likely to either combine or be considered .
Cost is a key issue for this sector, but so too is quality of care and we believe that our services can deliver excellence in both areas.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Marketplace Strategy and and sustainable Overview performance operations Finance Governance Accounts 23 Lean Academy MITIEs Lean Academy gives employees the necessary training to deliver lean cleaning via a webbased programme which helps calculate and design the most efficient cleaning processes for a specific building, saving time, money and resources.
Both the IT software and the Lean Academy are exclusive to MITIE and the first of their kind within the facilities management sector.
Since its launch a year ago, over 150 of our people have gained accredited qualifications.
Through the acquisition of Enara, we Consequently, there is a high degree of Energy Solutions have moved into the homecare sector uncertainty in the energy marketplace.
We provide specialist energy and for the first time.
We focus on a patientThrough our Utilyx business, we aim to carbonadvice and are one of the centric approach, helping people reduce that uncertainty and help our largest independent buyers of energy receive care in their homes or the local customers manage every element of forindustry and commerce in the UK.
community instead of in hospital.
We do this in three ways: by using our market knowledge We work with our clients to develop Where we can make a real difference and position to help them buy better: theirenergy strategies, manage isin bringing the infrastructure and byusing the expertise within our broader theimplementation and deliver real experience of a large organisation organisation to help them reduce improvements in performance: towhat is essentially a locally-based consumption: and by advising them Procurement buy energy better and smarter business model.
We understand how onhow to access the opportunities Consumption use less energy tostreamline processes for example, offeredby generating their own energy.
Generation create your own energy and secure wehave already reduced the time it long-term supply In this last instance, our role is to facilitate takes Enara to carry out a Criminal and manage the project, using our Records Bureau check from an industryWe help companies, developers and experience to create a practical, standard five weeks to just four days.
generators manage both the risks and robustand low-cost solution.
Wehave also made significant opportunities within this fast-changing improvements to Enaras recruitment We anticipate increasing opportunities sector.
Our services cover the full andtraining model and introduced tobundle energy and FM services spectrum of the energy and carbon bestpractice standards across the together as total solutions, helping markets, providing expert advice and business.
Inaddition, we are drawing customers benefit from greater bespoke solutions to both those who onour IT experience to introduce efficiency and lower costs across their consume and those who produce hand-held technology for carers in order business.
Energy generation is likely to energy and carbon.
to automate the visiting process, save grow in importance and we will also With costs estimated to potentially time and improve record-keeping.
focus on energy data analytics so double by 2020, it is not surprising that clients can understand exactly what is The future for the healthcare division energy is on the agenda ofevery being spent and where.
TheGovernment wewill seek tobring together price and Wewillcomplement Enaras excellent has a three-strand strategy to deal with volume information for our clients.
track record with our own expertise, the challenge, focusing on affordability, experience and national strength.
security of supply and reducing carbon Wehave already seen some local emissions.
But there are a number of authorities aggregate homecare hurdles ahead, including an electricity provision into a smaller number of larger distribution system in need of a 120 packages and we expect to see this billion upgrade by 2020 and the loss of trend continue.
At the same time, we will 25% of the UKs generating capacity by be looking for additional opportunities 2017 as coal-fired power stations close.
along the entire clinical pathway for the The renewable sector will take up some frail and elderly.
of the slack, but such systems are expensive to build and the inherent volatility in supply associated with wind power can lead to volatility in pricing.
Utilyx research MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
