StrAtegIC report 35 reVIew oF operAtIonS business description performance nortH AMerICA For Morgan, the north America region revenue for the north America region for comprises united States of America, Canada the year was 359.9 million, representing and Mexico.
the financials of the north a decrease of 4.4% compared with 376.3 HIgHlIgHtS American region comprise those of all the million in 2012.
At constant currency the Full-year margins increased to 15.4%, businesses that are located within those year-on-year decrease was 5.6%.
revenue with margins in the second half of 16.0%.
countries, including the sales made directly in the second half of 2013 was 1.5% lower to and profits from third party customers than in the first half at constant currency.
Significant savings from the successful outside of the region.
Sales made to Morgan implementation of one Morgan.
companies outside of the region are not eBItA for the region was 55.5 million included in north Americas reported revenue 2012: 55.7 million, representing a margin but the profit made on these inter-regional of 15.4% 2012 reported 14.8%.
the eBItA REVENUE sales are included in north Americas results.
margin in the second half of 2013 was 16.0% m compared with 14.8% in the first half.
the 2013 359.9m the north America region offers the full continued margin improvement has been Morgan product range and the vast majority delivered despite the lower revenue and is due 2012 376.3m of revenue is from products made within to positive mix shift, operational improvements the region.
north America has a number of in a number of facilities and cost benefits, important primary processing sites that provide primarily from the implementation of REGIONAL EBITA Morgan businesses across the world with base one Morgan.
m materials, semi-finished and sometimes finished 2013 55.5m products, particularly in the electrical brush and business review seals and bearings businesses.
trading conditions in the second half of 2013 2012 55.7m continued to be mixed, as they were in the restated for impact of IAS 19 revised As shown in the chart to the left, north first half of the year.
America serves all of the groups chosen end markets.
of the three regions, it currently has the thermal Ceramics business continued NORTH AMERICA 2013 the greatest proportion of revenue from the to perform well in some niche automotive % higher margin end-markets such as aerospace, applications.
good progress was made in included in transportation, and healthcare.
supplying high-temperature insulating fibre for catalytic converters to the growing vehicle Footprint emission controls market, successfully As at 31 December 2013 the north America introducing new materials that improve region comprises 25 operating sites employing customers product performance and address 3,150 people.
the principal manufacturing sites regional regulatory legislation.
Importantly, are in uSA, Canada and Mexico.
the Mexican Morgan is partnered with global market-leaders operations are used to satisfy both the local and is providing them with next-generation market, but more importantly and increasingly, fibre materials to support their growth.
as an effective low-cost point of supply to the uSA and to other Morgan businesses the region continued to increase the Energy 5% across the world.
the region also has a manufacturing capacity and market penetration Transportation 28% comprehensive network of sales offices of Superwool low bio-persistent fibre, Security and Defence 8% allowing immediate access to and facilitating providing a major impetus to sales into the Healthcare 7% direct working with end-users.
Some sales, general industrial market.
Electronics 14% particularly for the insulating fibre and Petrochemical 8% Industrial 30% crucibles product ranges, are made through a well-established distributor network.
Definitions of the measures can be found in the glossary.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FinAnCiAl DireCTOrS STrATeGiC Overview STATemenTS repOrT repOrT 36 StrAtegIC report reVIew oF operAtIonS continued the electrical brush business has delivered the north American region has also invested nortH AMerICA continued broadly flat revenue through 2013 relative significant resource and made good progress to the second half of 2012. progress has in the development of new, lightweight ceramic been made in sales to the wind energy plates for ballistic protection.
the most notable drag on revenue in market where the region has won share in the thermal Ceramics business was the lack the after-market based on product offering Significant local investment has also been of large petrochemical projects that use the and service levels.
the major impact on the made to support initiatives in a number of key regions fibre and insulating fire bricks.
the performance of the electrical business came markets: braze alloy development to produce general global slowdown and a tightening of from the restructuring actions taken as a result cutters for deep hole drilling for oil and gas credit markets has meant that very few large of one Morgan.
Demand for high-temperature exploration: material and process development projects were actually commissioned in 2013. insulation carbon graphite products in the to improve the performance and extend the enquiry and quoting levels are high and renewables sector and for uS body armour range of ceramic cores for more demanding Morgan is hopeful that these project orders remained at the low levels experienced in the turbine blade applications for the aerospace do get placed in 2014. first half of the year.
there have been some market.
successful synergy sales, where customers A focus on attractive niche markets, the gross who use ceramic fibre products have been priorities and outlook margin benefits of Superwool compared introduced to higher temperature range carbon the priorities of the north American region to refractory ceramic fibre and operational insulation products.
this is one early example are to continue to drive positive mix shift benefits contributed to improved operating of the real benefits of being organised to offer towards higher tech, secular growth markets performance in the thermal Ceramics the full Morgan product and technology range such as aerospace, healthcare, energy and business.
to each and every customer and will be an area emission control, supported by the rollout of continued focus in 2014. of market leading, differentiated technology, the technical Ceramics business in 2013 for example, the Superwool range of was impacted by weaker hard disc drive and the region has progressively seen the benefits high-temperature insulating fibre products.
semiconductor business, though there have of the one Morgan model and organisational Alongside this there will be a continued focus been some signs of general market recovery change to one business unit in 2013. the on operational improvements, including in the fourth quarter of 2013 and there is a region is already a mid-teen margin business expanding the use of low-cost Mexican solid order book for the start of 2014.
Sales operating in mixed trading conditions during operations.
in the second half of the year to the aerospace the year.
the focus as one unified business market were impacted by inventory adjustments, is delivering performance improvement and Some early synergy selling successes have specifically cores used in the manufacture of creating new opportunities for growth in 2014. been achieved, but this is seen as an, as yet, turbine blades, as well as reduced demand unrealised opportunity from the one Morgan from the industrial gas turbine market.
the research and development reorganisation and one that will receive more business has started to benefit from the strong the north American facilities have played an focus in 2014. oil and gas market and particularly from the important role in Superwool development, increase in fracking.
working effectively with the Bromborough, uK the market for the north American region technology facility to take products through was mixed during 2013 and the outlook for to volume production.
2014 suggests that this will continue.
order books going in to 2014 are stable but the In addition to this, in the fibre product range, investments made in 2013 and the product there has been significant development of pipeline should position the region for further product and process capability in respect of profitable growth as markets improve.
engineered fibre that is used in the vehicle emission control market.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS StrAtegIC report 37 business description performance europe For Morgan, the european region is defined revenue for the european region for the year as the uK, Continental europe and russia, was 357.3 million, representing a decrease but excludes turkey, which is reported in of 1.2% compared with the 361.7 million in HIgHlIgHtS Asia rest of world.
At constant currency the year-on-year eBItA margins increased by 140 basis comprise all of the Morgan Advanced decrease was 3.7%.
revenue in the second points to 11.8%.
Materials businesses that are located within half of 2013 was 1.5% lower than in the first the european region.
It includes the sales half at constant currency.
portfolio reshaping commenced with made directly to and profits from third-party the exit of the Composites and Defence customers outside of the region.
Sales made eBItA for the region continued to improve to Systems spares and logistics business.
to Morgan companies outside of the region 42.0 million 2012: 37.5 million, a margin of are not included in europes reported revenue 11.8% 2012: 10.4%.
the eBItA margin in the but the profit made on these inter-regional second half of 2013 was 12.3% compared with REVENUE sales are included in europes results.
the margin progress has m been achieved on lower sales and is due to a 2013 357.3m the european region offers the full Morgan combination of positive revenue mix shift and product range and the vast majority of revenue cost benefits from a range of operational 2012 361.7m is from products made within the region.
initiatives, including those from the Certain specific grades of material and some implementation of one Morgan.
finished products are sourced from the REGIONAL EBITA north America and Asia rest of world regions.
m business review trading conditions in most of the markets 2013 42.0m As shown in the chart to the left, europe served by the european region have remained serves all of the groups chosen end-markets.
2012 37.5m the region has a broad spread of end-market restated for impact of IAS 19 revised exposure.
the security and defence revenue is In the thermal Ceramics business, comprising primarily from the Composites and Defence principally high-temperature insulating fibre Systems C&DS business.
and firebrick, revenue from large projects, EUROPE 2013 particularly in the petrochemical industry, % Footprint continues to be weak as customers have As at 31 December 2013 the european region delayed major investment decisions.
enquiry comprises 25 operating sites and employed levels are good and the region remains hopeful a total of approximately 2,950 people.
the of an improvement in this market in 2014. principal manufacturing sites are in the uK, the region has increased its presence in France, germany, luxembourg, Italy, Hungary the russian eastern european market and and russia.
has secured some small but strategically important sales.
Management are conscious the region also has a number of sales offices of the reputation of trading practices in these providing regional coverage and customer markets and has been rigorous in terms proximity, allowing the regions people to of the training given to staff through the work directly with end-users.
Some use is also responsible Business programme and Energy 5% made of well-established distribution networks.
Transportation 13% Security and Defence 18% Healthcare 5% Electronics 4% Petrochemical 7% Industrial 48% Definitions of the measures can be found in the glossary.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FinAnCiAl DireCTOrS STrATeGiC Overview STATemenTS repOrT repOrT 38 StrAtegIC report reVIew oF operAtIonS continued in terms of upgrades to those vehicles and for priorities and outlook europe continued personal protection, specifically body armour good margin improvement has been delivered and helmets.
Major investment has been made progressively through 2013.
Some of this has in the development of next-generation armour come from a positive mix shift in sales.
the In the technical Ceramics business, sales of and helmet solutions.
the focus going forward larger part of the margin improvement has cores to both the aerospace and the industrial will increasingly be on taking world-leading come from cost reductions, both operational gas turbines market weakened in the second advanced composite technology into nonimprovements and efficiencies at most of the half of 2013, but there was further growth in military commercial applications.
C&DS sites and a reduced headcount.
sales to the medical market.
already have a strong presence in the medical market with oncology beds and there is good whilst there are further opportunities for the electrical brush and rotary business has opportunity to expand on this, both in the cost improvement, the focus of the region delivered good growth in the year despite uK and in export markets.
will be on driving further margin improvement the macro-environment and the continued from targeted revenue growth and portfolio migration from DC to AC motors that do not research and development reshaping.
this growth has been secured As noted in the group Business Model on through winning market share and the growth page 16, under one Morgan the groups Management are hopeful that macro conditions of integrated brush, slip ring and rotary research and development activities are now will be better in 2014 and there have been products to the wind industry.
As the installed headed by the Chief technology officer, some signs of improvement in a number wind turbine base comes to the end of its with r&D resource deployed across the of markets.
However, the focus will be on original warranty period the region has been globe, increasingly concentrated in centres creating opportunities for growth based on successful in securing business from the original of excellence.
the markets targeted and the pipeline of supplier with excellent service and product new business that have been developed in offering.
Further progress has also been made the europe region is the location for the recent years.
in the rationalisation of the electrical brush groups global ceramic fibre research and manufacturing footprint and cost base in the development facility, based in Bromborough, In line with stated Morgan group strategy, period, with the completion of the relocation uK.
this state-of-the-art facility employs 25 the region will be looking to expand in those of manufacturing from the netherlands dedicated scientists focused on the continued attractive niche markets where the margins to Hungary.
development of Morgans fibre product range.
earned fully reflect the benefit brought to Morgans market-leading low bio-persistent customers and for those businesses where the seals and bearings business has also Superwool fibre was developed here and the region does not see a way to deliver delivered further growth, with revenue the product range in this area continues to adequate returns then an appropriate exit increasing from both the oil and gas and be expanded.
with Superwool plus, Ht and will be sought, as with the spares and logistics water markets.
xt range of products the group is extending business of C&DS.
the temperature range, allowing it to provide revenue in the Composites and Defence customers with superior insulation performance, Systems C&DS business improved in improved fire protection and weight saving the second half of the year, with improving opportunities in more applications.
there profitability based on a combination of product has been particular success in areas such as mix, volume and operational cost reductions.
off-shore platforms and liquid natural gas During the second half of 2013 C&DS ended terminals.
the scientists at the facility work its spares and logistics contract with the uK closely with sales and operational staff across Ministry of Defence MoD in respect of the the globe to ensure that research effort Mastiff fleet of vehicles which in 2013 was circa remains focussed on developing products that 12 million of revenue.
Despite the absence of customers need and that the groups facilities new vehicle build contracts and the exit from are capable of manufacturing in sufficient scale.
the vehicle spares and sustainment business, C&DS remain a key supplier to the uK MoD MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS StrAtegIC report 39 business description performance ASIA reSt oF worlD For Morgan, the Asia rest of world region revenue for the Asia rest of world region comprises Asia, Australasia, India, Africa, for the year was 240.6 million, representing a Middle east, including turkey, and South decline of 10.7% compared with 2012 revenue HIgHlIgHtS America.
the financials of the region comprise of 269.5 million.
At constant currency the end-markets been difficult through those of all the businesses that are located decrease was 5.7%.
revenue in the second the year, especially in China and India.
within those countries, including the sales half of 2013 was 4.4% higher than that in the made directly to and profits from third party first half at constant currency.
Cost reduction actions taken with closure customers outside of the region.
Sales made of high-cost manufacturing operations to Morgan companies outside of the region eBItA for the region was 26.4 million in Japan, Australia and South Africa.
are not included in Asia rest of worlds 2012: 32.8 million, representing a margin portfolio reshaping started with the sale reported revenue but the profit made on of 11.0% 2012: 12.2%.
the eBItA margin in of majority stake in loss-making Indian these inter-regional sales are included in the second half of 2013 was 11.2% compared carbon business.
Asia rest of worlds results.
the margin in the region has been adversely impacted by the Asia rest of world region offers the the large drop in sales volume and the cost REVENUE full Morgan product range.
the region has reduction actions taken have not been enough m significant manufacturing capability and capacity to offset this.
with some sales recovery in the for insulating fibre, including Superwool, and second half, and with the benefits of the cost 2013 240.6m firebrick and some capacity for electrical brush reduction actions coming through, there was 2012 269.5m material, however it does source a large an improvement in margins in the second half amount of material, semi-finished and finished of the year.
Management have taken the view products from Morgan businesses in north that the industrial part of the economies such REGIONAL EBITA America and europe, either finishing locally as China and India, which represents the major m or selling finished products to end customers.
part of Morgans business in those countries, will recover and that the group is well-placed 2013 26.4m As shown in the chart to the left, the to take advantage of this recovery and that 2012 32.8m Asia rest of world region serves all of the the resource base that has been installed restated for impact of IAS 19 revised groups chosen end-markets.
the majority over recent years, and indeed added to of revenue in the region is currently from where appropriate in 2013, needs to be largely industrial markets, but there is a significant retained to deliver this.
opportunity to drive a positive mix shift through ASIA REST OF WORLD 2013 % increased sales to markets such as aerospace business review and healthcare.
trading across the region has remained subdued during the second half of 2012, Footprint although there has been some improvement As at 31 December 2013 the Asia rest of towards the end of 2013 in some markets.
world region comprises 25 operating sites employing 3,000 people.
the principal A slowing of global growth and domestic manufacturing sites are located in China, industrial output has meant deferral of a India, South Korea, Australia, Japan, Brazil number of major projects.
these manufacturing sites are has remained strong but very few orders of supported by a network of sales and application any size have been placed.
In the Asia rest engineers to ensure that customers are of world region, a much larger part of the well supported across this large region with business is currently in traditional industrial Energy 11% the appropriate Morgan resource.
where markets such as iron and steel and heavy Transportation 13% appropriate, use is also made of third-party construction and the general slowdown in Security and Defence 1% Healthcare 1% distributors.
these markets, most notably in China and India, Electronics 4% has also had an adverse impact on revenue.
Petrochemical 9% Industrial 61% Definitions of the measures can be found in the glossary.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS FinAnCiAl DireCTOrS STrATeGiC Overview STATemenTS repOrT repOrT 40 StrAtegIC report reVIew oF operAtIonS continued Significant development has also taken place ASIA reSt oF worlD continued in the crucibles business.
this is the groups original and oldest product range, but there has been a major focus on and successful Molten Metals Systems, which focuses on business developments introduction of new, innovative coatings that the non-ferrous industries, such as aluminium, Despite the disappointing decline in revenue give the crucibles much improved performance generates circa 50% of its revenue in this and profits in 2013, Morgan has continued to characteristics and expanding their applications region and has been impacted by a slowdown invest significantly in the region.
to areas such as high-purity alumina processing in the Indian automotive industry.
for the electronics industry and for nuclear More than 15 million has been invested in waste treatment.
It is clear that many of the countries in the China, Korea, India and Brazil, with significant region are starting to demand technically spend on adding new capacity and converting Outlook differentiated products for markets such as existing fibre equipment to support the whilst the region has seen no growth since medical, aerospace and electronics.
Morgan continued roll out of the family of Superwool the start of the second half of 2012, there is ideally placed to take advantage of this products.
two major greenfield projects have remains a strong belief in the growth prospects through an ability to take a large product range also been started: a new ceramics plant in of the region.
with the current capabilities to market, initially using western-sourced Dalian, China and a new Superwool fibre and capacity, Morgan is well placed to take technical support and products, but rapidly plant in Khalifa Industrial zone Abu Dhabi, advantage of any general industrial upturn in moving to in-region manufacturing.
the the united Arab emirates.
Both these major the region, and there have been some signs region has already been successful in making investments are in locations where significant of encouragement recently in terms of enquiry sales to the medical and aerospace markets demand is expected in the coming years and and, more importantly, order levels in certain and are looking for the most effective way where there is the advantage of low input markets.
to develop full local capability, through a costs, labour in the case of China and energy combination of direct investment and and raw materials in the case of uAe.
the region is also extremely well placed to partnerships with locally established players.
satisfy the expected growth in demand in more research and development advanced markets, such as medical, aerospace one successful example of using western the Asia rest of world region takes full and defence.
western capacity will initially product and technology base and the Asian advantage of the development efforts that be utilised but the region and the group are network has been C&DS success in securing take place in the research and development ready to make the necessary investments a major development programme for facilities that are located in the north America in resource to take full advantage of those composite pods for military vehicles.
Importantly, it provides opportunities as they arise.
order has been won with a major Asian vehicle a direct interface to local customers whose manufacturer and C&DS are at various stages requirements are fed back in to the of discussion with major players in a number product and process development that of other geographies.
In response to the weak market conditions For example, the worlds leading special and accelerated in part by the one Morgan shipbuilders are located in Korea and the local structure, a number of cost reduction initiatives management team have successfully worked were taken during the year including the with the customer and Morgans global cessation of fibre production in Australia and fibre team to develop and have specified Japan, with product now being imported from Morgans FireMaster Marine plus.
other lower-cost Morgan operations in the Further work was then done to develop region, and the consolidation of administrative a water-repellent grade.
towards the end of 2013 the group also sold the majority of its equity stake in the loss-making Assam Carbon company in India.
A review of the lithium ion business in China was also performed, resulting in a write-off of its intangible assets and a review of the long-term future of its place in Morgan.
these are part of the group-wide portfolio reshaping that commenced in the latter part of the year.
MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS AnnuAl report 2013 AnnuAl report 2013 MorgAn ADVAnCeD MAterIAlS
