Where we operate page 4 Review of operations During 2013 exploration and appraisal activities continued in Tanzania on Blocks 1, 3 and 4 to underpin and fide-risk volumes for a two Train LNGproject.
Further exploration and appraisal is planned on these assets in 2014, along with high-impact exploration in Gabon and progress incommercialising the discovered gas resource in Equatorial Guinea.
Key highlights Tanzania Blocks 1, 3 and 4 Overview Sale of 20% interest to Pavilion Energy for US$1.288 billion Ophir has interests in five offshore blocks with a gross area announced in November 2013 2 of 28,817km.
The Company has a 40% interest in Blocks 1, 1 3 and 4 operated by BG Group, an 80% operated interest in Following on from the exploration success in prior years, the Block 7 and a 70% operated interest in East Pande.
Blocks1, BG-Ophir JV drilled six successful exploration and appraisal wells 3 and 4 contain several large gas discoveries which will be across Blocks 1 and 4, including the Mkizi and Ngisi discoveries, commercialised by a multi-train LNG export development.
extending the JVs 100% drilling success rate Flow-tests were completed on the Mzia, Jodari and Pweza Stages in business model discoveries confirming world-class reservoir deliverability, significantly fide-risking the commerciality of the discoveries Capture A Anal naly ysse e E Ex xplor plore e A Appr ppra aiisse e C Co omm mme errcciia alliisse e Gross recoverable resources 2C were increased to 15.7 TCF which will underpin a minimum two Train LNG project Preferred site selected for the onshore LNG facility with FID ontrack for 2016 and first gas provisionally expected in 2020 Further exploration planned on Blocks 1 and 4 during 2014 Block 7 Block 7 and East Pande The first well drilled on Block 7, Mlinzi Mbali-1, although commercially unsuccessful, is providing significant geological information as the first well in the area and the stratigraphically deepest well drilled to date offshore Tanzania.
Additional Chewa Block 4 prospectivity on the block was confirmed by the Upanga 3D Ngisi survey and will be assessed alongside the Mlinzi Mbali-1 result Pweza Block 3 Drilling on the Tende prospect on the East Pande licence is Papa expected in Q3 2014.
This is primarily a gas target but has the East potential for liquids Pande Tende Block 1 Tanzania Mzia Mkizi Jodari North Jodari Chaza Gas discovery Gas and oil prospect 1 On 14 November 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement to sell to Pavilion Energy a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4.
This transaction isunconditional and subject to completion.
22 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report Successful DSTs Gross mean recoverable resources 3 15.7TCF Sale of interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 to Pavilion Energy, delivering value in line with Company strategy 100% drilling success to date In November 2013 it was announced that Pavilion Energy had inBlocks 1, 3 and 4 agreed to buy a 20% interest in Blocks 1, 3 and 4 from Ophir for US$1.288 billion, of which US$38 million is payable at the time of FID on the proposed LNG project.
All conditions precedent to the transaction have been satisfied or waived.
The transaction Gross discovered resource TCF is now unconditional and is expected to close shortly.
This deal brings in a strong partner to the JV, and is an endorsement of the quality of the planned LNG project.
The sale is in line with Ophirs strategy of monetising exploration success at the appropriate time, to maximise returns for shareholders, while avoiding significant expenditure through the development phase of a project.
Block 1 9.7 Block 3 0.8 Significant further exploration and appraisal success in Block 1 Block 4 5.2 The key operational highlight in 2013 was the successful appraisal of the Jodari and Mzia discoveries in Block 1 utilising the Deepsea Since drilling began in late 2010 on Blocks 1, 3 and 4, the JV Metro I drillship secured under long-term contract by Ophir and has had a 100% drilling success rate with 14 exploration and BG Group.
A Drill Stem Test DST was undertaken on the Jodari-1 appraisal wells.
This includes eight exploration discoveries with well which flowed at an  rate of 70mmcfd, gross recoverable resources now standing at 15.7 TCF.
At least two demonstrating excellent reservoir deliverability.
This was followed further exploration wells are planned across the acreage in 2014 by the Mzia-2 appraisal well drilled 4km to the south east of the along with additional appraisal activities on the Mzia discovery.
original discovery well and which encountered 62m of net pay in Cretaceous reservoirs.
The well established pressure communication between the Mzia-1 and Mzia-2 gas columns and a DST on the Activity in Block 4 confirms potential of a second well flowed at 57mmcfd equipment constrained, which was at development hub the upper end of the expected range.
Further appraisal on Mzia The Pweza discovery drilled in 2010 was appraised with two wells in continued in October with the Mzia-3 well, which proved a deeper Q3 2013.
The Pweza-2 well was drilled on the southern flank of the gas down to level than in the previous wells.
field and confirmed existing resource estimates while the Pweza-3 The Mkizi-1 well was drilled in July 2013 on a prospect situated well was drilled into the main reservoir channel.
A DST on Pweza-3 between Mzia and Jodari.
The well encountered 33m of net pay flowed at a constrained rate of 57mmcfd, consistent with the worldin high-quality Tertiary reservoirs with gross recoverable resources class deliverability seen from the Tertiary reservoirs in Block 1. estimated at 0.6 TCF.
The Ngisi-1 exploration well was drilled in June 2013 and The Block 1 hub area, including the previously discovered Chaza encountered an excellent quality gas-bearing reservoir.
Two field, now has mean discovered recoverable resource estimates planned side-tracks were completed which demonstrated the ability ofclose to 10 TCF.
to drill highly deviated wells on the discoveries in Blocks 1, 3 and 4, a factor which is expected to assist in reducing development costs.
These side-tracks also appraised the underlying Chewa discovery.
Gross recoverable Block 4 resource estimates now stand at over 5 TCF across the Chewa-Pweza-Ngisi discoveries and a second development hub is now being considered on the Block to maximise the value of the resource position in Block 1.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Review of operations continued The JV has been working closely with Statoil and Exxon, the partners in neighbouring Block 2, which have made a number of gas discoveries, over the site for a shared LNG facility.
A preferred location for the facility has been selected and the Government of Tanzania has been informed of this preference.
At this stage it is envisaged that the common facilities at the LNG site will be managed by a single operator while the individual trains will be operated and owned by the separate JVs.
The BG Group Ophir JV is working towards commencing pre-FEED studies in 2014 with a view to making an FID in 2016.
First gas exports are expected in 2020.
Block 7 exploration underway Interpretation of the Upanga 3D survey acquired in 2012 was completed during the year and confirmed the potential of the Mlinzi channel complex.
The first well on the structure, Mlinzi Mbali-1, spudded in November and reached target depth at the end of the year.
Although the well did not encounter live hydrocarbons, it has provided valuable stratigraphic and geochemical information from Additional exploration planned in 2014 the deepest well drilled offshore Tanzania to date.
The results of The inboard and outboard 3D seismic surveys on Block 1 were the Mlinzi Mbali-1 well will be integrated into the ongoing technical fully interpreted during 2013 and helped refine the remaining analysis to quantify the remaining prospectivity of the block.
A number of large Basin floor fan features and amalgamated channel sequences of Tertiary age have In the west of Block 7, the 3D survey acquired by Dominion been identified in the outboard and, although they have not Petroleum in 2012 has been reprocessed and confirmed the been significantly fide-risked with the results from the seismic presence of the Ngao prospect with a potential resource in excess interpretation, we expect to explore these plays in future years.
The Ngao prospect will be reviewed in light of the results In addition, a number of inboard prospects on Block 1 have been of the Mlinzi Mbali-1 well.
identified and the Taachui prospect will be drilled in H1 with mean East Pande drilling to be undertaken in 2014 recoverable resource potential in excess of 1 TCF.
Interpretation of the Ndizi 3D survey was completed in the first The prospectivity of Blocks 3 and 4 continues to be evaluated and half of the year and confirmed our view of the prospectivity of the Kamba prospect will be drilled in 2014 on Block 4 with mean the acreage, with multiple prospects and plays of Tertiary and recoverable resource potential of c. 0.5 TCF.
The well will be designed Cretaceous age identified.
The first prospect to be drilled during to also test the shallower low-risk Pweza North prospect with mean 2014 will be Tende-1 in the southern section of the block, with recoverable resource estimated at c. 0.2 TCF.
mean recoverable resource potential of c. 2.4 TCFe.
The licence area is primarily prospective for gas but regional charge modelling LNG development planning progressing suggests the block could have the potential for oil generation in the The discovered resource base has now comfortably exceeded south.
In total, we have identified prospects and leads with mean the threshold for two, 5 million tonnes per annum Trains of LNG recoverable resource potential of c. 18 TCFe across the licence.
The appraisal activity on Blocks 1, 3 and 4, including the multiple flow-tests, has not only increased recoverable East Pande is strategically located inboard and adjacent to Blocks1, resource estimates but also substantially fide-risked the commercial 3 and 4 in relatively shallow water and is likely to be close to gas delivery of volumes for the planned LNG development.
The success export pipelines that will supply gas from these blocks into the of the appraisal programme and the flow-tests will lead to material planned onshore LNG plant.
development cost savings, as the number of wells is expected to be reduced against pre-appraisal expectations.
24 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report Gross mean recoverable Wells planned in 2014 resource 3 2.6TCF Focus on commercialisation Having successfully completed a second drilling programme in Equatorial Guinea 2012, which saw gross mean recoverable resources increase to 2.6TCF, the focus in 2013 has been on finalising and progressing Overview the preferred development solution to commercialise the Ophir has an 80% operated interest in Block R to the west discovered resource base.
ofBioko Island in water depths of up to 1,950m.
Equatorial Guinea has an established LNG operation with gas from the Alba Field supplying the 3.4 million tonnes per annum plant at Stages in business model Punta Europa EGLNG 1 on Bioko Island operated by Marathon.
We have considered a number of options to monetise our gas E Ex xplor plore e A Appr ppra aiisse e C Co omm mme errcciia alliisse e Capture Analyse resource including supplying the existing LNG train as production from the Alba Field declines or building a second LNG train at Punta Europa, sharing facilities with the existing plant.
However, we are progressing Floating LNG as the preferred development solution.
Usan Ukot This option is aided by the quality of the gas which needs minimal Tonel North-1 Oreja Marina processing and the benign sea conditions in the Gulf of Guinea.
Usan West In February 2014 a non-binding LoI agreement was signed with Tonel Petrofac to act as development operator up to FID, while a process to select the preferred vessel provider is nearing conclusion.
Silenus East Estrella fide Mar Oncompletion of further drilling this year, Ophir will look to bring inupstream partners to progress the development, with FID expected in 2015 and first gas likely in 2018.
Further drilling planned in 2014 Lykos Fortuna-2 We are planning to drill a further three wells on Block R, starting Fortuna mid-2014 to secure additional low risk gas resource while testing adeeper liquids play on the licence.
Silenus East-1 is an exploration Gas discovery well targeting a mean recoverable c. 0.4 TCF of gas and will be Block R Gas and oil prospect deepened to target the liquids play, while Tonel North-1 and Fortuna-2 will appraise existing discoveries.
A DST will be carried out on Fortuna-2 to demonstrate the deliverability of the reservoir and aid in dynamic reservoir modelling.
In total, excluding the potential Key highlights from liquids, we estimate there is remaining prospective upside of c. 7 TCF on the block, with c. 2 TCF on the proven Thrust Belt play.
Gross 2C recoverable resources now stand at 2.6 TCF withremaining prospective resource estimated at c. 7 TCF, ofwhich c. 2TCF is considered low-risk F LNG development solution being progressed as preferred option with Letter of Intent LoI signed with Petrofac as development operator up to FID and process to select vessel provider nearing completion F urther drilling planned in 2014 to increase proven gas resources and test the deeper liquids play identified on the block and will also include a DST on the Fortuna-2 appraisal well Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Review of operations continued Key highlights Gabon Completed processing and interpretation of 3D seismic over the pre-salt play in the Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks confirming the Overview prospectivity of the play 1 Ophir has a 100% operated interest in the Gnondo and 1 Manga Blocks together with a 50% operated interest in the First pre-salt well Padouck Deep-1 completed in March 2014 Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks.
All four are located offshore in the unsuccessful but further test of the play planned with Okala-1 North Gabon basin in water depths up to 2,500m.
The Ogoou Delta play extension to be tested with the Affanga Deep-1 well Stages in business model The outboard play, which is analogous to the successful SergipeAlagoas Basin in the conjugate margin in Brazil, continues to be Capture A Anal naly ysse e E Ex xplor plore e Appraise Commercialise evaluated with encouraging results.
Additional adjacent blocks provisionally awarded that are expected to contain further prospects in this play Oil prospect Extensive 3D seismic acquisition planned across the outboard 2014 well play on the existing acreage and newly awarded blocks Farm-out of interests across all four existing blocks on a promoted A3 Okala 1 basis to OMV Mbeli Padouck Targeting the high impact pre-salt play Deep The pre-salt play is extensive across Ophirs two northern Blocks, A4 Mbeli and Ntsina, and contains potential upside similar to that Ntsina seen onshore in North Gabon in the same play, across the Atlantic offshore Brazil as well as offshore Angola where there have been Gabon several recent discoveries.
Totals Diaman-1 well completed in A5 Manga August 2013 in the South Gabon basin was the first deepwater preA anga salt test offshore Gabon and confirmed both a working petroleum Deep system and the existence of thick, high quality clastic reservoirs.
A6 Gnodo Processing and interpretation of the Stenella 3D seismic survey which was acquired in 2012 was completed during 2013, and confirmed the prospectivity of the play.
The Vantage Titanium Explorer has been contracted to drill two of the pre-salt prospects as part of a wider West African drilling campaign which commenced in February 2014.
The first well targeting the Padouck Deep prospect has completed and whilst not commercially successful, itencountered thick, reservoir-quality sands and provided evidence of a working hydrocarbon system.
The second well to test the play will target the Okala prospect with mean recoverable resource potential of 354mmbbl.
In total, remaining leads and prospects 1 On 18 December 2013, Ophir announced that it had entered into an agreement with mean recoverable resource potential of c. 3.0BBbbl have been to sell to OMV a 10% interest in each of the Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks and identified on the pre-salt play across the Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks.
a30%interest in each of the Gnondo and Manga Blocks.
Completion of this transaction remains subject to satisfaction of certain conditions.
26 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report Wells planned in 2014 3 A well is also planned on the Affanga Deep prospect in the Gnondo Block.
This will test an extension to the Ogoou Delta play which has been proven on the shelf.
Success would fide-risk several other adjacent prospects that could form a potential hub-based development around Affanga Deep.
Further progress on the deepwater outboard play, additional acreage added An outboard deepwater play, analogous to the play in the SergipeAlagoas Basin in the conjugate margin offshore Brazil has been identified across all four blocks.
Petrobras has had considerable exploration success with this play, including the Barra discovery.
TheAfo and Pachg Liba 3D seismic surveys which cover part of this play were acquired and interpreted during 2012 and 2013.
However, these surveys were not large enough to fully understand the play system and therefore further 3D seismic will be acquired during 2014 with a view to maturing leads into drillable prospects for 2015 and beyond.
Risk mitigation through farm-outs We secured additional acreage in the recent offshore licensing round with the award of a 100% operated interest in Blocks A3, A4, Ophir entered Gabon in 2005 taking a 100% interest in the Companys A5 and A6 subject to the successful negotiation of PSCs.
These current existing four blocks.
In 2011 Petrobras farmed-in to the lie adjacent to and outboard of our existing offshore blocks and Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks, encouraged by the potential of the pre-salt are expected to contain an extension to the deepwater play.
It is and outboard deepwater plays which were analogous to successful plays offshore Brazil.
As part of the consideration for the farm-in, planned that 3D seismic data will be acquired on these new blocks Petrobras are contributing a significant share of Ophirs costs of the at the same time as the acquisition of seismic on the currently Padouck Deep and Okala wells.
After taking account of OMVs farm-in, licensed acreage.
which is subject to Government approval, Ophir is substantially Farm-out of acreage to OMV carried on the two pre-salt wells in addition to being partly carried on the Affanga Deep well.
These farm-outs are in line with Ophirs In December 2013 the Company announced that it had entered strategy of mitigating the cost of high-risk exploration drilling whilst into a comprehensive farm-out agreement with OMV covering retaining exposure to high-impact upside in the event of success.
our existing deepwater blocks offshore Gabon.
Under the terms of the agreement OMV has acquired 30% interests in the Manga and Gnondo Blocks and 10% interests in the Mbeli and Ntsina Blocks.
Ophir continues to operate all four blocks.
In consideration, OMVwill pay past costs and will pay a promoted share of the Padouck Deep, Affanga Deep and Okala wells as well as a promoted share oftwo further wells and a 3D seismic survey across the blocks.
Further conditional promotes are payable in the event ofsuccess with the Okala well.
The farm-in agreements are subject to Government approval.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Review of operations continued Kenya Offshore Senegal and Guinea Bissau Joint Overview 1 Ophir has a 90% operated interest in the offshore Block L9 Development Zone AGC 2 with a gross area of 3,833km in water depths of up to 1,400m.
Overview Stages in business model Ophir has a 79.2% interest in the Profond Block with a gross 2 area of 9,838km in water depths of up to 3,500m.
Capture A Anal naly ysse e E Ex xplor plore e Appraise Commercialise Stages in business model Capture A Anal naly ysse e E Ex xplor plore e Appraise Commercialise Key highlights Reviewing 3D seismic data across Block L9 with a view tomaturingprospects Following the unsuccessful Kora-1 well which was the first exploration 2 Potential for both an inboard carbonate oil play well on the block drilled in 2011, a 1,000km 3D seismic survey was andanoutboardclastic gas play undertaken in the first half of 2013.
Interpretation was ongoing at the year-end.
At this stage we have identified a number of leads in two main plays, a Maastrichian canyon pinchout play and an Early The Mbawa-1 gas discovery in Block L8 drilled by Apache in 2012 Cretaceous Jurassic toe thrust play.
While it is expected one or more opened up the offshore potential of Kenya and industry activity of these leads will be matured for drilling in the future, it is unlikely has increased with further wells drilled in 2013 by Anadarko.
that this will take place before the current term of the licence expires Ophiracquired the Nala 3D seismic survey over the eastern part in Q3 2014.
The Company is looking at the possibility of negotiating of BlockL9 in late 2012 and interpretation of that data is ongoing, a new PSC over the block.
with several gas leads having been identified in both Paleocene andCretaceous-aged structures.
Inboard on Block L9 there is the potential for an oil play in Miocene carbonate features.
This play trends to the south and has been tested by the Sunbird-1 well recently drilled by BG Group.
The results of this well will be integrated into our analysis of the potential oftheplay.
We have completed our assessment of the 3D survey on BlockL15: prospectivity is viewed as limited and Ophir has relinquished itsstake.
1 Ophir has a 90% participating interest with Government of Kenya having a 10%carried interest.
Ophir has entered into an agreement to sell to FAR Limited a30% interest in Block L9, Kenya.
28 Ophir Energy plc Strategic Report SADR Somaliland Overview Overview Ophir has a 50% interest in assurance agreements covering Ophir holds a 25% non-operated interest in the Berbera blocks 2 four blocks, Daora, Haouza, Mahbes and Mijek with a gross SL9 and SL12 with a gross area of 24,420km.
The blocks 2 area of 74,327km in water depths of up to 2,500m.
cover both onshore and offshore areas.
Stages in business model Stages in business model Explore Appraise Commercialise Explore Appraise Commercialise Capture A Anal naly ysse e Capture A Anal naly ysse e Ophir continues to monitor regional activity and opportunities During the year we farmed down a 50% stake and operatorship to tocommence operations in SADR.
RakGas in exchange for a carry on a seismic survey to be undertaken in 2014.
We will use this data to firm up possible drillingtargets.
Ghana Overview Ophir has a 20% operated interest in the Offshore Accra Contract Area of Ghana.
The Offshore Accra Contract Area is situated in the frontier Keta Basin on the West African Transform Margin play which has yielded several major discoveries including Jubilee and Tweneboa further west offshore Ghana.
We entered the block in December 2012 and completed drilling the Starfish-1 well in July 2013 which fulfilled the outstanding PSCcommitments.
The well was drilled to a total depth of 4,348m and was targeting a Lower Cretaceous-aged prospect analogous to those that have been successful elsewhere on the West African Transform Margin play.
Although the well encountered approximately 230m of sandstone in the primary target, this was found to be water wet.
The Initial Exploration Period on the licence expires on 23 March 2014 and Ophir has elected not to proceed intothe next PSC term.
