Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 18 Operational Review Nanotechnology Tools The Nanotechnology Tools sector produces our highest technology products and plays a key role intheGroups strategy for growth.
Revenue The Nanotechnology Tools sector produces semiconductors, renewable energy, m our highest technology products and mining, metallurgy and forensics.
Sales n serves research and industrial customers ofthe new X-Max range of large area 166.1 153.9 in both the public and private sectors.
detectors have exceeded expectations 166.1m Itcomprises our NanoAnalysis business asour customers continue to find new which includes Omniprobe and Asylum, applications for this market leading product.
7.9% Plasma Technology and Omicron For example, Russian scientists from NanoScience.
During 2013, we merged theNanoTech centre at the Ural Federal our NanoScience and Omicron businesses University used the X-Max system to 2012 2013 to create one organisation focused on confirm that fragments of rock found serving the science and applied research around an ice hole in Chebarkul Lake were community where both businesses shared from the meteorite that fell to earth in Profit many customers.
We are now able to offer February this year.
This business continues m those customers significantly enhanced to deliver a strong performance across all opportunities for collaboration, enabling regions.
In 2012 we opened a new sales 20.8 technologies and innovative new products office in South Korea to develop new 17.3 20.8m by harnessing the capabilities of two highly opportunities in this fast growing market.
skilled and experienced teams and two The integration of Asylum is going well and 20.2% well-established brands.
the business is performing to expectations.
The Nanotechnology Tools sector plays a Our Omicron NanoScience business is the 2012 2013 key role in the Groups strategy for growth.
market and technology leader for analytical In 2012 we held a number of seminars measurement techniques in high vacuum, around the world jointly hosted by all low temperature and high magnetic fields, Margin thebusinesses in this sector.
A two day supplying the fundamental and applied % conference in Bangalore, India with research communities.
Its technologies thetheme of Bringing the NanoWorld are used in a broad range of application- 12.5 Together was particularly successful specific solutions in advanced materials, 11.2 12.5% inattracting new customers and plans advanced computing, sustainable energy, are in place to repeat the format in life science and security.
A Sector Head for part of this business, acquired in June 2011, Nanotechnology Tools has been delivered a disappointing trading recruitedand joined us in June 2013. performance in the first half of the year.
2012 2013 However, during the second half, this Our NanoAnalysis business produces business was profitable and the order leading-edge tools that enable materials book has strengthened.
The merger characterisation and sample manipulation ofOmicron and NanoScience allows us at the nanometre scale.
Its products tointroduce wide-reaching efficiency areused on electron microscopes and measures and focus on building on our ion-beam systems in academic institutions core competencies and multi-technology and industrial applications including platforms.
In May 2013, we announced Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 19 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 that our Triton dilution refrigerator was part of a quantum computer purchased by a research collaboration of NASA and Google.
Quantum computing is one of the fastest growing nanotechnology research areas and the potential for ultra fast super computers is attracting investment from around the world.
Our Plasma Technology business provides leading-edge tools and processes for the fabrication of nanostructures.
Our systems provide process solutions for nanometre layer growth of compound semiconductor material, etching of nanometre sized features and the controlled growth of nanostructures, Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS, High Brightness LEDs HBLED and photovoltaic devices.
Sales of the Estrelas range of systems launched this year exceeded expectations.
Estrelas is used in key research areas including nanotechnology and nanofabrication, micro and nano-electronic devices and photovoltaic devices.
The business delivered a steady performance despite the HBLED market remaining flat, supported by growth in emerging markets, particularly Russia, Egypt and India.
An efficiency programme was initiated in 2013 to improve margins and deliver further growth.
Nurturing talent We have a very successful apprenticeship scheme that supports school leavers through college and with practical experience.
Many apprentices go on to pursue successful careers with Oxford Instruments.
Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 20 Operational Review continued Industrial Products We now offer a product range which gives our customers a choice of analysers for their analytical requirements.
Revenue This sector supplies analytical systems Our Superconducting Wire business is m for quality control, environmental and theworld leader in the provision of high compliance testing, and components performance superconducting wire for 129.1 125.1 forindustry and research.
The Industrial industry and research.
Markets include 125.1m Products sector contains our Industrial MRI scanners, physics research, proton Analysis and Industrial Components therapy and fusion energy.
The Industrial Analysis delivered a good performance in the year, business comprises three groups: X-ray supported by record growth in China.
The Fluorescence XRF, Optical Emission final delivery of the ITER order was made 2012 2013 Spectroscopy OES and Magnetic and the demand from OEM customers for Resonance NMR.
Industrial Components MRI superconductors remained strong.
comprises our Superconducting Wire, Austin Work to expand our wire factory was Profit Scientific and X-Ray Technology businesses.
completed, bringing additional production m efficiencies for 2013 14.
Our Industrial Analysis business supplies 17.4 high quality instruments for materials Our Austin Scientific business specialises 17.4m 13.8 identification, quality assurance, elemental in high vacuum products, helium gas analysis, thickness gauging and essential coolers and services for the semiconductor, 26.0% quality control applications.
Our customers research, life science and energy industries.
span global industries including metals, Deliveries on a large contract for steel, scrap recycling, agriculture, semiconductor process equipment were 2012 2013 automotive, textiles, petrochemicals and successfully completed during the year as construction.
For example, our X-Strata expected.
Trading levels were consequently XRF instrument is used by banks to provide reduced but our move to a new modern Margin real time evaluation of customers precious facility has delivered efficiency savings.
% metals which are commonly used as collateral in some parts of the world.
Sales Our X-Ray Technology business designs 13.9 in the emerging markets grew, particularly and manufactures X-ray sources for 13.9% 10.7 in Turkey, India and South Korea.
This was industry, research and medical applications.
offset by a downturn in demand from steel Formerly part of the Industrial Analysis 3.2pp markets in Europe and China and a decline business, it now sits within the Industrial in the printed circuit board industry in Asia.
This business During the year, three new analysers were delivered a good performance driven 2012 2013 introduced to our XRF hand-held range byorganic growth and new applications ofproducts offering ultra fast metals in medical markets.
One of our X-ray analysis, an optional integrated camera sources is part of the chemistry and and a dedicated scrap metal sorter.
mineralogy instrumentation on NASAs Thismeans we now offer a product range Mars Curiosity rover, analysing rocks and which gives our customers a choice of soil to provide clues about the planets analysers for their analytical requirements.
Business Overview Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Company Information 21 21 21 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2013 Service The sector performed well across all territories driven by successful initiatives such as a worldwide system training course and online service training.
Revenue This sector comprises our service, support, Our CT and MRI business delivered a strong m training, refurbishment, consumables and performance helped by cost containment accessories elements of our business.
pressure arising from the Affordable Health 60.6 56.3 Itconsists of two elements: the servicing Care Act.
This legislation is being described 60.6m of CT and MRI medical scanners in North as the most significant overhaul of the America and Asia and the service elements UShealthcare system since Medicare and 7.6% of the Nanotechnology Tools and Industrial Medicaid and is aimed at increasing the rate Products sectors.
The sector performed well of health insurance coverage whilst at the across all territories driven by successful same time reducing the overall costs of 2012 2013 initiatives such as a worldwide system healthcare.
These factors favour our cost training course for Plasma Technology effective business model for servicing customers and online service training.
Profit The range of preferred service options m varies across our global customer base.
Emerging markets are beginning to In the US, 49% of customers opt for offeropportunities for growth.
In Europe recently acquired regulatory approval 11.5m and Asia, take up of service contracts is toprovide refurbished MRI equipment slower and these territories offer significant tocompanies in South Korea provides 4.5% opportunity for further growth.
aparticular opportunity for growth in thecurrent year.
2012 2013 Margin % 19.5 19.0 19% 0.5pp 2012 2013 Expert service and support Our network of service offices and engineers extends across the globe.
Here, an engineer is testing an Oxford Instruments Austin Helium Compressor before shipping back to the customer.
