Good progress has been made in implementing Organic-Plus, our next phase of development, to continue growing sustainable earnings.
For more information visit: www.
com Business review Overview Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Chief Executives review Committed to delivering value QinetiQs transformation began with a 24 month self-help programme.
The portfolio was refocused to align with customers changing needs, to ensure a full understanding of profit potential, and to determine which businesses are scalable into significant core units.
The Group is now organised as distinct businesses, each representing one of QinetiQs key areas of capability, with an accountable leader and a clear route map to maximise future performance.
The new cadre of leaders running these businesses is building an open, commercial culture which has enabled the recent delayering of leadership in both the UK and the US.
The self-help programme also addressed the Groups immediate financial situation, driving a reduction in debt of over half a billion pounds in three years.
Today the Groups balance sheet carries net cash and has the strength to weather challenging defence markets and the capacity for carefully targeted investment choices.
The Organic-Plus programme continues the disciplines established Leo Quinn during phase one, including a focus on cash generation.
This in turn Chief Executive Officer enables investments in growth managed through a rigorous process for prioritising resources and monitoring returns.
The goal is to drive value from the portfolio by investing in Core capabilities which can win market share, while nurturing a select number of established Explore services and solutions to determine their ability to scale Highlights into future core businesses.
Early stage Test for Value Robust overall Group performance in tough markets technologies and offerings come under evaluation as they are during 2013: generated, to determine the best route to exploit value, including potential partnerships, divestment or closure.
6% increase in underlying operating profit driven by excellent performance in UK Services In parallel with the drive for profitable growth, over 1,400 projects have been implemented to date through the My Contribution Net cash position achieved through strong cash generation programme, reducing costs substantially and driving improved 31% increase in full year dividend, reflecting in-year growth in productivity.
Many of these projects directly help customers, so that underlying earnings per share and the Groups commitment QinetiQs people provide a critical point of difference for the Group to delivering value in delivering more for less.
The insights, engagement and dedication of the Groups engineers and scientists feed directly into winning and retaining business a unique value captured not only Good progress implementing Organic-Plus programme as route in the QinetiQ strapline of People Who Know How: but in the UK to delivering value: Fellows network which brings together a cadre of senior people Agreed five-year, 998m re-pricing of Long Term Partnering recognised nationally and internationally for their particular Agreement LTPA with MOD, underpinning core UK Services technical expertise.
business A strategic review has been initiated to determine the route to Non-cash 256m goodwill impairment in US Services: initiating maximum value in US Services.
This division, which has been strategic review restructured, possesses some strong capabilities and market positions, but the Group needs to determine the best way to Expanding Global Products portfolio to increase focus on maximise its performance and potential.
non-conflict markets A business-by-business update on the Organic-Plus programme Positioning for sustainable earnings growth over the is provided in this review.
medium term Definitions of underlying measures of performance can be found in the glossary on page 116.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 20135 Chief Executives review continued Q&A with Leo Quinn Why do you call this a transformation, not a turnaround?
Why categorise the portfolio as Core, Explore Q Q and Test for Value?
In a turnaround you simply take cost out and rebuild on a A leaner base.
A transformation is about changing the whole We need a consistent approach for tracking and extracting value A culture to embrace new values and operating principles.
from our investments and emerging businesses.
This is about QinetiQs origins in Government gave it a unique legacy of focus and choice: you have to have a strong methodology for decision-making.
Each category has a clear role.
Over the last three years, weve begun to create a culture from the ground up, a solid foundation that can is our early-stage technology: Core is the robust, mature help the Group survive and thrive in a competitive market.
underpinning to customer relationships, market position and All credit to our people for accepting the challenge and current shareholder returns.
In between, Explore is exciting embracing such a different ethos.
because these are proven businesses we are hoping over the mid-term to scale to significant sustainable revenue, and migrate Q What do you think is still left to do?
Real cultural transformation is a marathon, not a sprint.
A Q What of QinetiQs ability to generate clever new technologies?
The most visible impact is in the early years: after that, the task is to develop consistency and resilience in the QinetiQ still retains at its heart the ability of our scientific and A organisation by embedding discipline.
As we implement engineering community to build innovative solutions.
Over time QinetiQs next phase, its also about positioning the portfolio those that develop into businesses get supported into growth.
around growth, turning innovations into sustainable business So our People Who Know How provide the critical point of models which deliver repeatable earnings.
difference to customers and thus to winning and retaining new business.
Is UK Services performance sustainable?
Q Can you take QinetiQ beyond its current markets?
Q UK Services provides important independent support for its A customers at home and abroad R&D, test and evaluation, Yes.
QinetiQ has defence at its heart but it can expand A specialist advice in key relevant areas such as weapons, internationally, and also by rolling out its technologies and airworthiness, maritime, C4ISR and security.
We help them expertise into new sectors that offer higher growth potential.
do more with less, enabling them to build something once Part of our strategy is constantly to test some of those options and derive the benefits many times our Weapons Science to diversify through our Explore businesses.
And the changing & Technology Centre is a good example.
And new defence market itself throws off new opportunities for our Core.
opportunities continue to emerge because both our Where do you see QinetiQ in five years time?
Q customers and the threats to which they must respond continue to change.
I believe that QinetiQs renewed focus on its core capabilities A will help it continue to grow as a strategic supplier to its present Q What does it mean to conduct a strategic review customers and in multiple adjacent markets.
I could also see of US Services?
the Group transforming through its options in new markets.
US Services has seen their revenues and profits decline in the That depends on our achieving what I call breakout success A face of challenging markets.
The business has some strong in our strategy of turning technologies into commercial positions with customers and the new management has businesses.
I want QinetiQ to become a byword for all that delayered and taken out cost to retain competitive rates.
is innovative and expert in UK science and engineering.
Now over the coming months we will be conducting a strategic review to determine the best way to maximise the performance and potential of the division.
Q How does UK Services differ from US Services?
First and foremost, the two markets are very different in size A and structure, and so is our role.
In the UK, we are a material provider of high-end technical advice and services to the UK Government and also an exporter.
In the US, we are a provider predominantly to the US Government.
That is a very large market, which is changing dramatically, and our position is mid-sized.
Yet in key areas, such as C4ISR, space, cyberspace and unmanned systems, we are highly relevant to our US customer.
6QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 Business review Overview Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information A year of achievement leaders.
The scheme attracts the countrys best science, Investing in a new generation maths, engineering, business project management and IT QinetiQ prides itself on the quality of its workforce, employing graduates.
During the current year, QinetiQ will also be highly qualified and committed scientists and engineers who increasing its apprentice intake from 34 to 80, helping the are dedicated to making a difference through their work.
Group to move towards its target of 5% of the workforce Our teams combine knowledge, passion, integrity and commitment.
being young engineers and scientists.
Combined with their security level clearance, they are able to work on some of the most complex problems that our customers face.
The UK has always been a country known for innovation and QinetiQ is playing a key role in maintaining this.
Recognised as a company with world leading engineers and scientists, QinetiQ gives graduates the opportunity to develop their professional skills via mentoring schemes and professional qualifications to become People Who Know How.
During 2013 we have committed to increasing our graduate intake to over 80 graduates.
Our long established graduate programme, listed in The Guardian UK 300, Luke Greenaway and Simon Todd celebrating their gold medals at the provides applicants with a structured two-year programme that prestigious 2013 WorldSkills UK competition organised by the National helps provide them with the skills to become future business Apprenticeship Service.
Providing the capability life-cycle Supporting a changing MOD In February 2013, the Company successfully completed its QinetiQ has an established track record of working with regular five-yearly review with the customer and, following the UK Ministry of Defence, as illustrated through the Long demonstration of cost savings being achieved and the Term Partnering Agreement LTPA.
agreement of some minor changes in scope, a 998m MODs trusted advisor contract was signed for the third five-year term.
The LTPA provides test and evaluation and training support to the Commenting on the signing, Laurence Bryant, fide&S Director MOD and its military stakeholders.
The contract enables accurate Weapons, MOD said: Test and evaluation is essential for the assessment of military capabilities throughout their lifetime, from effective management and mitigation of the risk in our concept to disposal, increasing reliability and fitness for purpose.
acquisition programmes and for the enduring support of our Under the LTPA, QinetiQ manages 17 core MOD-owned sites and front line capability.
The LTPA provides this service to our is responsible for providing test and evaluation T&E and training Armed Forces, the MOD and equipment suppliers, and is support services: maintaining associated equipment, land and crucial to maintaining our defence capability.
buildings: as well as delivering an investment programme to ensure that the capability is maintained and developed to meet the MODs evolving needs.
Tangible outputs Driving continuous productivity improvements Since launch, year-on-year the quantity of employee ideas has As a business that prides itself on innovation, QinetiQ provides increased to over 12,000, delivering tens of millions of pounds a fertile foundation for new ideas to flourish.
My Contribution in benefit for the business and our customers.
Examples of is the channel by which employee insight, imagination, energy projects arising from the scheme have included the materials and enthusiasm are captured for the benefit of the Company management improvement project where the team designed, and our customers.
configured and implemented a SAP investment and production Business improvement management system which tracks the life of a control material In November 2010 My Contribution was launched to employees as from creation to when it leaves QinetiQ.
Other ideas include part of the 24-month self-help plan.
It became a channel by which improving the interaction between our design, manufacturing employees could be encouraged to look at improved ways of and supply chain process, through the use of computer aided working, ways to drive out unnecessary cost whilst also driving designs replacing the need for cardboard models.
Annually we recognise the efforts of our teams at the My Contribution Showcase which forms an integral part of our annual leadership conference.
QinetiQ Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 20137
