RPC Group Plc 14 Annual report and accounts 2013 OperATing revieW 2013 RevenUe ConveRsIon ClUsTeR MaRKeTs PRoCess injection Moulding Superfos Food, soups & sauces, margarine & spreads, paints, DIY products 1,051m Bramlage-Wiko Personal care, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, food, coffee capsules 2012: 1,130m UKIM Food, soups & sauces, margarine & spreads, paints, DIY products, promotional products, pharmaceuticals thermoforming Bebo Margarine & spreads, fresh, frozen and longshelf-life foods, coffee capsules, HIGHeR aDDeD valUe sales dairymarket, disposable products, vending & drinking cups Cobelplast Phone cards, long shelf-life foods and 32% sheetfor form-fill-seal lines Blow Moulding Blow Moulding Personal care, lubricants, agrochemicals, food & drink, long shelf-life foods of revenue 2012: 30% GROuP OVERVIEW GROuP PERFORMAnCE RPC is a leading supplier of rigid plastic The Group delivered a creditable packaging with operations in 17 countries.
The performance in 2012 13, in spite of a number business, which comprises 48 manufacturing of external factors which prevented it from sites and six separate distribution and sales demonstrating growth in underlying profit centres, converts polymer granules into over the year.
On a constant currency basis finished packaging product by a combination overall levels of profitability were sustained of moulding and assembly processes.
It is but as the euro weakened against sterling, organised around the three main conversion the currency translation effect had a circa processes used within the Group, each site 4m adverse impact on the Groups reported being managed within one of six clusters results which accounted for most of the which are defined along technological and reduction in adjusted operating profit in the market lines.
In addition polymer prices rose to near record levels during the year.
Polymer price each cluster operates across a wide variations are generally passed on to the geographical area for reasons of customer customer base, albeit with a time lag.
proximity, local market demand and Thistime lag effect had a negative overall manufacturing resource.
each plant is run impact in the year, whereas in 2011 12 it autonomously, commensurate with wasbeneficial.
maintaining overall financial control and effective coordination in each market sector.
Hence every cluster and most operating sites have a separate management team headed bya cluster or general manager.
This structure encourages focus on business issues and delivers enhanced performance.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 15 Tea of a Kind Customer: Tea of a Kind Product: Gizmo Processes: Injection Moulding THe BeneFITs: Ingredients protected inside cap untilopened Dramatic mixing on product opening Unique product selling point The innovative patented Gizmo closure and delivery system, which is manufactured by RPC BramlageWiko, has been selected for a new range of natural drinks launched in the USA.
The Gizmo closure provides a pressurised chamber where all the ingredients are contained and only released when the cap is opened.
This means the ingredients are mixed at the point of consumption to provide a much fresher drink than anypre-mixed variety.
As the cap is twisted, the ingredients burst into the bottle and selfmix, creating a dramatic colour change that provides visual confirmation that the drink is fresh and ready toconsume.
Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming RPC Group Plc 16 Annual report and accounts 2013 OperATing revieW continued aDjUsTeD oPeRaTInG PRoFIT Last year continued to be a challenging time neW PRoDUCT DeveloPMenT as % oF sales for many of our customers in europe.
Overall RPC remains at the forefront of polymer activity levels were flat after taking account conversion technology in the packaging ofdiscontinued businesses.
The Group was industry and has developed an enviable able to offset the negative impact of increased 8.5% reputation in the market place for innovative competitive intensity and wage and cost packaging design and concepts.
Through inflation through achieving a better sales 2012: 8.3% itsdesign and development facilities, the mixand additional cost savings from the Group isable to develop unique packaging integration of Superfos, exiting the european solutions that meet the needs of individual vending cup and automotive businesses, customer demands.
purchase cost savings and general businessimprovements.
Progress continues to be made in developing light-weight injection moulded products and The Group completed its integration of the new designs for packaging delivery systems Superfos business during the year with the CaPITal exPenDITURe as % inpersonal care and pharmaceuticals.
In siteat Runcorn closed in June 2012 and its oF DePReCIaTIon thermoforming, the Group is among the business transferred to other sites within the world-wide leaders in the production of UKIM cluster.
The Group also successfully multi-layer, high barrier trays and tubs for exited the european vending market, which oxygen sensitive foods thereby replacing 138% resulted in the closure of its site at Kajrpc longshelf-life packaging in other materials Hungary, and restructuring at sites at withlight-weight plastic alternatives.
In blow 2012: 160% Deventer the Netherlands and Bouxwiller moulding, developments in the multi-layer France.
In September the loss making bottle and jar market continue to move forward automotive parts business at Neutraubling where there is a significant opportunity for Germany was sold.
substitution of glass and metalby plastic due FITTER FOR THE FuTuRE toits weight reduction capabilities and more favourable carbon footprint.
The Group launched its Fitter for the Future business optimisation programme during the The overall innovation capabilities across the year, which focuses on optimising the existing range of conversion technologies combined business portfolio and realising value from the with the ability to continue to invest and the current and expected future redundant geographical reach of the Group provides RPC properties.
The initial phase has addressed the with a significant competitive advantage.
The pan-european thermoforming and injection Groups commitment to growing higher added moulded spreads businesses, which will result value products and investment in innovation in the closure of the sites at Antwerp Belgium was reflected in its higher levels of capital and Beuningen the Netherlands and has led expenditure, which at 63m were significantly to cost efficiency restructuring improvements ahead of the depreciation level of 46m.
The at several other sites.
Good progress has been Group remains committed to invest in projects made with all of these work streams and it is that are innovative, provide a competitive expected that the investment of 30m in this advantage and generate attractive returns.
programme will yield steady state benefits of.
at least 12m pa by 2015 16, with 2m already reflected in the current year results.
During the year 19.2m of restructuring costs, losses and impairments were incurred and these have been charged as exceptional items.
Further opportunities are being explored.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 17 NON-fiNANCiAl KPiS nOn-FInAnCIAL KPIS OuTLOOK eleCTRICITY UsaGe PeR Tonne KWH T RPC has three main non-financial key The Group is well placed to benefit from performance indicators KPIs.
From an economic recovery from a position of sound 1,850 1,806 1,811 environmental and cost control perspective financial strength, although the immediate electricity and water usage per tonne outlook is hampered by the continuing lack produced are measured.
From an employee of growth in europe.
Through the Fitter for welfare perspective reportable accidents the Future programme and an enhanced sales aremonitored.
mix further progress is expected to be made in the new financial year, which has started The Group continues to make stringent efforts in line with management expectations.
to improve its efficient usage of electricity and water.
The impact of a number of energy 2011 2012 2013 saving initiatives to replace older machinery P R M Vervaat with more modern energy conserving Chief executive equivalents has been offset by the shift towards a higher consumption per polymer tonne converted associated with the manufacture of higher value added products.
WaTeR UsaGe PeR Tonne L T Water usage continues to fall as water recycling initiatives including closed loop cooling systems continue to be introduced to 920 834 684 manufacturing sites across the Group.
The reportable accident frequency rate improved significantly in the year and is at an all-time best due to the continued focus on health andsafety matters throughout the Group.
2011 2012 2013 RePoRTaBle aCCIDenT FReqUenCYRaTe 1,695 1,389 1,032 2011 2012 2013 RPC Group Plc 18 Annual report and accounts 2013 OperATing revieW coInjection ntinued Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming InjeCTIon MoUlDInG Injection Moulding 12 months to 12 months to 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 m m Revenue 617.4 657.7 Adjusted operating profit 62.7 66.8 Return on sales 10.2% 10.2% Return on net operating assets 27.2% 28.2% The business comprises the Superfos, opportunities through its strong market KeY MaRKeTs Bramlage-Wiko and UKIM clusters.
Overall positions and leading technological Paints & surface coatings theinjection moulding business performed know-how.
During the year, the cluster sold Coffee capsules well over the year given the general economic its automotive components business at environment.
Reported profits fell mainly due Neutraubling Germany and is in the process Cosmetics to the weakening euro, which reduced sales of transferring the spreads business from its DIY products by 25m and operating profit by 3.0m.
Return Antwerp site Belgium to more efficient sites Food on sales was maintained at 10.2% and with in Germany and the UK, with the site itself Margarine & spreads return on net operating assets RONOA at expected to be closed by June 2013.
The Personal care 27.2% it makes this the most profitable newly acquired Manuplastics business, Pharmaceuticals business segment within the Group.
based in Wimbledon UK, has been Promotional products integrated into the cluster, strengthening its Superfos manufactures and distributes open personal care product offering to the market Soups & sauces top filled injection moulded containers and has and providing a base for its UK business.
Tablet dispensers & inhalant devices manufacturing facilities in France, Belgium, Spain, Poland, Denmark and Sweden, with The UKIM cluster, which comprises five sites joint ventures in Turkey and North Africa.
In in the UK, serves a wide range of customers general the recessionary european economy in the food, health care and DIY markets.
impacted customer demand, though to some Overall sales volumes were down compared extent this was mitigated by the ongoing with last year, with reduced activity in the conversion of metal to plastic and strong sales paint and surface coatings sectors as the RevenUe within thin wall packaging and barrier housing market remains depressed, and with products being up 34% on last year.
Sales decorative paint sales falling from already volumes in southern and central europe were low levels.
The final stages of the integration down due to the weak macro-economic of the Superfos UK business were 617m environment, particularly within the paint, successfully made, which included the construction and industrial products transfer of machinery and products from the 2012: 658m segments, but this was mitigated by volume Runcorn site, which was closed in the year.
growth intheFrench region in pet food and A product rationalisation and cost reduction sales improvements in the Nordic regions, programme commenced at the Oakham site particularly in the dairy sector.
as part of the Fitter for the Future programme, which is expected to improve Bramlage-Wiko, which operates in Germany, the profitability of this business.
France, Belgium, Slovakia, UK and the USA, aDjUsTeD oPeRaTInG showed continued volume growth, with further PRoFIT increased sales into the personal care market and coffee capsule market, albeit with lower margins mainly due to polymer time lag effect.
Further efficiencies were achieved by 62.7m increasing production at the Slovakian manufacturing facility and there were 2012: 66.8m significant investments in new product development in pharmaceuticals, such as thebuilding of an extension to the production facility at the Mellrichstadt site Germany.
Thecluster remains well positioned to take asignificant share of new business Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information RPC Group Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 19 Twist Up Customer: Standard product Product: Magic Star Twist Up Processes: Injection Moulding THe BeneFITs: Innovative twist up dispenser Customised options to meet brand requirements Airless dispensing RPC Bramlage-Wiko continues to enjoy growing market success with product developments which bring significant advantages to both brand owners and consumers.
Twist Up a standard range of airless dispensers whose action delivers both speed of convenience for consumers and enhanced marketing opportunities for personal care brands has been welcomed into themarket.
Twist Up works by turning the upper part of the container to reveal the dispensing head.
As a result, the overall pack can mimic the appearance of a conventional overcapped dispenser to match product range branding while offering fast, convenient access to the product.
In addition, the dispenser automatically closes in the down position to protect contents.
Injection Moulding Blow Moulding Thermoforming Three standard sizes are available: 20ml, 30ml and 50ml.
Several decorative options are available tocustomise the container, includingfoil stamping of the twistable upper section.
