Operations review Latin America E ffective marketing campaigns, successful innovations and excellent trade execution contributed to alcohol market share gains across all countries.
Karl Lippert President, SABMiller Latin America In Latin America lager volumes were up 3% re ecting the widening appeal of our brand Strategic focus areas compared with the prior year.
Firmer pricing and pack range.
In line with our commercial underpinned reported group revenue growth strategy, the roll-out of bulk packs continued Establishing beer as the preferred of 9%, while further cost leverage resulted in to drive incremental volume while the alcohol choice reported EBITA growth of 13%.
Effective December 2012 price increase on our marketing campaigns, successful innovations mainstream single serve packs and selective Enhancing beers appeal across and excellent trade execution contributed to price increases on our premium brands consumer segments and occasions alcohol market share gains across all earlier in the year boosted revenue growth.
In Colombia, Honduras and El Our enhanced sales service model, with Making beer more affordable Salvador the continued expansion of our bulk enhanced account development, helped pack offering made beer more affordable for toimprove trade coverage and product Meeting the aspirations of our low income consumers, while our efforts to availability.
The light beer segment performed premiumconsumers drive premiumisation, particularly with the well on the back of guila Lights double digit Miller brand range, have shown encouraging volume growth, re ecting both the appeal of Optimising our service quality and reach results.
Financial results were aided by a light beer and the success of the bulk pack.
reduction in real terms of unit production Product costs showed a real reduction Sustaining operational excellence and costs, distribution ef ciencies and xed cost re ecting plant ef ciencies, while distribution cost performance productivity, while marketing investment costs bene ted from the insourcing of further supported expanded reach and transport operations.
In the non-alcoholic Raising awareness of the impact of innovation initiatives.
EBITA margin increased malt beverages category, volumes declined illegal alcohol 90 bps to 27.0%, or 80 bps on an organic, by 3% as a result of price reductions in the constant currency basis.
In January 2013 soft drinks market, although our value share weannounced the signing of an agreement remained stable.
to dispose of our milk and juice business inPanama, and this received regulatory Peru continued to perform strongly with full approval in May 2013.
The disposal will year lager volume growth of 5%.
Lager share streamline the Panama business and allow gains continued, notwithstanding price management to focus on our core lager and increases taken ahead of the peak period, soft drinks businesses.
supported by increased trade coverage and fridge investment.
Our agship brand, Cristal, In Colombia, which saw a softening of grew volumes by 15% re ecting the strong economic growth and private consumption, resonance of this brand with consumers, lager volumes grew by 3%, while our share underpinned by its food and football ofthe alcohol market improved by 150 bps, communication platforms.
Pilsen Trujillo Signi cant business with production operations Selling operations and major export markets Organic, Net constant acquisitions currency Reported Reported and Currency Organic Reported growth growth Financial summary 2012 disposals translation growth 2013 % % Group revenue including shareofassociates US$m 7,158 136 527 7,821 79 1 EBITA US$m 1,865 42 205 2,112 11 13 EBITA margin % 26.1 27.0 Sales volumes hl 000 Lager 41,596 1,411 43,007 33 Soft drinks 17,418 448 17,866 33 1 In 2013 before exceptional charges of US$63 million being business capability programme costs 2012: US$119 million being business capability programme costs of US$85 million and integration and restructuring costs of US$34 million.
18 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information continued to expand by sourcing consumers Club Roja red beer variant.
The expanded This is against the backdrop of the from illegal alcohol, recording double digit direct service model improved trade governments scal fide cit and continuing volume growth for the year.
In the premium presence and enabled healthy gains in our security concerns, which have impacted both segment our local premium brand, share of the alcohol market.
We continued our ability to trade and consumer spending Cusquea, saw softer volumes on the back expansion of the new PET packs for the patterns, where we have seen a structural of earlier price increases and the cycling of non-alcoholic malt brand, Pony Malta, shift over the last few years to more high growth in the prior year.
In the soft resulting in volume growth of 25%.
As part of off-premise consumption.
Nevertheless, drinks category, volume growth was strong, the group business capability programme the volumes were marginally ahead of the prior with our non-alcoholic malt brand, Maltin global IS solution was deployed in the first year with healthy growth shown by Salva Power, up 32%, supported by digital half of the year, which has helped streamline Vida and Miller Lite.
Soft drinks volumes grew campaigns and further penetration of the processes and improve productivity.
by 1%, aided by further fridge penetration secondary education channel.
and brand activations aimed at stimulating In Panama our lager volume growth of home consumption.
7%was underpinned by healthy economic growth and low unemployment.
Our brand El Salvador saw robust domestic lager In Panama our lager volume portfolio development and market execution volume growth of 12% with bulk packs growth of 7% was underpinned have signi cantly boosted our market share, growing strongly, which combined with with the premium segment seeing robust signi cant xed cost productivity, boosted by healthy economic growth growth, driven by the strong adoption of operating margins.
Our agship mainstream and low unemployment.
Miller Genuine Draft and Miller Lite.
Miller Lite brand, Pilsener, grew by 19%, while Golden more than tripled its volumes, while both Light, which was repositioned in the upper brands consolidated their positions as mainstream segment, grew volumes by market leaders in their respective premium double digits.
In the premium segment our Ecuador lager volumes were up 2% despite priced segments.
Our non-alcoholic malt local brand Suprema grew by 17%, assisted increased trade restrictions and the loss of brand, Malta Vigor, recorded 13% growth, by the launch of the red beer variant three trading days during Presidential while soft drinks volumes declined due to Suprema Roja and increased market elections in February 2013, while two price heightened price competition.
Soft drinks volumes grew by 3% increases during 2012 boosted revenue over the prior year, with particularly strong growth.
In the mainstream segment, Pilsener In Honduras our focus on making beer growth in non-alcoholic malts and juices.
Light volumes more than doubled, re ecting moreaccessible to low income consumers the appeal of lighter beer in areas with with our affordable bulk packs has solidi ed warmer climates and bene ting our revenue our market position, with over 500 bps mix.
Our local premium brand, Club, also saw improvement in share of the alcohol market.
double digit growth from the addition of the Consumer insight boosts Pilsener in El Salvador Our Todos por mis Amigos All for my friends TVcampaign in El Salvador showed locals ndingingenious ways to grab some fun time withtheir friends over a Pilsener.
This witty insight into the Salvadoran character has transformed Pilseners sales.
SABMiller plc Annual Report 2013 19 Operations review Latin America continued Miller Lite takes Panamas premium segment by storm Miller Lite has changed the dynamics of the Panamanian beer market.
In the past year ithas gained a 75% share of thepremium segment and is now our most pro table brand inPanama.
Linking cultural heritage and economic development With a number of partners, wererunning a programme in Cusco, Peru, to conserve the local cultural heritage, attract sustainable tourism and improve the skills of small entrepreneurs.
The aim is to promote local economic development and create jobs.
Innovation adds new dynamism to Club Colombia The Roja and Negra extensions to Club Colombia have enhanced the sales and pro tability of thismature brand in the past twoyears, supporting the premiumisation of the beer category in Colombia.
3 0% EBITA growth Transforming the Larger packs, culture in El Salvador lower cost A culture-change programme In Colombia, guila is now inEl Salvador has engaged the available in larger, 750ml packs whole business in overcoming to encourage a sharing culture imaginary limitations.
This has as already exists in Peru and contributed greatly to a boost tooffer low-income consumers inour performance with EBITA amore affordable option.
growth of more than 30% in the year and the Salvadoran brewery ranked the best in the group.
