Directors report | Business review | Operating review 20 OPERATING REVIEW The long-term performance of the group is important to us and this years growth is in line with the compound annual revenue and profit growth achieved over the last ten years of 10% and 11% respectively.
I am delighted to report that the selling space by 25% and were very group has again delivered a great encouraged by trading in all countries.
With the strength of set of results.
The groups revenue Each new store opening generated increased by 9% to 13.3bn and excitement which gives us the confidence the groups balance adjusted operating profit increased to believe that Primark is capable of much by 10% to 1,185m.
The long-term sheet and strong further growth and I look forward to the performance of the group is opening of our first store in France.
cash generation we important to us and this years We were shocked and deeply saddened growth is in line with the compound by the events in April 2013 when the have every reason annual revenue and profit growth Rana Plaza building in Bangladesh achieved over the last ten years of to be confident in collapsed killing more than 1,100 people.
This A Primark supplier occupied the second success is a direct result of our the continuing floor of this eight storey building which business model, more description was also the location of a number of of which is presented in this development of other garment manufacturers.
response focused on meeting the thegroup.
AB Sugar delivered an excellent profit immediate needs of the victims and, this year which, although lower than last in parallel, organising long-term year, was in line with our expectations.
We donated food to The Primark results this year were The date and extent of EU sugar regime some 1,300 families shortly after the remarkable with sales increasing by 22% reform have now been clarified and sugar tragedy, and have since paid short-term and profit by 44%.
Both the autumn prices for our next financial year are financial support of six months salary to winter and spring summer ranges sold already reflecting a transition.
We have more than 3,600 workers in the building, out this year with little discount, which invested significantly in our European irrespective of their employer.
Primark was testament to the success of our sugar assets over the years and the has committed to provide long-term buying teams.
Our newly opened and AB Sugar management team has plans financial compensation to victims who refurbished stores have never looked for further efficiency improvements.
worked for its supplier, and their better and the increase in our selling As a result, we have established British dependants.
This was an unprecedented space in continental Europe was Sugar as one of the lowest-cost sugar undertaking for us and was only possible significant.
Expansion in our more businesses in the world.
Maintaining our with the support and close collaboration established markets of the UK and dialogue with growers and strengthening of international and local stakeholders Ireland focused on increasing selling our relationship with them will be including NGOs and trade unions.
In London, we necessary to build a sustainable and opened our second store on Oxford competitive sugar industry for the future.
Street, and extended our stores in Manchester, Newcastle and Mary Street, Dublin.
In continental Europe, we increased Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 21 The garment industry in Bangladesh has pressure in the bakeries and bakeries with state-of-the-art bread also experienced a number of factory SilverSpoon.
The rate of selling space fires in recent years.
As a result, we expansion at Primark is increasing and The management team at AB Agri signed the Accord on Fire and Building we expect capital investment in the deserves much credit for its achievements Safety in Bangladesh, a pioneering coming year to rise.
We can fund this over recent years.
These have seen the agreement between almost 100 apparel comfortably from the high level of cash development of the business into a brands and retailers, international and generated from operations.
profitable group that makes a major local trade unions and NGOs.
Primark contribution to agriculture, especially Summary was the first UK brand to sign this accord in the UK, focused on providing valueLooking ahead to the next few years which is designed to ensure that adding animal feed products and we see excellent prospects for Primark sustainable improvements are made services.
It is recognised for its and further margin recovery in Grocery.
to working conditions in the garment innovation and the development of However, this year we have seen an industry and reinforces our commitment bespoke services to customers, and earlier than anticipated weakening of to health and safety in the workplace.
this year delivered a record profit.
EU sugar prices, ahead of the now Grocery made good progress this year confirmed reform of the European sugar Following last years appointment of with revenue growth and profit ahead regime in 2017, and, as we stated in our a new chief executive at AB Mauri, our by 24%, mainly as a result of margin September statement, this is expected yeast and bakery ingredients business, a improvement from both good trading and to reduce AB Sugars profits further.
With number of further management changes the non-recurrence of restructuring costs.
the strength of the groups balance sheet have been made during the financial year.
Twinings Ovaltine is our most profitable and strong cash generation, we have Some stabilisation in underlying trading grocery business and it achieved every reason to be confident in the has already been achieved and the new excellent results, performing well in all of continuing development of thegroup.
team is engaged in reviewing the cost its major markets.
I am pleased with the base and structure of the business.
much improved result from George Weston Foods in Australia following the Although the level of capital expenditure George Weston action taken by the management team was lower again this year, it still Chief Executive which delivered higher volumes and represents a substantial investment in lower conversion costs in the meat the assets of the group.
We completed business and increased sales and a number of projects in AB Mauri and margins in the bread business.
The AB Sugar and took a major step forward results in UK Grocery showed good in the programme to equip our UK progress from Jordans, Ryvita, Westmill and AB World Foods, offset by margin Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 22 SUGAR British Sugar produced 1.15million farms.
We seek to ensure the early tonnes of sugar, lower than last years Revenue transfer of technology and best 1.32million tonnes as a result of poor practice across AB Sugar.
We are a growing conditions during 2012 which led 2,677m Level significant employer in each of our to lower beet yields and sugar recovery.
Adjusted operating profit countries of operation, some of Sugar prices generally remained strong, which are among the most consolidating the full year impact of last 435m -15% impoverished in the world.
AB Sugar years price increases.
Co-product prices Adjusted operating profit margin seeks to ensure the wellbeing of all remained good with animal feed sales its employees, their families and the supported by exceptionally high wheat 16.2% 2012: 19.1% wider community and in the prices.
These were offset to some extent Return on average capital developing countries we provide by low, combined heat and power plant employed more wide-ranging social support contributions, which were a feature of including the provision of hospitals, 23.4% 2012: 26.5% low electricity prices but high gas prices.
schooling, housing and healthy We continued to invest in our production livingprogrammes.
facilities with completion, during the year, AB Sugar is a leading multinational of several major schemes focused on in the expanding international reducing energy consumption and markets for sugar and sugar-derived After last years record performance, increasing plant reliability.
In the EU, Azucarera AB Sugar delivered revenue and forward to 2013 14, crop yields are is the major producer in Iberia and underlying adjusted operating profit in expected to be slightly below average British Sugar is the sole processor 2013 that were in line with but we expect sugar production to at of the UK sugar beet crop and is management expectations at the least achieve sales quota and to meet Europes most efficient processor.
beginning of the year which our bioethanol requirement.
Beet costs Illovo Sugar, in which the group has recognised that reduced European for the forthcoming financial year were a 51% stake, is the largest sugar production, as a consequence of agreed in June 2012 at levels similar to processor in Africa and is one of the lower yields, and higher beet costs in those incurred in the campaign in this worlds foremost low-cost producers.
the UK, would lead to a profit decline.
We also have substantial businesses Production volumes in Africa were ahead In Spain, sugar beet volumes were lower in China producing cane sugar in the of last year and profit benefited from than last year with a reduction in the area south and beet sugar in the north good sales demand and stable pricing.
The group currently operates Profitability in China was lower than last spring led to a delay in the completion of 31 plants in ten countries and has year as a result of weak sugar prices the campaign until the second week of the capacity to produce over 5million throughout the year.
Beet yields in both the north and tonnes of sugar and 600 million litres improvement programme is now firmly south were very good and partly of ethanol annually.
We also have the established across all our businesses compensated for the lower volumes.
capacity to generate power sufficient with the aim of increasing asset Total beet sugar production was 405,000 to meet most of our internal needs utilisation and reducing costs.
The tonnes, down from 468,000 tonnes in and, in a number of locations, we programme seeks to embed continuous the previous year.
242,000 tonnes of export power into the local grid.
improvement within all areas of our imported raw sugar were refined at businesses by identifying and driving As a consumer of a large quantity Guadalete and a further 95,000 tonnes major change initiatives, tailoring capital of agricultural inputs, we have a were co-refined at the northern beet expenditure to underpin our performance number of programmes to maximise plants.
Significant energy efficiency improvement and accelerating the crop yields whilst also minimising the improvement work was completed implementation of co-product activities usage of herbicides, pesticides and during the year substantially reducing across thegroup.
This applies equally to our the energy cost per tonne of refined out-grower estates, funded jointly whitesugar.
with our growers, as well as our own Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 23 abf.
co. uk FOCUS ON SUGAR AB SUGAR CHINA: NEW FACTORY COMMISSIONED ILLOVO SUGAR: MALARIA IMPROVEMENTS IN MOZAMBIQUE In north China, successful commissioning of the Zhangbei factory Working together with the National Malaria was completed in time for the campaign start of 8 November 2012.
Control Programme, Illovos programme 5,631 This was a tremendous achievement considering the difficult achieved a 48% reduction in the number cases in 2012 weather conditions experienced in the region during the last two of cases of malaria within the Maragra Sugar years.
Zhangbei achieved weekly processing throughput averages Estate over a two-year period.
This has been of over 4,200 tonnes day throughout its campaign.
extended into the surrounding local community, where a 42% reduction was achieved this 3,291 year.
Illovo continues to implement malaria cases in 2013 control measures in all areas of operation where the disease isprevalent.
% 42 reduction in cases of malaria BRITISH SUGAR: GRADUATE & APPRENTICE SCHEMES Each year, British Sugar invests in the future of over 40 young people through its graduate and apprentice training schemes.
The British Sugar graduate schemes last for two years and equip individuals with the knowledge and experience to develop into future business leaders.
The scheme received external recognition in 2012 13 AZUCARERA: RECORD YIELDS IN SPAIN through the Times Top 100 and the Guardian UK 300 as a Spanish beet growers achieved an average graduate employer ofchoice.
yield of 108tonnes ha of adjusted beet, 108 a new European record.
This significant average achievement can be attributed to the yield in tonnes ha professionalism of growers, research and achieved by development investment, knowledge Spanish beet transfer and application of technical factors, growers such as sowing dates, use of recommended crop varieties and the correct application ofwater.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 24 SUGAR CONTINUED In June 2013, the European Council of Illovos sugar production of 1.87 million of the new potable alcohol distillery in Ministers confirmed that existing quota tonnes for the financial year compared to Tanzania was successfully completed arrangements would continue until 30 1.77 million tonnes last year, reflecting within budget.
This plant is now in the September 2017 when sugar quotas for further recovery in the South African crop final stages of commissioning with the domestic production would end.
Tariffs and good performances from the first sales made in October.
The three for sugar imports into the EU are not recently expanded facilities in Swaziland downstream facilities in South Africa all affected.
AB Sugar expects this change and Zambia.
Prices throughout the year operatedwell.
to encourage growth in EU production were generally stable although increased In China, sugar production in the south by the most efficient producers of both levels of imports into Tanzania and South was higher than last year at 500,000 sugar and isoglucose.
Africa have brought some price pressure tonnes, principally due to an increase in in these two countries.
In Malawi, the Negotiations with our EU customers the planted area, and in the north was in regarding prices for the 2013 14 line with last year at 277,000 tonnes.
An marketing year have been challenging.
increase in sugar supply, from high levels As a well-invested There has been a higher availability of of imports and improved domestic sugar in the EU as a consequence of the production, led to lower sugar prices.
business, and one conversion of non-quota sugar to quota, With exceptionally high government additional tariff rate quotas for imported intervention stockholdings, the price of the worlds lowestsugars and low world sugar prices.
In outlook for the new financial year remains addition, competition has increased as challenging.
The business sustained a cost producers, we other European producers look for new significant loss in the year and embarked market opportunities ahead of regime upon a major cost reduction and factory believe that British change.
Both of these factors have efficiency programme.
This included, in Sugar is well placed created a downward pressure on EU the first half, the decision to mothball our prices.
The market is rapidly adjusting Baolongshan and Wangkui factories at to succeed in this ahead of the regime reform in 2017. the end of the campaign, with a non-cash As a well-invested business, and one charge of 22m included within adjusted new environment.
of the worlds lowest-cost producers, operating profit.
In early September we we believe that we are well placed to completed the sale of our beet factory at succeed in this market with higher sugar Chifeng where the regional government currency has stabilised and domestic volumes, albeit at lower prices.
had announced its intention to redevelop prices were increased in line with the area.
A charge of 15m has been inflation.
Pressure on prices across the Construction of Vivergos bioethanol taken as a loss on sale of businesses region is expected to increase in the plant in Hull was completed last year in the incomestatement.
and continues to make progress, albeit behind plan.
Monthly production volumes The recently completed new are increasing and full production is custom-designed warehouse and expected in the new calendar year.
distribution facility in Pietermaritzburg The plant uses feed wheat and has the is fully operational and will provide capacity to produce 420 million litres of improved storage and logistics benefits to bioethanol and 500,000 tonnes of the South African business.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 25 AGRICULTURE to prefer locally produced meat has provided a welcome stimulus to the UK industry and there are some signs of raw material costs beginning tofall.
Our UK feed business, AB Connect, saw strong demand for ruminant feeds, and poultry feed volumes grew in line with increased demand from UK consumers.
Our international feed enzyme and micro-ingredients business, AB Vista, continued to grow faster than the market, particularly in North America with the success of our Quantum Blue phytase long-established feed businesses enzyme, sales of which were up more Revenue of KW, Trident and ABN which than 30% on last year.
The business supply the UKs food and 1,410m 11% also became the second largest global farmingcommunity: supplier of betaine, a functional Adjusted operating profit micro-ingredient extracted from sugar AB Vista an international supplier 47m 18% beetmolasses.
of world-leading feed ingredients and technical services: Adjusted operating profit margin Premier Nutrition traded well, particularly in UK poultry, and maintained its Premier Nutrition a supplier of 3.3% 2012: 3.2% market-leading position in UK starter high-quality, bespoke, vitamin Return on average capital feeds.
Further progress was achieved in mineral premixes, starter feed and employed its developing markets in Asia, and micro-ingredients, with Central and Eastern Europe.
AB Sustains world-class nutrition and 16.4% 2012: 16.5% beef and dairy farm carbon footprint formulation expertise: models have been improved further and AB Sustain a specialist in AB Agri is a major business in UK were recertified by The Carbon Trust.
In designing, developing and agriculture and is increasingly addition, its new biodiversity valuation delivering bespoke sustainable operating on a global scale.
Nature secured an agricultural supply chain solutions feed and technology-based products endorsement from Natural England.
for clients: and services to farmers, feed and China continued to be a challenging food manufacturers, processors and AB Agri China two regionally market, particularly in pigs and poultry.
It also buys grain from UK based businesses: ABNA, which Progress in poultry was hampered by farmers and supplies them with is a high-performance feed an avian flu outbreak during the year but agronomy advice and crop inputs manufacturer for the ruminant, pig growth was achieved in our co-products through its joint venture, Frontier.
and poultry sectors, and ABCA, business.
Good raw material which is a co-product marketing Operating across the agricultural procurement and cost management and feed additives business: and supply chain, AB Agri manufactures underpinned profitdelivery.
high-performance compound feeds, Frontier a joint venture which is Frontier performed well in a year in provides world-leading analytical the UKs leading crop inputs and which the supply of UK grain was poor services, nutritional advice and poultry grain marketing organisation.
A higher volume marketing services for customers.
of wheat imports increased the It provides a value-added service to complexity and cost of the UK cereal Agriculture had a record year with food, drink and bioethanol companies supply chain which, together with global revenues and profit well ahead of last internationally, by marketing their price volatility throughout the year, year driven by a strong performance co-products as animal feed, which resulted in strong earnings from grain across the UK businesses and in turn helps to reduce the costs of trading.
A wet autumn in 2012 lowered international growth for AB Vista.
production for its farming customer wheat plantings thereby reducing base.
Working globally it supplies The UK livestock sector experienced a demand for fertiliser and crop protection the livestock and pet industries with mixed year.
Dairy farmers saw milk price products.
However, the cool spring and premixes, enzymes and other technical increases being largely offset by higher warm summer of 2013 provided good ingredients and plays a key role in costs and poor quality and quantity of growing conditions for autumn planted delivering supply chain integrity for forage.
Consolidation in the poultry crops and spring cereals creating a retailers andprocessors.
market depressed farm margins and the better harvest potential than was pig market continued its slow recovery AB Agris operations comprise: previouslyexpected.
from several years of low margins and AB Connect a UK business high raw material costs.
The continuing recently created to unite the trend among UK consumers and retailers Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 26 AGRICULTURE CONTINUED abf.
co. uk FOCUS ON AGRICULTURE AB AGRI INNOVATION BOARD: A COMMITMENT PREMIER NUTRITION TAKES FEED ASSURANCE TO NEW TO COLLABORATION AND INVESTING IN R&D LEVELS WITH STATE-OF-THE-ART PREMIX FACILITY AB Agris Innovation Board enters its Premier Nutrition has invested heavily to develop the most second year, encouraging innovation and advanced premix facility which will deliver the highest level 70 sustainability through collaboration and of premix assurance to its animal feed customers.
We have made great progress our nutrition and The new  premix facility is designed in the first six cross-business projects, commercial teams to deliver unsurpassed levels of assurance through automated with the first project expected to realise enhancements of the ultra-safe and residue-free tumble mixing commercial benefit early in 2014.
This means that all premixes are delivered with the same over 70 contributors from our nutrition level of homogeneity, safety and traceability.
The use of NIR and commercial teams, across AB Vista, analysis of incoming micro-ingredients, precision weighing, Premier Nutrition, AB Connect, AB Sustain residue-free tumble mixing and intelligent packing systems means and Frontier, we are excited about how that Premier Nutrition customers can enjoy complete assurance increased collaboration is driving that every bag of custom-made premix, that they add to their innovative idea generation.
animal feed, delivers the nutritional benefits they have worked hard toformulate.
AB CONNECT LAUNCHES NEW BIOETHANOL DISTILLERSFEEDS UK farmers welcomed the commencement of production at the Vivergo Fuels bioethanol site.
The range of co-products produced by the facility in Saltend, Hull, including dried and liquid protein feeds, will help meet UK feed demand and reduce reliance on less sustainable imported proteins.
AB Connect is responsible for developing new routes to market for the products from the largest single site producer of animal feed anywhere in Europe producing over half a million tonnes of feed per annum once operating at full capacity.
QUANTUM BLUE CONTINUES TO DELIVER UNPRECEDENTED PERFORMANCE AB Vista has experienced major growth since the launch of Quantum Blue.
Its strategy to lead the debate on the importance of phytate degradation has shifted industry thinking.
Nutritionists are changing how they use phytase, with higher inclusion levels delivering greater value.
In addition to gaining new customers, ABVista has increased the size of the phytase market through this innovative approach.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 27 RETAIL properties as they have become This excellent result Revenue available, first on the high streets of the UK and Ireland, and more 4,273m 22% was driven by an recently on the high streets and in Adjusted operating profit the shopping centres of continental increase in retail Europe.
The rate of growth has 514m 44% accelerated and sales in the last selling space, likeAdjusted operating profit margin five years have more than doubled.
for-like sales growth 2006 saw Primarks first foray into 12% 2012: 10.2% continental Europe with the opening Return on average capital of 5% for the full of a store in Madrid.
The business employed now has 257 stores across eight year, and superior countries and operates from 9 million 26.1% 2012: 19.2% square feet of selling space.
sales densities in the Expansion continues apace with the Primark is one of the largest clothing first Primark store in France due to larger new stores.
It has 257 stores open before Christmas 2013. and employs 48,000 people in the UK, Republic of Ireland, Spain, Portugal, Germany, the Netherlands, Primarks revenue was 22% ahead Operating profit margin in the first half Belgium and Austria.
It was founded of last year at actual exchange rates, was higher than last year reflecting the in June 1969 in the Republic of which benefited from the recent benefit of lower cotton prices and lower Ireland where it continues to strengthening of the euro, and was markdowns.
The strong trading over trade as Penneys.
the summer also resulted in lower markdowns in the second half and the With a unique combination of the This excellent result was driven by an margin for the full year exceeded our latest fashion and lean operations, increase in retail selling space, like-for-like expectations at 12.0%.
A feature of this Primark offers customers quality, sales growth of 5% for the full year, and year was the achievement of satisfactory up-to-the-minute designs at valuesuperior sales densities in the larger new operating profit margins, more quickly for-money prices.
Like-for-like growth during the than expected, in northern continental merchandising teams travel year was affected by two periods of Europe.
This was delivered by superior internationally to source and buy unseasonable weather: it was flattered sales densities and a focus on operating garments that best reflect each at the start of this financial year with the costs.
Adjusted operating profit was 44% seasons key fashion trends.
Primarks benefit of seasonal autumnal weather higher than last year at 514m reflecting range includes womenswear, lingerie, compared with an unseasonably warm the strong revenue growth.
Movements childrenswear, menswear, footwear, autumn in 2011, and was subdued during in exchange rates had no material effect accessories, hosiery and homeware.
the very cold months of March and April onprofit.
Trading at other times of the year Primarks organic growth has been was strong, building upon the success Primark is an international brand with achieved through a combination of of the comparable periods in the prior a global supply chain sourcing products like-for-like growth and increasing year.
Trading in our stores in northern from a number of countries in Europe and selling space.
The like-for-like growth continental Europe was strong Asia.
We have a responsibility to act and reflects investment in buying, throughout the year and like-for-like trade ethically and we have a duty of care merchandising and our success in growth in Spain, which was initially held to workers throughout the supply chain.
constantly refreshing the stores to back by the large number of new store ensure they remain exciting places openings, improved later in the year.
The increase in selling Sales of the autumn winter range in space has been driven by capital the new financial year are encouraging.
investment in freehold and leasehold Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 28 RETAIL CONTINUED We are signatories to the United Nations registers to ensure a smoother FOCUS ON RETAIL Guiding Principles on Business and experience when trying on outfits Human Rights.
These were launched and paying for them.
NEW STORE OPENINGS IN 2012 13 in 2012 and outline the responsibility The new financial year will see another of business and government to protect busy schedule of store openings.
We human rights by preventing and expect to add more than a million square 16 remedying the impact of abuse.
This year feet of selling space during the year, with new stores this financial year across we further strengthened our in-country an extensive programme of 13 openings the UK, Republic of Ireland and teams of ethical trading specialists who in time for Christmas 2013 including five mainland Europe are critical in supporting sustainable in Spain and our first store in France, improvements within supplier factories, which will open in Marseille.
We also and providing greater visibility across the have plans to open a further four stores in 257 supply chain.
We conducted 1,825 audits France during the financial year.
Although stores in total in the last calendar year and ethical trade our focus is to develop the business training continues to be provided to every through expansion in our existing countries new Primark employee.
We are also of operation, we continue to explore developing ways to support workers 58 territories beyond this geographic stores across mainland Europe livelihoods and wellbeing through footprint in the medium term.
longer-term initiatives such as the HERproject, focused on education We have invested further to improve SPAIN regarding health and nutrition, and our the efficiency, and increase the capacity, Orihuela, La Zenia Sustainable Cotton programme.
A purpose-built Santander, Valle Real depot in Mnchengladbach, in the west Santiago fide Compostela This was another very active year for of Germany, came into operation in Valladolid Primarks property team and saw the Vitoria August 2012 with 425,000 sq ft of group extend its operations into Austria Zaragoza, Puerto Venecia warehouse space.
This increased our for the first time with stores in Innsbruck total warehouse capability to 2.7 million and Vienna.
We opened 16 new stores in GERMANY sq ft, adding to the footprint of our total during the financial year, including Karlsruhe existing depots in Ireland, the UK and our second store on Londons Oxford Frankfurt, Zeil Spain, and enabled a more flexible Street which has 82,000 sqft of selling response to the needs of our customers AUSTRIA space.
We extended and refurbished the in northern Europe.
We also undertook Innsbruck stores in Manchester, Newcastle, a substantial upgrade of our Vienna North G3 Chester and Mary Street, Dublin and garment-on-hangers system in Magna closed the smaller of our two stores in Park in the UK, and extensions to the THE NETHERLANDS Lincoln.
This added 0.8m sq ft of selling Almere Spanish and German sites are planned space and brought the total to 257 stores for the new financial year to facilitate and 9.0 millionsq ft at the financial UK our growth across continental Europe.
Oxford Street East Thanet, Westwood Cross Our new store design provides an Peterborough, Queensgate exciting, fashionable and fun shopping Milton Keynes experience.
Strategically placed West Bromwich mannequins help to inspire customers to choose outfits that are readily available UK RELOCATION Sunderland, Bridges on adjacent fixtures, and prominent signage and wider aisles enable easy UK CLOSURE navigation through the store.
We are also Lincoln enhancing customer service by providing a higher ratio of fitting rooms and cash Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 29 Store expansion by region Republic of Northern Continental UK Iberia Ireland Europe Total sq ft sq ft sq ft sq ft sq ft 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores 000 stores September 2012 5,425 157 1,100 35 1,010 38 665 12 8,200 242 Change in year 335 4 230 6 20 215 5 800 15 September 2013 5,760 161 1,330 41 1,030 38 880 17 9,000 257 6% 21% 2% 32% 10% BIGGER BETTER STORES PRODUCT JOURNEY Our newest stores typically have a larger sales area than the average for From trend research and development right through to the Primark estate and also benefit from new space efficient display the shop floor, Primark takes inspiring ideas and brings them equipment.
When combined with improved visual merchandising, eyeto life fast!
All produced at a great value price that appeals catching inspirational windows and digital video screens showing our to the masses.
product ranges, they deliver an exceptional customer experience.
Inspiration Design teams commence research based on a wide range of inspiration including trend forecasts, catwalks, bridge designer ranges, street style and celebrity influences.
Development and planning Once the products are identified they are then developed into a technical pack.
The supplier takes the brief specified and puts it into sampling in their in-house samplerooms.
Production The buyer receives an initial NEW AND IMPROVED DIGITAL EXPERIENCE sample for fitting purposes and, once approved, it becomes the Primark has developed a completely new non-transactional final sealer on which all sizes and platform to showcase the brand online via Primark.
com to a wide details are then based for quality international audience.
standard and manufacturing This exciting and interactive site enables Primark to promote the purposes.
breadth of its fashion ranges, the amazing prices, encourage customers to share their latest purchases and help them find their nearest store via an engaging desktop platform and a dedicated mobile site.
Shipping and delivery Shipping by sea takes up to six weeks from Asia and many products are consolidated at port to ensure maximum costefficiency.
In store Product launch and in store execution.
Many of our key lines are supported by in-store point of sale, or window, campaigns.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 30 GROCERY developing markets of Asia and brands, with flour and semolina South America.
Further investment was Revenue produced by sister company, Allied made during the year in cost reduction Mills.
Speedibake specialises in 3,840m 3% and efficiency projects across the own-label baked goods for retail and business, notably at the tea factory in Adjusted operating profit foodservice customers.
Our retail Poland and from the bringing in-house of sugar business is the market leader 232m 24% liquid malt extract production in Thailand.
in the UK with Silver Spoon and Adjusted operating profit margin Billingtons, complemented by a Allied Bakeries made significant progress range of dessert toppings and this year in driving volume growth and 6.0% 2012: 5.0% syrups under the Askeys and reducing its cost base.
A combination Return on average capital Crushabrands.
of organic volume growth and the employed new Co-op supply contract, which In Australia, Tip Top is one of the commenced in April this year, drove an 15.8% 2012: 12.2% countrys most recognised brands, increase in market share and established with an extensive range of bread and Kingsmill as the number two bread brand baked goods and George Weston Grocery comprises consumer-facing in the UK.
Allinson bread benefited from Foods also manufactures a variety businesses that manufacture and advertising investment which saw the of bacon, ham and meat products market a variety of well-known brands brand back on television for the first time including the Don and KR Castlemaine both nationally and internationally.
in ten years, and Allinson Wholemeal brands.
In North America, ACH regained its position as the number Twinings Ovaltine has the broadest Foods includes within its range of one brand in the Premium Wholemeal geographical reach, selling premium branded products, Mazola, the segment.
We continued our capital teas and malted beverages in more leading corn oil in the US, Capullo, investment programme to upgrade and than 100 countries.
AB World Foods a premium canola oil in Mexico modernise the bakeries.
The new bread focuses on the creation and and a collection of herbs, spices line at our Stockport bakery came on development of world flavours and and corn-derived products.
stream in September 2012 and in April its Pataks and Blue Dragon branded this year we opened a new bread line at products are sold internationally.
Walthamstow creating one of the most Westmill Foods specialises in Grocery revenue increased by 3% but advanced bakeries in the UK.
At West supplying UK restaurants and adjusted operating profit increased Bromwich another new bread line is on wholesalers with high-quality ethnic by 24%, a substantial improvement schedule to start commissioning during foods including rice, spices, sauces, over last year with the benefit of the autumn of 2013.
This is the final oils, flour and noodles under brands the non-recurrence of restructuring stage of a five-year investment journey such as Tolly Boy, Rajah, Lucky Boat costs, a strong performance from at West Bromwich, which will leave the andElephant.
Twinings Ovaltine, and underlying site as one of the biggest and most growth in George Weston Foods Jordans and Ryvita operates in the modern in the world.
However, the inAustralia in the second half.
better-for-you cereal and savoury UK bakery market remained intensely biscuits categories in the UK but with Twinings Ovaltine again achieved competitive and there was some increasing international presence.
excellent profit growth driven by higher pressure onmargins.
Jordans has a heritage of using sales volumes, improved pricing and an traditional methods in the production increase in total marketing investment of its wholegrain cereals and cereal with a focus on developing markets.
Ryvita has built a strong Twinings achieved significant full year Twinings achieved reputation in healthy snacking and is sales growth in all of its major markets, the UK category leader in crispbreads.
and particularly in the US where it was significant full year Allied Bakeries produces a range of again the fastest growing tea brand.
sales growth in all bakery products under the Kingsmill, Despite more difficult trading in Thailand, Sunblest, Allinson and Burgen Ovaltine made further progress in its of its major markets.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 31 abf.
co. uk FOCUS ON GROCERY UK: TWININGS INFUSIONS: RELAUNCHED WITH GREAT SUCCESS The redesign and relaunch of our Infusions range was a major project for 23 Twinings, delivering 23 new products new products and 47 new packaging designs in 7months.
We developed more than 600 variations of the blends to deliver our best ever tasting Sensations 47 range, and the cross-functional team new packaging designs developed new ways of working and communicating in order to deliver this complicated project to a challenging 7 timeline and on budget.
all delivered in seven The relaunch of our Infusions range months gave us the opportunity to completely transform the healthy teas fixture in our key accounts and this, together with our new designs and new product development, has driven phenomenal growth for both the Twinings brand and thecategory.
AUSTRALIA: ABBOTTS VILLAGE BAKERY GOES FREE RANGE 644,000 Abbotts Village Bakery was launched in 2009 in order to capture more households some of the rapidly growing Premium bread segment.
However, a have bought Twinings continued reliance on price promotions and lack of differentiation Infusions this year meant brand share plateaued.
The consumer trend for more natural products was identified as a key strategic driver within the business.
The Abbotts Village Bakery range was reformulated to remove E-numbers in line with this trend, and qualitative and quantitative research was undertaken to ensure taste and appearance were optimised.
In order to communicate the brand differentiation and superior products, a new campaign was developed called Free Range Bread.
Results so far have been positive.
Abbotts Village Bakery now has its highest volume share of the Premium segment since launch.
The success of the Abbotts Village Bakery relaunch demonstrates that a strong brand, together with consumer-preferred products, can provide a long-term platform for growth.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 32 GROCERY CONTINUED Silver Spoons revenue and operating cost reduction programmes to offset profit were below last year reflecting an inflationary pressures.
There was also We opened a new especially competitive year within the a continued focus on brand building and UK packed sugar market.
The long, warm innovation with Burgen, The One and bread line at summer resulted in less home baking Abbotts all being relaunched during the Walthamstow although Billingtons maintained its year resulting in an increase in market leading position in brown sugar as a share.
The meat business performed creating one of the result of increased press advertising and in line with expectations, showing a point of sale promotions.
In the growing significant improvement over last year most advanced stevia sector, Truvia has become market with higher volumes and factory leader with two product launches productivity gains resulting in improved bakeries in the UK.
Allinson flour margins and better customer service.
continued to grow strongly, where it is Further efficiencies were achieved in market leader in the bread flour sector, sales distribution and warehousing, Tolly Boy basmati rice and Pataks, following a brand relaunch and and administrative costs were despite continued weakness in the UK .
reduced, all of which contributed ethnic restaurant and takeaway trade.
The Elephant Atta brand, which was Jordans and Ryvita both had an excellent acquired in September 2012, traded year with strong UK sales growth driven well and production, warehousing and by the launch of new pack formats.
distribution were all successfully Jordans achieved its highest market integrated during theyear.
share since its acquisition five years ago.
The relaunch of Ryvita crispbread in At ACH in the US, baking volumes new foil-fresh packaging drove increased recovered after a warm 2012 winter, sales, and new varieties of Crackerbread and prices were increased to recover and Thins have recently been introduced.
Flavours Internationally, both brands achieved secured increased volumes with key good sales growth, particularly in customers, and Foodservice made Canada, and in France the introduction progress as restaurant trade showed of a small in-country marketing team some improvement.
Investment in new strengthened our presence and drove product development continued, an increase in market share.
For the supported by a higher level of marketing second year running the business won and advertising expenditure, particularly the Waitrose Way Championing British for the new Weber flavouring products award for branded products: this year for which achieved good distribution.
In its pioneering work with British farmers Mexico, there has been an improvement from whom it purchases 80% of its in the overall economic environment and rawmaterials.
Capullo volumes increased following its successful relaunch in 2012.
AB World Foods made good progress achieving revenue growth in the UK for At George Weston Foods in Australia, Pataks and Blue Dragon.
Internationally, trading met expectations with recovery a number of new products were and improved profitability in the second launched under these brands with half.
The bread business achieved margin recipes specifically formulated to meet improvement through a combination of national tastes.
Those launched in an improved product mix and price Canada, Australia and Mexico performed increases, despite a challenging trading particularly well.
Westmill achieved environment where the major retailers revenue growth in its core brands: are continuing to promote in-store bakery Elephant Atta, Lucky Boat noodles, products.
Good progress was made with Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 33 abf.
co. uk FOCUS ON GROCERY US: FLEISCHMANNS NEW BREAD WHOLESALE: ELEPHANT ATTA MIXES RAISE THE ROOF ACQUISITION PAYING OFF Fleischmanns Simply Homemade Bread Westmill Foods is the UKs leading Mix, a new yeast bread mix that delivers producer and wholesaler of authentic homemade bread in less than an hour, was world foods.
In 2012 Westmill acquired launched in the US in 2012 and quickly Elephant Atta, the UKs leading chapatti became the number one yeast bread mix, flour brand, first launched for the emerging driving baking aisle growth.
Simply South Asian market in 1964.
Homemades success led Wal-Mart to Westmill has also invested heavily in praise ACH Foods at their annual Baking advertising and promotion to ensure that Vendor Meeting, and to accept new Simply the brand remains the UKs number one HomemadePretzel Creations in nearly all choice for chapatti flour, or atta.
As well as of their stores.
running TV advertising, the business has engaged with members of the South BLUE DRAGON: NOW GOING GLOBAL Asian community in local centres around the UK.
Blue Dragon is now the number one brand of Asian sauces and ingredients in the UK.
AB World Foods has begun to develop the Blue Dragon brand in other markets around the world, including Canada, Australia and the US, with considerable success.
In Canada, distribution of the Blue Dragon brand has extended across all retailers from coast to coast, and sales are in double digit growth as a result of effective advertising and promotional support.
1964 In January 2013 the Blue Dragon brand was the year Elephant Atta was first launched in Australia.
This was preceded by launched in Britain local research and recipe formulation to ensure the range met the needs and expectations of Australianconsumers.
1 Blue Dragon is now the number one brand of Asian sauces and ingredients in the UK Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 34 INGREDIENTS performance of the new yeast factory countries.
It manufactures and at Yantai, China met expectations.
The Revenue markets antacids, excipients and recently opened bakery ingredients facility drug delivery systems for tablets in Cordoba, Spain was designed to 1,088m 2% and specialises in drug development develop the growing bakery ingredients Adjusted operating profit services.
It collaborates with market in Iberia and complements our customers to deliver value-added existing yeast manufacturing and 1m -96% and cost-effective solutions to marketing businessthere.
Adjusted operating profit margin theirproblems.
At ABF Ingredients, increased demand 0.1% 2012: 2.5% in the US for extruded ingredients has Return on average capital resulted in our existing production facility Revenue for the full year was 2% ahead employed reaching full capacity.
A new cereal of last year and underlying operating extrusions factory has been built at profit was in line.
Adjusted operating 0.1% 2012: 4.4% Evansville, Indiana which is now being profit includes a rationalisation charge commissioned.
Further growth was of 21m for the cost of closing dry achieved in bakery, feed and speciality yeast production in Italy following Ingredients comprises a number of enzymes, with a particularly good the start-up of the new low-cost dry businesses that supply a range of response to new products launched last yeast plant in Mexico earlier in the ingredients to food and non-food year.
The growth achieved by Enzymes year, and 5m of accelerated manufacturers.
Together they employ since the factory in Finland was depreciation in China.
more than 7,000 people in 52 plants expanded in 2009 has resulted in this in 26 countries.
Following the difficulties experienced factory also reaching full capacity, and by the yeast business last year, the AB Mauri has a global presence in further expansion is now being planned.
performance by AB Mauri this year was bakers yeast with significant market The yeast extracts business in China was steady although markets remain very positions in the Americas, Europe affected by the reduced availability and competitive and raw material costs and Asia, and is a technology leader high price of sugar beet molasses with high.
The new management team in, and supplier of, bread improvers, limited opportunity to improve profitability is undertaking a review of margin dough conditioners and bakery through price increases.
Production of improvement opportunities and mixes.
The business employs experts yeast extracts in China in the current market particularly a number of cost who have an unrivalled knowledge and with high input costs is uneconomical reduction and restructuring initiatives.
and understanding of the yeast and and we have taken a charge of 72m There were solid performances from bakery ingredients business, the within the loss on sale and closure of HispanoAmerica, Australia, New Zealand equipment, the processes and the businesses in the income statement, and the UK and particularly in the US raw materials.
to write down the carrying value of the where the impact of the failure of a major associated assets and to provide for ABF Ingredients comprises a customer was mitigated by business restructuring costs.
We have also written range of businesses focusing on development activities.
Trading in China down the value of our yeast assets in high-value ingredients for both food improved and bakery ingredients India due to increasingly strict regulatory and non-food applications.
It has products made a good contribution.
established strong market positions Commissioning of the new yeast factory in enzymes, lipids, yeast extracts In August we completed the disposal in Mexico, which was built to enhance and cereal specialties.
It has of our small US whey protein operation.
our reach and competitiveness in the manufacturing facilities in Europe Although profitable, we have not been global dry yeast market, saw the start of and the US.
able to develop sufficiently differentiated a new phase of business development in SPI Pharma is a leader in custom Central America and the Caribbean.
The formulation solutions for pharmaceutical and nutraceutical manufacturers in more than 50 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report | Business review | Operating review 35 abf.
co. uk products and the consolidation of the FOCUS ON AGRICULTURE dairy protein industry presented an opportunity to exit this market.
A charge PHARMABURST: THE MOST WIDELY LAUNCHED ODT PLATFORM of 26m has been taken as a loss on disposal of the business reflecting a profit Pharmaburst was the first directly on the disposal of the tangible assets net compressible, off-the-shelf, orally of a write-off of the associated goodwill.
disintegrating technology ODT on the market.
It is the most widely launched ODT Since the financial year end we have platform, used in over 130 formulations for entered into an agreement to acquire, more than 60 commercial products around subject to approval by the relevant the world.
competition authority, a bakery Medications developed with Pharmaburst ingredients business with sales of 50m dissolve quickly in the mouth providing and operations in western Europe.
This convenient, easy, and accurate dosing.
It is business will strengthen AB Mauris used in many over-the-counter medicines operations in the region by broadening for pain, allergies, sleep aids, reduction of its product range in key craft markets gastric acid, and nutritional supplements.
AB ENZYMES: INVESTING FOR GROWTH Increased demand After years of consistent growth, our enzymes business is getting ready for the in the US for next phase of capacity expansion on the Finnish manufacturing site in Rajamki.
extruded ingredients Following the last big expansion in 2009 and several smaller expansions more has resulted in the recently, the coming years will be used to further complete our manufacturing building of a new footprint in Finland.
The result will be a facility with world-class capabilities to factory.
meet customers needs, and in fact the Finnish site will be one of the largest enzyme producing factories in the world.
MEXICO: VERACRUZ NOW ON STREAM Our new factory at Veracruz in Mexico is now on stream supplying markets across the Americas and exporting worldwide.
Mexico has a population of over 100 million and is the fourth largest market for baked goods worldwide bigger than the UK, France orGermany.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2013
