Strategic Report D evelopment of the Te Giac Trang TGT eld offshore Vietnam was slowed during 2013 in favour of drilling an exploration appraisal well on the southern-most H5 fault block.
This well, the TGT-10XST1, was a spectacular success, one of the highest ow rate wells ever drilled in Vietnam, achieving over 27,600 barrels of oil equivalent per day BOEPD.
In Africa, we drilled a discovery with the sole Antony Maris exploration well drilled there, offshore the Republic of Congo Brazzaville.
Chief Operating Of cer The scope of the discovery is being evaluated prior to drilling a follow-up appraisal well.
Elsewhere in Africa, we are in the early stages of evaluating two other projects and have farmed into a near-ready-to-drill prospect, also offshore Congo Brazzaville.
Total production for the year averaged 16,694 BOEPD net to the Companys working interest 2012 14,757 BOEPD.
All production is from the Companys interests in Vietnam.
Review of Operations Vietnam SOCOs Block 16-1 and Block 9-2 projects in Vietnam are located offshore in the oil rich Cuu Long Basin, which is a shallow water, near shore area fide ned by several high pro le producing oil elds, the largest of which, Bach Ho, is located between the two Blocks and has produced more than one billion barrels of oil to date.
The projects are operated through non-pro t Joint Operating Companies JOCs wherein each participating party owns shares equivalent to its respective interests in the Petroleum Contracts governing the projects.
SOCOs interests are held through its wholly owned subsidiaries, SOCO Vietnam Ltd and OPECO Vietnam Limited.
SOCO Vietnam Ltd holds a 25% working interest in Block 9-2, which is operated by the Hoan Vu JOC HVJOC and holds a 28.5% working interest in Block 16-1, which is operated by the Hoang Long JOC HLJOC.
OPECO Vietnam Limited holds a 2% interest in Block 16-1.
SOCOs partners on both Blocks are PetroVietnam, the national oil company of Vietnam, and PTTEP, the national oil company of Thailand.
Block 16-1 Te Giac Trang The TGT eld is situated in the north-eastern part of Block 16-1 offshore Vietnam and is operated by the HLJOC.
The Block was awarded in December 1999 and the first commercial discovery, TGT, was made in 2005.
TGT is considered to be a simple structure, with complicated production intervals, extending over 16 kilometres and at least five fault blocks.
The producing reservoir comprises a complex series of over 50 clastic reservoir intervals of Miocene and Oligocene age.
Each reservoir interval requires individual reservoir management to ensure optimised eld Key Performance Indicators recovery.
Production from the TGT eld started in August 2011 and thus is early in eld life and without a directly comparable eld analogue.
2013 2012 2011 The TGT eld is currently producing from 16 wells from two unmanned platforms.
Production net to SOCOs working interest averaged 14,635 Production BOEPD 16,694 14,757 5,437 BOEPD, an increase of almost 16% over the previous year.
Considering Proven and probable reserves mmboe 130.1 128.5 130.3 the production limitations associated with sharing the Floating, Production, Storage and Of oading Vessel FPSO, the eld continues to perform in Operating cost per barrel $ 8.06 8.83 9.42 line with expectations, with eld production averaging approximately Capital expenditure $million 99.1 109.9 152.2 40,000 BOEPD approximately 12,220 BOEPD net to the Groups working Lost time injury frequency interest through the first two months of 2014.
TGT crude sales are at a premium to the Brent benchmark crude price, ranging from approximately See Additional Information Key Performance Indicators on page 99 for all KPIs employed and their fide nitions SOCO International plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information THE PARTNERS Vietnam HAVE APPROVED A THREE RIG Block 9-2 Field development production DRILLING PROGRAMME Block 16-1 Appraisal eld development IN VIETNAM production FOR 2014 $2 to $7.40 in 2013.
The premium averaged approximately $4 per barrel the TGT FPSO oil production handling capacity beyond the 55,000 BOPD to the Brent benchmark crude price to date in 2014. contractual minimum quantity.
During the test, the FPSO successfully processed sustained production of over 60,000 BOPD, which con rmed TGT-10XST1 Exploration Appraisal Well our expectations based on the detailed pre-test simulations that only minor The TGT-10XST1 exploration appraisal well is located on the H5 fault in modi cations to the low pressure separator system would be required.
the southern part of the TGT eld, approximately six kilometres south of the H4 Well Head Platform WHP.
Testing, completed in October 2013, Production problems in August limited TLJOCs ability to contribute to the exceeded all pre-test expectations, owing at a combined average second phase FPSO testing, as did delays to the TGT in eld drilling maximum production from the three zones tested at over 27,600 BOEPD.
programme resulting from the extended time on the TGT-10X well.
Consequently, the second phase testing did not occur as planned.
The The first test, over a net 93 metre section in the Oligocene C, produced HLJOC took advantage of the delay and the entire FPSO system was shut at a maximum rate of 9,488 BOPD of 41.1 degree API oil and 1.16 million in for seven days in order to carry out annual maintenance and to do some standard cubic feet of gas per day MMSCFD.
The second test, over the necessary repairs.
Miocene Lower 5.2L sequence, tested 7,100 barrels of oil per day BOPD and 1.76 MMSCFD.
The final test, in the Lower Miocene Intra Lower Bach Current plans call for the second phase of FPSO testing to be conducted Ho 5.2 Upper and Lower sequence, over a perforated interval of 88.6 as soon as practicable in 2014.
Expectations are that this will occur in the metres, owed at an average maximum rate of 5,156 BOPD and second half of this year, following additional development drilling on TGT.
2014 Drilling Campaign The well encountered approximately 250 metres of gross pay section Further appraisal and development drilling will commence with an initial six approximately 119 metres of net pay in the Miocene and Oligocene wells, and a further two contingent wells.
These wells are across the eld, reservoir horizons.
Approximately 100 metres of net pay were evaluated drilled from both the H1 and H4 WHPs, and part of the ongoing by the three tests.
exploitation of the TGT eld.
Results from these wells will be incorporated into the continued evaluation of the eld for the determination of future Floating, Production, Storage and Of oading Vessel Capacity development well locations over the next six years.
Testing and Maintenance By prior contractual agreement that limited its throughput to 15,000 BOPD Associated Gas Gathering and Sales Agreement and or 27,000 barrels of water per day, the Thang Long JOC TLJOC In November 2013, the Group signed an Associated Gas Gathering and began producing from its eld on Block 15-2 01 into the TGT FPSO in Sales Agreement in Hanoi for gas produced from the TGT eld.
As a consequence, TGT throughput had to be limited with produced gas from the eld is used for fuel and power generation the FPSO operating at its nameplate capacity of 55,000 BOPD.
offshore, and for gas lift on wells to enhance well performance, thus reducing the environmental impact of the operations.
Gas in excess of In anticipation of TGT throughput limitations associated with accepting these requirements is sold into the Bach Ho gathering system for TLJOC production, the HLJOC agreed with the owner operator of the transmission to shore for further use.
Gas produced during 2013 was vessel to conduct testing of actual throughput capacity of the FPSO.
In 26.8 million cubic feet per day.
April 2013, the HLJOC completed the first phase of a multi-stage test of SOCO International plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Review of Operations continued SOCO International plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information Reserves Determination During 2013, SOCO improved its understanding of the TGT eld.
Besides the production history, well management programme and the southern appraisal wells TGT-10X and TG-10XST1 sidetrack, the Company retained ERC Equipoise Limited as independent experts to construct a eld-wide reservoir simulation model.
The lengthy drilling operations for TGT-10X and the TGT-10XST1 sidetrack were followed by an extensive testing programme which meant that the planned six well development programme scheduled for 2013 had to be deferred another year until 2014.
A consequence of this deferral is that vital new information required to add to the sparse historical production Vincent Duignan data 18 months for the H1 platform producers and little more than four Group Exploration Manager months from the H4 platform producers was unavailable to feed into the initial eld simulation model.
Thus, the evaluation of the eld remains one step behind where we would like to be at this time.
As a result, the Company has decided to leave its TGT reserve estimates unchanged from the previous year with the expectation of commissioning an independent reserves evaluation report as soon as practicable.
These volumetric estimates are supported by an independent assessment by RPS, the reservoir engineering group retained by SOCO.
For clarity, RPS was not retained to produce a report on Reserves or Resources but to provide an interim update of Stock Tank Initially In Place STOIIP and Gas Initially In Place GIIP and recovery factors, incorporating information from the first phase of the eld-wide static and reservoir simulation Gordon Graham models prepared by SOCO.
RPS arrived at a range of approximately 510 to Group Business 1,120 million barrels of oil equivalent in place which now includes GIIP.
Development Manager RPS modelled recoveries from various producing intervals which showed a wide range from 8% to 46%, depending on the quality, thickness and height above water contact of the individual reservoir sands.
As we reported last year, RPS initial assessment of STOIIP ranged from 466 to 958 million barrels of oil in place, with average eld-wide recovery factors ranging from 28% to 35%.
SOCO anticipates recovery factors of up to 50% for reservoir zones across the eld and currently it targets an aggregate recovery factor of 40% for the total eld.
Block 9-2 Ca Ngu Vang CNV The CNV eld is located in the western part of Block 9-2, offshore Vietnam and is operated by the HVJOC.
The eld has been on-stream since 2008 and has been producing at stable rates with CNV production net to the Companys working interest averaging 2,059 BOEPD in 2013 2012 - 2,139 BOEPD.
In contrast to TGT, the CNV eld is a fractured granitic Basement eld which produces highly volatile oil from a fractured Basement reservoir with a high gas to oil ratio and exploitation is dependent on the fracture interconnectivity to ef ciently deplete the reservoir.
Accordingly, traditional reservoir properties and STOIIP calculations are not straightforward and a further well will be required to allow assessment of the revised full reserve potential of this eld.
Hydrocarbons produced from CNV are transported via subsea pipeline to the Bach Ho central processing platform BHCPP where the wet gas is separated from crude oil and transported via pipeline to an onshore gas facility for further distribution.
The crude oil is stored on a FPSO vessel prior to sale.
At BHCPP, dedicated test separation and metering facilities have been installed and commissioned.
Preparations have commenced for drilling of the CNV-7P well in the first half of 2014, following formal approval by the relevant Vietnamese authorities of the updated CNV Full Field Development Plan.
The well will be drilled into the south west area of the eld and will enable production to be increased.
SOCO International plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Review of Operations continued SOCO has completed a well recommendation, subject to ne tuning based on additional information gained from sharing data with the operator on the contiguous block, to be submitted to partners at an upcoming meeting in March.
A well site survey was completed in February 2014.
Nanga II A Reprocessing is still ongoing of the remaining previously acquired seismic data, and is expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2014.
We have received approval from the Congolese Ministry of Hydrocarbons for an extension to the Prospection Authorisation through mid-October of 2014.
Serge Lescaut General Manager, Africa Region Mer Profonde Sud MPS The Company has acquired a 60% working interest in the MPS Block, offshore Congo Brazzaville.
The interest was acquired through a farm-in agreement entered into with PA Resources Congo SA PAR, a wholly owned subsidiary of PA Resources AB.
The MPS Block comprises the exploration area of the licence but excludes the Azurite eld.
In return for carrying certain of PARs costs, SOCO will assume a 60% working interest in the MPS exploration area as operator and will drill an exploration well in the remaining licence period.
The well will test a different structural setting and play, identi ed from recent seismic reprocessing and subsurface re-evaluation, from the other wells already drilled on the Block.
It will target similar reservoirs that produce from Republic of Congo Brazzaville offsetting elds in Congo Brazzaville and in Angola Cabinda.
SOCO holds its interests in the Marine XI and the Nanga II A Blocks in The transaction received government approval, but remains subject to Congo Brazzaville through its 85% owned subsidiary, SOCO Exploration regulatory approval to enter into the third and final period of the licence.
and Production Congo SA SOCO EPC.
SOCO EPC holds a 40.39% Subsequent to obtaining the necessary approvals, the partners would look interest in the Marine XI Block located offshore in the shallow water to drill by early 2015.
Lower Congo Basin and is designated operator of the Block.
SOCO EPC also holds a 100% interest in a one-year Prospection Authorisation over Upon completion of the transaction, PAR will retain a 25% working interest the Nanga II A Block, located onshore, adjacent to the coast.
SOCO holds in the licence, whilst the Congolese state oil company, SNPC, will retain its a 60% working interest in the Mer Profonde Sud Block, offshore current 15% interest.
Congo Brazzaville through its wholly owned subsidiary, SOCO Congo BEX Limited.
Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa DRC Marine XI Lideka East Marine-1 well LDKEM-1 SOCO holds its onshore interest in the DRC though its 85% owned The LDKEM-1 well targeted a post-salt structure, up-dip from the Lideka subsidiary, SOCO Exploration and Production DRC Sprl SOCO E&P DRC.
Marine-1 well which found oil shows in the Sendji Formation iS3.
SOCO E&P DRC holds an 85% working interest and is the designated The well encountered approximately 50 metres of net pay section in the operator in Block V, situated in the southern Albertine Graben in Upper and Lower Sendji, of which approximately 30 metres of net pay eastern DRC.
are within the targeted iS3 and S4 horizons.
Nganzi The LDKEM-1 well was tested over a 20 metre interval in the iS3 and The Board has decided not to proceed into the next phase of the licence.
The well owed 35 degree API oil at a sustained rate of Accordingly, the Company submitted its application to relinquish the 268-335 BOPD, with base, sediment and water around 1%, in line with Block in October 2013.
It received partner and regulatory approval in predictions from the petrophysical analysis.
Produced gas volumes were December and formal ministry con rmation of the joint venture partners very low.
relinquishment of the Nganzi licence was received in early 2014.
The non-cash write off of exploration costs amounted to $92 million.
The well was drilled on the crest of the structure to identify the length of the oil column.
The Sendji is known to be a heterogeneous reservoir, Block V and detailed rock physics and inversion models will need to be used to Block V is in eastern DRC, adjacent to the border with Uganda.
The region determine where the best porosity zones are situated.
The oil water is geologically within the Albertine Graben and Albertine Rift and is contact was not clearly fide ned in the exploration well, and an oil down to commonly referred to as North Kivu and The Great Lakes Region.
Block V shale barrier could present upside.
Further work will be conducted to includes Lake Edward on the DRC side and the adjacent lowland establish viable opportunities on this eld.
savannah, both of which are within the Virunga National Park.
SOCOs interest in the Block V licence was rati ed in June 2010 when the Block V Litchendjili Extension Production Sharing Contract with the DRC Government received its DRC The large Litchendjili oil and gas discovery on the Marine XII Block, Presidential Decree, the final step in the licensing process.
operated by ENI, lies adjacent to, and potentially extends onto SOCOs Marine XI Block.
A  evaluation has been completed The DRC Government has granted permission to SOCO to proceed with and a suitable well location determined.
Negotiations are currently a seismic survey on Lake Edward as one of a number of scienti c studies underway to secure a rig to drill in the second quarter of 2014. to be conducted in the Virunga National Park under the Governments SOCO International plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stra tegic Report Go vernance Fi financial Statements Additional Information Strategic Environmental Evaluation.
Preparation for the seismic survey commenced in November 2013 with a bathymetry study of the lake to Nanga II A chart the shape of the lake oor.
Block evaluation The environmental impact assessment EIA relating to the seismic survey Marine XI Block was conducted in 2011.
The EIA highlighted a number of potential impacts Exploration appraisal Democratic Republic on the ora and fauna.
Accordingly, SOCO has taken mitigation steps, of Congo Kinshasa including change to the scale and scope of the seismic study, in order to Congo reduce and where possible to eliminate these impacts.
The Group has Brazzaville sought permission from the DRC Government to publish the EIA and it is Block V Block evaluation understood that the report will soon be published on the Governments own website.
An EIA for any potential subsequent activities has not yet been conducted as these activities are not currently being considered.
Mer Profonde Sud Although exploration is yet to begin on Block V, the Company has been Block evaluation very active ful lling its non-exploratory operational commitments, including exploration social projects and environmental baseline studies.
Angola Cabinda North Block Angola Exploration Cabinda North A two well exploration programme was initiated in the Cabinda North Block in the second half of 2013.
The wells were both drilled in the area of the previous Dinge discovery.
The Vovo sands of the Dinge eld are in an equivalent stratigraphic position to the Mengo-Kundji-Bindi reservoirs of the Republic of Congo, 17 kilometres north west and on trend.
Although not material to SOCOs interests, the detailed results of the drilling programme will be released by the operator, Sonangol, in due course.
The data from the two wells is currently being incorporated into the seismic data previously acquired ahead of any decision on the continuation of the drilling programme.
SOCO International plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
