28 Operating Review Materials Analysis Highlights Sales m Reported sales up 4%, including a 2% contribution from the ASD and NanoSight 13 362.4 acquisitions 12 348.1 Good sales growth to the pharmaceutical sector Operating profit Increased spend in R&D started to yield results with new product launches m 13 63.3 12 63.0 Reported sales increased by 4% with a 2 percentage point contribution from acquisitions.
Like-for-like sales for this segment grew by 2% in the year, operating profit declined by 1% and Return on sales operating margins were down by 0.4 percentage points, mainly m as a result of increased R&D spending.
13 17.5 The additional R&D spending in this segment over the past 12 18.1 18months has started to yield results with new product launches.
Amongst these is the Viscosizer 200, which facilitates automated viscosity measurement and molecular sizing during bio- % Group sales pharmaceutical formulation development using very small sample volumes.
In September, we acquired NanoSight, a UK-based leading provider of particle size measurement instrumentation for material 30% research, providing high resolution quantitative analysis of nanoparticle materials, which is highly complementary to our existing measurement capabilities.
Sales into the pharmaceutical sector performed well in 2013.
Pharmaceutical manufacturers continue to invest in emerging markets and we received large orders from Brazil and China.
We saw strong growth in China, boosted by investments in instruments % Group profit needed to secure compliance with the Good Manufacturing Process regulations for pharmaceutical companies as well as increasing domestic growth in healthcare.
29% Although sales to minerals and mining customers grew in 2013, this was on the back of a strong opening order book.
As expected, demand in the metals sector weakened during the year, driven in part by overcapacity in China but also, more generally, as a result of reduced capital expenditure.
We also saw lower investment levels from customers in the mining sector and, as a consequence, we took actions to reduce our cost base through a combination of restructuring actions and temporary cost-saving measures.
Read more about Materials Analysis on our website www.
com Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 28 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report CASE STUDY CLIENT: THE PERTH MINT PANalyticals X-Ray analysis equipment is used Streamlining to determine the purity of fine gold.
The system processes enables faster analysis time with lower labour costs and can be run unattended, minimising the exposure of staff to lead oxide waste, a toxic by-product of the alternative fire assay method.
Following the acquisition of Analytical Spectral Devices Inc. in late The process 2012, we launched the TerraSpec Halo during the year.
The Halo, a new handheld infrared spectrometer, represents the lightest PANalyticals Axios X-Ray uorescence system and fastest all-in-one near infrared instrument available for exploration geology.
In October 2013, we launched a new X-Ray Fluorescence XRF benchtop system, the Epsilon 1.
This product is a fully integrated energy dispersive XRF analyser consisting of a spectrometer and built-in touch-screen computer, offering dedicated solutions for applications in the petrochemical, mining and academic Analysis of ne research sectors.
gold bullion bars and coins Sales to the academic research market declined in Asia and North America as government spending cuts impacted university budgets.
However, this was partly compensated by growth in Europe where we saw increased spending throughout the region with strong growth recorded in Germany.
Segment outlook We expect that new product introductions will provide growth in the pharmaceutical sector, albeit partly offset by slower growth in China as the boost provided by regulatory compliance with new Off-line analysis manufacturing regulations trails off.
Against this backdrop, we intend to maintain current levels of R&D spending in this segment in order to capture further growth opportunities.
Academic research is likely to face continuing funding constraints in some regions but this has, in the past, proved to be a resilient sector.
In the metals and mining sector, the weak order intake experienced throughout 2013 will translate into lower sales in 2014.
In anticipation of this decline, the cost reduction actions we took in 2013 lowered our cost base and this lower cost base will be maintained until the timing of the recovery becomes clearer.
Accurate determination of elemental Au composition to minimum purity of 99.5% pure gold Faster analysis Increased safety Automated system reduces Reduced exposure to analysis time and can be run lead oxide waste, a toxic unattended overnight by-product of the alternative re assay method Highly accurate Au analysis of gold purity Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 30 Operating Review continued Test and Measurement Highlights Sales m Strong sales growth to the aerospace market 13 348.7 Cautious buying behaviour from automotive 12 345.4 customers Service business increasing in importance in Operating profit thissegment m 13 54.8 Reported sales in this segment grew by 1% with foreign currency 12 55.4 exchange movements contributing almost 2 percentage points.
Like-for-like sales declined by 1% in the year against a particularly strong comparative prior year.
Operating margins were down by Return on sales 0.4 percentage points, mainly as a consequence of the lower sales m volume and adverse product mix.
13 15.7 Demand from the aerospace market was strong and we secured 12 16.0 some important orders, including a noise and vibration testing system for Airbus and significant contract wins from original equipment manufacturers for regional and executive aircraft.
In % Group sales 2013, we delivered a static engine testing system to Pratt & Whitney and the successful qualification of their newest engine has opened up other opportunities for similar systems.
We have seen good 29% demand for our vibration test systems for communication satellites, particularly in Russia.
We also saw good growth in demand for our engineering software products, which help manufacturers to accelerate time to market and reduce life-cycle costs.
As an example, our nCode Automation software helped one of our customers to reduce engine testing time from two months to just one week.
Direct sales to the automotive market were down as customers, % Group profit particularly in the first half of the year, remained cautious and order cycle times were consequently longer than usual.
However, we are now seeing better demand from China, Brazil and India through 26% direct sales channels as well as through systems integrator channels.
New opportunities continue to develop in electric powertrain testing as well as vehicle noise and vibration optimisation.
As part of our Noise Vibration and Harshness NVH simulator product range, we developed a solution which provides active real-time vehicle interior noise management.
Our Sonoscout product, a portable NVH in-vehicle data recorder, which we launched in the first half of 2013 following our NoViSim acquisition in 2012, has already delivered good results.
Read more about Test and Measurement on our website at www.
com Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 30 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report CASE STUDY CLIENT: JAPAN AEROSPACE EXPLORATION AGENCY HBMs optical strain gauges saved a significant Saving time amount of time in structural testing of new wing designs in the development of small to mediumsized jet passenger aircraft.
Sales to the consumer electronics market declined, partly against a The process strong comparative period in the first half of 2012 when we booked several large projects.
However, our products continue to find applications in production quality control as well as R&D testing for HBMs optical strain gauge devices such as smartphones and other audio devices.
systems undertake structural testing Demand for our environmental noise monitoring services continued to be strong with growth coming from significant contract wins including Manchester Airport Group, Hong Kong Airport and all the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey airports.
New opportunities for our Noise Sentinel industrial noise monitoring system included several mines in Brazil and Australia as well as a port operation and oil refinery in Canada.
Canard wing design tested In the latter part of 2013, we booked several important orders for our by applying recently-launched PMX data acquisition and control system which variable loads provides precise acquisition of parameters such as force, vibration, pressure and strain.
Applications have included on-line monitoring of wind turbine towers and quality control in automotive component production.
Segment outlook Data capture The investment climate looks set to be more positive for the and analysis automotive sector in 2014, as new car developments continue and vehicle manufacturers expand testing in emerging markets such as Brazil, China and India.
We expect to see solid demand from the aerospace market with growth coming from the deployment of new applications as well as continued investments from existing customers.
We should see some recovery in demand from the consumer electronics market, supplemented by demand for our production quality and testing applications Graphical display for tablet computers and smartphones.
Our environmental noise of structural monitoring systems business will continue to contribute to an deformation helps increased proportion of service business in this segment.
predict premature failure of aircraft structure Faster results Improved product performance Optical strain gauges Structural analysis helps speed up testing set up researchers to understand times and provide real-time the effects of impact damage measurement on the advanced composite structures for the next generation of aircraft Speeds up new product development process Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 32 Operating Review continued In-line Instrumentation Highlights Sales m Good growth in pulp and paper helped by tissuecustomers 13 265.7 12 266.5 Segment performance helped by resilience of aftermarket service Operating profit Several new products launched m 13 51.2 Reported sales for the year were broadly flat compared to 2012 with 12 52.3 foreign currency exchange movements providing some modest support.
Like-for-like sales for the segment declined 1% for the year, impacted mainly by longer order cycles and customers capital Return on sales expenditure deferrals.
Operating margins for the year were down by m 0.5 percentage points as a consequence of the lower sales volume 13 19.3 and the cost ofrestructuring.
12 19.6 Pulp and paper performed well and we continue to see strong growth in demand for tissue, packaging and pulp applications, which more than compensate for declines in the graphic paper markets.
We % Group sales launched a range of fibre-line automation products which improve productivity, efficiency, and fibre quality whilst providing higher 22% returns on investment for customers than conventional alternatives.
In November, we acquired the PROdry business.
This company has expertise in tissue process consulting and assists tissue manufacturers in achieving greater efficiency and productivity.
In the energy and utilities markets, sales were up for the year with good demand in Asia Pacific but partly offset by declines in North America and Europe.
Additionally, investment in this sector continues to grow in the Middle East and we have opened new offices to % Group profit better support local customers.
More than half of the new hydro power plants worldwide being built are in South America and we 24% have booked another large order for a project in this region.
We also received a significant order for our safety and condition monitoring system VC6000 for a greenfield refinery project in Vietnam.
Industrial gas markets presented good growth opportunities during 2013 and we launched NanoChrome in the fourth quarter.
NanoChrome is a specialist ultra high purity analyser for gases used in the semiconductor market and this product is already undergoing customer trials in the US and in Asia.
All numbers stated in this segment exclude the trading results and impact of the disposal of the Fusion UV business which was disposed of on 31 January 2013.
Read more about In-line Instrumentation on our website at www.
com Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 32 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report CASE STUDY CLIENT: SPEKTR MOSCOW Installation of a SERVOPRO 4900 continuous Increasing emissions analyser in a network of Russian yield pumping stations has optimised turbine performance, whilst reducing costs and emissions.
The process Servomexs 4900 Automated Turbine Continuous continuous emissions measurement of efficiency in emissions analysers gas components pumping station monitoring of in ue gas multiple gases Improved process efficiency 8 Accurate measurement optimises turbine performance and reduces costs 5 Extremely stable and 3 6 ESP reliable 1 4 9 FGD sensors for 2 7 Reduced emissions multiple Meets legislation gas on pollutants and analysis 1 Turbine and generator, H O 5 fide-NOx unit, NH NOx greenhouse gases 2 Coal mill O CO 6 Air preheater, O Combustibles 3 Boiler, O Combustibles 7 Flue Gas Desulphuriser FGD, SO 4 Economiser, O Combustibles 8 Stack Emissions, SO NOx O CO 9 Source Testing, SO NOx O CO Converting, web and packaging industries which include Segment outlook plastic, nylon and film slowed in 2013.
Asia declined but we saw We are seeing good growth opportunities in the Middle East and encouraging signs of growth in North America and Europe in the North America, specifically in oil and gas and petrochemicals.
We are pleased with the immediate success of Wealso see potential in the pulp industry in South America, the new MiniTrak product, a compact scanner which provides critical Indonesia and China, and continued growth in demand from measurements from constrained machine locations and having tissue .
applications in rubber and nylon production.
There was also good demand for our scanners from the food industry.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 34 Operating Review continued Industrial Controls Highlights Sales m Initial launch of Omega business in Europe, Asia and South America now largely completed 13 221.0 12 217.2 Good growth in Asia Segment well positioned for future growth Operating profit m 13 45.4 Reported sales were up 2% for the year, favourably impacted by foreign currency exchange effects.
Like-for-like sales for this segment 12 46.2 were broadly flat over the same period last year.
Operating margins were down compared to the previous year, with a favourable mix Return on sales being outweighed by our investment in the geographical expansion of the Omega Engineering business.
m We started to see the benefits of the integration of our industrial 13 20.6 automation and communication businesses following the recent 12 21.3 acquisitions of SixNet and N-Tron.
The enhanced focus in key markets has already provided good results.
A new family of Graphite display products was launched in the second half of 2013.
It is the newest % Group sales generation of Human Machine Interfaces HMI and provides the industry with the first rugged HMI solution to combine a wide range 19% of versatile plug-in modules with protocol conversion, data logging and web-based monitoring and control.
The new range is particularly suited to the oil and gas and utilities markets and the product has already been recognised in China with four industry awards.
Also in China, we won a large multiple product order for the monitoring and communication networks for a major oil and gas corporation for one of its oil field and pipeline infrastructure projects.
It was a year of significant development for the Omega Engineering % Group profit business.
We expanded our presence in six new territories: Italy, Spain, Singapore, Korea, Brazil and Mexico.
The Chinese office, 21% opened in 2012, performed very well in its first full year.
We also opened a new office in Japan in January 2014.
Read more about Industrial Controls on our website at www.
com Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 34 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 35 CASE STUDY CLIENT: DEL MONTE FOODS Microscans inspection solution enables a Improving product to be tracked from the canning process quality to the consumer, ensuring the contents and packaging labels are correct and preventing costly productrecalls.
The process Visionscape machine GigE smart vision software camera Increasing yield 0 rejects Faulty items Automated immediately removed inspection and from production verication 0 customer complaints Inspection of each can Correctly labelled for correct product codes products improve Product and barcodes rejection of quality and packaging faulty cans reduce costs for Improving quality Del Monte 100% traceability From production to consumer.
This prevents cans with the wrong contents or labels from reaching the customer The robust activity seen in the clinical and original equipment Segment outlook manufacturer markets during the first half eased during the second We will continue to benefit from our expanded industrial half as customers substantially reduced inventory levels.
However, networking business as well as the increased demand for greater our packaging barcode products performed well, driven by food factory automation.
In addition, our short-cycle business is and beverage and fast moving consumer goods customers adopting expected to further mitigate exposure to cyclicality associated ISO code verification.
We are seeing increasing activity as a result of with capital expenditure budgets.
The global expansion of the Produce Traceability Initiative PTI in North America.
The PTI is our Omega Engineering business, combined with the benefits an industry-wide effort to improve traceability throughout the food provided by the integration of our industrial automation and supply chain, and an example of how our products are used is shown communication businesses, positions our Industrial Controls in the case study above.
During the second half of the year, we segment well for thefuture.
launched additional software enhancements, including German and Chinese language versions, for our smart camera inspection system, AutoVISION.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
