SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Operational review Market conditions Networks & Applications Intense competition in data center 4G LTE driving mobile data and signalling growth Networks & Applications develops innovative Virtualization on the rise everywhere solutions for functional and performance testing of Intense interest in cyber security, SDN and NFV next-generation networks and applications that simulate real-world conditions in the lab, before a In 2013, 4G LTE network rollouts drove continued rapid growth in mobile data as well as in signalling traffic, due to the proliferation commercial launch.
We saw access networks evolving to accommodate the growth, employing small cells and Wi-Fi offload, which led to new mobility testing needs.
Mobile also played a role in driving service provider infrastructure spending growth, with intense competition amongst multiple players for next-generation high density core router and 100G Ethernet optical transport network OTN business.
In the cloud and data center market we saw the rise of software-defined networking SDN and of cloud service providers with innovative business models, while virtualization and intense competition led to price erosion in the traditional switch market.
In the applications and security space, cyber security and bring your own device to work BYOD continued to grab headlines, leading to intense interest in the enterprise, government and large service provider space and to advances in next-generation firewalls.
Virtualization continues to be a major trend across all our markets, with the move to network virtualization and strong service provider interest in network functions virtualization NFV.
Performance Growth in mobility revenue offset by decline in data center Built leadership in SDN and NFV Regional challenges in APAC and EMEA Historical under investment in parts of the business Revenue On the back of the mobile trends identified above, we saw growth in our mobility solutions in 2013.
Service provider infrastructure business was also up modestly, while revenue in our application and security market was flat.
However, the growth was more than offset by a sharp fall in data center revenue, with customer investments shifting to virtual and intense competition.
From a regional perspective, revenue was flat in North America, slightly down in APAC and considerably down in EMEA, although we saw a modest rebound in APAC and EMEA during the fourth quarter.
Under investment in new test systems and lack of expansion into new markets in prior years also had an effect on the results of this business in 2013.
Our Infrastructure Test Optimization ITO business saw growth on the back of Spirent professional services and large service providers standardising on our iTest solution.
Revenue was down at $213.4 million from $259.5 million in 2012, while we built the order book with a book to bill ratio of 105 2012 94.
Profitability Operating profit before exceptional items was down to $13.2 million from $59.7 million in 2012 on the reduced revenue and with an increased investment in product development of $5.3 million compared with the 30 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS previous year.
Exceptional items of $1.6 million were charged in Results relation to reorganisation expenses in the fourth quarter.
Product development In January 2013 Spirent launched Axon, a new solution for the enterprise Revenue market that enables new applications and services to be deployed more quickly and with greater confidence.
In May, we launched a family of $213.4M next-generation high speed Ethernet test solutions, with new high 2012 $259.5m density 10 40 100G test modules to address increasing complexity and exploding data traffic in service provider and data center networks with market leading realism and scale.
In September we launched Spirent Avalanche NEXT, a powerful, easy-to-use solution that tests the Operating profit performance, scalability and security of todays application-aware before exceptional network infrastructures by generating realistic traffic and attacks.
We items $13.2M also built a leadership position in SDN OpenFlow, which included 2012 $59.7m hosting the Open Networking Foundation PlugFest at our Sunnyvale, California facility in November.
Return on sales before exceptional items 6.2% 2012 23.0% Strategy in action Innovation runs throughout our organisation.
Page 14 for Our business model Strategy Invest in mobility, especially VoLTE and Wi-Fi Increase investment in application and cyber security testing Gain leadership in virtual, SDN and NFV For 2014, we plan to shift our investment focus to better align with that of our customers.
For mobility, we will address new opportunities presented by VoLTE and Wi-Fi.
We also plan to increase our investment in applications and security, building out our Avalanche NEXT solution, focusing on cyber security and critical infrastructure, developing the government market, and growing cloud based testing-as-a-service offerings.
Our service provider infrastructure focus will be on nextgeneration core routers and SDN NFV rollouts, with leadership in coverage and scale.
We also plan to play a key role in technology and standards definition for 400G Ethernet.
In cloud and data center we will target the fast growing cloud service provider space, and gain leadership in virtual and SDN.
We have established a focused ITO & Solutions business to address key service provider ecosystems and align with market trends including lab consolidation and agile development.
Our Enterprise business will build out its channels to market and develop customer demand.
from left to right Ahmed Murad General Manager Angus Robertson Senior Director of Segment Marketing.
31 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Operational review continued Market conditions Wireless & Service Experience Many smartphone vendors experiencing business challenges Wireless & Service Experience develops solutions New 4G voice services poised for widespread for functional and performance testing of nextdeployment generation mobile wireless and satellite positioning BeiDou and vulnerability concerns drive devices in the lab before commercial launch, and Positioning markets for measurement of the mobile experience on In our Wireless & Service Experience markets, the focus of live networks.
smartphone growth shifted to more price sensitive regions which, coupled with the increasing dominance of a few manufacturers, led to profitability challenges for many vendors.
2013 saw initial deployments of important new 4G services and technologies, including VoLTE and LTE-Advanced, with large scale rollouts expected in 2014.
China awarded its 4G licences in December, mandating the use of TD-LTE technology.
Wireless machine-to-machine M2M connectivity continued to expand into everything from domestic appliances to medical and vehicle applications.
In our Positioning markets, the application of multi-GNSS technologies grew, with the Chinese BeiDou system joining established GPS and GLONASS.
Another market driver was the growing concern over the vulnerability of GNSS receivers to jamming and other attacks.
Performance Wireless revenue declines on weak carrier driven business Service Experience flat in an integration year Positioning benefits from government spending Revenue Wireless experienced a sharp decline in its mobile device test markets as a result of device vendors profitability challenges, a lull in new technology and service launches, fierce competition and continued investment shift from 3G to 4G LTE technologies.
Service Experience had a flat year as we focused on integrating the Metrico business, acquired in September 2012.
Positioning experienced growth in its markets as a result of US government business recovery, new high end testing needs from applications and the BeiDou Chinese satellite navigation system.
Including a full year contribution from the Metrico business of $25.8 million 2012 $6.4 million, overall revenue was down by $6.8 million to $167.7 million from $174.5 million in 2012.
Book to bill ratio grew to 101 from 97 at the end of 2012.
Profitability Operating profit was $33.8 million compared with $56.7 million in 2012 due to loss of high gross margin on the reduced revenue together with an increase in investment in product development of $8.3 million.
The resulting operating margin reduced to 20.2 per cent compared with 32.5 per cent in 2012.
Product development Our Wireless & Service Experience businesses invested to address the industrys needs as it prepared for large scale deployment of 4G LTE-enabled services such as VoLTE.
We released lab-based test 32 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Results Revenue Strategy in action Innovation runs $167.7 M throughout our 2012 $174.5m organisation.
Page 16 for Our strategy Operating profit solutions for VoLTE and other IMS services, as well as tools and $33.8M services for both the lab and live networks that measure audio 2012 $56.7m quality including HD voice and VoLTE, video performance and battery life as experienced by mobile subscribers.
Other new solutions addressed E911 emergency requirements for VoLTE in the Return on sales US, and the TD-LTE technology testing needs of markets such as China and India.
Our Positioning business underscored its industry leadership with the first commercial release of test solution support 20.2% for the Chinese BeiDou satellite navigation system.
2012 32.5% Strategy Invest in machine-to-machine market opportunities Expand our offerings that ensure performance of new devices and services Focus on new positioning technologies and high end applications Our Wireless business will focus on enabling our customers to improve both the realisation and management of their mobility services through application of technology, expertise, and analytics.
We also will apply the wireless and application expertise gained in the smartphone cellular market to the M2M connectivity market.
Our Service Experience business will add more analytics to its portfolio of services and solutions that help network operators ensure the performance of new devices and services as they come to market, as well as focusing on business development in Asia Pacific and Europe.
Our Positioning business will focus on the expanding high end, leading edge technologies that lead to new applications, as well as on the challenges surrounding the vulnerability of GNSS in critical infrastructure.
from left to right Pat Petillo Vice President Sales, Wireless Rob VanBrunt General Manager, Wireless Guy Merritt Vice President of the Wireless Products Group.
33 SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Operational review continued Market conditions Service Assurance Continued caution by service providers around legacy spending Service Assurance provides solutions which allow In-home complexity drives more field testing needs service providers to diagnose, troubleshoot and Downward pressure on support contract renewals determine how to resolve issues with networks and systems within live networks and to monitor live Service providers remain cautious with their spending, particularly around legacy technologies, and are also applying greater pricing network performance.
pressure on support contract renewals.
The growth in mobile data subscribers and 4G LTE technology is driving Ethernet speeds ever higher and requiring better data analytics.
Increasing in-home complexity for triple play services resulted in a need for better tools to manage this, one of the most challenging parts of the distribution network.
The rapid evolution of cloud services, data center virtualization, SDN and NFV is greatly increasing the importance of in-network testing.
Performance Revenue down due to legacy and service contract pressure Strong growth in Ethernet space New field test solution attracts large order, $12.0 million revenue delayed until 2014 Revenue Overall revenue was down, primarily due to continued carrier caution in their legacy TDM, triple play in-network probes and support contract spend.
Ethernet was a strong growth area for Service Assurance in 2013, particularly in the intelligent software areas.
Although field test revenue fell, 2013 saw a large order from a major North American service provider for a new version of our Tech-X Flex product, for which revenue will not be recognised until 2014.
Overall revenue fell $6.0 million to $32.4 million in 2013, compared with $38.4 million in 2012.
The book to bill was 127 due to large revenue deferrals around field test and Ethernet solutions, hence the outlook for Service Assurance revenue heading into 2014 is positive.
Strategy in action Innovation runs throughout our organisation.
Page 12 for What we test 34 STRATEGIC REPORT SPIRENT COMMUNICATIONS PLC GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Profitability Results Operating profit increased in Service Assurance to $9.0 million from $8.4 million in the prior year despite the lower revenue in 2013.
The increase in profit is mainly due to abnormally high gross margin as a result of a higher proportion of service revenue, as well as lower Revenue overhead costs.
Gross margin for 2014 is likely to be in the region of 75 per cent.
Our investment in product development has increased in $32.4M this division by $0.8 million compared to 2012.
2012 $38.4m Product development Development focus remained on Ethernet service assurance as well as expansion of our field test solutions and an entry into the service Operating profit provider data center market.
The capabilities of Spirent TestCenter before exceptional Live, our Ethernet service assurance solution, are expanding to items $9.0M include performance monitoring for LTE and VoLTE, as well as a 2012 $8.4m new 100G Ethernet probe and software to enable testing further up the protocol stack.
We developed a greatly enhanced version of our Tech-X Flex field test unit which will ship to customers early in Return on sales 2014.
We also invested in development of Data Center Live, our before exceptional comprehensive virtual network monitoring and troubleshooting items solution aimed at the latest highly complex and versatile data center 27.8% networks, building on Spirents wide ranging expertise to test every 2012 21.9% aspect of a data center cloud, which we will also bring to market in 2014.
Strategy Invest in solutions for mobile and enterprise services Launch new field test tool to address in-home issues Enter the service provider data center market Spirent will invest in our customers most pressing operational issues in the core of the Ethernet network, in the field and with emerging cloud data center networks.
Spirent TestCenter Live will continue to benefit from service provider investments that remain focused on growth areas such as 4G LTE mobile and higher bandwidth enterprise business services.
We will go to market with our enhanced field test tool to greatly improve the efficiency and effectiveness of installation and maintenance teams when addressing in-home network issues.
Lastly, as service providers ramp up their investments in their cloud services and associated data centers we will introduce a solution that allows them to dissect problems inside and outside the data center simultaneously.
From left to right Jeff Schmitz Executive Vice President, Wireless & Service Experience Brian Ketchum Vice President Engineering and Product Development, Service Assurance.
