"CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW Reshaping the Company: returning to positive cash ""ows We achieved US$129 million of savings as a result of the Operational Review in 2013, ahead of target."
In 2014 we expect to achieve the balance of the US$185 million of savings originally outlined as the focus switches to driving e$ciencies out of the mining cycle.
OPERATING CORPORATE OVERHEAD COST REDUCTIONS COST REDUCTIONS We achieved US$28 million of savings on an annualised, We have made excellent progress in simplifying the corporate like for like basis.
Major savings to date have been in camp structure and reducing the size of our support ofces as services, consumables and security, as well as in the reduction confirmed by savings of US$18 million being achieved in 2013. of our overall workforce which, excluding Tulawaka, has Headcount in our corporate ofces has already been reduced reduced by 12%.
This includes a 29% reduction of international by 39%, which has then driven lower travel and associated workers from 411 to 290 employees, as part of our efforts to costs.
We are in the process of transitioning specic support increase localisation in Tanzania.
2014 will see an increased functions from our Johannesburg ofce to Tanzania in order to focus on maintenance and external services while delivering achieve improved operational efficiencies and further increased labour savings on the back of our existing localisation in our main country of operation.
As a result, we expect our savings over reduction of US$3 million is expected to be achieved in 2014.
2014 to be in line with our previous guidance of US$95 million.
US$ US$ 28 million 18 million SAVING SAVING CAPITAL DISCIPLINE EXPLORATION We achieved a total saving of US$25 million in 2013.
We achieved US$58 million of sustaining capital expenditure We have focused our exploration budget on potential high-return savings in 2013 inclusive of land purchases.
We continue to programmes at Bulyanhulu and on two targets in the North Mara assess all future capital expenditure to identify further region while we undertook extensive low-cost sampling and opportunities to deploy our capital more effectively and improve anomaly testing in Kenya in order to prepare for future the capital intensity of the business.
We have planned for a programmes.
In 2014 our main focus areas will be at Bulyanhulu further US$10-15 million of savings in 2014 in respect of and in Kenya.
We expect 2014 expenditure to be in line with 2013. sustaining capital.
US$ US$ 58 million 25 million SAVING SAVING 10 10 www www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT Mine planning Key to the improvements made over the year were the decisions we took regarding mine planning at each of the assets.
"We have reviewed each of our life of mine plans in light of a reduced reserve price of US$1,300 per ounce and Re-designed the plans to ensure re-designed the plans to ensure that each of the mines is able to generate positive cash ""ows."
that each of the mines are able to At Buzwagi, in July 2013 we re-engineered the life of mine generate positive cash !ows plan to substantially reduce the amount of waste movement required and optimise the grade of the mine.
"This resulted in a reduction of reserve life, together with a reduction in Transfer of Tulawaka carrying value to US$253 million as at 31 December 2013, We took the decision to close the Tulawaka mine in early but which also drives a signi!cant improvement in AISC and 2013 and as part of this process we commenced has positioned the mine to deliver positive cash ""ows for discussions with STAMICO, the Tanzanian State Mining the next !five years."
Corporation, regarding the ultimate use of the site.
In November, we reached agreement with STAMICO whereby it At North Mara, during the year we made several changes to would acquire Tulawaka and certain exploration licences the life of mine plan which will substantially reduce the strip surrounding the mine for consideration of US$4.5 million ratio, volume of material to be moved and ultimate footprint and the grant of a 2% net smelter royalty on future of the asset.
Part of this was the decision in October to production in excess of 500,000 ounces, capped at defer Gokona Cut 3, which contains around 600 Koz of US$500,000.
In addition, as part of the terms of sale, North Maras reserve base, while we !nalise a feasibility STAMICO has agreed to assume the remaining closure fund study into the alternative of mining out this reserve by and all remaining past and future closure and rehabilitation underground methods.
This deferral, together with our !final liabilities for Tulawaka.
The transaction completed in reserve calculations, has resulted in a year-end non-cash February 2014 resulting in a one-off cash payment of post-tax impairment of US$96 million which, together with US$11.6 million by ABG to STAMICO, this being equal to the the mid-year impairment of US$128 million, leaves North amount of the remaining closure fund, less the transaction Mara with a carrying value of US$367 million.
"con!dent that the outcome of the underground study will be positive and, together with the other changes made, will Responsible mining ensure strong free cash ""ow generation together with an Maintaining our social licence to operate remains critical to optimised land footprint to alleviate some of the social the business, and we made good progress on this in 2013. pressures and land access issues experienced at the mine."
At North Mara the impact of the infrastructure projects for At Bulyanhulu, we reviewed the mining methods for the the provision of clean water, medical care, schools and future life of mine plan and believe that greater ef!ciencies roads are being felt across the communities and our and value will be generated by moving to a much higher positive impact is being recognised both locally and proportion of mechanised mining.
Speci!cally, this involves nationally.
The ABG Maendeleo Fund continues to support changing the predominant stoping method from cut and !ll projects around each of our mines and has been especially to long-hole.
This change, together with the revised gold active in 2013 in providing support to more than 40 key price assumptions, has resulted in a reduction in reserve projects.
Overall we made an investment of US$15.5 million ounces and overall grade whilst improving both the cost and in corporate responsibility projects during the year 2012: the safety pro!le of the mine.
Notwithstanding the reduction US$14.4 million.
From a safety perspective, we achieved in reserve base, Bulyanhulu remains a long-life, high-grade an ABG Group-wide Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate asset, as demonstrated by recently released exploration TRIFR of 0.68 for 2013, an 18% improvement on 2012. results, and we are con!dent it will deliver an increasing Additionally, 2013 was completed with no employee production pro!le at lower costs.
The priority at Bulyanhulu fatalities.
Whilst both achievements are encouraging, we is to turn what is undoubtedly a world-class deposit into a are determined to continue to reduce injuries to zero and truly world-class mine.
The carrying value of the asset ensure each of our employees goes home safe and healthy remains at US$1.1 billion.
