Directors report and business review Review of operations: Travel Review of operations Travel Performance 2013 2012 % Like-for-like m m Change % Change Revenue 460 462 4 1 Trading profit 66 63 5 a percentage of sales subject to minimum guarantees.
Travel is Nature of business and markets less affected by the Christmas trading period.
Increased The Travel business trades under the same brand as the High passenger traffic during the summer holiday season, particularly Street business and operates 673 units in airports, railway in airports, contributes to a summer peak in sales.
stations, motorway service areas, hospitals and workplaces primarily in the UK with 94 units in international locations.
Of the Growth drivers 673 units, 171 are operated under franchise agreements The Travel business offers opportunities for expansion in each including 56 outside of the UK.
Travel stores sell a more tailored ofits channels and continues to win new contracts in airports, range of products to cater for people on the move or in need of a railway stations, motorway service areas, hospitals and convenience offer.
Travels typical customer has less time to workplaces.
Despite continued variability in passenger numbers browse and is more interested in purchasing food, drink and between airports, and with UK air passenger numbers still confectionery, as well as reading materials for a journey.
around 15 per cent below their pre-recession peak, forecasts Consequently, there is a limited demand for stationery and suggest that passenger numbers in Air will return to growth over entertainment products and the stock and layout of each Travel the medium-term.
The business continues to develop and trial new store formats Due to their location and convenience nature, Travel stores are, such as WHSmith Express, Zoodle and Funky Pigeon and to work on average, significantly smaller than those in the High Street in partnership with other brands where there is a mutually portfolio.
At 31 August 2013, Travel operated from a total of 0.5m beneficial opportunity.
We continue to grow our international square feet of selling space, with units ranging in size from 90 business using different operating models: direct lease, square feet to more than 6,000 square feet.
Of the 579 UK Travel joint-venture and franchise.
We announced a further 40 units, 154 are in airports, 125 in railway stations, 122 in motorway international wins during the year.
service areas most of which are franchise units, 122 in hospitals and 56 in locations such as bus stations, workplaces and also our Competitive position and strengths Funky Pigeon stores.
Travel now operates from 94 international units in the Middle East, Australia, South-East Asia, India and The Travel business is impacted by geopolitical events, war and Europe, and an additional 12 small kiosks in China.
acts of terrorism, which have from time to time contributed to a reduction in commuter and travelling customer traffic and a Travel is run separately from the High Street business, with its heightened apprehension around rail and air travel.
Closure of own management team, reflecting the different customers, routes, both planned and unplanned, such as strikes and strategy and operating model compared to the High Street.
Travel weather-related disruption, as well as other factors affecting stores are typically located in higher footfall locations than High passenger traffic, can also affect operating results.
Street stores, resulting in higher average rents, with rents paid as 1 Travel trading profit is stated after directly attributable share-based payment and pension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
WH Smith PLC 8 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements Travel faces competition in its product categories primarily from numbers.
We therefore actively manage the space and category other retailers in air, rail, motorways, hospitals and workplaces.
mix in Hospitals to best meet the needs of this channel whilst The growth of these retailers may take market share from Travel continuing to improve our range and offer.
During the year we and have a negative impact on revenue and profit.
opened eight new Hospital units, including two M&S Simply Food stores in Salford Hospital and Manchester Royal Infirmary, and Travel has significant competitive strengths.
Its business we now have 122 units open.
We anticipate opening around eight modelismade up of three elements: a compelling customer to ten units a year over the next five years.
proposition with a widely recognised and respected brand, astrong track record with landlords, and the ability to translate In the Workplace channel we opened six units in the year, taking the fundamentals of the model to other formats and channels.
the total number now open to 28.
We expect to continue to be able Thebusiness also has prime locations in each of its main to open new space in this channel into the medium-term and channels: high levels of customer footfall: purchasing and anticipate opening four units in the year ahead.
sourcing scale: and an experienced senior management team.
We continue to actively manage margins, costs and space in Considering all these factors, the Board believes that Travel is allour channels, whilst continuing to invest in the business.
We well-placed to continue to create shareholder value by delivering focus on active category mix management to best meet customer long-term profit growth and strong cash generation.
and landlord needs, improve service and efficiency, grow market share and drive margins.
Additional space has been allocated, for Performance review 2012 13 example, to travel accessories, digital accessories, food, drink, Travel delivered another strong performance during the year, gifts and souvenirs, as well as creating space for self-checkouts with good cash generation, demonstrating the strength of the which improve efficiency and service.
This additional space varies business model which enables us to continue to grow despite by store and by channel.
Travels trading profit We have invested in both improved technology, such as the increased by five per cent to 66m 2012: 63m as a result ofan handheld scanners and self-checkouts, and also format increase in gross margin and good cost control.
Total sales in development, building on the strength of our relationships with Travel were flat and like-for-like sales were down by four landlords.
This includes extending the WHSmith brand as well as percent.
Gross margin increased by around 180bps during the developing new brands and partnerships.
During the year we year, primarily driven by active category mix management.
opened three new concept WHSmith Express stores and three Wecontinue to benefit from variable rents based on turnover Zoodle stores with a dedicated childrens offer: two in Manchester andare well-positioned for further growth.
Airport and one in Melbourne Airport.
All these stores are still We opened 30 units during the year and have identified further intrial phase.
In addition, we can offer our operating expertise opportunities for growth in the UK.
We anticipate opening a topartners, such as M&S Simply Food and Musgrave Group similar number again this year.
owners of the Budgens and Londis brands where there is amutually beneficial opportunity.
In our airport stores we saw like-for-like sales down three per cent.
UK passenger numbers remain around 15 per cent below Our International units continue to perform well, with the their pre-recession peak and we also see a stronger mix of WHSmith brand and offer well received in each location by overseas passengers coming to the UK versus UK departing customers and landlords.
We continue to demonstrate that we passengers.
Forecasts suggest that passenger numbers can add value and deliver improved performance and we continue willreturn to their more historic rate of growth over the mediumto outperform where we have replaced the previous operator.
term and we are well-positioned when the recovery does come.
Wehave made further progress in a number of regions, including We continue to invest in our estate and throughout the year we Australia, South-East Asia, India and the Middle East.
We have significantly increased the number of handheld scanners and also invested in resources to develop our international business printers in the business, enabling better stock control, more and support further growth.
During the year we renewed the accurate point of sale and improved productivity.
This type of contract for our first international units in Copenhagen Airport, initiative demonstrates our continued investment and leading securing an additional sixth unit.
On 10 October 2013, we position in the market, which helps us to continue to win new announced we had won a further 20 new units in this channel, space.
We opened eight new units in Air in the UK in the year and including directly-run units in Dublin T1 and Australia and expect a similar number of units to open in 2013 14, including all franchise units in Mumbai, Russia, Fiji and the Middle East.
the CTN units in the new Terminal 2 at Heathrow.
Intotal we won 40 new units in the year.
We now have 141 international units either open or won, including stores in Air, In Rail like-for-like sales were down five per cent overall, with Rail, Hospitals and Malls.
London mainline stations down five per cent and regional rail down five per cent.
This performance includes the impact of We will continue to grow our international business utilising our theOlympic and Paralympic games and the impact of the Fifty different operating models: direct lease, franchise and jointShades trilogy, all of which impacted last summer.
Of the 141 units we have already opened or won, from our experience in Air, we introduced self-scan tills in 18 Rail 56percent are franchise, 35 per cent are directly-run and stores during the year, and we are seeing good service and theremainder are joint-venture.
We opened five new units in The Travel business now operates from 673 units, including Rail during the year and plan to open a similar number of units in motorway service area and international franchise units and the year ahead.
Eight units were closed during the year, primarily We have established a strong presence in the Hospital channel due to landlord redevelopment and we renewed 22 contracts and and continue to expand our store base, with further scope to grow completed seven refits.
Excluding franchise units, Travel this channel.
Like-for-like sales in Hospitals were down one per occupies 0.52m square feet 2012: 0.51m square feet.
Hospitals are generally less impacted by the economic slowdown as they are primarily driven by staff and patient WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 9 Directors report and business review Review of operations: High Street Review of operations continued High Street Performance 2013 2012 Change Like-for-like m m % % Change Revenue 726 781 7 6 1 Trading profit 56 54 4 Nature of business, market and competitive position Growth drivers 2 The High Street business operates 615 stores with an extensive High Streets performance is dependent upon overall growth in reach across the UK and a presence on nearly every significant consumer spending, growth in the non-food, non-clothing sector UK high street.
At 31 August 2013, High Street operated from a and High Streets ability to take share in its product markets.
total of 3.00m square feet of selling space 2012: 3.05m square Forecasts for consumer spending remain uncertain and we feet, with stores ranging in size from 777 square feet to more continue to manage our business accordingly.
We continue than 23,000 square feet.
toinvest in the High Street estate and to identify opportunities toopen new stores in un-served catchments.
High Street sells a wide range of products, which are divided into the following categories: Stationery including greetings cards, Competitive position and strengths News and Impulse including newspapers, magazines and High Streets competition comes primarily from other high street confectionery and Books, as well as a small range of specialists, supermarkets and internet retailers.
Online retailers Entertainment products in some stores.
High Streets trading offer customers access to, and digital versions of, our product isseasonal, peaking at Christmas, with other peaks at Easter categories via their computers and mobile devices, while andinAugust September for back to school.
supermarkets give customers access to our product categories The digital retail business is operated by High Street and as they carry out their regular food shopping.
The growth of these sellsarange of Stationery, Books, Magazines and Gifts at formats may take market share away from the High Street www.
co. uk, personalised greetings cards and gifts business and may have a negative effect on the sales and profit through www.
ie and generated by our High Street stores.
eBooks through its partnership with Kobo at www.
High Street has significant competitive strengths.
During the year we also launched a new Richard and Judy believes it is well-placed to deliver good cash generation and Book Club website, where the Book Clubs growing digital create shareholder value through factors such as its widely audience is able to interact directly with Richard and Judy and respected and recognised brand: prime sites in key UK high theselected authors, as well as accessing exclusive extra street retail locations: high customer footfall: leading positions contentand listening to the popular podcast series.
inits target categories: purchasing and sourcing scale, driving value for the customer: an experienced senior management team: and managing the allocation of space between and within our core categories and other services.
1 High Street trading profit is stated after directly attributable share-based payment andpension service charges and before central costs, interest and taxation.
2 Including branches in Guernsey and Isle of Man.
WH Smith PLC 10 Annual report and accounts 2013 1 Overview 2 Directors report and business review 3 Governance 4 Financial statements While the eBooks market continues to see growth, it is evolving Performance review 2012 13 as we had anticipated and still represents only a relatively small High Street delivered a resilient performance in challenging proportion of total consumer book sales in the UK.
Within core 1 trading conditions with profit growing by 2m to 56m consumer books, eBooks is focused on Fiction, which represents 2012:54m, up four per cent on the prior year.
This was achieved the vast majority of eBook downloads.
Our core physical books by continuing to strengthen our core categories, whilst focusing market is lighter, less affluent book buyers with around on optimising margins, controlling costs and delivering the 75percent of our book sales in Non-Fiction and Kids.
Cash generation in the division continues to be Wetherefore continue to see eBooks as an incremental strong.
opportunity and continue to build on our partnership with Kobo.
High Street sales were down seven per cent in total and six per The initial 100 Kobo shop in shops that we installed into our cent on a like-for-like basis, reflecting the strong publishing largest High Street stores in 2012 have been successful in schedule in the second half of the prior year and some acquiring new customers.
As a result, we built a further 100 Kobo challenging markets.
Gross margin improved by around 200bps, shops during the year, on a smaller footprint.
Early results were through rebalancing the mix of our business to focus on higher consistent with the initial 100 shops, so we extended the roll-out margin categories such as Stationery, better buying terms and to a further 50 this autumn, giving us a total of 250 Kobo shops in improved sourcing and markdown management.
As part of the roll-out we undertook a comprehensive training programme for all our store teams.
We Our strategy to build on our market leading position in Stationery have also recently launched this seasons new device line-up, remains unchanged.
Like-for-like sales were down, with gross including a new HD e-ink eReader and a new range of tablets.
We managed our stock tightly in all categories, which helped support this further improvement in gross margin.
Our The optimal use of space is a fundamental part of the strategy for range of Gadgetshop products performed well over Christmas High Street, as we look to maximise profitability today whilst and we have recently acquired the Past Times and Modelzone setting ourselves up for the future shape of the business.
We have brands, which we intend to use in a similar way to Gadgetshop.
a dedicated team and a substantial amount of data on both space During the year, Stationery continued to benefit from active and product elasticity.
We make major space changes at least management of space, for example adding new ranges such twice a year.
This year, space changes have included changes asspecialist art materials, digital accessories and partyware.
which have allowed us to reduce operating costs for example, increasing stock room space in some stores, creating the Our Far East office has been operating for several years with a additional 150 Kobo shops and extending Kids books.
We have well established team and an extensive network of supplier and also renewed our Post Office contract for a further five years and factory relationships.
Our ability to source our own stationery signed a new agreement and anticipate opening a further 16 Post product through our Far East office gives us a competitive Offices branches, giving us a total of 98 Post Offices within our advantage and helps improve margins and we have recently stores.
signed an agreement with Kobo, to supply them with 50 per cent of their accessory product range over time.
Cost savings remain a core part of our strategy and we focus on all areas of cost in the business.
We have made good progress We saw a strong performance from Funkypigeon.
com over the again this year, delivering cost savings of 18m.
These came from key seasons and we continue to create high levels of brand across the business, including the roll-out of energy-efficient tills awareness.
The offer has been developed further, including to all High Street stores, the introduction of voice picking in our additional card ranges and licences for example, One Direction, distribution centres, the remodelling of our transhipment routes and additional gifting ranges for example, photobooks and to stores and other operational efficiencies.
During the year we have also launched new smartphone number of initiatives on trial such as: improving trailer and tablet apps and have further invested in website development configuration in our distribution centres: centralising energy and functionality.
management for stores: more self-checkouts: and changing our News and Impulse like-for-like sales were down year on year website hosting.
We have identified an additional 10m of new with further improvement in gross margin.
The newspaper and cost savings, taking the target to 22m over the next three years.
magazine market continues to be challenging but we grew our 2 The High Street business now operates from 615 stores, which market share further through successful promotions such as occupy 3.00m square feet 2012: 3.05m square feet.
We opened free Lego with the Daily Mail and free water with The Telegraph.
four new stores during the year in line with our strategy to open in We continue to develop the strongly-growing bookazine category, un-served catchments and closed seven stores.
which now includes over 250 titles and helps improve our margins.
Bestsellers in the year included a number of new titles celebrating the birth of Prince George.
In Books, the market continues to vary by sub-category, with the quality of publishing having a significant impact.
In Kids, we annualised the strong sales from the very successful Hunger Games series in 2012, but we saw the biggest impact in Fiction, where the Fifty Shades trilogy had a significant impact in the second half of the previous year.
As a consequence, like-for-like sales were down but gross margin was up year on year.
We continue to adapt our book space to optimise market dynamics.
We have reduced back list adult book space to fund more space for childrens books and additional Kobo shops and we will continue to optimise space within books and between other categories in the medium-term.
WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2013 11
