Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 21 Operating review We have continued to make progress towards achieving our strategic objectives: 1 Grow our Fund management Company 2 Invest selectively 3 manage our portfolio to maximise value A key measure of the growth of the FmC is the mezzanine and equity funds Grow our increase in Aum.
In this respect the last 12 months Third party mezzanine and equity funds under have been very successful.
Fund management, including ICG longbow, have In the year to 31 march 2013 we raised 2.3bn increased by 33% to 4,928m primarily due to the Management innew money across multiple products.
This is the final close of our flagship fund, ICG Europe Fund V, most third party money we have ever raised in a Company atits hard cap of 2.5bn.
This is well in excess of the single financial year and, together with the benefit original target of 2.0bn and constitutes the largest ofalow number of realisations, has resulted in a fund of its type to be raised since 2007.
ICG Europe 13%increase in Aum in the year to 12.9bn at Fund V is comprised of a 500m commitment from 31 march 2013.
This includes 9.9bn of third party ICG and 2.0bn from third parties and is currently 1 funds.
Asaresult third party fees increased 16% to 26% invested.
77.4m in the year as we have been able to retain ICG Europe Fund V will have a significant impact ourpricingstructures.
on our long term fee income with a run rate over the Our enhanced distribution capabilities, due to five year investment period of 23.0m per annum, theinvestment made in our marketing and gradually reducing over the following five years as distribution team over the last two years, leave us werealise the Fund.
well positioned to continue raising funds across ICG Europe Fund V has a more geographically products and geographies.
In addition, we are now balanced investor base than its predecessor funds able to market ourselves to investors who are which were predominantly raised from European looking to mandate a small number of partners who institutions.
The investor base in ICG Europe V is have a global reach.
This growth potential is further almost evenly split between the uS, Europe and underpinned by a strong balance sheet which AsiaPacific.
Furthermore, our investor base has provides the FmC with access to seed capital.
beenfurther strengthened by the diversity of investor An important driver to attract new and repeat type, with a much smaller portion of commitments investors is the ongoing performance of our existing from capital constrained banks.
Based on the latest available information, replaced by traditional institutional investors, such themajority of our funds continue to demonstrate aspension and sovereign wealth funds.
This topquartile performance compared to private provides astrong base for future fundraising.
Elsewhere, preparations for a dedicated North America fund are well advanced and we have begun to prepare for the successor fund to Intermediate Capital Asia Pacific Fund II 2008 ICAP08, which is Our people currently 55%invested.
Martin Wheeler ICG longbow Board member Jointly founded ICG longbow in 2006.
Prior to this he was a founding member of GmACs uK Commercial mortgage business established in 2002. martin, who is a qualified surveyor mRICS, has over 22 years experience in property asset management, direct investing roles and property finance.
22 Business review: Operating review continued ICG longbow Credit funds Our investment in ICG longbow continues to Third party credit funds under management have deliverahead of expectations.
During the year we have During the year ICG longbow completed added 516m to Aum through the launch of new investing its 242m second mezzanine fund and funds and segregated mandates.
This offsets the followed this with the launch of a new fund, ICG runoff of our older ClO funds.
This has a target size of 500m Our Senior Debt Partners fund is a closed end and a maximum size of 700m.
A first close in fund combining our existing expertise in originating December 2012 of 215m, which included a 50m investment opportunities and our knowledge of the commitment from the Investment Company, and European senior debt market.
The fund will invest isexpected to close at its 700m maximum insenior secured loans in European midmarket sizeshortly.
These direct investment opportunities Elsewhere, the team have capitalised on their are originated and structured by a dedicated team, strong track record, extensive sourcing network supported by our existing and established local andthe lack of available senior debt in the uK real network.
There was a first close in march 2013 estate market, by raising a 105m listed senior debt andafurther close is expected in the first half of the fund, ICG longbow Senior Secured uK Property new financial year.
The fund has a 1bn target size.
Our Total Credit fund was launched on 13 July 2012 with 50m of seed capital from ICG.
The fund has shown a strong performance since its launch, with net asset value NAV up 15%.
A good track record will enable us to attract further third party funds to the product.
Our open ended High yield Bond Fund continues to build on its very strong track record, generating agross return of 41% since its inception on 31 December 2009.
This is a testament to our ability to invest selectively.
Our people Garland Hansmann Portfolio manager for ICG High yield Fund Joined ICG in 2007 from Credit Suisse Asset management where he was European Head of Credit Research and in charge of managing CSAms high yield portfolio.
Over 18 years experience in asset management, Garland is a CFA Charterholder and member of the uK Society of Investment Professionals.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 23 The year to 31 march 2013 was a strong investment This continues the momentum of investing ICG Invest year for the Group.
We invested 782.2m, including Europe Fund V. 261.9m for our Investment Company.
The diversity of these investments demonstrates selectively Ongoing economic uncertainty and the lack of that in the current European market there are few availability of senior debt meant deal flow in the wider standard mezzanine deals.
As a result our local European market was slow in 2012, although this investment teams have to work harder to source haspicked up since.
However, our local network of transactions and structure them in a way that meets experienced investment professionals was able to the requirements of all parties.
generate and complete seven European transactions Our Asia Pacific and uS teams have also during the course of the financial year, a tremendous completed one transaction each in the period.
2 achievement in this slow market.
In Asia Pacific, we supported the acquisition We supported the management led buyouts ofSCF, a leading provider of specialist containers ofATPI, a uK corporate travel and management inthe Australian market.
This is the second ICG business with a focus on need-to-work travel, sponsorless transaction in Australia and took ICAP andSymingtons, a uK food business with a focus 08 to 55% invested.
To allow the remaining capacity on value and convenience products.
In continental to be invested, the Fund approved the extension of Europe, we were the sole debt provider for the the investment period by one year to April 2014. acquisition of Esmalglass by Investcorp.
Esmalglass In the uS, we have backed KRG Capital Partners is a leading supplier of key intermediate products acquisition of Convergint Technologies, investing in forthe ceramics industry worldwide with significant subordinated debt and equity.
Convergint Technologies exposure to emerging markets.
Further investments is one of the leading commercial security and life included the senior debt of Icopal, an international safety system integrators in NorthAmerica.
manufacturer of roofing and water proofing products: Our European credit funds business continues a 256m portfolio of performing senior loans from tosee a good pipeline of new opportunities, aided aEuropean bank acquired on attractive terms: byimproved deal activity in the middle market and aninvestment in the uK pensions advisory company abuoyant high yield market.
In particular, our Senior Punter Southall and an investment in Norwegian Debt Partners fund benefits from a strong current roadside assistance company, Viking.
Following pipeline of deals, attractively priced and structured, these transactions, ICGEurope Fund V is 26% invested of which we expect to close a number over the within thefirst 18 months and is well ontrack to course of 2013. maintain this investment rate.
We continue to see a strong pipeline of new Since the year end we have supported, subject investments and have significant capital to deploy.
toregulatory clearance, the management led buyout of However, we will remain extremely selective and Euro Cater A S, the largest food distributor in Denmark.
maintain our historical rigour in investment decisions.
Our people Rolf Nuijens Head of North Europe Joined ICG in 1998, and is responsible for Northern Europe investments.
Prior to this he worked for HAl Investments, a private equity firm in The Netherlands.
Over 19 years experience gained within the European private equity industry.
24 Business review: Operating review continued 19m FuNDS INVESTED 117m 200bn FuNDS RAISED TO DATE ESTImATED mARKET OPPORTuNITy Case study ICG Senior Debt Partners Direct senior loan origination How we are investing AIM Aviation Investment strategy ICGs Senior Debt Partners fund exploits our A strong relationship expertise in originating investment opportunities with management and our knowledge of the European senior debt market.
Our role This fund will invest in senior secured loans in The key to unlocking this opportunity was the strength European midmarket companies.
These direct of the relationship which ICG built with AIm Aviations investment opportunities are originated and management and sponsors.
This factor, in combination structured by a dedicated team, supported by with our ability to execute on a tight timescale, our established local network.
secured for us the opportunity to invest.
Weare the companys largest lender, providing 30m between To date, 117m has been raised including 25m three ICG funds of senior debt alongside two banks.
from ICG and interest levels among potential Our rationale investors are high.
AIm Aviation is dedicated to the design and manufacture Portfolio managers: of cutting edge aircraft interiors.
The company has a leading market position, exposure to high growth max mitchell sectors and low operating leverage.
longterm and Jeff Boswell relationships and contracts with its key customers ensure excellent revenue visibility.
Our business Business review Funds and portfolio Governance Financial statements Intermediate Capital Group plc 2 17 18 37 Annual Report 2013 38 45 46 76 77 112 25 The Investment Companys portfolio continues to Our portfolio is well positioned to withstand further Manage our demonstrate resilience, with 61% of our portfolio economic pressure, with an average leverage of 4.7 companies by number 75% on a value weighted times EBITDA.
This is much lower than the 5.8 times portfolio to average basis performing above or at the same level of late 2008.
Furthermore, businesses and sponsors maximise as the previous year.
There are no changes to the have had to focus on profitability and cash generation names of our weaker assets and we are engaged in in recent years thereby improving theunderlying value a small number of restructurings, primarily amongst resilience of these businesses.
Our investment teams are which account for 50% ofourportfolio by value are actively engaged in restructurings in order to protect performing well, asareour new investments.
our investments which can lead to us having greater Repayments over the year were at a low level 3 involvement in these companies.
given the slowness of the European buyout market.
Gross provisions of 141.1m were significantly We realised 128.8m of principal repayments and more than the 83.5m last year.
The first half saw 28.7m of PIK for the Investment Company during material provisions taken against two assets which the year.
Since the year end 73.6m of principal and account for 86.2m of the total.
The second half 46.6m of PIK has been realised.
sawa lower level of provisions offset by write backs In recent months, private equity sponsors are on five assets which have seen a strong operational increasingly looking to exit or refinance a number recovery.
Together, this has resulted in net of their investments, with a number of processes impairments for the year of 80.0m compared to having already begun.
Visibility on timing remains 70.6m in the prior year.
unclear as sales transactions continue to be delayed Whilst we do not expect that aggregate net due to a valuation gap between buyers and sellers.
provisions will exceed our long term average in the However, we do expect the number of realisations to foreseeable future, single name events do periodically increase during the next 12 months with businesses occur.
Furthermore, the negotiation stance of individual taking advantage of cheaper refinancing options parties in restructuring negotiations is becoming orcurrent sponsors having to return cash to their increasingly unpredictable making it difficult to forecast investors and therefore realise assets, even at lower the outcome of these negotiations with any degree valuations than they expected.
Key priorities for the current year Our key priorities include a focus on targeting new Our recent fundraising achievements mean that we third party money with our broad range of products have a lot of capital available to deploy.
In particular, our enlarged expect to maintain our current investment rate distribution team will be aiming to significantly subject to finding investment opportunities with increase the size of our Senior Debt Partners fund the appropriate risk return balance.
We will maintain and to make further progress with our Total Credit our historical investment discipline.
fund during the course of the year.
The recent increase in liquidity in the market Elsewhere, preparations for the launch of a could result in a significant increase in realisations dedicated uS product are nearing completion and during the year.
These realisations will come from early planning is underway for a successor fund to either portfolio companies refinancing their existing ICAP 08.
We will aim to advance both opportunities debt or sponsors exiting their investments.
