Operational review A successful year: executing our core strategy Since the period end, in January 2014, we were pleased to announce a recommended all-paper acquisition During 2013 the Group has continued to of Fusion IP plc, a business with which build on the strong foundations laid in we have enjoyed a strong working previous years and has utilised its people relationship since taking a 20% stake in 2009.
The recommended acquisition and cash resources to continue to support is highly complementary to IP Groups the development of its portfolio.
core business and will give the combined entity greater breadth of coverage, For the second successive year the Group deployed enabling the Group to access a wider over 25m of balance sheet capital into its portfolio pool of intellectual property as well as companies and saw the fair value of its portfolio improve our service offering to existing and potential research institutions both in increase significantly.
The Groups access to the UK and internationally.
In addition, our intellectual property opportunities in the UK was shareholders gave a strong endorsement expanded through a new partnership with the of our business model and progress to University of Manchester and a strategic investment date through their support of an equity raise of 100m, before expenses, that will in Cambridge Innovation Capital plc, while the enable us to continue to back our most Group took its first measured steps internationally promising portfolio companies.
Access to through two new pilot relationships with the finance for our portfolio companies was further complemented in 2013 through University of Pennsylvania and Columbia University.
the raising of a new 30m fund with Alan Aubrey Chief Executive Officer the European Investment Fund EIF, IP Venture Fund II, a successor to IP Venture Fund.
Throughout 2013, the Group continued to execute its core strategy of building highquality businesses based on intellectual property.
This has resulted in the fair value of the Groups portfolio increasing to 285.9m 2012: 181.8m across 72 companies, with many companies continuing to mature, increase revenues, and achieve commercial and technical milestones.
Highlights included: Oxford Nanopore Technologies Limited Oxford Nanopore completing a 40m financing and launching a heavily oversubscribed access program to allow researchers to begin using its nanopore sequencing technology: Durham Graphene Sciences Limited rebranding to Applied Graphene Materials plc IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 12 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Our Performance Applied Graphene and completing an FCA-regulated subsidiary, now manages AIM market IPO and concurrent 11m three venture capital funds with total Testimonial: placing: and Retroscreen Virology Group assets under management now in excess Business Building plc Retroscreen continuing to grow of 100m.
IPVFII was established in May its revenues and guiding the market in 2013 in partnership with the EIF, one of December to expect FY2013 revenues the leading venture capital investors in It is common for in excess of 27m almost double the Europe.
The fund comprises 30m of institutional investors 14m achieved in 2012.
There were capital with a 20m contribution from to claim that they add value to few significant reductions in fair value the EIF and a 10m contribution from the their portfolio companies.
However or write-offs within the portfolio.
NETF, now entering its fifth year IP Group has done exactly this, detailed analysis is provided in the of investing, has to date provided capital in a very fundamental and value portfolio review.
to 55 developing technology companies accretive way since our early days.
Finally, IPVF, whose The Groups active involvement in the It is not unreasonable to say that investing period ended in 2012, continues development of its spin-out companies the company would not be where to deploy its remaining capital to support is an integral part of the implementation it is today without their consistent its existing portfolio.
To that end, the Group has support and guidance.
expanded IP Exec, the Groups specialist Outlook Dave Page, CEO in-house executive search function which Whilst macroeconomic sentiment in the Actual Experience plc assists portfolio companies in recruiting UK is improving, funding for higher risk, experienced and able leadership.
In early-stage businesses continues to be IP Group has a strong sense of addition, following the completion of the constrained and trading circumstances commitment to the business in acquisition of Fusion IP, its existing highly for many small businesses remain which they invest, positioning skilled team will augment the Groups difficult.
Nonetheless, the Directors themselves as partners in your core business.
believe that the UK continues to produce company and are in it for the long a wealth of potentially world-class IP As noted opposite, in addition to runThey have stood shoulder to from its universities and other research increasing its access to UK universityshoulder with us as we grew and intensive institutions and consider that the produced research through its matured, offering both financial and Group has an increasingly strengthened relationships with the University of professional support at each stage position given its track record, strong Manchester and CIC, the Group of the companys development.
cash position and available funds under announced in December that it had Kym Denny, CEO management.
signed IP commercialisation agreements Retroscreen Virology Group plc with the University of Pennsylvania, the The Group continues to expand its UPstart company formation programme access to leading scientific innovation, run by its Center for Technology Transfer, both in the UK and abroad, by broadening and with Columbia Technology Ventures, and deepening its arrangements with the technology transfer office of its existing university partners and other Columbia University.
These partnerships, research intensive institutions, and by which have an initial pilot phase of 18 entering into collaborations with new months, will focus on identifying earlypartners.
These arrangements continue stage, proof of principle opportunities to provide opportunities for the Group to based on intellectual property developed back early-stage projects and companies at those universities.
The Group will based on potentially high-impact seek to identify its first opportunities for technologies.
The Board is confident development from these universities that this flow of opportunities, coupled during the course of 2014. with the Groups increased ability to invest larger sums more frequently in its In order to support the current portfolio portfolio companies as a result of the as well as future spin-outs from its Capital Raising, will continue to drive the university partners, the Group recognises Groups growth.
The Board is excited at the importance of being able to provide the prospect of the acquisition of Fusion long-term patient capital to its portfolio IP plc which it considers represents an companies.
The successful completion opportunity to create a stronger UK of the Groups 100m placing in February commercialisation company with greater 2014 will ensure that the Group has critical mass.
Accordingly, the Board the ability to continue to back its most remains confident in the prospects for the promising portfolio companies with Group.
Top Technology Ventures Limited TTV, the Groups Stock Code: IPO www.
com 13 23002-04 Proof 8a 01-04-14 Strategic Report Our Performance
