JLT Asia 67.1m Europe 11% Strategic Report REVIEW OF OPERATIONS RISK & INSURANCE Our global Risk & Risk & Insurance comprises our global specialty Insurance businesses insurance and reinsurance broking operations provide services including: and our wholesale insurance broking business.
Advice and consultancy Our global Risk & Insurance businesses achieved Advising our clients on their insurance and reinsurance organic revenue growth of 7%, with total requirements, ensuring that they revenues of 723.9 million.
Trading profit rose by understand the likelihood and potential severity of the risks they 7% to 149.9 million with the trading margin face, the options available to mitigate them and the potential remaining at 21% despite the continuing cost.
This then allows our clients to make an informed decision that significant investment in leading industry balances price, coverage and risk appetite.
We also provide capital professionals being made across these raising and corporate finance advice businesses, with employee numbers increasing to insurance market clients and investors.
Brokerage and placement Acting as intermediaries with 2013 also saw further acquisitions being made to insurers and reinsurers all over the world, using our specialist build-out areas of specialism, the largest of which knowledge to negotiate and place insurance cover on our clients was the acquisition of Towers Watson Re.
Specialist insurance products Providing our clients with access to certain facilities and insurance Revenue contribution by business area products through bespoke Revenue 2013 agreements that we have struck with insurers without taking any Other 71.5m balance sheet underwriting risk.
723.9m JLT Latin America Other services 55.5m JLT Specialty 2012: 676.4m 7% Providing a range of related services 244.8m to our clients and insurance market counterparties in areas such as 723.9m JLT Towers Re captive and claims management 76.8m and administration.
Trading profit Lloyd & JLT Australia & NZ Partners 124.5m 83.7m Our businesses 149.9m JLT Specialty 29 2012: 139.7m Turnover by client location JLT Australia & NZ 29 7% Lloyd & Partners 30 Rest of World 2% JLT Towers Re 30 JLT Asia 31 JLT Latin America 31 Trading Margin 2013 UK 23% Thistle UK 32 Asia JLT Canada 32 13% 719.4m JLT Insurance Management 32 21% JLT South Africa 32 2012: 21% Australia & NZ Americas 19% 32% Turnover excludes investment income 28 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 JLT Specialty JLT Australia & New Zealand 2013 2012 % change 2013 2012 % change Total Revenue 244.8m 235.9m 4% Total Revenue 124.5m 126.5m 2% Underlying Trading Profit 51.2m 46.8m 9% Underlying Trading Profit 37.1m 36.9m - Trading Margin 21% 20% Trading Margin 30% 29% JLT Specialty provides advice and insurance broking The region continues to demonstrate strong growth with services to corporate and public sector clients in selected revenues increasing by 4% at constant rates of exchange specialty areas.
Although many of its clients are based in to 124.5 million, and organic growth reaching 5%.
the UK and Europe, JLT Specialty also works in close Reported revenues were however marginally lower than collaboration with all of JLTs international offices supplying 2012, as a result of a fall in the value of the Australian them with industry expertise, advice and access to dollar against Sterling, particularly in the second half of the international markets.
This allows JLT to provide the best year.
Trading profit for the year was 37.1 million and the and most innovative solutions to our clients and to business improved on its already strong trading margin, compete on large tenders and multi-national accounts.
In 2013, the business continued to perform well, despite The business has been restructured during the year into the significant economic headwinds which affected a three divisions - Public Sector including Echelon, number of our client segments and territories.
Revenue Specialty and Enterprise Solutions, all of which contributed grew by 4%, or 3% at constant rates of exchange, to to the performance of the business for the year.
The trading margin was 21%, an increase The investments made in the Specialty division over the from 20% despite continued investment in both market past 18 months, in areas such as Energy, Mining and leading professionals to drive new business growth and Construction have resulted in a significant improvement to our operational platform to support our continued focus that division with impressive new business wins and on client service and retention.
Particularly strong results were delivered by specialty areas Today the business is being invited to participate in larger such as Aviation and Financial Lines, which the business tenders than ever before.
Meanwhile, the Public Sector has targeted and invested in as part of its growth strategy.
division has maintained its industry-leading position.
Market leading positions in these and other areas such as The continued focus on growth will drive the business Construction have been maintained and the business is forward throughout 2014 and we are well positioned to continuing to invest and build its position in other key take advantage of the significant opportunities we see in areas such as, Credit and Political Risk, Energy and the region.
In 2014, JLT Specialty will continue to build-out subPrincipal lines of business segments of its larger businesses while also driving Construction, Energy, Entertainment and Leisure, Financial changes to its operating model to improve its efficiency and Professional Services, Food and Agribusiness, and effectiveness.
The business continues to invest in new Government, Manufacturing, Mining, People Risks, Real strategic growth initiatives which will help drive it forward, Estate, Retail, SME and Consumer Products, Sport, and its core UK and mainland European markets show Transport and Logistics.
some encouraging, albeit early signs of improved economic activity.
Principal lines of business Accident & Health, Aerospace, Construction, Credit, Political & Security, Energy, Financial & Professional, Marine, Renewables, Real Estate, Risk Practice including Communications, Technology & Media, Life Science, Food and Transportation.
29 Strategic Report REVIEW OF OPERATIONS RISK & INSURANCE Lloyd & Partners JLT Towers Re 2013 2012 % change 2013 2012 % change Total Revenue 83.7m 79.3m 5% Total Revenue 76.8m 53.7m 43% Underlying Trading Profit 18.3m 17.6m 4% Underlying Trading Profit 11.3m 7.4m 52% Trading Margin 22% 22% Trading Margin 15% 14% Lloyd & Partners comprises our London and Bermuda 2013 was a significant year for JLT Re with the acquisition specialist wholesale broking businesses.
As a wholesale of Towers Watsons reinsurance broking business and the broker, Lloyd & Partners provides brokers in the US and creation of JLT Towers Re.
selected other markets, including JLTs international The transaction did not complete until 6th November offices, with access to insurance capacity in London, 2013, so for the purposes of this section of the report, Bermuda and Continental Europe.
details of the financial performance of each of the The business grew revenues by 5%, or 6% at constant businesses are provided separately.
rates of exchange to 83.7 million, with the business JLT Re had a strong year with revenues of 66.9 million, benefiting from an improving US economy and continued an increase of 25% over the previous year, all of which demand for its specialist London Market placement was organic.
This strong result reflects the increasing capabilities and industry expertise.
This increase in benefits of the investments we made over recent years in revenues was all delivered through organic growth and building out the businesss geographic reach and represents a pleasing performance that included strong capabilities.
In 2013 for example, headcount increased by performances from its Cargo, Energy, Professional Lines 9%.
The contribution for Towers Watson Re, reflects only the 8 Lloyd & Partners continues to attract and retain some of week period between completion of the acquisition and the best talent in the market, with the strategic the year end during which time it produced revenues of investments made in recent years now gaining increased 9.9 million and delivered a small trading loss.
There remains an on-going focus to acquire The combination of these two businesses to form JLT leading industry professionals to continue to enhance Towers Re has created a dynamic new force in the existing business areas.
The trading margin was reinsurance broking industry which contributes towards maintained at 22% despite the continued investments the Groups strategic objectives of both expanding its being made in the business.
reinsurance broking capabilities and increasing its These on-going initiatives mean that Lloyd & Partners is exposure to the US market.
The benefits to both JLT and well positioned for future growth.
its clients and the financial details of the transaction are set out in more detail in the Chief Executives Review on Principal lines of business page 16 and the Finance Directors Review on page 39.
Principal lines of business, Cargo, Fine Art & Specie, While this integration will continue through 2014, the Casualty, Energy & Marine, Healthcare, Professional Lines, creation of JLT Towers Re means that the business now Programmes, Property.
has the platform and capabilities to retain and attract the very best talent in the industry.
The focus of the business is now on driving a programme of further investment in people and capabilities to capture the significant opportunities that exist.
Principal lines of business All classes of Treaty and Facultative Reinsurance Corporate Finance Advisory.
30 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 JLT Asia JLT Latin America 2013 2012 % change 2013 2012 % change Total Revenue 67.1m 59.3m 13% Total Revenue 55.5m 50.4m 10% Underlying Trading Profit 10.4m 9.1m 14% Underlying Trading Profit 17.2m 15.7m 9% Trading Margin 15% 15% Trading Margin 31% 31% 2013 saw further progress in our Asia Risk & Insurance Our Latin American Risk & Insurance operations have business.
Reported revenue and revenue at CRE performed well with revenues increasing by 10% to 55.5 increased by 13% to 67.1 million, with organic growth of million, or 14% at constant rates of exchange all of which 9%, and trading profit growing 14% to 10.4 million.
The trading profit increased to 17.2 million with an unchanged trading margin of 31%.
Organic growth came from a broad spread of business.
The focus on specialty insurance risks and the important In our specialty Risk & Insurance businesses we have growth sectors of Energy, Construction, Marine and continued to benefit from our focus and investments in Financial & Professional Risks helped secure further large areas such as Construction, Aviation, Marine, Energy and accounts during the period.
The investment in commercial Mining that remain among the more dynamic growth insurance broking in Hong Kong also delivered good sectors given their link to continued infrastructure revenue growth.
The business continues to focus on and invest in our There has been a noticeable increase in the levels of operations in the high growth areas of the region and collaboration between the Groups Latin American and remains encouraged by the relative strength of the London-based businesses, which together represent an regional economies.
During the year the business invested integrated platform that competitors find difficult to further in its Marine capability, and in January 2014 replicate.
completed the acquisition of Lambert Brothers, a Hong There continue to be significant growth opportunities in Kong based broker.
the region and the Group is actively pursuing a number of The core operations in Hong Kong and Singapore bolt-on acquisitions and investments to strengthen its achieved strong trading performances and further specialty offering and broaden our distribution capability in progress was made in the development of key territories Latin America.
This included acquisitions during the year in Principal lines of business Malaysia and Taiwan, both of which strengthened key Energy, Oil & Power, Industrial Risks, Aviation, speciality capabilities in these important markets.
The Construction, Telecommunications, Reinsurance, business also continues to work closely with Jardine SME & Consumer Products.
Matheson, leveraging its presence in the region.
JLT Asia remains focused on improving its trading margin and as part of the Groups Business Transformation Programme opened a Shared Service Centre in Kuala Lumpur in October.
The migration of functions to this new facility has already started.
Principal lines of business Aviation, Construction, Capital Risks, Energy, Financial & Professional Risks, Marine, Property, Intellectual Property and Cyber, SME & Consumer Products.
31 Strategic Report REVIEW OF OPERATIONS RISK & INSURANCE Total revenue was 25.8 million an 8% reduction on 2012.
Thistle UK The trading profit for the year also reduced to 1.5 million 2012: 2.5 million, with the trading margin reducing to 2013 2012 % change 6% 2012: 9%.
Total Revenue 34.9m 34.3m 2% The business continues to invest in developing its talent and expanding its capabilities and resources in its key Underlying Trading Profit 2.4m 4.0m 39% speciality areas to drive growth in 2014.
Trading Margin 7% 12% Principal lines of business General Corporate Industries, Construction, Natural Thistle is a diverse business with a significant range of Resources & Energy, Public Sector Risks, Professional & products sold and serviced across many different Financial Risks, SME & Consumer Products.
distribution channels on both a wholesale and on a direct retail basis, targeting niche products, segments and groups of customers.
Underpinning the retail and wholesale distribution framework is a set of underwriting facilities, provided by a core set of Managing General JLT Insurance Management Underwriter MGU arrangements with insurers.
This allows Thistle to share in the underwriting profitability of its 2013 2012 % change business without taking any capital risk.
Through 2013 a number of actions were implemented to Total Revenue 8.0m 6.9m 15% strengthen the business including the hire of new senior Underlying Trading Profit 0.6m 0.6m - personnel and investment in the Thistle brand.
During the year Thistle continued to be exposed to the Trading Margin 7% 9% challenging UK economy and a very competitive insurance rating environment.
Against this backdrop the business The business delivered a 15% increase in revenues, 14% did, however, still increase its revenues by 2% to 34.9 at constant rates of exchange, with organic growth of 4%.
The trading profit and margin reduced as a JLT Insurance Management is one of the leading consequence of the investments made to strengthen the insurance management and consulting groups with business.
operations in Guernsey, Bermuda, US, Barbados and The design and launch of new products in addition to new Singapore.
affinity customers and improved sales capabilities provide The business continued to add to its capabilities in 2013 the key opportunities for growth in 2014. with the recruitment of new talent, particularly in the US, where the newly acquired JLT Towner business is making Principal lines of business good progress.
The business continued its growth in Latin Caravans and Caravan parks, Leisure including Cycle, American sourced business and is focused on other Music & Photography, Recruitment, Housing Associations, developing markets whilst continuing to serve the more Tenants Risks, Liability, Fleet, Commercial SME Schemes, established North American and European regions.
JLT Canada JLT South Africa 2013 2012 % change 2013 2012 % change Total Revenue 25.8m 28.2m 8% Total Revenue 2.8m 1.7m 63% Underlying Trading Profit 1.5m 2.5m 40% Underlying Trading Profit 0.1m 0.9m 93% Trading Margin 6% 9% Trading Margin 2% 53% 2013 continued to be a year of transition for the Our South African operation grew its revenue organically Canadian management team with the addition of key during the year under review.
executives and specialty leaders to focus and drive the Canadian business to align with the JLT Global Our activities in the Middle East and Africa MEA region Specialty model.
Consequently, we have strengthened have been given further impetus with the recent the specialty structure in the Canadian portfolio acquisition of a controlling stake in IDB.
This business has including Public Entity, where we are market leading, operations in Dubai, Qatar and Bahrain.
Our existing Natural Resources, Construction & Professional.
operation within the Dubai International Finance Centre is in transition from its current status as a division of JLT Achieving growth in the Canadian operation has been Specialty London to a fully transactional standalone entity difficult primarily due to the very competitive landscape reporting into the newly formed MEA structure.
in the Canadian insurance marketplace and significant From 2014 onwards our MEA operation will be reported insurance over-capacity.
32 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Europe 1% Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Our global Employee We extended both the depth and reach of our Benefits businesses international Employee Benefits operations during provide services including: 2013, building upon the investments made in Pension and retirement services prior years.
Providing a range of services, primarily focused on the UK market, Our international Employee Benefits operations designed to meet the requirements of both pension trustees and delivered a 25% increase in revenues to 255.3 corporate sponsors, including pension scheme administration, million, of which 14% was organic, and actuarial consultancy, scheme generated 55.8 million of trading profit, an design and risk transfer consultancy, governance, independent trustee increase of 29%.
The trading margin for the services and member communications.
division was 22% despite further investment in Health and benefits people and capabilities to meet clients current Providing advice on and implementing employee health and and future needs.
benefit programmes, medical claims administration, occupational health services and placement of health and risk protection policies for Revenue by business area Revenue 2013 corporate workforces.
These health and benefit programmes are Other Australia & NZ increasingly managed using JLTs 2.1m 7.6m 255.3m own integrated online benefits Latin America platform, BenPal.
18.1m 2012: 203.7m UK & Ireland 25% Investment services 172.1m Advising on all aspects of investment Asia 55.4m 255.3m and discretionary management of assets for both high net worth Underlying Trading profit 2013 individuals and company pension schemes.
Wealth management 55.8m Offering advice and support to high- 2012: 43.3m net-worth individuals in respect of Turnover by client location 29% their financial planning, at retirement support and life protection requirements.
Asia 22% Trading Margin 2013 Our businesses: Australia & NZ UK 34 3% UK & Ireland 255.2m 66% 34 22% Asia Americas 34 8% Latin America 2012: 21% 35 Australia & NZ 35 Canada 35 South Africa Turnover excludes investment income 33 Strategic Report REVIEW OF OPERATIONS EMPLOYEE BENEFITS UK & Ireland Asia 2013 2012 % change 2013 2012 % change Total Revenue 172.1m 146.0m 18% Total Revenue 55.4m 38.2m 45% Underlying Trading Profit 32.2m 28.0m 15% Underlying Trading Profit 18.6m 11.7m 60% Trading Margin 19% 19% Trading Margin 34% 30% Our UK & Ireland Employee Benefits business delivered an In Asia we have a strong and growing Employee Benefits 18% increase in revenues 4% organic and a 15% business employing some 675 people.
This business increase in trading profit for the year producing an grew its revenues by 45%, 38% of which was organic, unchanged trading margin of 19%.
This growth was again underpinned by our market leading life insurance broking business which The integration of our acquisition of Alexander Forbes provides solutions to high-net-worth clients, working Consultants & Actuaries Limited has proved successful closely with most of the largest private banks in the with expertise in health, investment consulting and region.
annuities proving to be particularly valuable.
We completed two acquisitions in Indonesia to provide us We are now a leading advisor in the Bulk Annuity market, with healthcare risk and claims management capabilities advising on one in five of the transactions which took to support clients continuing to offer healthcare as a core place during 2013.
We expect this market to more than benefit, while managing the cost of access to hospital double in size in 2014 and are investing in order to ensure networks.
We hope to extend these capabilities to other we continue to be a leader in this increasingly important Asian countries in the future.
Profund, our pension administration software provider, has long been the market leader with 3.5 million individuals administered on the system.
In 2013 we launched a Latin America hosted version of the software and see renewed opportunities to drive growth in this area.
2013 2012 % change The Retail Distribution Review RDR and Auto Enrolment Total Revenue 18.1m 12.7m 42% have fundamentally altered the markets in which we trade.
We have assessed over a million employees for auto Underlying Trading Profit 4.3m 2.3m 85% enrolment during 2013 utilising our market leading BenPal Trading Margin 24% 18% system during the course of 2013.
The transition from commission to fees triggered by RDR has caused little disruption to our private client business.
We have established our Edinburgh office integrating our new Aegon and Alexander Forbes colleagues in Scotland with our existing business.
Our combined operation in Scotland now makes JLT the largest employee benefits consultant north of the border.
We have well established operations in Brazil, Peru and Colombia.
These operations grew revenues by 42% in We exceeded our ambition to grow our investment 2013, producing trading profits of 4.3 million.
Assets under management at the end of markets develop, employers are keen to offer employee the year exceed 1.5 billion, doubling the value of our benefits programmes, with healthcare as a core benefit.
assets under management over the past twelve months.
We continue to focus on assisting our clients to put in Principal lines of business place competitive plans while also managing utilization and cost.
Trustee Consulting, Corporate Sponsor Consulting, Investment Consulting, Investment Management, Wealth We made particular progress during the year in Brazil and Management, Profund, BenPal, Independent Trustee in January 2014, we acquired SCK which has further Services, Pension Scheme administration, Pension strengthened our business in this key market.
Scheme Wind-up Consulting, Annuities, Data Cleansing.
34 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2013 Australia & New Zealand South Africa 2013 2012 % change 2013 2012 % change Total Revenue 7.6m 5.1m 49% Total Revenue 0.2m - - Underlying Trading Profit 1.1m 1.3m 18% Underlying Trading Profit 0.4m - - Trading Margin 14% 26% Trading Margin - - Our Employee Benefits business in Australia & New In 2013 we entered the South African market, both to Zealand increased total revenues by 49%, or 59% at support our increasingly international Employee Benefits constant rates of exchange to 7.6 million building upon client base but also to pursue local market opportunities.
our investment in this business.
Forthcoming changes to pension legislation will add to the existing healthcare opportunity, and we also believe the During the year the business continued to focus on market will be receptive to BenPal.
delivering bespoke solutions to clients, assisting with healthcare insurance, and other core benefits, whilst also In November, we acquired Eluleka Consulting, a fast delivering occupational health services to improve growing benefits adviser.
We now have over 45 staff in absence and productivity.
BenPal is now a core part of our client solution, enhancing management of data and delivering timely management information.
Canada 2013 2012 % change Total Revenue 1.9m 1.7m 13% Underlying Trading Profit - - - Trading Margin 1% 1% Canadas Employee Benefits business delivered strong revenue growth to 1.9 million, an increase of 13%, or 16% at constant rates of exchange.
The expansion of our Employee Benefits business in Canada is at an early stage in its development and we remain excited about the potential to develop this business.
We continue to see good opportunities in Canada and have recently strengthened our leadership to pursue further growth.
35 Strategic Report REVIEW OF OPERATIONS ASSOCIATES In 2013 the contribution from Siaci Saint Honor our associates after tax was Siaci Saint Honor, based in Paris with 1,465 employees, is a leading independent provider of insurance broking and employee benefits services to 8.1 million compared to major French companies and multinational corporations.
JLT has a 26% 8.3 million in 2012, shareholding.
Principal specialist areas are Major Corporate Risks, Marine Cargo, reflecting the somewhat Construction, Energy, Retail Distribution, Luxury Goods, Employee Benefits and Expatriate Healthcare.
mixed trading conditions that Their International Employee Benefits overseas operations have offices in have impacted our European Bangkok, Calgary, Dubai and Shanghai.
They also have captive management and brokerage operations in Luxembourg and brokerage operations in Geneva.
GrECo Total contribution to JLT after tax 2013 2012 Growth JLT has a 20% shareholding in the GrECo Group, the leading specialist insurance broker in Central & Eastern Europe, the Balkans and the CIS regions.
Total contribution to 8.1m 8.3m 2% With its headquarters in Vienna, GrECo added offices in Estonia and Turkey JLT after tax during 2013, and now has 56 offices with 800 employees in 17 countries.
Its operations outside Austria are branded GrECo JLT.
Associate holdings at 31st December 2013 Principal specialist areas are Construction & Real Estate, Energy, Marine & Marine Cargo, Communications, Technology & Media, and Financial Institutions.
Siaci Saint Honor France 26% Central & Eastern GrECo 20% Europe CIS March-JLT March-JLT Spain 25% MAG-JLT Italy 25% JLT has a 25% shareholding in March-JLT, which is the 4th largest commercial insurance broker in Spain.
The joint venture partner is Banca March, Spains JLT Sterling Mexico 36% leading privately-owned financial institution.
Its core business is corporate-focused, with specialty capabilities including Construction, Tourism and Marine & Cargo.
The business employs over 100 staff, with offices in Madrid, Mallorca, Seville, Valencia, Bilbao, La Palmas, and Barcelona.
MAG-JLT JLT has a 25% shareholding in MAG-JLT, a leading speciality broker in Italy with 200 employees in offices in Milan, Rome, Naples, and offices in a further 6 cities around the country, as well as a Lloyds broking arm in London.
Key business areas are Corporate Risk Management, Middle Market, Aviation, Marine Hull & Machinery, Marine Liability & P&I, Cargo, High-Net-Worth Yacht, Fine Art, Contingency, and Affinity Employee Benefits, Motor.
JLT Sterling JLT has a 36% shareholding in Sterling Re Intermedio fide Reaseguro S. A. fide C. V. which trades as JLT Sterling, with the balance of shares being held by Lorant MMS, a leading independent retail insurance broker, based in Mexico City.
JLT Sterling has broadened its traditional base of Property and Aviation, to provide specialist wholesale services also in the Casualty, Construction, Energy, Marine, Marine Cargo and Specie sectors.
