Operational review Successful delivery against a changing backdrop In December, we were also joined by Katharine Dryer as a Product 2013 was a positive year for Jupiter with the Specialist for our fixed interest and multi-asset funds, who will combination of strong performance by many work alongside fund managers and with Jupiters sales and financial markets, investment outperformance marketing teams to communicate the investment philosophy, process and views, in addition to providing updates on financial and effective distribution resulting in higher net markets and economic trends.
This is a model we will be looking inflows, with our international distribution efforts to extend to other teams, where appropriate, as we develop and grow in the future.
becoming an increasingly important contributor to our net sales.
Following Stephen Pearsons promotion to Head of Investments in October, we undertook a review of the structure of the fund We implemented a number of organisational changes during the management department and chose to reorganise it around year so the business can better handle the demands of the higher a number of key investment strategies.
This will provide a focus volumes we expect to deliver over the medium-term.
Our focus for developing each strategy as we grow.
remains on delivering growth at margins that enable us to continue delivering attractive returns to shareholders.
Ensuring our product set meets the needs of clients in different markets is an ongoing process and during the year we made a Investment performance number of changes to products.
These included the extension Delivering investment outperformance remains key to successful of the Jupiter Strategic Bond Funds power to use derivatives, the growth for our business and during 2013 investment performance registration of The Jupiter Global Fund in additional jurisdictions remained strong over the key three year period used by many and the removal of the performance fee on both the Jupiter New fund buyers to select funds.
At 31 December 2013, 30 mutual funds Europe and the Jupiter Global Financial SICAVs.
We launched one representing 69 per cent.
of mutual funds by AUM had delivered new fund in 2013 the Jupiter Global Equity Income Fund above average investment performance 2012: 33 mutual funds a UK-domiciled unit trust.
Over one year, 32 mutual funds were above average, representing 45 per cent.
of Effective distribution mutual fund AUM 2012: 28 mutual funds representing 56 per cent.
In an increasingly globalised world, the ability to service our clients of mutual fund AUM.
in the key financial centres where they do business will be critical to our growth.
We have, in recent years, established offices in a We continued our strategy of developing our fund management number of these centres, including Frankfurt, Munich, Zurich, talent during the year, enabling us to continue delivering Singapore and Hong Kong, to provide local client support and, performance through a natural cycle of evolution and change.
during 2013, made a number of steps towards developing these Following the announcement of Anthony Nutts retirement in operations.
December 2012, Ben Whitmore took on the management of the Jupiter Income Trust in January 2013 while Alastair Gunn took over Our Hong Kong office, opened in late 2012, is now staffed with four the Jupiter High Income Fund in July 2013 and the Jupiter Dividend employees, led by Peter Swarbreck, who was appointed in May as & Growth Trust in October 2013.
In addition, Christopher Watt was Head of Client Coverage Asia.
We also appointed Andrej Brodnik as appointed manager of the Jupiter Growth & Income Fund following Head of Client Coverage for Germany, Austria and Switzerland and the departure of Philip Matthews.
opened an office in Frankfurt.
Five sales people are now employed to service clients in Germany and Austria with an additional two Our ability to attract new talent to our team was demonstrated in sales people based out of our office in Zurich.
April 2013 with the appointment of James Clunie, a highly regarded manager of long short funds.
In July, we announced that James We also made some changes to the structure of our UK sales team would be taking over the Jupiter Absolute Return Fund in to enable us better to support growth in our core market.
Our UK September 2013 and that Miles Geldard would be taking on the institutional sales team was rolled into the UK Client Coverage management of the Jupiter Second Split Trust in October 2013, Group, headed by Simon Hynes, and we also changed some roles ahead of the retirement of Philip Gibbs.
Later in the year, we also in this team and made some new hires to provide a greater focus appointed Robert Siddles, who has an extensive track record on our existing retail and wealth management efforts.
At the same managing US small cap assets.
time, we brought together those sales people working with global financial institutions into one team.
16 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Net flows strengthened during 2013, totalling 1.2bn for the year 2012: 966m with an increased contribution from our international business.
Funds at the cautious end of the spectrum, particularly our Strategic Bond unit trust and Dynamic Bond SICAV, together with the Merlin Income fund and Jupiter Global Convertibles SICAV, attracted significant inflows, as did top-performing equity funds such as the UK Special Situations and European unit trusts and the Jupiter European Growth SICAV.
Net inflows outflows by product m 2013 2012 Mutual funds 1,162 1,550 Segregated mandates 129 568 Private clients 135 16 Investment trusts 31 Total 1,199 966 Assets under management increased to a record 31.7bn at 31 December 2013 31 December 2012: 26.3bn due to net inflows and market appreciation across the year.
The majority of those assets continue to be in mutual funds, at 78 per cent.
31 December 2012: 79 per cent.. 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Assets under management by product bn bn Mutual funds 24.8 20.6 Segregated mandates 3.9 3.2 Private clients 2.3 1.9 Investment trusts 0.7 0.6 Total 31.7 26.3 Efficient operations Our focus is on operating a platform that can enable us to deliver revenue growth while maintaining operating margins at a level that enables us to deliver attractive returns to shareholders.
During 2013, we appointed a new IT Director, supporting our drive in investment in our technology infrastructure that will underpin our growth.
One of the key projects started during the year was the rationalisation of our server estate, which involves the creation of two virtual data centres.
We also started work on upgrading our business continuity capabilities.
Another significant project commenced during 2013 was to move our SICAV fund accounting platform to JP Morgan a move we believe will underpin business growth.
We are also in the process of creating a new function Global Professional Client Services which will handle the requirements of global and domestic institutions and consultants, freeing up the time of sales people, enabling them to focus on frontline relationship management.
We are currently undertaking a search for new offices, as our current lease of No 1 Grosvenor Place terminates in mid-2016.
We have not, as yet, finalised new premises, but expect to do so during 2014.
Due to favourable rates on our current lease agreement, rental costs under a new lease are expected to be higher than at present.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Jupiter Fund Management plc 17
