Operational review Our businesses delivered a stable performance during the year, amid the significant changes to the Group.
Overview Across the region we enjoyed better management of costs, with operating expenditure improved by 5% as we Mobile data was the stand-out service across our benefited from efficiency improvements in The Bahamas business.
Approximately 32% of total handsets sold in and a region-wide cost reduction programme.
Panama and the Caribbean were smartphones which has Our Jamaica mobile customer base increased by 16% by supported this growth.
Mobile data revenue increased year end as regulatory changes created a level playing field.
34%, with 47% growth in Panama and 28% in the Caribbean.
This was a strong return on the investment However, changes to regulations in Jamaica and the we made in mobile data networks in 2011 12.
Following imposition of a special telecoms tax contributed to a that significant investment in the prior year, capital 10% fall in Caribbean fixed line revenue.
expenditure was lower across the Group.
Trading conditions in the rest of the Caribbean were While our mobile data activity increased, customers difficult, but we continued to invest in growth services continued to turn away from fixed voice usage, switching within higher GDP per capita markets.
Our new Barbados instead to use mobiles and voice over internet protocol pay TV network had over 3,000 customers by year end services utilising fixed broadband.
and we launched in a second market, the Cayman Islands, in April 2013.
We have also announced plans to roll Broadband is a significant growth opportunity for our out new high speed fibre broadband networks in both business, with penetration rates in pan-America lower Barbados and Cayman.
We plan to invest in the rollout of fibre broadband next year.
The economic outlook for the region is stable.
The International Monetary Fund predicts that whilst growth We also plan further launches of our LIME TV, TV over will continue to be constrained, the Caribbeans recovery broadband service in the Caribbean following a positive from recession will continue, with a gradual pick up in reception in Barbados and Cayman.
Group operating expenditure was US$798 million for our continuing operations, an improvement of 6% on the Panama 2012 2013 2011 2012 prior year.
We expect further cost reductions as we move to Revenue US$586m US$601m a unified business structure and drive to improve EBITDA US$239m US$256m operational synergy and target US$100 million of savings over the next two years.
Operating cash flow US$154m US$131m Caribbean 2012 2013 2011 2012 In Panama we improved EBITDA by 8% in the second half of the year.
Our mobile business again performed Revenue US$1.120bn US$1.172bn strongly, leading to a 3% increase in mobile revenue.
EBITDA US$274m US$284m The business is in one of the most competitive mobile markets in Central America with four operators and Operating cash flow US$124m US$120m mobile number portability giving customers the opportunity to freely move between networks.
Despite Our Caribbean business saw good performances in The this we retained a majority of market share by gaining Bahamas and Jamaica, but faced difficult economic an additional 18,000 postpaid customers.
We plan to conditions in the Eastern Caribbean.
build on this positive momentum by launching a mobile The successful transformation of our Bahamas business payments service in 2013 14. continued as we completed the roll out of a new high Pay TV is a core component of our triple play pay TV, speed mobile data network.
There has been a significant broadband, fixed line offering.
Our pay TV customer increase in mobile data network traffic and an extra base increased by 5%, with more than three quarters of 500,000 calls per day since we started the project in customers choosing to take multiple services.
18 Cable & Wireless Communications The delayed launch of some Government programmes Win back Jamaica caused a decline in enterprise revenue, but we won Garry Sinclair, CEO, Jamaica several social telecoms contracts.
These included We campaigned for a change in the regulation contracts to: put the countrys National Registry online governing mobile operators to give Jamaicans making it easier to buy and sell property in Panama : real choice.
When the Government made those create an IT system for public hospitals: and to install changes last summer we immediately launched a software system to help the health service monitor, Talk EZ for our prepaid and postpaid customers, maintain and manage the assets it owns.
reducing call prices by over two-thirds and Our business continues to benefit from Panamas strong reasserting LIME as Jamaicas value leader.
Growth has been Talk EZ was supported by our highly successful boosted by construction related to the project to widen marketing campaign based around the Olympic the Panama Canal, a major boost to future trade which Games which really excited consumers.
We are will be completed in 2014. still in a dog fight, but for the first time in a long time the momentum is with us.
Monaco 2012 2013 2011 2012 Revenue US$236m US$267m EBITDA US$75m US$59m Operating cash flow US$60m US$34m Monaco continued to perform strongly in 2012 13, with the sale of its loss-making Afinis operations during the year helping to boost EBITDA by 27%.
There was continued demand for mobile data services from residents and roamers, creating a positive platform for the introduction of Long Term Evolution services in 2013 14.
Mobile data leadership CWC Wholesale Solutions Jorge Nicolau, CEO, Panama Last year we combined our sub-sea cable assets into a Our four operator mobile market is one of the new business, CWC Wholesale Solutions.
most fiercely contested in Central America.
We In May 2013 we announced that we have entered into a have maintained our market share above 50%, strategic partnership with Columbus Networks Limited because we have been innovative in delivering to further develop our international wholesale capacity affordable access to mobile data services for our business.
The joint venture contains more than 42,000 km customers, for example with pricing plans that of sub-sea cables with connectivity to 42 countries.
enable customers to buy data allowances for short time periods.
The alliance positions us strongly to meet the data capacity demands of our retail operations in the future, as well as optimising our capital expenditure on sub-sea cable networks in the future.
We will further extend our capability next year as a founder member of the Pacific Caribbean Cable System, a 6,000 km cable linking Florida and Ecuador, building work for which will begin in 2013 14.
Islands and Macau We agreed the sale of both our Islands and Macau businesses, to Batelco Group and CITIC Telecom International Holdings Limited respectively.
The agreed sale price of US$750 million for Macau New networks in The Bahamas reflected the companys strong growth in recent years Geoff Houston, CEO, Bahamas and its development since CWC became a founding The completion of our high speed mobile data shareholder in 1981.
The disposal of our Islands business also achieved an excellent price, with an agreed sale network in The Bahamas was a clear statement of price of US$580 million.
We also agreed the sale of 25% our intent, considering that the legacy network of our shareholding in CMC, the business which holds was more than 15 years old in some places.
The our shares in Monaco Telecom, for US$100 million to value of this work has been clear and weve Batelco.
We have an option in place to sell Batelco the released pent up demand for quality telecom rest of our shares in CMC, subject to gaining regulatory services.
We have spectrum to introduce even and Government approval by April 2014. faster mobile data services and plan to do so in 2013 14, ensuring we are strongly positioned for Talks with our partner in that business, the Government the introduction of mobile competition in 2014. of Monaco, have taken place regarding the sale of our remaining 75% in CMC.
Feedback has not been as positive as expected and so we are also working with Batelco to consider the alternative options available.
