Strategic Report In International Downstream, we are investing across energy and services to provide the highest level of customer service in both the residential and Operating Review business markets.
This includes advancements in our digital capability to allow customers to engage with us when and where they want.
We are International also developing innovative products and propositions such as smart thermostats, time of use tariffs and distributed generation to provide Downstream customers with greater convenience and control over their energy, helping them save money by reducing their consumption.
In British Gas, we lead the industry in smart metering, energy efficiency, help for the vulnerable and in ensuring that our pricing is simple, fair and transparent.
In Direct Energy, our acquisition of Hess Energy Marketing positions us as the We are developing number one C&I gas supplier on the East Coast of the US and the number two C&I electricity supplier in the competitive US retail markets.
innovative products and CHRIS wEStOn propositions to provide Managing Director, International Downstream customers with greater convenience and control Our International Downstream business over their energy.
British Gas Adjusted operating profit m 1,030m For the year ended 31 December 2013 2012 2013 1,030 Adjusted operating profit m 2012 1,093 Residential energy supply 571 606 2011 1,005 Residential services 318 312 2010 1,216 Business energy supply and services 141 175 Total British Gas 1,030 1,093 Customer numbers 000 1 Residential energy customer accounts 15,256 15,618 Residential services product holdings 8,227 8,402 Business energy supply points 912 924 1 British Gas Residential energy customer accounts for 2012 have been restated to exclude 38,000 accounts subsequently classified asdormant.
Direct Energy Adjusted operating profit m 276m For the year ended 31 December 2013 2012 2013 276 Adjusted operating profit m Residential energy supply 163 156 2012 310 Business energy supply 77 121 2011 287 Residential and business services 36 33 2010 227 Total Direct Energy 276 310 Customer numbers 000 Residential energy customer accounts 3,360 3,455 Residential and business services customer accounts 2,608 2,401 18 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information what we do BRItISH GAS DIRECt EnERGy British Gas is the UKs leading energy supplier and provides Direct Energy is one of the largest retail providers of electricity, energy or services to around 11 million homes in Britain, as well natural gas and home services across North America, operating as providing energy to over 900,000 UK business supply points.
in eight Canadian provinces and all US states.
With more than British Gas Services installs, repairs and maintains boilers and six million customer relationships, we cover residential, business, heating systems and helps customers reduce their energy services and supply.
Our Company is committed to providing consumption and cut costs with a range of energy-saving energy and services in ways that improve the quality of everyday measures.
Our engineers also service electrical systems, life.
We believe that our customers are our greatest asset and appliances, plumbing and drains.
Service excellence is critical to meeting their needs compels us to communicate and innovate British Gas operations and will remain at the heart of all we do.
so that we can become the best energy company in the market.
com key metrics Employees British Gas customer accounts British Gas gross revenue 34,489 24.4m 1 4,226m British Gas: 28,579 2012: 24.9m 2012: 13,857m Direct Energy: 5,910 Direct Energy customer accounts Direct Energy gross revenue See our performance measures on 6.
0m 7,325m page 180 2012: 5.9m 2012: 5,684m British Gas: Focus on service, efficiency and innovation Corporate responsibility We are aiming to deliver industry leading, high quality service for customers British Gas Helped more than 1.8 million British Gas Residential operating profit fell due to higher commodity and non-commodity vulnerablehouseholds costs and warm weather towards the end of the year.
We are targeting a return to customer account growth helped by our January 2014 price reduction and the Investing in jobs, training introduction of new fixed price propositions 1,200 apprentices Over 1.3 million smart meter We have simplified our product range to four residential tariffs and have made further installations in the UK improvements in our transparency of reporting.
We were the first energy supplier to reduce retail tariffs in 2014, following proposed ECO changes Direct Energy Provided $600,000 to help vulnerable British Gas Services benefited from cost reduction initiatives.
Also targeting a return customers in Texas pay electricity bills to customer account growth, we are leveraging our insurance capabilities and Over 600 agents trained at Customer developing differentiated propositions such as Hive, our remote heating control Service Excellence workshops British Gas Business operating profit fell as a result of the difficult trading environment and the end of the auto-rollover of contracts.
We have a 100 million cost reduction Corporate Responsibility Review on page 39 programme underway, as well as the implementation of a new billing system Direct Energy: Enhanced scale in deregulated markets the risks and challenges Overall Direct Energy profitability fell, reflecting challenging market conditions leading Restoring public trust to a narrowing of energy supply margins.
We launched a $100 million cost reduction Further political and regulatory programme to improve competitiveness, driving synergies from enhanced scale intervention and reform Challenging competitive environments In Direct Energy Residential we saw profit growth as we benefited from previous and market conditions acquisitions: our innovative products and enhanced digital capability will be the key to future growth The need to manage exposure to volatile commodity prices and adverse weather Direct Energy Business margins and profitability declined, with rising wholesale HSE&S risks arising from our operations costs and a highly competitive power supply market.
The Hess integration is Compliance with existing laws proceeding well.
We see growth potential through enhanced scale, dual fuel and regulation capabilities, advantaged positions along the gas value chain and long-term Successful delivery of major customer relationships new billing and CRMsystems Direct Energy Services profitability increased with services accounts up by more The need to maintain service levels than 200,000.
Our services protection plans are a unique differentiating factor Successful integration of Hess and we have significant potential for combining energy and services Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 42 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 19 Strategic Report A new management structure is in place, Operating Review designed to enable us to focus on improving International Downstream continued our core operations to deliver better customer service.
IntERnAtIOnAl DOwnStREAM The price rise took effect in late November.
The operating environment for both our However, the UK Governments proposed UK and North American downstream changes to the ECO programme allowed businesses was challenging during 2013.
We continue to lead British Gas to reduce average household gas However, we made good strategic progress and electricity prices by 3.2%, effective from on both sides of the Atlantic, positioning the industry in helping 1January 2014.
Including the Governments ourselves for the future, and our downstream 12 rebate in relation to the Warm Home strategic priority Innovate to drive growth the most vulnerable, Discount, the average customer bill will and service excellence has been reaffirmed.
Under the leadership of Chris Weston a new having helped more management structure is in place, designed We strongly support the aims of the ECO to enable us to focus on improving our programme, which is providing energy core operations to deliver better customer than 1.8 million efficiency measures such as insulation to service and drive growth through transform homes and communities across innovative propositions.
the UK, helping keep homes warm and households suffering reducing carbon emissions.
Therefore we BRItISH GAS welcome the proposed changes to the ECO from fuel poverty.
In the UK, the operating environment for our programme, which will extend the obligation downstream energy supply businesses was period by two years to March 2017 and broaden unprecedented.
Affordability has been a key eligibility measures, allowing us to help more concern for both residential and business customers and reduce the short-term impact customers, amplified by media and political on bills.
We expect our costs to be over debate ahead of the 2015 election.
Against 1.7 billion over the life of the programme this backdrop we welcomed the Governments and in 2013 we incurred 420 million of proposed changes to the Energy Company costs.
We also completed all work under Obligation ECO, announced in December, the CERT and CESP programmes around which enabled us to be the first UK energy the middle of 2013, later than the target date supplier to reduce retail tariffs.
Overall, through these made good progress in positioning the business programmes, we installed 236,000 energy for the future, with further development of efficiency measures in customer homes in our digital platforms, the launch of new 2013, over half of which were for the elderly, propositions, continued industry leadership disabled or those most inneed.
on smart metering and an ongoing focus We continue to lead the industry in helping on service and cost-efficiency.
the most vulnerable, having helped more Residential energy supply operating profit than 1.8 million households suffering from fell by 6%, reflecting warmer weather fuel poverty.
We maintain the widest eligibility towards the end of the year and higher criteria among all energy suppliers for the commodity and non-commodity costs, Warm Home Discount, which benefited over while business energy supply and services 500,000 of our customers during the year.
operating profit fell by 19% in challenging We also protected these customers from market conditions.
A continued focus on our November price increase through an cost reduction resulted in an increase in additional discount of up to 60 to be residential services profit, although delivering applied to their bills.
new sales of services contracts proved We now offer four distinct tariffs, all with challenging.
The health and safety of our a standing charge and single unit rate and employees and customers remains a core have consolidated our discount structures.
priority and the lost time injury frequency We introduced our unique Tariff Check in rate LTIFR over 2013 was 0.11 per 100,000 the first half of the year, which provides a hours worked in British Gas 2012: 0.23. personalised comparison of their energy costs tough environment for residential under each British Gas tariff and enables customers to check that they are on the energy supply most appropriate tariff for them.
In October, Having absorbed higher commodity the Government announced a new annual and non-commodity costs for as long as competition review for the UK energy sector possible, we took the decision in October and we expect the results to be published to increase average household gas prices around the end of the first quarter of 2014. by 8.4% and average household electricity 20 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information Helping restore confidence in the energy annual service or boiler breakdown online, industry is a top priority for British Gas.
Our up 22% and nearly 40% of bills were sent independent Customer Board is in its third electronically.
In January 2014 we fully year and has continued to challenge and launched Me Mobile Energy, a new advise on a range of service and product energy brand capable of being delivered topics.
We are making good progress entirely via mobile devices and aimed onimplementing Ofgems Standards of at the private tenant segment.
Conduct and have established a Customer We are also developing smart and connected Fairness Committee, which includes two home solutions to give customers greater independent external members.
We also visibility and control over their energy usage.
continue to invest in jobs, with 1,200 We have now installed over 1.3 million smart apprentices currently in training, while we meters for homes and businesses in the UK, have committed that from January 2014 all with over 800,000 of these for residential UK-based employees will be paid at least customers and in 2014 we expect to be the the living wage rate.
first company to install smart meters for residential prepayment customers.
The Focus on delivering great industry-leading progress we have made customerservice leaves us well placed, as we move towards The number of residential accounts on supply the mandated roll-out of smart meters in the as at the end of 2013 was 15.3 million, 2% UK from the end of 2015.
Over 200,000 lower than at the start of the year.
This reflects customers now receive our Smart Energy a competitive market and higher levels of Report, which we launched in March 2013. customer churn in the period immediately This provides customers with comprehensive following our pricing announcement in analysis of their energy usage and has October.
Customer account losses have resulted in a positive impact on customers continued into 2014, with around 100,000 perception of British Gas.
In September we in the year to date, however the position is launched Hive, our rebranded remote now stabilising, reflecting our January 2014 heating control proposition, which allows price reduction and the introduction of new customers to control their heating and hot fixed price propositions.
water remotely via their smartphone or online.
In a competitive market for energy supply it Initial brand recognition has been strong, is important to focus on delivering high levels and we have now sold over 50,000 smart of customer service.
The migration of our thermostats, with weekly sales having residential customers onto a new Customer doubled since the Hive launch.
Relationship Management CRM platform will Strong cost focus in residential services be completed in 2014.
We experienced some system outages during implementation, which in tough sales environment was exacerbated by higher call volumes caused Market conditions remained challenging for by the tariff increase announcement.
Reflecting British Gas Services, in part due to continued this, the total British Gas net promoter score pressure on household disposable income.
However, Retention of existing customers was strong, we invested in additional customer service with customers recognising the value of our advisers to address the short-term issues services products during sustained periods and the new system is expected to deliver of cold weather in the first half.
However, sales a more integrated customer experience.
of new products were lower reflecting the overall economic environment.
As a result, We are leading the industry in the use of the number of services customer accounts digital platforms, reducing our cost to serve fell by 2% during 2013, ending the year at and increasing customer engagement.
We are beginning to see some British Gas was awarded best ecommerce pick up in the market for new central heating utility supplier at the 2013 ecommerce installations, with the number increasing awards for excellence.
Customer downloads by 7% in 2013 compared to 2012 and by of our top-rated mobile app were up 37% 10% in the second half of the year, in part and over a million have been downloaded reflecting our leadership position on the since its launch.
The number of customers Green Deal.
British Gas was the first energy transacting through digital channels also supplier to market on the Green Deal increased.
Total transactions increased 16%, while 1.2 million customers booked their Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 21 and we now have 300 Green Deal to 1,030 million 2012: 1,093 million Strategic Report advisers trained and have completed with a slight increase in residential services Operating Review over 10,000 installation measures.
profitability more than offset by declines in residential energy supply and business British Gas Services delivered strong levels International Downstream energy supply and services.
British Gas of operational performance in the year.
has delivered its 300 million share of the continued Overall we responded to 3.2 million boiler Groups cost reduction programme, with breakdowns, over 200,000 more than in the full year impact of 2012 initiatives coming 2012.
Despite the higher workload, our net through and further savings delivered in 2013 promoter score increased to 59 2012: 55 through procurement, IT and operational while the average speed to answer efficiencies.
Reflecting the impact of inflation callsimproved.
and investment in growth areas, British Gas Although we incurred additional costs operating costs were up slightly in 2013 as a result of the higher level of call-outs, compared to 2012, while previous investment residential services operating profit increased in systems and a more proactive approach slightly compared to 2012, reflecting the to helping customers resulted in the bad benefit of cost-savings delivered in 2012 debt charge as a proportion of revenue and 2013.
With the existing cost reduction holding broadly flat.
programme now complete, we will maintain Residential energy supply gross revenue a keen focus on cost-efficiency in the increased to 9,487 million 2012: 9,121 million, business.
We will also look to develop new predominantly reflecting the impact of higher and innovative products and propositions.
commodity and non-commodity costs on During 2013 we launched packages tailored retail gas and electricity tariffs.
Average specifically for landlords and tenants, while gas consumption was broadly flat compared we also launched British Gas branded home to a cold 2012, with a decline in underlying insurance in partnership with AXA and consumption and warmer than usual weather entered into a new partnership agreement in the fourth quarter offsetting the impact of with Nationwides buy-to-let mortgage arm.
unusually cold weather in the first half.
Average Continued challenging market electricity consumption fell by 3%.
Second half operating profit fell by 18% compared conditions for business energy supply to 2012, while full year operating profit fell and services by 6% to 571 million 2012: 606 million, The number of business energy supply as increased revenue was more than offset points fell by 12,000 over the year and were by higher external costs, with commodity, flat in the second half of the year.
The tough transmission, metering and environmental economic and competitive environment costs all rising.
The full year post-tax margin continued to put pressure on business energy decreased to 4.5% 2012: 5.0%.
supply margins, which were also impacted Residential services gross revenue decreased by our programme to end the auto-rollover slightly to 1,655 million 2012: 1,674 million.
of contracts at renewal, for the benefit Operating profit, including the receipt of an of customers.
This decision ensures our ECO management fee from residential energy customers have a transparent choice of supply, increased to 318 million 2012: 312 products and should provide long-term million, while the post-tax margin increased benefits.
As a result of the margin pressures, to 14.6% 2012: 14.1%, primarily reflecting the operating profit in 2013 was significantly impact of operational efficiencies.
Business lower than in 2012. energy and services gross revenue increased During the year we started the implementation to 3,084 million 2012: 3,062 million, while of a new business energy billing system, operating profit, including credits arising from which is proceeding to plan and is expected improved revenue and billing processes, fell to be fully operational by the end of 2014. by 19% to 141 million 2012: 175 million, The system leverages previous investment reflecting the margin pressures.
The post-tax in residential platforms and will result in margin fell to 3.7% 2012: 4.2%.
improved customer service at lower cost, helping to offset margin pressures.
We Positioning the business for the future continue to develop our business services in a tough external environment propositions and we have now mobilised Having completed a comprehensive review two major new contracts with Cornwall of the business, our focus is on improving Council and a consortium of eight local our core operations to enhance service and authorities in the North East of England.
reduce costs, while driving growth through We have also signed and commenced innovative propositions.
work on 13 energy performance contracts.
In British Gas Residential and British Gas Business services revenue increased by Services, we are targeting industry leading 11% in 2013 compared to 2012, while our service levels for our customers.
We will aim secured pipeline of future work increased to improve service and deliver efficiencies by 25% to over 200million.
by simplifying key customer interactions, Reduced year-on-year operating profit such as moving home and paying by direct Total British Gas gross revenue increased debit, to provide an effortless, consistent to 14,226 million 2012: 13,857 million experience through all channels.
Our project while total British Gas operating profit fell to move to a single residential billing platform for energy and services, which is expected 22 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information to be completed this year, will improve service to offset the impact of transitioning our Direct Energys scale in deregulated markets and cost-efficiency as well as facilitating the commercial model, including our decision leaves us uniquely positioned in North America integrated propositions needed to deliver to lead the market in ending auto-rollover to respond to these challenging market increased energy and services cross-selling.
In the fourth quarter of the year the business was reorganised and the role In addition, our leadership in digital, smart As in the residential business, we will of Chief Operations Officer was created to and connected homes enables us to offer drive growth in business energy supply by lead the drive for operational synergies compelling, differentiated propositions, such developing new offerings tailored to valuable across our businesses.
In 2014 the business as our Hive Active Heating smart thermostat.
customer segments and utilising a more will be focused on delivering further cost We currently expect to have installed 1.3 million targeted channel strategy.
In business reductions and building our range of innovative residential smart meters and to have sold services, where the market opportunity new products and services, with an increased over 100,000 smart thermostats by the end of is comparable in size to business energy, focus on digital channels.
We continue to see the smart connected we expect to grow a material position over the business for growth, through innovation home as core to our customer proposition, time, through a combination of organic and attractive products and propositions, materially improving the customer experience and inorganic growth.
while the Hess acquisition provides us with and providing an opportunity for growth.
the ability to optimise positions along the gas DIRECt EnERGy We see further growth opportunities valuechain.
Market conditions for our North American in residential services from new pricing downstream energy supply businesses The combination of organic growth and the structures and expanded product choice, proved challenging in 2013, as rising gas effect of acquisitions has increased the scale leveraging our insurance capabilities.
We and power prices, declining barriers to entry of the business, resulting in an increase in also see opportunities to grow share in and an increasingly competitive environment Direct Energy gross revenue to 7,325 million adjacent, under-served markets such as among both competitive energy suppliers 2012: 5,684 million.
However, operating the landlord sector and from improved and default utility providers led to a narrowing profit fell to 276 million 2012: 310 million, conversion of boiler installation enquiries of margins.
However, we made good strategic principally reflecting lower margins in business into sales.
Overall, through enhanced price progress during the year, with the acquisition power energy supply.
The operating profit in competitiveness and innovation, we are of the Hess Energy Marketing business 2013 includes 14 million of integration costs targeting a return to account growth in significantly enhancing our scale and capability and 22 million of additional amortisation both residential energy and services.
in Commercial and Industrial C&I gas of acquired intangibles relating to the supply, the acquisition of Bounce Energy In British Gas Business, a sustained Hessacquisition.
providing a leading internet-based digital programme of process simplification and platform and further organic growth in our the implementation of a new billing system, services protection plan product.
We also which started in 2013, is expected to deliver continued our strong focus on health and improved service at lower cost.
We expect safety, with the LTIFR remaining low at to deliver 100 million of annual operating 0.12 per 100,000 hours worked in Direct cost and bad debt reductions by the end Energy 2012: 0.11. of 2015 and have already delivered around 20 million of this in 2013.
This will help Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 23 Strategic Report Operating Review International Downstream continued We continued to develop innovative products and during the second half of the year we launched our Free Electricity Saturdays product.
energy supply operating profit in 2013 Competitive pressures offsetting the compared to 20% in 2012 and 29% at its impact of acquisitions in residential peak in 2010.
We also experienced a small energy supply drop in our regulated customer base in Operating profit for Direct Energy residential Alberta, although this was partially offset energy supply was up slightly in 2013, as the by growth in the competitive customer base positive impact of previous acquisitions and in the region.
This resulted in an increase reduced operating costs were largely offset in profitability inAlberta.
by some narrowing of margins in Texas and In the US North East, the number of accounts the continued decline of our customer base fell by 72,000, to 1.3 million, with the loss in Ontario as a result of our decision to forego of 53,000 aggregation customers and the renewals and new customer sales due to impact of a competitive sales environment the Energy Consumer Protection Act ECPA.
being only partly offset by improved retention Gross revenue increased to 2,517 million rates.
However, profitability increased in the 2012: 2,357 million reflecting higher gas region, reflecting cost-efficiencies and the andpower prices, while operating profit successful integration of customers acquired was163 million 2012: 156 million and the in 2012 in the Energetix and NYSEG Solutions post-tax margin was unchanged at 4.4%.
The number of residential energy accounts In Texas, retention rates also improved, at the end of 2013 was 3.4 million, a slight withchurn improving by two percentage decline since the start of 2013, in part points.
However, a highly competitive sales reflecting the expected decline in Ontario, environment, with around 50 retail energy a highly competitive sales environment in suppliers and 200 competitive offers, resulted both Texas and the US North East and the in reduced renewal margins.
To help offset expected loss of aggregation customers this margin decline, we focused on lowering in the US North East.
our operating cost base, with our cost to In Canada, we now have less than 200,000 serve per customer in Texas falling by 24%.
The business We also continued to develop innovative is no longer core to our operations, with the products and during the second half of region delivering only 11% of our residential theyear we launched our Free Electricity 24 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information Saturdays product, while we increased sales of the transaction we also entered into a Against this backdrop, improving cost of our prepayment product, Power To Go by three-year heat rate call option arrangement competitiveness is a core priority and a 30% in 2013.
In the second half of the year with Blackstone for an equivalent amount of cost reduction programme of $100 million we also completed the acquisition of the capacity.
We believe that in the near term this is underway, as we deliver synergies from independent electricity retailer, Bounce arrangement, together with a liquid physical Direct Energys enhanced scale.
We are Energy, for $42 million 27 million, adding and financial power market in Texas, can already benefiting from the creation of an 80,000 accounts to our Texas business and ably support our downstream operations integrated residential energy operations further consolidating our position as a top through contractual arrangements rather centre in Tulsa and a consolidated energy three retail energy provider in Texas.
and services call centre in Phoenix.
We are acquisition provides a leading internet-based also investing in a new residential energy Contract and profit growth in residential digital and ecommerce platform, for marketing billing platform for the Alberta market.
and business services innovative products and online account In Services, we are transitioning from eight Direct Energy residential and business management and over time we expect this separate operating systems to one, to help services gross revenue increased by 7% to platform to aid residential energy and services deliver simplified processes and operating 570 million 2012: 532 million, predominantly account growth in all our coreregions.
efficiencies as well as to facilitate a more reflecting an increase in sales from our owned robust franchising platform.
volume growth in business energy supply operations and those of our franchises.
In C&I, the integration of Hess Energy not fully offsetting margin pressures Operating profit increased to 36 million 2012: Marketing is proceeding well and on schedule.
On 1 November we completed the acquisition 33 million and the post-tax margin improved Our priority for 2014 is to fully integrate the of the New Jersey-based energy marketing slightly to 4.4% 2012: 4.1% reflecting teams, retaining key personnel and systems business of Hess Corporation for $1,194 million costcontrol.
and in turn deliver exceptional service levels 736 million, including a payment for working Direct Energy Services gained market share and high levels of customer retention.
In the capital of $416 million 257 million.
The during 2013, with the number of accounts first three full months of ownership, the acquisition makes Direct Energy the largest increasing by 207,000.
This partly reflects the business has delivered EBITDA in excess C&I gas supplier on the East Coast of the acquisition of the US-based home services of our investment case, with the acquisition US and the second largest C&I power supplier business, Americas Water Heater Rentals expected to be earnings accretive in 2014. in the competitive US retail markets and AWHR for $30 million 18 million, which Over time, the enhanced scale, dual fuel gives us a more balanced gas and power added over 80,000 residential customers capabilities, advantaged positions along customer portfolio.
It also builds on our located primarily in the US Midwest, Florida the gas value chain and long-term customer existing capabilities and further integrates and the US North East.
The acquisition was relationships delivered by the Hess acquisition our activities along the gas value chain, completed in October and provides Direct will provide additional growth opportunities linking gas supply from producers and other Energy with an expanded services product across the enlargedbusiness.
market participants, through secured transport range and the opportunity to grow its Building a range of innovative product and storage capacity, to both our C&I and customer base further in the US, offering offerings is also core to our business model, residential customer bases.
The initial rentals alongside heating, air conditioning, improving customer retention and delivering performance of the acquired business plumbing and electrical services across its growth.
Our Power To Go prepayment has been strong.
In the year we product and our innovative Free Electricity Direct Energy business energy supply gross increased our number of franchise territories Saturdays product have both proved popular revenue increased by 52% to 4,238 million by 11% to633.
The Bounce 2012: 2,795 million, reflecting the impact The increase in accounts also reflects Energy acquisition is already delivering of higher wholesale commodity prices and organic growth from developing our increased sales through digital channels, increased sales volumes.
Electricity volumes protection plan offering in the US, in part while we see scope for further growth increased by 24% to 63.9TWh 2012: 51.4TWh leveraging the acquisition of Home Warranty, through connected home propositions.
and gas volumes more than doubled to of America in 2012, and we now have over We have a relationship with Nest in Canada 1,839mmth 2012: 793mmth reflecting 100,000 whole-home warranty plans, up and launched a bundled thermostat and two months of contribution from the Hess from 70,000 at the time of acquisition.
Direct energy offering in the first quarter of 2014.
Energy Marketing business and good sales Energy Services also benefited from improved Additionally, we plan to launch a Direct performance.
However, the power market optimism in the economy, with a revival in Energy branded smart thermostat in 2014. has been increasingly competitive with, up new housing starts helping drive a 25% In services, our franchise model enables until January 2014, potential competitors increase in sales in our residential new expansion for limited capital outlay, while finding it easier to access credit and reduced construction business.
we expect to see further growth in our market volatility providing lower barriers to protection plan offering in the United States.
This led to a 36% decline in profitability Positioning the business for the future We also recently launched a small scale pilot to 77 million 2012: 121 million.
The in a challenging external environment of a new HVAC leasing proposition.
Initial underlying post-tax margin, excluding the Direct Energy has had a difficult start to 2014 sales have been considerably ahead impact of integration costs and additional and market conditions for our residential of our expectations, with customers willing amortisation associated with the Hess and business energy supply divisions look to undertake a higher value of work when acquisition, fell to 1.8% 2012: 2.8%.
Although the Hess purchased through rental payments as The business energy supply division now Energy Marketing business is performing opposed to upfront payment.
Over time, includes power generation and midstream well, Direct Energy has been impacted by a we see significant potential for combining activities.
In December we announced the weaker US dollar, continued margin pressures energy and services propositions to sale of our three Texas-based power stations, and exceptionally cold weather, which had a our residential customer base.
with a combined capacity of 1,295MW, to significant impact across all suppliers in the Blackstone for $685 million 420 million.
US North East and resulted in additional The disposal completed in January 2014 and system charges.
As a result, we currently we expect to recognise a profit on disposal of expect total Direct Energy operating profit approximately 220 million as an exceptional to be broadly flat year-on-year.
item in the 2014 financial results.
As part Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 25
