Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information As indigenous resources decline, the In tHE Uk, PUBlIC tRUSt In OUR Strategic Report need for imports increases.
The price and SECtOR HAS BEEn DAMAGED AnD Chief Executives Review availability of gas in the UK, therefore, will StEPS ARE BEInG tAkEn tO BEGIn be increasingly determined by international tO HElP REStORE It markets.
Unless importers are able to pay Three forces continue to shape UK energy the international price, gas will be diverted Operating policy: growing dependence on volatile to other markets.
global commodity markets: commitments In North America, shale gas has transformed to make serious cuts in carbon emissions: Environment the US energy market.
Shale production and an obligation as a society to ensure remains at high levels and significant that energy remains affordable at a time reserves remain to be exploited.
Customers of huge pressure on household and are benefiting from this, with relatively lower business incomes.
However, in an environment of Affordability has been a key concern for low and less volatile gas prices, conditions both residential and business customers, are challenging for energy retailers, who are amplified by the political debate ahead of finding it more difficult to compete with the 2015 UK election.
As a result, 2013 saw incumbent utilities.
2013 has been marked a sharp focus on the energy sector and at Liquefied Natural Gas LNG has made a time of rising prices a steep fall in public natural gas economically transportable over by challenges in UK trust.
This also led, in a highly competitive long distances.
Increasingly, it will connect market, to increased levels of switching the worlds resources with those markets between traditional participants and new energy markets that need it.
Steps have been taken to improve For the UK, this represents a major source of transparency, increase simplification, reduce and by continued supply.
Imports of LNG have risen from zero the cost of energy efficiency measures and less than ten years ago to a point where they lower bills.
These are helping foster a more developments in the are capable of meeting nearly a third of total balanced debate about energy but to build gas demand.
LNG export also represents an consumer and investor confidence all global gas markets.
opportunity to increase demand for the US stakeholders must continue to work abundant supplies.
together to rebuild trust in the sector.
EnERGy SECURIty: nAtURAl GAS EnERGy SECURIty: UnCERtAInty COntInUES tO PlAy A vItAl ROlE In Uk POwER MARkEtS COntInUES Currently there is adequate power Natural gas currently provides around one generation capacity in the UK.
The reserve third of the UKs primary energy and 80% margin for power generation, the amount of the UKs homes use gas for heating.
of surplus capacity to meet plant outages, Looking to the future, it plays a central role is around 6%.
As a result of this and the in nearly every scenario for a cost-effective availability of cheap coal, clean spark transition to a low carbon energy supply.
spreads the margins gas-fired power The UKs own gas resources are declining.
plants are able to make continue to be Ten years ago the UK was a net exporter very low.
This has impacted the returns of natural gas.
Today imports make up over from gas-fired power generation.
There are still attractive of the UKs coal-fired power generation prospects in the North Sea but infrastructure has closed or is closing, due to age or is aging and field sizes are declining which environmental regulations.
By 2015 16 the is contributing to cost pressures.
Onshore reserve margin could fall to as low as, or shale gas extraction could provide an even below, 2% according to the UK energy additional source of UK supply.
Partly to address this, far reaching operators must demonstrate the benefits reforms to the electricity market completed to local communities and reassure them their legislative process in 2013.
The details that the highest safety and environmental of these reforms are still being developed protection is in place.
and, until they can be fully understood and given the heightened political uncertainties, new gas-fired generation investment is unlikely to be forthcoming.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 07
