Strategic Report Centrica Storage performed well in 2013 although we have seen a continued narrowing of the spread between winter and summer gas Operating Review prices, the key driver of seasonal storage revenue.
These continued narrow spreads and the recent decision by the government not to support new Centrica storage resulted in us writing down our Baird and Caythorpe storage projects.
This current market and regulatory environment continues to Storage be challenging and is a major barrier to significant investment in new and existing storage facilities.
As we look to 2014, we will focus on delivering sustainable improvements in operational and cost-efficiency whilst ensuring the continued safe, reliable operation of our Rough storage facility.
We will also redouble our efforts Our Rough gas storage with industry and government to ensure that gas storage continues to play facility makes an an important role in gas supply security for UK businesses and consumers.
GRAnt DAwSOn important contribution Chairman, Centrica Storage to the UKs security Our Centrica Storage business ofsupply.
Adjusted operating profit m 63m 2013 63 For the year ended 31 December 2013 2012 Average SBU price pence 26.7 31.0 2012 89 Gross revenue m 188 202 2011 75 Operating profit m 63 89 2010 169 Low seasonal gas spreads, together with the UK governments decision to rule out intervention to encourage new gas storage projects to be built, has caused us not to proceed with the Baird storage project and to put our project at Caythorpe on hold.
As a result of these decisions, we have recognised pre-tax exceptional impairments and provisions totalling 240 million.
key metrics Employees lost time injury frequency rate Asset reliability 319 0.
06 9 6% See our performance measures on page 184 32 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information what we do GAS StORAGE Our Rough gas storage facility is the largest in the UK, able to meet In accordance with undertakings given to the Secretary of State approximately 10% of the UKs winter peak day demand and for Trade and Industry, Centrica Storage is legally, financially and representing more than 70% of the UKs current storage capacity.
physically separate from all other Centrica businesses.
Rough is situated in the Southern North Sea, 18 miles off the coast of East Yorkshire.
Here we store gas underneath the sea on behalf of utilities, gas traders and gas producers including other Centrica businesses, before processing it at our Easington terminal for onward distribution via the National Transmission System.
At Easington, Centrica Storage also processes gas from Centrica Energys York gas field, located just a few miles from Rough.
In 2011 12, the terminal underwent a multi-million pound transformation to enable processing of York gas with first gas flowing into the terminal in March 2013.
Corporate responsibility the risks and challenges Achieved a lost time injury Compliance with existing laws and regulation frequency rate of 0.06 after Further political and regulatory intervention our first recorded LTI in over and reform three years Further narrowing of the spread between Zero significant process safety winter and summer gas prices events occurred in 2013 Health, safety, environmental & security risks arising from Corporate Responsibility Review on page 39 our assets and operations Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 42 Centrica Storage: Making an important contribution to the Uks security of supply Centrica Storage profitability was impacted by continuing low seasonal gas spreads and we expect a further significant decline in 2014 The decision not to proceed with new gas storage projects at Caythorpe and Baird resulted in post-tax exceptional impairments and provisions of 224 million We launched a programme to deliver 15 million of cost reductions through operational efficiencies over the next three years Health and safety remains a core priority and CEntRICA StORAGE Reduced year-on-year operating profit Centrica Storage continues to progress its Gross revenue fell 7% to 188 million 2012: Good operational performance in process safety programme.
This reflected a lower calendar challenging market conditions no further lost time incidents LTIs in the year SBU price of 26.7p 2012: 31.0p and Centrica Storage performed well year, after recording our first LTI in over lower optimisation revenue, only partially operationally in 2013, with strong reliability three years in March 2013. offset by revenue generated from the of 96% 2012: 92% helping Rough make an York gas processing terminal, which was narrow forward seasonal spreads important contribution to the UKs security commissioned early in the year.
Operating of supply during periods of sustained cold creating commercial headwinds profit decreased by 29% to 63 million weather in the first four months of the year.
In April 2013, Centrica Storage announced 2012: 89 million, primarily reflecting the However, operating profit fell by 29%, that it had sold all SBUs for the 2013 14 decrease in revenue, additional fuel costs reflecting narrowing summer winter gas storage year at an average price of 23.3p from the high levels of injection during the price differentials.
2012 13: 33.9p, reflecting low summer year and costs associated with the winter gas price differentials over the course The Net Reservoir Volume NRV reached Yorkterminal.
Forward 2014 15 market record low levels in April, as we experienced With forward spreads even lower, Centrica spreads remain narrower still.
sustained customer withdrawals during the Storage profitability is likely to be only around prolonged cold weather.
As temperatures The narrow summer winter price spreads break-even in 2014.
Against this backdrop returned to more normal levels from mid-April, also provide a challenging background for we will continue our focus on safety and customers switched to injection and the new projects.
In light of the weak economics further capital investment will be limited.
business delivered a record year in terms for storage projects and the UK Governments We have also now launched a three-year of gas volume injected.
With warmer weather decision to rule out incentivisation for additional programme to deliver 15 million of cost in November and December resulting in less gas storage capacity to be built, Centrica reductions through operational improvements.
withdrawal than usual towards the end of decided not to proceed with its offshore the year, the NRV ended the year above Baird project and put its project at Caythorpe the five-yearaverage.
As a result, a post-tax exceptional charge of 224million was recognised in the year, relating to impairments and provisions for theseprojects.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 33
