Our Group Operating Model Industrialising our processes 1 6 Customers Ask for Receipt of a Service Service 2 5 Client and Service Assess needs Management management and wants of Service 3 4 Sign-off Provision of Our Industrialised Service Service engines: Professional Managed Supply Chain Supported by: Group Business Services HR, Finance, Legal and Admin Computacenter plc Annual Report and 10 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Strategic priorities Business model Group Operating Model Risk KPIs 1 2 3 Customers ask us for a Service The in-country teams represent The Group Service teams advise Every customer has an assigned account the customers needs and wants on our ability to meet the customer manager and will often have a Service into the Group Services functions requirement and price point before manager.
These customer management Group Services are those Services formally signing off our commitment teams are run in-country in order to which we have industrialised to provide to fulfil their need achieve the greatest level of customer cost effective and repeatable outcomes.
For all large contracts, Group Legal proximity possible.
Our aim is to partner They range from i Supply Chain Services, provide a contracting and legal Service.
with the customers Information Services such as Product Supply and Configuration, This overall sign-off process allows us to Department in enabling the overall business through to ii Professional Services, such apply a highly-effective formal governance objectives of the company they work for.
as Project Management and additionally procedure to deal with the challenge of Engineering, Installation and Maintenance, meeting our customers varied needs.
and iii Managed Services, such as Service Desk, Remote Infrastructure Management and Outsourcing.
4 5 6 The industrialised Service engines The customer is able to access all Receipt of Service provide the Service to the customer of Computacenters resources, offers, The customer receives industry-leading, These engines are operated as shared best practices and experience through cost-effective, reference-able IS support.
teams generally, but customers will on their account teams and Service Overall occasion request to have a dedicated team.
management teams All of Computacenters teams combine The account team manage overall to work together to deliver the industrys relationship and commercial arrangements number one customer satisfaction Service.
with the customer, and the Service management team manage the overall Service delivery.
Following a successful A practical example of the Group industrialisation programme run Operating Model is our business in the UK from 2009 to 2012, take-on process.
We have a the Group Operating Model was five-stage gateway controlled process officially created in September which ensures that at each stage we, 2012 in readiness to be rolled out and the customer, are in control and into Computacenter in Germany ahead of the dependencies a during 2013.
It is being introduced successful take-on requires.
Using to Computacenter in France in 2014. this process, we have been able to Chris Webb, complete 25 successful take-ons in Group Chief Operating Officer By combining, centralising and the UK and arrest the take-on issues standardising as much Service we suffered in Germany in 2012. provision into our shared Group Services engines as possible, As most of our customer service is we are able to drive attractive provisioned out of our centralised economies of scale and apply Group Service teams, the in-country formal governance.
We also teams are able to focus on staying create the opportunity to improve informed and often ahead of our and drive best practices, as well customers changing business as lessons learnt.
They are also able to spend time and focus on attracting new customers.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 11 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
