28 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Performance Operating Review Overview The sale of the Services business is a significant step forward in achieving our clearly defined strategic objective.
Introduction The acquisition of Eurovet has fulfilled Strategically it has been a momentous our expectations.
It has expanded our year with the successful integration of geographical coverage, especially in Eurovet, acquired in May 2012, and with Germany: enhanced our manufacturing the transformational effect of the divestment capabilities: added complementary products of the Services businesses.
Dechra is now to our companion animal portfolio and entirely focused on developing, manufacturing provided an entrance into food producing and marketing high margin, cash generative animal pharmaceuticals.
The food producing veterinary pharmaceuticals and related animal sector is particularly important as we products across global markets.
From look at opportunities to expand internationally.
a trading perspective, a strong first half The companion animal market is not sufficient performance was partially offset by a poor in scale in many countries outside of the EU third quarter, impacted by adverse weather and North America to merit our own presence and ongoing third party supply problems solely with our current specialist product within the US.
Furthermore, the ever increasing robust, with our key branded in-house demand for high quality meat protein from manufactured products performing strongly.
emerging markets is creating a strong global livestock market.
Further details of the Eurovet integration are provided within the EU Pharmaceuticals Segment review.
Ian Page Chief Executive Officer 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 29 www.
com Stock code: DPH The sale of the Services businesses, The Board believes this is a fair valuation for National Veterinary Services NVS and businesses that have experienced increasing the Laboratories, is a significant step forward margin pressure over recent years as the in our clearly defined strategic objective customer base consolidates with the growth Eurovet has fulfilled of developing an international specialist of corporate veterinary practice groups.
We our expectations and veterinary pharmaceuticals business.
also recognise that Patterson is an ideal Historically, the strong cash generation of company to secure the future of the staff and provided an entrance NVS has helped to fund the growth of the take the businesses forward.
into food producing Pharmaceuticals Segments.
However, as the animal pharmaceuticals.
years have progressed, the Pharmaceuticals Segments have gained sufficient critical mass to fund their own development and the Services businesses became strategically less and less relevant year on year.
The businesses have been sold to Patterson Companies, Inc. for 87.5 million on a debt free, cash free basis.
