Dignity plc 22 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Operating review Service excellence Our client surveys remain a crucial tool for monitoring and maintaining our excellent levels of client service.
Introduction This strong underlying performance has been As a result of the acquisition of Yew in the achieved through successful execution of our period, which made a material contribution to strategy, with the number of deaths versus operating profits, commentary on the Groups the prior year assisting overall performance.
Continued investment operating performance will consider activity Average incomes per funeral increased and  excluding acquisitions as well as overall remained robust, with no discernable our high standards performance in order to provide a fair and reduction in discretionary spending.
balanced review of the Groups activities of care.
The Yew funeral locations have performed Andrew Davies well and in line with expectations at the time Operations Director of acquisition.
Funeral services Progress and Developments Investment in the core portfolio Overview Key points Significant cash resources continue to be Funeral services relate to the provision of used to maintain the Groups locations and funerals and ancillary items, such as fleet.
In 2013, 10.9 million was invested in 60.8million memorials and floral tributes.
In addition, The funeral division 1.6 million was invested in the Yew portfolio.
Performance contributed 60.8 million As at 27 December 2013, the Group operated of operating profits in We believe this investment in client facing a network of 690 2012: 636 funeral locations the period.
areas and behind the scenes is critical in throughout the United Kingdom, generally ensuring the greatest care possible can be trading under local established names.
given to a familys loved one.
690locations During the period, the Group conducted The Groups national 68,000 funerals 2012: 63,200, with Funeral location portfolio coverage is achieved approximately 5,500 of these arising from The Groups funeral location portfolio through 690 locations.
increased significantly in the period following the Yew Acquisition, which added 40 locations.
Approximately two per cent of all funerals 12.5 million In addition, there were 12 new satellite were conducted in Northern Ireland.
12.5 million has been locations, together with five locations from Excluding Northern Ireland, these funerals invested in capital other acquisitions and three closures.
represent approximately 11.9 per cent 2012: expenditure across the 11.2 per cent of total estimated deaths in funeral portfolio.
In the last four years we have opened 74 Britain and 11per cent excluding current year satellite locations.
Whilst funerals divided by made a small profit in 2013, in line with the 11.9% estimated deaths is a reasonable measure Boards expectations.
The Groups market share of our market share, the Group does not have is now 11.9 per cent a complete national presence consequently, Outlook following the Yew this calculation can only ever be an estimate.
The funeral division has performed strongly in Acquisition.
the year and with the Yew Acquisition, further Underlying operating profits were 60.8 focus on satellite locations and a strong core million 2012: 54.2 million, an increase portfolio, is well placed for the future.
Excluding acquisitions, operating profits increased six per cent to 57.7 million.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 23 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 1.
John Ward & Son in Daventry, 1 2 relocated to new premises during the period.
Angie Goodfellow, Funeral Manager, Northamptonshire.
E Hurton & Son in Retford was substantially refurbished following the Yew Acquisition.
Actions and progress 10.9 million of capital investment has been made in the period to maintain the high quality of the locations and fleet.
Customer service remains at very high levels and the Group remains focused on maintaining this.
In focus The integration of Yew As explained to shareholders at the time of acquisition, the integration of the Yew Holdings locations not only meant transferring them to the Groups operating systems and policies, but also required capital investment.
1.6 million has been invested to date with a further 2 million 2.5 million expected to be invested in 2014.
We believe this investment in client facing areas and behind the scenes is critical in ensuring the greatest care possible can be given to a familys loved one.
Right: Ann Kitto, Funeral Manager at B Bernard & Sons in Scarborough, one of 40 locations acquired as part of the Yew Acquisition in January 2013.
Dignity plc 24 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Operating review continued Serving local communities Memorial services are held at our crematoria to help the local communities remember their loved ones.
Outlook Crematoria The Group continues to identify further locations suitable for new crematoria and Overview is also continuing to seek partnerships We continue to Crematoria services relate to cremation with local authorities.
Progress on this is explore ways to services and the sale of memorials and expected to be slow, albeit this supports the increase the number burial plots at the Groups crematoria relative robustness and value of the Groups and cemeteries.
Performance Pre-arranged funeral plans Steve Gant The Group remains the largest single operator General Manager, Crematoria of crematoria in Britain, operating 39 2012: 37 crematoria as at 27 December 2013.
The Overview Group performed 55,500 cremations 2012: Pre-arranged funeral plans represent the sale 50,500 in the period, representing 9.9 per of funerals in advance to customers wishing cent 2012: 9.2 per cent of total estimated Key points to make their own funeral arrangements and deaths in Britain.
the marketing and administration costs associated with making such sales.
The Operating profits were 27.4 million 2012: 39 crematoria Group continues to have a strong market 23.3 million, an increase of 18 per cent.
These plans represent Dignity remains the Excluding the Yew Acquisition, operating potential future incremental business for largest single operator profits increased 13 per cent to 26.4 million.
the funeral division, as the Group expects of crematoria in Britain, to perform the majority of these funerals.
Whilst the division has benefited from the increase in the number of deaths, good Performance 2.0 million memorial sales, cost control and the Operating performance in the period has been maturing profile of recently opened locations The portfolio changes in strong, with operating profits of 6.7 million have contributed to the success in the period.
the year represents an 2012: 6.5 million.
In recent years, the investment of 2.0 million.
Group has received monies from the trusts, in Progress and Developments line with the relevant trusts deed, which have Investment of 2.0 million has been made 2 locations been assessed by the trustees as not required in the year at two locations that were recently to ensure the trust has sufficient assets to The Group has acquired two acquired from local authorities as part of meet its future liabilities in respect of current crematoria in the period.
arrangements to improve their facilities.
As highlighted in A further 1 million is expected to be incurred previous announcements, the Group has not in 2014 to complete these projects.
The received any Recoveries from its pre-arranged Group has also invested 1.7 million in its funeral plan trusts in 2013 2012: 1.5 million.
existing locations in the period.
Excluding Recoveries, operating profits The Group is negotiating options over a have increased 34 per cent.
This improvement number of pieces of land where the potential reflects very focused, cost efficient marketing for a crematorium exists.
Whilst development combined with a small change in the relative of these is not expected to be successful in all sales volumes of each affinity partner cases, they represent a potential opportunity together with incremental sales volumes to create new facilities in areas that are arising from sales made through the deficient at present, whilst representing a Yew locations.
potential opportunity to enhance shareholder value.
One such option relates to land near In overall terms, approximately 39,000 Aylesbury.
A planning application for the site new plan sales were made and the number has recently been rejected and the Group is of unfulfilled pre-arranged funeral plans currently considering its options.
The Group increased to 323,000 2012: 290,000 is also awaiting the results of a planning as at 27 December 2013. application in Peterlee.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 1.
Haltemprice Crematorium 1 2 was acquired as part of the Yew Acquisition in January 2013.
Steve Wilkinson, Commercial Accountant and Ciaran Nolan, National Acquisitions Manager, help to identify locations for new crematoria.
The Group has significantly invested in Weston-super-Mare Crematorium.
Actions and progress Work has continued throughout the year to further develop our staff and improve the grounds for our families to use to spend time remembering their loved ones.
In focus Enfield Crematorium, Haringey developments Investment has been made in the crematorium and grounds at Enfield, which was taken over in 2012 from Haringey Council, resulting in modern, welcoming facilities for our clients, including a new waiting room and audio visual capabilities.
Behind the scenes, the cremators have been replaced and new mercury abatement equipment installed.
This has represented a total investment of 1.3 million to date.
Left: Investment in Enfield Crematorium, Haringey has resulted in improvements to the grounds and modern, welcoming facilities.
Dignity plc 26 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Operating review continued A trusted partner Various partners, such as Age UK, trust us enough to associate their brand and introduce their customers to our products.
Whilst the contribution to this years Whilst the Trustees may seek the views of the operating profit from the marketing activity Group, any investment decision is ultimately is reported at the time of sale, it is important their view.
It is expected that the review will to recognise that the sales made represent result in a broader range of asset classes Pre-arranged funeral approximately 100 million of future business being held in the future.
The objective will plans represent to be performed by the funeral division.
be to generate additional investment returns These revenues will potentially be recognised in the long-term for a similar level of risk.
significant amounts when the funeral is performed.
of potential future Outlook business for the Group.
As with all the Groups operating profits, Opportunities for growth continue through pre-arranged funeral plan profits convert the development of existing relationships Steve Wallis General Manager, Pre-arrangement efficiently into cash.
and the creation of new ones.
Progress and Developments Central overheads The increase in the number of unfulfilled plans includes approximately 9,000 from the Overview Key points acquisition of Yew.
Approximately two thirds Central overheads relate to central services of these should be performed by the Group.
that are not specifically attributed to a, particular operating division.
These include 323 000 The Group has continued to work hard at the provision of IT, finance, personnel and There were 323,000 developing its portfolio of affinity partners Directors emoluments.
In addition and unfulfilled pre-arranged and has formed a number of new partnerships consistent with previous periods, the Group funeral plans at the end in the period with organisations in the retail records the costs of incentive bonus of the period.
This reflects and financial services arena with further arrangements, such as Long-Term Incentive strong sales through the trials expected in 2014.
Plans LTIPs and annual performance Groups affinity partners bonuses, which are provided to over 100 and funeral locations.
For the second year running, the Groups managers working across the business.
customer service centre, based at its head, office in Sutton Coldfield, gained first Developments 39 000 prize in the annual Top 50 Call Centres Costs in the period were 16.5 million 2012: Focused marketing for Customer Service awards.
This means 14.6 million, an increase of 13 per cent.
activity has resulted in the team have now been in the top five for approximately 39,000 the last five years, a unique outstanding This increase reflects general cost increases, new funeral plan sales achievement and direct, independent increased head count, legal advice to protect in the period.
evidence of the quality of service the the Groups main trademarks and the costs of Group provides.
incentive arrangements for the whole Group.
The financial position of the independent Outlook trusts holding members monies is crucial, Further investment in central resources is given the Group ultimately guarantees the expected in 2014.
This will be focused around promises made to members.
At the end support for the greater use of technology in of 2013, the Trusts held over 0.5 billion locations.
Investment is also being made in of assets.
The latest actuarial valuations additional personnel resource.
This will help of the pre-arranged funeral plan trusts to release operational managers from some at 27 September 2013 showed them to of the complexities and burdens of recent have sufficient assets to pay out all funerals legislation, allowing them to focus more at the current projected rates anticipated on maintaining the high quality of service by the actuary.
The Trustees, the majority to families.
of whom are independent of the Group, are currently midway through a review of the Trusts investment strategy on which they are taking independent investment advice.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 1.
Chris Sykes, Funeral Manager at Dignitys new branch in Skipton.
Sally Harvey, Client Services Manager and Menna Styles, Client 2 Liaison Officer.
All staff in the Client Service 1 3 Centre receive extensive training.
Nathalie Brown, Client Service Advisor: Annette Smith, Trainer: Craig Harvey, Client Service Advisor and Julie Smith, Senior Performance Manager.
1 for customer service Over the past year, our client service centre has been working hard to sustain its reputation as one of the top call centres in the UK.
For the second consecutive year, Dignity was voted No.
1 in the Top 50 Call Centres for Customer Service awards.
The awards are the largest benchmarking for customer service within UK businesses and they recognise the most outstanding business leaders in customer service.
We are very proud of this outstanding achievement and this award is further testament to the high quality of service provided to our customers.
It binds our values and demonstrates our relentless focus on service excellence.
We continue to strive to set the highest standards and exceed levels of service to both existing and new customers.
Left: Julie Smith, Senior Performance Manager, in Dignitys award winning Client Service Centre in Sutton Coldfield.
Actions and progress It is a testament to the quality of our service that Dignity Funeral Plans are the preferred product for some of the UKs most highly respected companies in the retail and financial services arena.
These include Age UK, RIAS, Liverpool Victoria, Legal & General and Skipton Building Society.
They trust us to provide great quality and service.
