Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Review of Operations We focused on operational excellence, disciplined growth and improved safety performance in 2013 inorder to meet our long-term production, resourceand sustainability targets.
Annual attributable Our operating trajectory changed in mid-year 2013 when the Ejido silver production ElBajo legal proceedings ultimately led to a suspension of mining 42.7 moz and beneficiation activities at Soledad-Dipolos and temporarily halted mining activity at Herradura, thereby impacting annual gold 4.3% production at our Penmont mines.
Notwithstanding, silver production rose in the year: we advanced our strategic objectives ofmaximising capacity and increasing efficiency: maintained our position in the silver cost curve: completed construction of a new facility on plan: advanced the development and construction oftwonew mines: and increased our total resources through on-going exploration.
A full review of our projects confirmed their economic viability even under stressed metal prices: however, we adjusted our investment budget downward slightly and deferred some minor capex allocations in order to decrease expenditures across this capital-intensive phase of development in current market conditions.
We remain confident that the size and prole of our growth pipeline will enable us to meet 2018 production targets and deliver continued value to stakeholders beyond the current cycle.
As our social and sustainability system matures, we have gained greater visibility into the effectiveness of our programmes, policies and practices, and where we must continue to adapt and advance.
Performance this year improved across a range of indicators, and Annual attributable we have enhanced the transparency and assurance of our results.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 55 Review of Operations continued Production Exploration Annual attributable silver production increased 4.3% from Risk capital Exploration remains core to our organic growth strategy and 2012 to 42.7 moz, including 3.9 moz from the Silverstream invested in a key element in extending mine life.
This primarily reected the successful ramp-up exploration US$ in exploration totalled US$233.3 million in 2013, a 26.8% of production at Saucito, now operating at full capacity, decrease from 2012 but in line with our strategic aim of 233.3 m as well as increased production at Cinega resulting from consistent investment: of the total, US$25.6 million was higher silver ore grade at the San Ramn satellite mine: fully capitalised, mainly at the Juanicipio, Centauro Deep and offsetting lower silver ore grade at the Fresnillo mine.
Annual attributable gold production decreased by 10.0% Resources increased through an aggressive exploration to 425,831 oz due to the suspension of operations at programme that included almost 530,458 metres of drilling Soledad-Dipolos in the second half of the year and the at 25 projects and prospects.
Resources and reserves were temporary suspension of the explosives permit at Herradura.
estimated using the new JORC 2012 standards, at lower gold These factors were mitigated by the continued ramp-up of and silver prices.
Even under this more conservative calculation, gold resources increased by 5.2% to 28.4 moz gold and silver Development resources by 5.0% to 2,134.5 moz.
Gold reserves, however, declined by 14.5% to 4.7 moz gold, due mainly to the revised The Company completed construction of the dynamic criteria, while silver reserves declined 4.3% to 477.2 moz, leaching plant on time and on budget December 2013, related both to the change in price as well as to development withtotal capex of US$115.6 million.
The facility will process delays at Fresnillo that were only partially compensated by high-grade ore from Herradura once the resumption of increased reserves at Saucito.
blasting activity yields sufficient mineral for processing, and is expected to increase attributable gold production in the district by an average of 28,000 oz per year.
Safety and sustainability Two additional development projects are underway.
Our continued focus on safety training and behavioural Saucito II, a new expansion mine in the Fresnillo district, changes resulted in strong improvements across a range of advanced rapidly as a result of efficient execution and indicators.
Regrettably, however, we did not achieve our zero infrastructure synergies: this, combined with its high fatalities target and reported two fatal accidents during the profit margin projections, has warranted a prioritisation year.
The work continues to strengthen our safety culture.
The beneficiation plant is expected to Other sustainability metrics showed improvement in the be completed by year end 2014, rather than the original year: a decline in the withdrawal of fresh groundwater, schedule of 2015. increase in gender diversity, and higher average number Increase in Development of the new San Julin mine, a greeneld ofhours of HSECR training, for example.
gold and silver project in a new mining district, also advanced but we have resources, deferred its commissioning to 2H 2015 from 4Q 2014 and respectively slightly revised capex to US$515 million from US$500 million.
Expected production volumes of 10.3 moz silver and 5.2% 44,000 oz gold at full capacity remained unchanged.
These projects play a critical role in achieving our long-term 5.0% production goals.
Development work at the Fresnillo mine to prepare for a possible expansion ofmilling capacity | 56 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance Costs 2014 Outlook Costs per tonne for those mines in operation during the 2014E attributable We expect attributable silver production to full year were affected by several factors: silver production remain stable at 43 moz, including Silverstream.
The 3.0% revaluation of the MXP USD exchange rate, Attributable gold production is expected to rise to 43 moz which increased costs denominated in Mexican pesos 450,000 oz as a result ofresumed operations at when converted to US dollars Herradura, the continued ramp-up of production at A 19.5% and 7.2% increase in the unit prices of diesel Noche Buena, and the start-up of operations at the and electricity respectively dynamic leaching plant.
The 6.0% rise in wages in Mexican pesos for Our development projects will advance in the year unionised workers with the completion of Saucito II and further progress Higher contractor costs due to the average 5.4% rise at San Julin.
Once approved, we expect to begin in unit fees in Mexican pesos construction on the expansion of the Cinega mill and the pyrites treatment plant at Fresnillo, whilst Many of these factors were mitigated by operational additional exploration will determine whether Mega efficiencies achieved.
Centauro and Centauro Deep will be submitted as new projects for Board approval.
The Groups exploration budget for 2014 has been set at US$225.0 million including capitalised exploration expenses, 3.6% below 2013.
Capex, including capitalised exploration expenses of US$30.0m, is budgeted to rise to US$642.0 million.
We expect continued cost pressures, mainly in energy, operating materials and labour, although less than in recent years.
In addition, costs will be impacted by new mining duties that will be levied in 2014 and payable in early 2015.
We will continue to invest in cost control initiatives aimed at preserving healthy margins.
At underground 2014E investment mines, this includes optimising blasting techniques in exploration US$ in the development phase, monitoring and reducing dilution, more effective usage of mining equipment, 225.0 m and accelerating maintenance programmes to increase uptime and mechanical availability in the 3.6% beneficiation plants.
In our open pit mines, we aim to optimise haulage and increase the efficiency of Exploration ramp load-haul-dump cycles.
at Centauro Deep: this project and the expanded Centauro pit design will be revised in 2014 Optimised shotcreting work here conducted by an experienced contractor contributed to cost reductions at San Ramn-Cinega | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 57
