BUSINESS REVIEW Operational review Retail REVENUE Our Retail division comprises 504 branded destination pubs and restaurants and 483 863.6m 7.4% unbranded but segmented local pubs across Britain, appealing to a broad range ofthepopulation.
72% Our brands: oF ToTAL REVENUE Highlights of the year Like-for-like sales 2.3% Food sales 9.7% Operating profit 12.1% Sites acquired 38 14 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
co. uk Retail INCREASING ExPOSURE TO GROWTH CATEGORIES Much of our food-led growth comes from increasing our exposure to growth categories.
This includes our increased focus on food, wine and coffee.
During the year we launched our own coffee brand, Big Bean, which has been rolled out across our Hungry Horse estate, helping sales of hot drinks to grow 6.2%, and we expect this to grow further as we increase our breakfast trade.
Retail INNOVATING TO MEET EATING OUT TRENdS We continue to pursue a strategy ofincreasing our share of the 54bn eating-out market by innovating to meet eating out trends.
We have introduced a wide range of sharing platters, particularly in our Locals estate, which are popular with afterwork customers.
212.3 218.6 191.7 204.4 173.0 193.9 863.6 19.4 803.9 18.6 710.7 18.6 971 167.7 938 149.6 892 132.0 Retail Greene King Retail delivered another There are a number of key factors driving promoter score NPS of 59.6% and 40,000 successful year, combining strong growth the continued success in Retail: positive individual employee comments.
Our with further strategic progress.
LFL sales LFR Keeping it Reel programme delivered growth was 2.3%, outperforming the sector a record NPS, halved customer complaints 1.
E xceeding customer value, average growth of 0.5%, as the industry and doubled customer compliments, while service& quality expectations was hit by challenging weather in the second guest satisfaction programmes were launched Value.
The flight to value by UK consumers, half of our financial year.
Over the last five in Farmhouse Inns and Eating Inn.
as they seek out everyday treats, continued years, Retail has delivered average annual in the year.
We maintained a healthy balance LFL sales growth of 3.3%.
In Local Pubs, we launched our between offering further value to our sales growth in the year, 0.4% was driven Flame Grill family dining concept in the customers and continuing to improve our byvolume improvements and 1.9% by price, mainstream community segment, where retail margins.
In Hungry Horse, weincreased mix and spend per head improvements.
we improved the quality of our unique grill the share of all covers sold through offers, Allmajor sales categories achieved growth offer through increased kitchen investment while we simplified and improved our with food LFL sales up 2.9%, drink LFL sales and more fresh meat items.
InEating Inn centrepiece two for 8.49 offer to all day, up 1.8% and room LFL sales up 3.1%.
London and Belhaven, we increased the number of every day.
In Loch Fyne Restaurants LFR, performed well with Realpubs achieving fresh, homemade dishes, while we introduced we introduced Loch Fyne Favourites via 9.1% LFL sales growth.
improved menu specifications and additional a meal and drink offer at 9.95, while in carvery training into Farmhouse Inns.
Old English Inns OEI, we launched a lunch Total revenue was 863.6m, up 7.4% on 3.5% Across the whole of the Destination Pubs deal highlighting a sandwich, crisps and more sites.
As a result, the average weekly estate, our guest satisfaction score for food adrink for 4.95.
In our Scottish sites, we take grew 3.8% to 17.1k.
Retail also achieved quality improved 16%pts through the year.
lowered the average coffee price and increased strong profit growth, with operating profit the average serve size, while in Local Pubs of 167.7m, up 12.1%.
The operating margin No issues were found in our supply chain we introduced additional known value item was 19.4%, an improvement of 80bps, driven during the horsemeat scandal that affected pricing on lager and for early week occasions.
by strong operational gearing, improved the food industry in February and March.
labour productivity, the delivery of acquisition We have a robust supply chain with thorough Service.
We continued to roll out our synergies, and despite the weaker second quality control procedures, although we took tailored service enhancement programmes half sales environment.
this opportunity to further strengthen across the retail estate.
Our Hungry for procedures to ensure we provide the highest Feedback guest satisfaction programme Coffer Peach Tracker.
quality ingredients and we remain clear of in Hungry Horse had over 70,000 customer any future industry mislabelling issues.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC BUSINESS REVIEW Operational review continued Retail 2.
Continued investment in our through growth categories toourcustomers through branded & segmented estate suchasfood, wine & coffee targetedacquisitions In our retail estate, we operate branded sites We continue to pursue our strategy of We have targeted 1,100 sites by 2015 and we or sites segmented by customer occasion and increasing our share of the 54bn eating out remain on track to achieve this.
We re-segmented our Local market and increasing our share of sales driven we increased our trading estate by a net Pubs estate into five segments: Metropolitan, by food and food occasions.
On an organic 33sites, having acquired or transferred in Mainstream High Street, Flame Grill, Meet basis, we primarily achieve this by broadening 38 sites and disposed of five non-core sites.
The new segmentation the appeal of our food offers to drive cover This took the estate to 987 pubs, restaurants further simplifies the operating structure in growth, alongside selected price and mix and hotels.
Of those new sites, 12 were Local Pubs and brings our Flame Grill and improvements to help offset annual single-site acquisitions, 12 were new build Meet & Eat concepts to the fore.
openings, including our first Hungry Horse these concepts, our fully branded pubs, leasehold site, and 14 were transfers from restaurants and hotels represent 40% of our Against a market with value growth of 1.6%, Pub Partners, including 11 Meet & Eat sites.
retail estate, with our leading brand, Hungry Retail food sales were up 9.7% to 336.9m.
These transfers are supporting the expansion Horse, at 199 trading sites at the year end.
This took foods share of our total sales to 40%, of the Meet & Eat brand within Retail.
In Just after the year end, we opened our up 80bps on the previous year.
Food LFL sales addition, our pipeline for further expansion 200th Hungry Horse, the Royal Horse in were up 2.9% with cover growth of 0.4%.
is healthy and we exchanged or completed Leamington Spa, and we anticipate opening on a further 30 sites.
a further 25 in the new financial year.
Also Much of our food growth comes from at the year end, there were 108 Old English innovating to meet eating out consumer Inns, 42 Loch Fyne Restaurants, 28 Eating 4.
Employing the best trained & trends.
We have identified three key trends: Inns and 16 Farmhouse Inns, the former motivated people in the sector Cloverleaf estate.
We have over 22,000 employees across the Customisation.
We developed fish your business.
94% work within Retail, taking part way in LFR, burger your way in Eating We converted seven sites to the Realpubs in 440m customer interactions each year.
Inn, and build your own burger in Flame orCapital Pub Company formats.
On average, We therefore constantly look to improve the Grill and Meet & Eat.
In Eating Inn, there all the converted sites are delivering an calibre of our teams to deliver the best value, are 560 different combinations of burger EBITDA ROI of 33%, although we expect service and quality in the sector.
There are for a customer to choose from.
investment returns to moderate going forward.
anumber of ways this is achieved, including improving the working environment and Convenience.
Our Cakeaway offer in In total, we spent 70.1m on repairing, building employee loyalty to Greene King as Hungry Horse generated sales of 750k maintaining and improving the quality of an employer brand through initiatives such inthe first full year and in our Local high our existing retail estate, of which 31.7m as enhanced employee benefits, more effective street sites, we improved the breakfast was expansionary capital.
This was invested communication and improved recruitment offer, launched a lunchtime deli deal, in 140 sites, or 14.2% of the estate, and and training processes.
andintroduced a wider range of sharing achieved an EBITDA ROI of 26%.
platters for after work customers.
At the heart of our approach is our 6.
Increasing investment in our Discovery Apprentice scheme, which we Health.
We introduced a live well section expanding digital platform began in January 2011.
The introduction of on our Eating Inn menu for dishes under apprenticeships has improved the culture Investment in our digital platform has 700 calories and we stepped up the number within Retail, as team members can more continued as we improve our customer of gluten free dishes in our menus.
easily see a career path in hospitality ahead understanding, directly target our tailored of them.
We continue to grow the scheme offers to the right demographics and occasions, Wine and coffee are also important long-term and deliver excellent results: at the year end, and use direct feedback to improve the retail growth categories for Retail.
we had almost 2,500 apprentices in Retail, offer.
Traffic on our websites grew 50% to 7.2m of which 1,300 were in learning and 1,200 over the year with mobile traffic trebling to Wine sales grew 15.8% and are now up were fully trained.
This equates to 12.3% of 31% of the total, up from 17% last year.
On a per site basis, our Retail team, compared to 8.2% 12 months averaged 138,000 hits per week in total.
Most importantly, 71% of our apprentices Online table reservations grew 26% and International Wine Challenge awards this have successfully completed the programme, generated 3.2m in sales.
At the year end, year, including 19 sourced directly by our ahead of the national average of 62%.
we had 224,000 Facebook followers, up from expert wine team.
In Metropolitan, our 23,000 last year.
Our combined databases grew premium Local Pubs estate, we introduced This focus on, and success of, our by 76%, we sent out over 20m marketing emails, a dedicated wine specialist and developed apprenticeship scheme has positively our loyalty card holders increased ten-fold our own premium, directly sourced, influenced team turnover, down 8%pts, and our guest satisfaction feedback forms own-label brand, Piazzi.
employee engagement, up 4%pts, and labour totalled 167,000. productivity, which was 2.3% better than Hot beverage sales, of which coffee is 75%, last year.
grew 6.2% and we expect further growth as we grow our breakfast trade.
We launched our Finally, we believe that our positive reputation own coffee brand, Big Bean, which has been as an employer is attracting more and more successfully rolled out across the Hungry people to work for Greene King.
Across the rest of the estate, we average 12 applications for every job 86% of our sites use illy as their coffee offer.
vacancy in our new build sites, equivalent toalmost 800 applications per site.
18 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
