Operating Review Constant Currency 2013 2012 Change Growth Markets Market Share Weighted aggregate market share 5.8% 5.9% 10 bps Net Revenue m Net revenue in Growth Markets 2,254 2,192 2% Growth Brands Net Revenue as a Percentage of Tobacco Net Revenue Growth Brands net revenue as a percentage of tobacco net revenue in Growth Markets 37% 36% Growth Brands Volumes bn Growth Brands stick equivalents sold 53 54 -2% Returns Markets Market Share Weighted aggregate market share 27.3% 27.7% -40 bps Net Revenue Per 1,000 Stick Equivalents Net revenue per 1,000 stick equivalents in Returns Markets 23 22 6% Growth Brands Net Revenue as a Percentage of Tobacco Net Revenue Growth Brands net revenue as a percentage of tobacco net revenue in Returns Markets 40% 38% 200 bps Strategic Market Focus In contrast we tend to have large shares above 15 per cent in our We manage our market footprint based on the strategic role Returns Markets, which include Australia and markets in the EU, that each market plays rather than its geographic location, Eastern Europe and Africa.
with markets prioritising Growth or Returns.
In many of these markets, particularly the EU, market volumes are Our Growth Markets have large pro t and or volume pools declining and we focus on generating sustainable pro t growth and include selected markets in the EU, Eastern Europe, Asia, and actively managing our strong share positions.
the Middle East and the USA.
We typically have shares below Returns Markets are split into two divisions, Returns Markets 15 per cent in these markets and focus on driving long-term North and Returns Markets South, and include a number of our share and pro t growth.
larger pro t pools such as Australia, Germany, Spain and the UK.
Our Growth Brands are outperforming market trends 20 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Prevailing market characteristics determine how markets are In Russia industry volumes have declined considerably following allocated to each of these divisions and so Australia, for example, adverse excise and regulatory developments and weve been is in Returns Markets North due to its similarity to markets like the actively managing our portfolio to strengthen our position.
UK and Germany in terms of its maturity, excise structures and A robust performance from Davidoff was supported by West, multi-channel distribution network.
as it continued to build momentum in the growing queen size segment.
We also achieved gains from Style, which is bene ting Returns Markets South includes markets like France, Spain and from the success of a new kingsize superslim offering.
Morocco which have narrower distribution channels and often different excise structures.
Reversing the fortunes of Maxim is a priority and were making good progress in strengthening the brands share with the launch This new approach to managing our footprint improves the of new formats, including packs of 25 cigarettes, and a focus on effectiveness of our sales growth drivers and encourages greater driving growth in key cities.
collaboration across markets, providing a strong platform for driving higher quality sustainable growth.
These decisive portfolio actions, combined with pricing initiatives, considerably improved our pro t delivery in the second half, Growth Brands Outperforming providing a strong platform for us to build on in the coming year.
Our Growth Brands account for a signi cant amount of our volume and revenue generation and our aim is to increase this Elsewhere in Eastern Europe were rapidly gaining a solid foothold over time to further enhance the quality and sustainability of in Kazakhstan and made further excellent progress in the year, our business.
with share and volume gains from Davidoff and West.
These brands outperformed the market in the year, with volumes In Turkey our new route to market strategy, focused on targeting down less than the rate of market declines.
Seven of our 10 major cities, continues to strengthen our position and we grew our Growth Brands grew share and on an aggregate basis, we cigarette share from 3.7 per cent to 4.5 per cent, driven by gains grew the share of Growth Brands from 5.1 to 5.4 per cent and from Davidoff and West.
increased net revenue by 2 per cent.
In Asia were driving cigarette share and volume gains with West Growth Brands now account for 41 per cent of our total volumes, in Taiwan.
Were also encouraged by the presence were building up from 39 per cent last year, and 39 per cent of tobacco net with West in Japan, which is being supported by our focus on revenues, up from 38 per cent last year.
Growth Markets In Cambodia we acquired our local distributor, giving us scope to Industry volumes declined by 3 per cent in our Growth Markets further extend our operations, and continued to make good share during the year.
Were building good momentum across these and volume gains with Fine.
Elsewhere in Asia we grew volumes markets, although signi cant market weakness in Russia is of Bastos in Vietnam and improved our cigarette share in Laos.
masking the true extent of the positive progress were making.
In the Middle East we grew our cigarette share in Saudi Arabia We grew net revenue by 2 per cent and delivered strong pro t and Lebanon and achieved particularly good volume growth growth of 7 per cent.
Our share position declined slightly but, in Iraq, driven by strong performances from West and Gitanes, excluding Russia, it was up to 5 per cent.
Our Growth Brands supported by good initial gains from Parker & Simpson.
performed well in a broad spread of markets, re ecting the quality We continued to gain share in Greece, driven by Davidoff, and of growth were driving.
during the year we enhanced our leading position in the growing slims category with the launch of a new JPS Slims variant.
Our Growth Brands account for 41% of our total volumes Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 21 Operating Review In June we strengthened our portfolio in Italy by relaunching JPS We increased the revenue contribution from our Growth Brands: cigarette and ne cut tobacco brands and by September JPS had these brands generated 40 per cent of tobacco net revenue in already captured one per cent of the cigarette market.
Were also Returns Markets, 200 basis points higher than last year.
focused on further enhancing the growth trajectory of Rizla, which Returns Markets North made good volume gains in the year.
We achieved robust results in Returns Markets North, with net We have a clear plan to turnaround our performance in the USA, revenue per thousand stick equivalents increasing by 10 per cent which is focused on growth in key states with USA Gold, building and adjusted operating pro t increasing by 3 per cent.
partnerships with major retailers and implementing a number of Our Growth Brands delivered 44 per cent of tobacco net revenue, pricing initiatives.
This focus has strengthened our key account up from 42 per cent, and our market share was 25.5 per cent, relationships and grown our cigarette share in key states by against 26.0 per cent last year.
We also increased our ne cut tobacco share, achieved good results in premium cigars and made gains in mass In the UK industry volumes weakened in the year but pricing was market cigars with Backwoods as we continued to leverage our strong, enabling us to maintain pro t delivery.
We increased our total tobacco portfolio to capitalise on other growth opportunities.
cigarette share and implemented a number of portfolio initiatives Overall we signi cantly improved pro t delivery in the second half, to reinforce our market leading positions in cigarette and ne cut providing a strong platform for us to build on in 2014. tobacco, including new Lambert & Butler packs and a rejuvenation of the Golden Virginia brand family.
In premium cigar we increased revenue, with Cohiba, Montecristo and Romeo Y Julieta performing particularly well in Asia and We achieved excellent results in Germany, increasing our the Middle East.
Special limited editions of these luxury brands cigarette and ne cut tobacco shares, as well as growing resonate strongly with cigar connoisseurs and will continue to revenue and pro ts.
Our success was driven by our total tobacco support growth going forward.
Were also generating strong sales approach which delivered further gains from Davidoff, Gauloises in Montecristo Minis, which we launched in eight new markets Blondes and JPS, supported by Route 66.
The volume gains during the year.
were making with additive free variants of Gauloises Blondes and JPS have been particularly impressive, re ecting our ability In Scandinavia we further built on our long track record of growth to capitalise on pro table high growth segments.
in snus: our share, volume, revenue and pro ts were all up, driven by another sterling performance from Skruf.
In Benelux were leveraging our world leadership in ne cut tobacco to drive volume and share growth with JPS performing Returns Markets strongly, supported by Golden Virginia.
In addition West is growing Industry volumes declined by 5.3 per cent in Returns Markets.
in cigarette and ne cut tobacco in Belgium.
Trading has been tough in much of Returns Markets South due to a number of factors that have affected our performance and Style and West are growing in Ukraine, although our overall pro t delivery.
position has been under pressure due to low-priced competitor activity.
We have responded with a number of portfolio initiatives However, some strong results in Returns Markets North mitigated including the launch of Davidoff queen size.
In Azerbaijan we this impact such that adjusted operating pro t across our launched Parker & Simpson to complement Davidoff and West.
Returns Markets declined just 1 per cent.
We grew net revenue per thousand stick equivalents by 6 per cent and our market share was 27.3 per cent compared to 27.7 per cent last year.
We increased net revenue from our Specialist Brands by 5% 22 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS In Australia we were well prepared for the introduction of Elsewhere we increased our ne cut tobacco share in Austria plain packaging last December and have continued to grow and Hungary and strengthened our cigarette portfolio in the our business in this restrictive environment.
Revenue and pro t Czech Republic, Slovenia and Slovakia with the launch of were up, as were both our cigarette and ne cut tobacco shares.
This re ects our total tobacco expertise and another outstanding In Morocco excise-driven price increases, regulation, illicit trade performance from JPS.
and increased competitor activity have impacted our performance.
Returns Markets South Securing our leading position in this important market is a priority Were focused on improving results in Returns Markets South, for 2014: we will be building on the gains that Gauloises Blondes where challenging economic conditions have impacted our is making in the growing queen size segment and implementing financial delivery.
Net revenue per thousand stick equivalents further portfolio and sales growth driver initiatives.
was at and adjusted operating pro t declined by 8 per cent.
Elsewhere in Africa we increased our cigarette share in Senegal Against this backdrop our market share was resilient at and delivered excellent results in Algeria, where a superb 29.9 per cent compared to 30.3 per cent last year and our focus performance from Gauloises Blondes was the driver of signi cant on improving the quality of our growth was highlighted by further volume gains and growth in our cigarette share.
progress from our Growth Brands.
These brands accounted for 34 per cent of tobacco net revenue, up from 32 per cent last year.
In Spain economic conditions are dif cult for many businesses as a result of austerity measures and rising unemployment.
Declining industry volumes and increasing levels of illicit trade pose additional challenges for tobacco companies.
These factors impacted our pro t and revenue delivery but our total tobacco focus generated encouraging portfolio gains for us to build on in the coming year, particularly in make-your-own ne cut tobacco with JPS and Ducados Rubio and Nobel.
Pro t and revenue in France were also undermined by declining industry volumes and rising illicit trade but we continue to make the right portfolio choices to address these headwinds.
Our brands performed robustly including Gauloises Blondes, which ended the year with a stable cigarette share, and News, which gained share in ne cut tobacco.
Our excellent progress in Portugal was driven by JPS, re ecting a number of successful portfolio initiatives including Glide-Tec packs and the launch of JPS Duo, a crushball variant.
Our Specialist Brands highlight our total tobacco strength Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 23
