OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 23 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW Interserve serves the needs of its broad client-base through Our success is founded on our ability to design and deliver many different combinations of services and via a range improved value from operational services, building long-term of organisational structures.
Our success is founded on the relationships with clients and drawing on our experience skills and ingenuity of our people who win repeat business by across the breadth of our service mix and sector experience developing lasting, long-term relationships.
Our team, which to win new business.
now stands at more than 50,000, thrives through its ability to UK retain and attract the right people and through investing in Our work-winning remained strong and we achieved a skills development and training.
number of notable successes that reflect the diversity of We segment our results into four main areas of service capabilities of the division including: Dixons, University of Support Services, Construction, Equipment Services and Sussex, BBC, Ministry of Justice MoJ, Ministry of Defence Investments all of which are supported by central MoD, Nottingham University NHS Trust, London Borough of Group Services.
Southwark, London Borough of Lambeth, the Home Office, the Department for Work and Pensions DWP, Magnox and Meggit.
SUPPORT SERVICES Support Services focuses on the management and delivery of A significant success for us in the period was winning a operational services to both public and private-sector clients five-year, 150 million facilities management contract in the UK and internationally.
The contract which is extendable to nine years duration involves the management and delivery of Results summary 2013 2012 Change services at over 150 locations across the UK including New Broadcasting House in London and MediaCityUK in Salford.
Revenue We will be responsible for services ranging from critical UK 1,196.6m 1,118.1m 7.0% broadcast engineering and business continuity services, 1 International 100.5m 31.3m through to implementing a new and dynamic workplace Contribution to Total 60.1m 48.0m 25.2% support model.
Operating Profit In partnership with ESS Support Services Worldwide, we UK 56.0m 44.3m 26.4% are now providing back-office and facilities management 1 International 4.1m 3.7m 10.8% services at five Royal Navy establishments in the South Operating margin UK 4.7% 4.0% West.
The three-year deal, valued at more than 15 million, is part of the Fleet Outsourced Activities Project.
Our role Operating margin 4.4% 12.8% 2 involves managing stores and logistics, motor transport International and administrative support in areas such as HR, payroll 1 Including share of associates.
Elsewhere in the Defence sector we mobilised 2 Operating margin is calculated based on the underlying operating margin of our services in Gibraltar as part of our Four Islands associates and the reported operating margin of subsidiaries.
infrastructure support activities for the MoD.
We performed well in 2013, growing total revenue by 12.9 per cent to 1.3 billion and operating profit by 25.2 per cent to 60.1 million as margins strengthened further in the UK to 4.7 per cent 2012: 4.0 per cent.
We see a continuing trend for outsourcing and aim to be a trusted partner for a broadening range of services on behalf of our clients.
We are expanding our reach in frontline services such as justice, community healthcare and rehabilitation and broadening our offering to oil and gas markets in the Middle East.
24 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED As well as targeting new contracts, expanding and developing needs of patients and commissioners that are likely to result our existing client relationships is an important element of in more outsourced services.
By both growing our existing our growth strategy.
Our relationship with the Home Office business and expanding into new areas such as healthcare providing support for the National Offender Management services to people in their homes, we believe we are wellService, the National Probation Service, UK Border Agency and placed to service this growing need.
the College of Policing was extended for a further two years, Advantage Healthcare acquired in December 2012 extends reflecting the partnership that we have forged since we started our service range into community healthcare services delivering services in 2008.
We also extended our contract including: case management, social care, clinical and nursing with the Foreign and Commonwealth Office to provide support services for Clinical Commissioning Groups, local authorities, services to 10 British embassies and consulates across Spain.
In August, our joint venture, Landmarc Support Services, Our innovative approach to finding affordable, yet high was awarded a contract extension by the MoD worth circa.
quality solutions for our healthcare partners is demonstrated 110 million.
Landmarc will continue until at least July by The Cotton Rooms, a hotel for patients receiving 2014 to manage military training facilities across the MoDs treatment at the nearby University College London Hospital.
500,000 acres of built and rural UK training estate, a position it has held since 2003.
Both Advantage Healthcare and The Cotton Rooms provide quality care and services outside of a traditional hospital A key aspect of our growth strategy is to add new setting, providing improved patient pathways and benefitting capabilities to our offering.
During the year we made the health economy through lower costs than in traditional significant progress in this regard in the healthcare sector care solutions.
where we see long-term demographic trends and changing CASE STUDY SOLUTIONS FOR THE NUCLEAR INDUSTRY Our Support Services division spans a range of Crossing over the M53 to reach the barge for sea operations, which is exemplified by the completion transportation, the Evaporator D module proved to be of a major engineering project to construct complex one of the heaviest loads to be delivered by road in modules for the nuclear industry.
Part of the largest nuclear project underway in the Through months of logistical planning with contractors, stakeholders, local police and road crews, which UK, the Highly Active Liquor Evaporator is constructed in modules and delivered to site by sea a first for included a scheduled closure of a major route, Sellafield.
the module travelled on a self-propelled modular transporter and was delivered to a specialist barge The final and largest in the series of the 10 modules, all moored at Manchester Ship Canal.
built by Interserve, which weighed 520 tonnes and stood 27 metres high, was built at Interserves off-site facility in Ellesmere Port.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 25 The changing needs of the UK population and economy, resulting in an increase in operating profit of 10.8 per together with reform into how front-line public services are cent to 4.1 million FY 2012: 3.7 million, albeit within commissioned, have created other growth opportunities.
this result, volumes in our Omani business, TOCO, Since 2011, Interserve has played its part in the extension of were similarly temporarily affected by deferred client outsourced services that directly engage with the citizen, expenditure at Mukhaizner.
such as the Work Programme, a flagship policy under Welfare In January 2013 we expanded our oil and gas services Reform and aimed at supporting the long-term unemployed activity by acquiring TOCO, an Omani business specialising into sustainable employment.
Operating in multiple in fabrication, maintenance, repair and logistics services UK regions, through personalised support, training and for the on-shore oil sector.
In September we completed the intervention, Interserve has now supported its customers acquisition of Topaz Oil and Gas now known as Adyard, into some 34,000 employment opportunities for people who based in Abu Dhabi and Fujairah, which provides project had been out of work for more than a year.
management and maintenance for off-shore activities and Similarly, our justice team is competing for significant marine rig maintenance.
These acquisitions provide us with opportunities in offender rehabilitation services, on which greater reach and capability across the Gulf region, opening we expect to see further developments during 2014. up access to a wider pool of potential customers and panregional, as well as national opportunities.
As a major employer, we take our social and environmental responsibilities very seriously and, as our SustainAbilities We are making good progress with the integration of these Plan demonstrates, we aim to make a positive difference to businesses, and although there have been some delays and the communities we serve.
Landmarc has been a standard deferrals to the services we are providing, pushing some bearer for the Group with its work on social value setting up work out to 2014, this should not have a negative impact in business hubs for small, rural businesses and promoting local the medium term.
Indeed, shortly before year-end, Adyard business enterprise through the Landmarc 100 initiative.
10.8 million contract for the fabrication of an offshore platform for the Zora Field We also seek to create opportunities for our people, Development Project on behalf of Dana Gas.
especially in supporting their ongoing learning and development.
This is well-exemplified in Leicester Our other facilities management activities in the Middle East where we manage a comprehensive facilities and estates have made further progress in the year and, although the contract on behalf of the NHS in support of which we market is relatively immature compared to the UK, there is have forged a partnership with Leicester College to significant potential to export our skills further.
Examples provide opportunities for our 2,000 staff to gain a range of new facilities management contracts secured in the of occupational and educational qualifications in parallel period include that with Habib Bank in Dubai a longstanding with their employment.
customer of our construction business and for estate management services at the Monte Carlo Beach Club in International Abu Dhabi.
International Support Services is primarily focused on the oil and gas sector, providing fabrication, maintenance, Outlook turnaround services and training in the Middle East.
In the UK we expect Support Services to continue its strong progress and to maintain margin levels as we win new work The business has been centred on Qatar for a number of years and extend relationships with existing clients.
Of particular but we have recently expanded our footprint to include the focus in 2014 will be the procurement of services for the United Arab Emirates UAE and Oman.
In addition to our oil UKs Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO, where and gas activities, we also provide facilities management we are incumbent on two of the six contracts on which services across a broad range of markets, such as hospitality, we are currently bidding.
In addition, we are adding new leisure, education, defence and retail.
competences and capabilities as we expand both our frontline services directed at the citizen, as well as our service A mix of subdued market activity, competitive pressure offer to the private-sector market, building on successful and the accelerated re-tendering of a significant contract contract wins such as the BBC.
at Ras Laffan Qatar impacted the performance of our principal business, Madina, relative to earlier more Internationally, we expect to see further revenue growth buoyant periods.
Latterly, new contract wins, together as we look to exploit the opportunities of our expanded with ongoing cost-management focus, should benefit presence and broader offering.
Overall, performance in this segment was boosted through the acquisitions of two new businesses, 26 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED and is benefitting from integration into the Group by gaining CONSTRUCTION access to larger scale projects such as with HM Courts and We offer design, consultancy and construction services Tribunal Service, as part of a national framework.
to create whole-life, sustainable solutions for building and infrastructure projects.
Our focus is on forming longOur ability to grow through structuring innovative investment term relationships and delivering repeat business through models is illustrated by the redevelopment of the Haymarket commercial structures such as framework agreements and area of Edinburgh.
As part of the scheme we have invested project-financed schemes.
an initial 10.6 million of equity and will subsequently undertake circa.
150 million of construction work to Our presence in the Middle East is structured through develop the mixed-use site.
We will look to exploit further longstanding joint-venture partnerships, enabling us to opportunities to combine our construction and projectform long-term relationships and extend activities with financing skills during 2014 and beyond.
Much of our work for the public sector is channelled through Results summary 2013 2012 Change framework agreements, which provide a strong foundation Revenue and good visibility for our UK construction business.
UK 802.2m 737.2m 8.8% 1 During the year we continued to undertake various projects International 215.9m 201.6m 7.1% on NHS frameworks, including completions at Frome Medical Contribution to Total 27.8m 28.9m -3.8% Centre, Kettering General Hospital, Langdon Hospital in Operating Profit Dawlish, with new awards including Mid-Cheshire Hospitals UK 14.7m 14.6m 0.7% NHS Foundation Trust and Hywel Dda Health Board in Wales.
1 International 13.1m 14.3m -8.4% In education, we redeveloped the Charter Academy in Operating margin UK 1.8% 2.0% Portsmouth under the National Academies Framework and Operating margin 5.1% 6.5% were confirmed as selected contractor in the Priority School 2 International Building Programme to deliver eight schools in the West 1 Midlands region.
We also completed a University Technical Share of associates.
2 College next to the famous Silverstone race circuit which Operating margin is calculated based on the underlying operating margin of associates.
specialises in a high performance engineering syllabus.
UK In December we were awarded a place on the 250 million UK Construction again performed well, showing continued DIO framework for the East Midlands and Eastern England resilience amid challenging market conditions.
The four-year framework covers an area spanning Lincolnshire to Essex, with an option for the DIO to extend Against a backdrop of subdued major infrastructure activity, by a further three years.
The Regional Framework will be our strategy of nurturing repeat business on key accounts and used to deliver a programme of projects each valued at up selectively diversifying into new sectors yielded increased to 12 million.
revenue, up by 8.8 per cent to 802.2 million, with operating profit 0.7 per cent ahead of 2012 at 14.7 million.
Margins Our relationship with Jaguar Land Rover JLR has grown over remained within our expected range at 1.8 per cent.
Future the course of the year.
In April we announced the start of workload remained broadly stable at 1.0 billion FY2012: the first phase of works at JLRs new Engine Manufacturing 0.9 billion, benefitting from our successful targeting of a Centre near Wolverhampton, with further phases also mixture of new and existing frameworks, and from selective underway to extend the engine plant in the West Midlands.
opportunities in the private sector.
This was supplemented by two subsequent contract awards at other JLR sites and will provide work through to late 2014.
One example of our diversification is in the construction of Energy from Waste EfW plants in the UK.
Our 146 million Part of our success in growing this relationship has been scheme in Glasgow, on behalf of Viridor, is now underway and through the use of innovative technologies such as BIM in February we announced a joint venture with Babcock & Building Information Modelling which we have used as part Wilcox Vlund A S to design and build an EfW plant for Viridor of the consultation and co-ordination process with JLR, in Peterborough, UK, with a contract value of 15 million.
providing an unprecedented level of detail at the design stage.
Our use of BIM has helped to create real-world models In May we acquired Paragon, a specialist fit-out and for procurement, prefabrication, coordination, manufacturing refurbishment business based in London, significantly extending and installation.
our capabilities in that market.
The business continues to thrive OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 27 CASE STUDY TOP OF THE SMALL BUSINESS SPENDING LIST In August The Cabinet Office revealed what many of We hold regular events where potential new suppliers the main construction contractors spend with small and have the chance to showcase their capabilities to the medium-sized enterprises SMEs on central government Companys procurement teams to improve visibility projects with Interserve leading the way.
We topped a list of main contractors cited in the Making Another initiative that demonstrates the value we Government business more accessible to SMEs: Two create for communities has been the development years on report, with some 70 per cent of supply chain and introduction of a digital application that helps our spend awarded to SMEs when delivering work for central project teams identify existing supply chain partners in government clients.
The report highlighted that SMEs are important and increasingly valuable members of our regional business offering.
Where possible, Interserve has modified its procurement systems to allow the future identification and tracking of activity with SMEs within its supply chain.
This is supported through its standard tendering process which asks suppliers to provide examples of using SMEs in their own supply chains as well as actively seeking to identify, with existing key suppliers, opportunities for further engagement.
28 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Sustainability is high on our agenda and is becoming a powerful differentiator with a growing number of clients.
Renewable technology is incorporated into schemes more and more often, including the use of photovoltaics, solar CASE STUDY collectors and grey water recycling.
As part of our design development we regularly provide feasibility reports and business cases to help clients consideration of sustainable EXTENDING THE options and, selectively, we are able to provide solutions through financing secured against long-term energy savings.
MALL OF THE Our added value as a main contractor is to provide coordination of the many trades, skills and suppliers involved EMIRATES in delivering construction projects.
As such, small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs have long been important Our joint venture in the United Arab Emirates, and valued members of our supply chain.
In August, the Khansaheb, was awarded a 110 million contract Cabinet Office published details of the UK Governments to extend, redevelop and upgrade Dubais Mall of main construction contractors spend with SMEs across the Emirates, one of the worlds largest shopping central government projects.
We are pleased that Interserve complexes.
topped the list of companies, channelling 70 per cent of our supply chain spend to SMEs, when delivering work for central The Mall of the Emirates, the third largest in the government clients.
world and the largest outside North America when it opened in 2005, provides over 7.9 million sq ft We also actively focus spend on suppliers that are local to of retail space and can comfortably accommodate our projects, thereby reducing unnecessary environmental 50,000 people at a time.
It houses more than impact and stimulating economic activity within the local 450 retail units, including a 656,000 sq ft Carrefour community.
In our development agreement with West hypermarket: a 14-screen cinema with separate Yorkshire Police Authority, 95 per cent of sub-contracts are awarded to local companies.
theatre and two entertainment zones: three food courts and an indoor ski slope.
International Khansaheb, which built the mall and completed an Construction in the Middle East performed broadly in line with extension in 2008, is in the process of extending expectations and generated satisfactory results in relatively and remodelling the live shopping mall, building tight market conditions which have experienced increased additional parking facilities along with a link to the levels of competition and consequently lowered margins.
Dubai Metro public transport system.
Construction Against this backdrop we have continued to manage our cost started late last year and is due to complete in the base actively, whilst seeking to maintain our capabilities fourth quarter of 2014. in key sectors.
We remain optimistic that the Middle East The award one of many prestigious projects offers good medium-term potential a view that, despite Interserve is involved in around the region variances in regional market conditions, is evidenced by a demonstrates the confidence our client, Majid Al slight increase in work winning in the year and by the positive Futtaim, has in our ability to deliver.
early-cycle activity witnessed by our Equipment Services businesses in the region.
Our experience in the Middle East, built up over decades of strong local partnerships, continues to stand us in good stead.
One such example is the contract awarded to Khansaheb valued at AED 636 million circa.
110 million for the redevelopment, expansion and upgrading of the Mall of the Emirates in the UAE, on behalf of long-standing client, Majid Al Futtaim.
More generally, market conditions in the UAE have begun to exhibit signs of improvement as we secured work for the Office of HM Crown Prince of Dubai leisure, EMAAR Boulevard restaurants, Chalhoub Group retail, Government of Fujairah roads and Dubai Festival City OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 29 CASE STUDY AWARD-WINNING DEFENCE PARTNERSHIP Our long-standing partnership with Defence More than 36 different services are provided through Infrastructure Organisations DIO PFI Team at the the Corsham PFI Project, including building and grounds Military of Defences Corsham site was recognised maintenance, medical and dental support, leisure and this year at the Premises and Facilities Management hospitality services, environmental and conservation PFM Awards.
services, logistics, tailoring, administration, reprographics and motor transport services.
The PFM Awards are recognised as the premier accolade for best practice at working in partnership to deliver Interserve also manages the underground military town facilities and support services across a broad spectrum at Corsham, which provides an important link to our of organisations in the private and public sectors.
In addition, we were awarded a including civil engineering works on the largest seawater contract from General Electric International to construct intake structure in the Sultanate.
Further work was secured the new GE Emirates Engine Maintenance Centre in Dubai, with a range of clients including HSBC, The Wave Muscat and and won contracts to carry out extensive fit-out works to Petroleum Development Oman.
the Four Seasons Hotel, along with road and infrastructure Although this region may, at first glance, not appear to be work for Meraas.
the most fertile for our SustainAbilities Plan, we are at the In Qatar, where market conditions remained more subdued, forefront of thinking, bringing our perspectives to markets we were awarded a contract for the construction of the increasingly appreciating the importance of these issues.
26-floor Lusail Tower and for civil engineering in connection Already we have had a number of notable successes, including with a new desalination plant at the Ras Abu Fontas power reducing the carbon emissions of our Qatar business by and water station.
We were commissioned by Siemens to 30 per cent, and rolling out a range of solar powered, provide civil and building works in the energy sector and, in water and waste-neutral ambulance facilities in Dubai.
joint venture with Arabtec Construction, by Doha Festival During the year we also exited our business in India, City for site enabling, which we hope may lead to further where recent results and future potential did not meet our awards on this major new development scheme.
A financial charge of 5.1 million is included In Oman, work was completed for Daewoo Engineering in exceptional items in our 2013 financial statements.
and Construction on the Sur Independent Power Project, 30 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW CONTINUED Outlook We believe we are well placed to take advantage of market improvements that may begin to emerge in the UK during 2014.
CASE STUDY We are seeing early signs of a nascent recovery in the UAE and Qatar, while our prospects in the region have also been HOLT PARK boosted by a proactive move to broaden our accessible markets and extend our capabilities through partnerships, WELL-BEING such as our joint venture with Arabtec in Qatar.
We are also looking to augment revenue growth by bringing CENTRE, LEEDS our project finance competences to bear in respect of key international markets.
In October, we successfully handed over a 28 million EQUIPMENT SERVICES innovative fitness and well-being centre called Holt Our Equipment Services business delivers bespoke Park Active to Leeds City Council.
Funded through engineering solutions and provides temporary structural the Private Finance Initiative PFI and built through equipment formwork and falsework for complex the Leeds Education Partnership, the project infrastructure and building projects.
showcased the work of teams across the Group - including Investments, Construction, Engineering Results summary 2013 2012 Change Services and Support Services.
Revenue 169.6m 167.5m 1.3% Holt Park Active is an innovation centre, which Contribution to Total 20.1m 16.0m 25.6% represents a new approach to community fitness Operating Profit centres, putting health and well-being at its core.
Margin 11.9% 9.6% The centre consists of a range of flexible spaces for activities and support services that suits people of all The division performed strongly, increasing profit by 25.6 per ages.
It features a gym, 25-metre pool, hydrotherapy cent to 20.1 million FY 2012: 16.0 million with operating and learning pools, dance studio, caf, garden, sports margins gaining 230 basis points as this operationally hall, multi-activity rooms and meeting training areas.
geared business benefitted from increased activity in global The Holt Park Active project follows the successful infrastructure markets.
completion of Armley and Morley leisure centres for Leeds City Council by Interserve adding to other PFI In anticipation of improved market conditions we increased our net capital expenditure, by 65 per cent to 10.4 million, schemes in the Leeds area including Allerton High to facilitate growth.
We expect this trend to continue School, the Rodillian Academy, Pudsey Grangefield High during 2014.
School, Allerton Grange and Leeds West Academy.
We continued to expand into new territories such as Singapore, Colombia and Kurdistan and grew our presence in a number of existing markets such as Chile, Panama, South Africa and the USA.
Alongside these expansions, we have continued to remain flexible and agile, downsizing in weaker markets, relocating our fleet to exploit opportunities in stronger markets and keeping our cost base responsive to demand fluctuations.
Middle East and Africa We continued to perform well in the region, benefitting from strong work-winning and increased demand in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where we designed and supplied in excess of 15,000 tonnes of equipment to Roots Group Arabia for the expansion of the Grand Haram Mosque in Makkah.
The 250,000 square metres of ornate prayer halls, ceremonial halls and courtyards is the largest project RMD Kwikform has undertaken in the region to date.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 31 In Oman, we supplied equipment for the construction of In Chile, where we now have three operational locations, a state-of-the-art college for the technical education of we supplied a large-scale formwork and shoring project armed forces in Muscat and for the new Salalah International to create walls and slabs for the new US$65 million hydroAirport, which includes the construction of a Passenger electric Laja power station.
Terminal Building, an Air Traffic Control Tower, ancillary Across the Equipment Services business, our SustainAbilities buildings, roads and bridges.
programme includes a focus on procurement, environmental Following restructuring in 2012, our performance in South and ethical aspects to supplier audits, helping suppliers Africa improved significantly as we opened new branches and improve emissions performance through manufacturing gained market share.
improvements and involvement in the Surplus Network, which recycles construction waste.
Australasia and the Far East As anticipated, demand weakened somewhat in Australia, Outlook reflecting more subdued economic conditions and the We anticipate further improvement in Equipment Services reining back of a number of large natural resources projects.
performance as the business continues to focus on margin Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region demand grew, providing improvement and benefits from global economic trends.
some mitigation for this region overall.
To support this growth, we plan to continue increasing investment in our fleet of equipment and to implement Notable projects in the region included the application further territorial expansion.
of our Airodek system in a $50 million redevelopment programme for the Channel Court shopping complex in INVESTMENTS Hobart, Tasmania, where the operational efficiencies of our The Investments division is responsible for leading the rapid erection dismantling system helped accelerate the Groups project-investment activities and managing equity project against a challenging programme.
investments both in Public Private Partnership PPP projects and with selective private-sector projects.
Growth in Hong Kong was largely driven by increased Government infrastructure spending on major transport Results in respect of PFI activities are summarised below.
projects in which we designed and supplied specialist shoring equipment for the widening of the Tolo Highway connecting the 2013 2012 towns of Sha Tin and Tai Po.
We are also providing equipment Contribution to 0.8m 6.6m on significant projects to connect a new underground railway to Total Operating Profit the multi-level West Kowloon Terminus.
Interest received on subordinated 0.6m 5.4m debt investments Europe In the UK, the business performed well, despite a fragile Total 1.4m 12.0m overall construction market.
Much of our success in the UK Exceptional profit from PFI disposals 3.6m 114.9m is attributable to providing a major formwork and falsework solution for a casino, hotel and cinema complex being built Highlights of 2013 included completion of the transfer of near Birmingham.
further PFI assets into the Interserve Pension Scheme, The market remained slow across much of mainland Europe.
thereby reducing the Groups pension deficit and resulting in We undertook further cost reduction in our operations in an exceptional profit of 3.6 million in the period.
Ireland and Spain to manage our cost base but also sought to Comparison of results year-on-year is impacted by the develop export opportunities, in particular to other Spanishdisposal of the majority of the PFI portfolio in 2012 and speaking markets, such as Panama and Colombia.
Americas Financial close was achieved on the Alder Hey Childrens We operate in the USA and some Central South American NHS Foundation Trust project, and Phase One of the Help markets.
The US construction market began to exhibit signs for Heroes accommodation on the Armada PFI contract in of growth in the period which, combined with the benefits Plymouth was completed and successfully integrated into from restructuring undertaken in 2012, generated a much our existing contract.
Facilities at the St Helens Building improved performance.
Towards the end of the year we Schools for the Future project became fully operational extended our West Coast operations, centred around San during the period.
32 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW CASE STUDY BUILDING WORLD-CLASS REHABILITATION CENTRES FOR THE MILITARY Interserve handed over the second of two new facilities Last summer, Interserve handed over Parker VC, a in Plymouth to British services charity Help for Heroes specialist adaptive accommodation facility made up that will benefit wounded military personnel and of 60 single cabins and six family cabins.
Both the veterans undergoing recovery.
Endeavour Centre and Parker VC facilities will be run and staffed by the Navy MoD with Interserve continuing The recently completed Endeavour Centre, part of HMS to provide a full range of 24-hour support.
Drakes larger Naval Service Recovery Centre, offers state-of-the-art rehabilitation equipment and consists The facilities will provide those who have suffered of three buildings incorporating a gym, consultation life-changing injuries and illnesses with the very best rooms, a hydrotherapy area with changing facilities and support they need, for life.
It also features a 25-metre six-lane competition swimming pool with a floor - made of low-density material enabling it to float - that can be raised or lowered.
The Endeavour Centre, constructed with steel frames and finished with metal and brick cladding, was handed over on time and within budget after a 69-week construction period, following complex groundworks which included the remediation of land contaminated with hydrocarbons and metals.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OPERATIONAL REVIEW 33 GROUP SERVICES OUTLOOK All central costs, including those related to our financing and Whilst individual circumstances remain mixed, in aggregate, central bidding activities, are disclosed within the Group market conditions are now beginning to show signs of Services segment.
Against this backdrop and through our strategic plans, we expect to deliver further progress in Group Services costs in 2013 were 22.1 million FY 2012: 2014, with revenue and profit growth together with the 21.1 million, accommodating an increased investment in successful integration of a number of acquisitions back-office capabilities, such as IT, people development offsetting slightly weaker near-term performance in and communications.
We also continue to invest in skills International Construction.
development and training to support and enable our continued growth.
In addition, we have rolled out an We remain confident in our medium-term outlook, ongoing, Company-wide campaign to communicate based on strong long-term growth drivers and our Interserves vision and values, reinforcing our shared attractive positioning in our core markets and our corporate culture.
ability to identify and deliver on exciting project and corporate opportunities.
We anticipate this level of investment will continue in the medium term, as we ensure that the quality, professionalism and scale of our support functions keep pace with the growth of our operational businesses.
CASE STUDY DELIVERING MAJOR PROJECTS IN WEST YORKSHIRE Interserve successfully delivered the first of three ground maintenance at the three sites, for the next Private Finance Initiative PFI projects which will 25 years.
provide new, state-of-the-art facilities for the West In line with Interserves SustainAbilities Plan, some Yorkshire Police Authority.
The three developments 85 per cent of sub-contracts on the projects were designed and built by Interserve will provide a 21st awarded to local companies, with the majority of century working environment for over 1,000 police construction staff working on the development living officers and civilian staff.
Late last year work was completed on an 11,500 square metre divisional headquarters in Wakefield, to accommodate a number of operational units, response teams and CID, as well as providing a 35-cell custody suite and office accommodation for staff.
Work is close to completion on a new divisional headquarters being built in Leeds and a specialist operational training centre at Carr Gate near Wakefield, with both on track to be fully operational during the first half of 2014.
The three facilities have a total capital cost in the region of 114 million.
West Yorkshire Police last year held a topping off ceremony marking the highest point of the buildings development - for the 35 million Leeds facility, which will cover 12,500 square metres of floor space and house a 40-cell custody area.
Under the PFI model, Interserve will provide facilities management services, including cleaning, repairs and
