Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Strategic report Sustainability and CSR continued 1 Health & Safety CO e emissions from activities for which Intertek is responsible Better reporting 2 Our environment Intertek is committed to the safety and welfare of its include: More detailed data collection has permitted the identification The work Intertek performs for its clients helps to reduce harm employees, clients and third parties connected with its of Intertek sites with relatively high energy consumption and tothe environment and contributes to tackling climate change.
We aim to provide a safe working environment and GHG emissions, where smart metering and energy auditing can 1 Within our own operations, controls are in place to minimise tonnes of CO e 2 ensure that our employees have the information and resources be introduced.
This detailed analysis enables more informed our impact on the environment through reducing energy Scope 1 the combustion of fuel 60,674 to perform their duties safely.
decision making to reduce energy consumption and GHG consumption in our buildings and facilities, utilising renewable operation of facilities 5,924 emissions and supports our efforts for continuous improvement.
However, although we achieved a reduction in lost time injuries sources of energy, implementing green waste management Scope 2 purchase of electricity, 145,048 and medical treatment injuries, we are very saddened to report practices, minimising business travel, carbon offsetting and Standards heator steam that two employee fatalities occurred during early 2013, while operating quality management systems.
To support this effort, Many Intertek sites are certified to ISO 14001.
This environmental Outside working on client sites.
One was a consequence of a terrorist our Environmental Policy is implemented through country management system supports the continuous improvement of Scopes 491 attack on an oil installation in Algeria, the other an explosion management, to ensure compliance with local guidelines ofenergy consumption and waste and water management, Total emissions 212,137 during pressure tests in China.
helping to reduce the impact of risk to the environment, controlcosts and improve environmental performance.
Intensity ratios The health and safety of our people and activities are the For 2013, Interteks electricity consumption was reported to be 2 2013 CO eper employee 5.75 2 responsibility of line management and employees themselves.
As part of Interteks environmental management system, there 260,081 MWh 7.06 MWh per employee and gas consumption CO e per employee 4.88 2 All incidents are recorded and reported to the designated are strict controls in place to manage the handling, storage and was reported to be 96,835 MWh 2.63 MWh per employee.
3 intop 25 countries country Health and Safety Representative who in turn reports disposal of harmful and hazardous substances to minimise the In 2012, Intertek reported the Greenhouse Gas GHG CO e per employee 4.32 2 through to the respective country line management and risk of their release into the environment.
Intertek employees emissions of its largest 25 countries by headcount.
For 2013, 3 2012 in top 25 countries Intertek Group.
This enables us to take targeted action in are fully trained in the safe handling of such substances and are Intertek has increased its GHG emissions reporting to include all reducing health and safety risks to our employees, clients provided with appropriate equipment and clothing to protect 1.
Intertek has also increased the 2. andothers.
themselves and reduce the risk to the environment.
A critical GHG emissions from the expanded boundary of emission sources include boundary of Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions.
Scope 1 fuel testing, fuel consumption, use of fire extinguishers, release of refrigerants element of permitting continuous improvement is the reporting We are committed to maintaining high standards of health emissions now report beyond gas consumption to include fuel and coolants, nitrous oxide usage, steam and heat co-generation and steam of all incidents which all employees are required to do.
import, in addition to electricity and gas consumption.
and safety and complying with relevant local legislation and testing, fuel consumption, and the operation of vehicles 3.
Not including GHG emissions derived from sources other than gas and guidelines wherever we operate.
We continually seek to known as thecombustion of fuels.
There is also Outside Communication electricity consumption to allow a year-on-year comparison.
minimise risk to our employees, clients and others who may be ofScopes in the table on page 35 to fully account for GHG General good practice and sustainability initiatives in Intertek In order to report GHG results covering all of Interteks affected by our operations, and our procedures are regularly emissions created by the combustion of fuels with a biogenic are communicated to all our employees.
Many Intertek sites operations globally, actual data was compiled for most major monitored by our compliance team to ensure that they are content.
Scope 1 emissions also cover the operation of facilities have Green teams that seek innovative ways to engage people countries, operations and sites, with figures extrapolated where being properly applied in practice.
which includes fugitive emissions, use of fire extinguishers, into projects that support the delivery of Interteks sustainability necessary to cover some sites that were not able to provide release ofrefrigerants and coolants and nitrous oxide.
All employees are made aware of Interteks 2013 2012 2011 data.
Extrapolation was based on the number of employees at Scope 2 emissions boundary now includes heat and steam Sustainability and CSR policy, of which the environment is an Occupational fatalities 2 1 3 each site and was undertaken for electricity and gas use, but generation and steam import as well as electricity consumption.
not for minor contributions such as fugitive emissions.
Where Lost time injuries rate 0.34 0.43 n a Scope 1 emissions created by flammability testing are omitted sites provided data covering only part of the year, figures were Medical treatment from reporting this year, as a reasonable way of accurately Interteks Sustainability and CSR report was developed with reference extrapolated linearly to cover the full year.
toGlobal Reporting Initiative GRI G3.1 guidelines, which provide a injuries rate 0.36 0.38 n a calculating emissions from this source has not yet been recommended framework and indicators for reporting.
The levels of GHG emissions have been calculated theGRI standard disclosures is provided at the end of this document.
In relation to Interteks Scope 3 emissions indirect GHG Rates refer to the number of lost-time injuries and medical treatment injuries using the guidelines of the GHGprotocol and DEFRA and relate Alldata used for performance indicators is representative of the Group, occurring per 200,000 hours worked.
emissions from sources not owned or directly controlled by unless stated otherwise.
to the reporting period 1October 2012 to 30 September 2013.
Intertek but which relate to our activities, many sites operate This year Intertek has focused on better reporting and analysis recycling schemes which reduce waste going to landfill.
of hazardous near miss incidents.
From this, we can prevent a Recycling waste has also proven to reduce costs and GHG recurrence, identify any weaknesses in operational procedures emissions.
For example, at our site in Kentwood, Michigan, and potentially reveal patterns from which lessons can be USA, wooden pallets, cardboard and high volume plastics were learned.
Further training for managers and supervisors has removed from the general waste stream and recycled, resulting taken place throughout the year to help them understand their in significant cost savings.
At some Intertek sites in France, we health, safety & environment HSE responsibilities and to help use a bicycle courier service to deliver letters and packages a improve stewardship of HSE issues.
carbon-free and more cost-effective solution than motorised services.
There is also a commitment to reducing our travel emissions via third parties through utilising our in-house video and web technology for meetings.
All Intertek employees are fully trained in safety practices and procedures and are provided with appropriate protective clothing and equipment.
34 35 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Strategic report Our communities Our employees cultural values and relationships within the communities Asia in which they live and work is important to them, to our business and to China our clients.
Here are just some examples of how our people helped their Employees c. 8,800 local communities during 2013.
Interteks Medical Diagnostic Testing Centre in Shanghai provided free blood sugar tests to more than 400 elderly people across five communities, enabling early detection ofdiabetes.
The incidence rate of diabetes among adults inChina is 9.7%, affecting nearly 10 million people.
EMEA Hong Kong UK Employees c. 1,500 Employees c. 2,300 In support of the Red Cross, more than 100 Intertek Intertek received the Local Impact Award from Business in employees gave blood on a donation day at Interteks Hong the Community, a UK business-led charity of which Intertek Kong office.
Staff also took part in many community projects is a member.
The charitys President is HRH The Prince of throughout the year, including visiting elderly residents in Wales.
TheAward was in recognition of Interteks work in care homes, donating document storage facilities for the HK the South East community as part of the Leatherhead Hub, Society for the Blind and providing cleaning, toys and food which enables local businesses in Leatherhead, in the UK, for 23 families through the Ronald McDonald House Charity.
totake collaborative action on key social issues.
Taiwan Netherlands Employees c. 700 Employees c. 480 Over 550 Intertek employees participated in a volunteer Interteks lab in Geleen welcomed over 1,600 members of programme to help conserve the valuable wetland Netherlands the public through its doors as part of Dag van fide Chemie environment of the Guandu Nature Park and 50 employees National Chemistry Day.
Visitors were shown the took part in the Taipei Marathon, raising over TWD$40,000 production process of articles used by consumers every USA 8,500 for childrens charities.
day and given information about careers in chemistry and the safety procedures in place at local chemical plants.
China Taiwan Thailand Employees c. 600 Thailand Intertek and its employees supported the Wat Samko Americas elementary school in Ang Thong Province by donating stationery, library books, used computers and printers USA andproviding 12 scholarships for disadvantaged students.
Employees also raised THB57,095 1,140 for the school Employees c. 5,200 and gave computer skills training to the students.
Brazil Employees continued their support of Habitat for Humanitys goal to eliminate housing poverty by taking part in a number of home-building projects throughout the Australia year, including Women Build and A Brush with Kindness.
Employees c. 770 Australia Through numerous fundraising events, employees donated Brazil more than AUS$6,500 3,500 for national cancer charities and the Childrens Medical Research Institute Employees c. 730 andraised AUS$2,300 1,240 for those affected by Intertek sponsored the production of a booklet to support a Typhoon Haiyan in the Philippines.
programme in Sao Paulo that educates young people about road safety, environmental awareness and the dangers of drugs.
The booklet was distributed to over 1,000 children New Zealand and used as a teaching aid in schools.
Employees c. 40 Employees volunteered at the Te Rangimarie Hospice in New Plymouth, NZ and took part in the Living Legends Community Conservation Tree Planting project.
Employee numbers as at 31 December 2013.
36 37 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Directors report Governance Board of Directors Nomination Committee 1 2 3 7 8 Audit & Risk Committee Remuneration Committee 4 5 6 9 10 1 3 6 Sir David Reid Lloyd Pitchford Christopher Knight to2009.
He had an extensive global career at KPMG and was Chairman Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director their International Chief Executive Officer from 2005 to 2009.
Appointed to the Board in December 2011 and became Appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer in April 2010.
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in March 9 Mark Williams Chairman in January 2012.
Sir David Reid retired as Chairman Lloyd Pitchford previously spent 10 years with BG Group plc in 2006.
He was an investment banker for nearly 30 years, for Non-Executive Director ofTesco PLC in November 2011 after serving in that role since various operational and corporate finance roles in the UK and much of that time with Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank.
Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April 2004.
Prior to that he was Deputy Chairman of Tesco PLC Middle East including five years as Group Financial Controller.
He has extensive corporate finance experience gained during September 2013.
Until February 2013, Dr. Mark Williams and had served on the Tesco Board since 1985.
In 2012 he was He previously worked for Mobil Oil Corporation in various his banking career in London, New York and Hong Kong.
He is worked for over 33 years at Royal Dutch Shell Plc Shell, appointed a member of the Global Senior Advisory Board of financial, commercial and management roles.
Lloyd is a Fellow Chairman of Brooks Macdonald Group plc, Senior Independent including more than 21 years in Shells Exploration & Production the investment bank Jefferies International Limited.
Sir David is of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and Non-Executive Director of Powerflute Oyj and a Trustee of the and midstream businesses in the US, serving most recently Chairman of the charity Whizz-Kidz.
He was formerly the Senior holds an MBA from Heriot-Watt University.
asDownstream Director and a member of the Executive Independent Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier Group 4 7 Edward Astle Louise Makin Committee of Shell, where he was one of the top three PLC, Chairman of Kwik-Fit Group Ltd, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director operating executives responsible for all strategic, capital, atGreenalls Group Plc now fide Vere Group, Legal & General Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July andoperational matters.
Mark has held Board positions on Group Plc and Westbury plc.
Until July 2013, he was Pro Rector Enterprise at Imperial 2012.
She is currently Chief Executive Officer of BTG plc, a non-profit and industry Boards and is currently Chairman appointed a member of the Prime Ministers Business College London where he had overseen the universitys growing international specialist healthcare company, a position ofHess Corporation in the US.
relationships with industry, and led business development she has held since 2004.
Before joining BTG, Louise was at 10 Lena Wilson 2 Wolfhart Hauser opportunities in the UK and internationally.
Edward was an Baxter Healthcare from 2000, holding the roles of Vice Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Officer Executive Director of National Grid plc from 2001 to 2008, President, Strategy & Business Development Europe, and from Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Officer in March aManaging Director at the BICC Group from 1997 to 1999 2001, President of the Biopharmaceuticals division of Baxter 2012.
She is currently Chief Executive Officer and Board 2005 after serving as a Non-Executive Director since November andan Executive and Regional Director at Cable & Wireless plc Healthcare, where she was responsible for Europe, Africa and Member of Scottish Enterprise, Scotlands national economic 2002.
Wolfhart Hauser was previously Chief Executive Officer from 1989 to 1997.
Previously he held senior business strategy the Middle East.
Prior to her time at Baxter, she was Director of development agency, and a member of Scotlands Financial and President of TV Sddeutschland AG for four years and positions in the UK and France.
He is a member of the BT Global Ceramics at English China Clay, and in her earlier career, Services Advisory Board.
Prior to this she was Chief Executive Chief Executive Officer of TV Product Services for 10 years.
Equality of Access Board and Vice Chair of the Shannon Trust.
held a variety of roles at ICI between 1985 and 1998.
Louise is Officer of Scottish Development International Scotlands Starting his career with various research activities he went on a Trustee of The Outward Bound Trust and was previously a 5 Alan Brown international trade and investment arm and Chief Operating toestablish and lead a broad range of successful international Non-Executive Director of Premier Foods plc.
Non-Executive Director Officer, Scottish Enterprise.
Before that, Lena was a Senior service industry businesses.
He has held several non-executive 8 Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April Michael Wareing CMG Advisor to The World Bank in Washington DC on private sector board director and chairman roles in a variety of technology 2011.
He was Chief Executive Officer of Rentokil Initial plc for Senior Independent Non-Executive Director development for developing countries.
Lena is a member of the companies.
He was a Non-Executive Director of Logica plc until five and a half years until October 2013 during a period of Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in April University of Strathclydes Business School Advisory Board, and August 2012 and is currently a Non-Executive Director of Reed considerable transformation for the business.
He has major international and board level knowledge.
an Ambassador for the Prince & Princess of Wales Hospice and Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Alanspent 25 years at Unilever PLC where he rose through a He is currently Senior Independent Non-Executive Director the Royal Edinburgh Military Tattoo.
She served on the Board variety of finance roles in the UK and Europe and then general andAudit Committee Chairman at Cobham plc and a ofthe Princes Scottish Youth Business Trust for 10 years as well management in Taiwan and China.
His last four years were as Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Chairman at as numerous business, arts, culture and sport organisations.
Following this, Alan returned to the UK Wolseley plc.
He is the Economic Development Adviser to the as Chief Financial Officer at Imperial Chemical Industries PLC Government of Afghanistan and was previously the Prime taking a leading role in the divestment of the company.
Ministers Special Envoy for reconstruction in Iraq from 2007 38 39 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements D Dire irec ct to or rs s re rep po or rt t G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e Corporate governance Maintaining and promoting the C ontents highest standards of corporate 41 Chairmans introduction 49 Report of the Audit & Risk Committee 41 Compliance with the UK Corporate 49 Introduction from the Chairman of the governance remains central Governance Code Audit& Risk Committee tomy role as Chairman.
49 Membership and attendance 44 Leadership 50 Role and activity of the Committee 50 Audit & Risk Committee agenda items 2013 44 Board of Directors 50 External Audit 44 Board composition 50 Financial statements and financial issues 44 Role of the Chairman and the 51 Effectiveness of external audit Chief Executive Officer 51 Non-audit work 44 Non-Executive Directors Dear Shareholder, We have, as part of our annual programme, reviewed and 51 Committee effectiveness 44 Senior Independent Director I am pleased to present Interteks Corporate Governance strengthened our Core Controls Framework to reflect our 51 Internal control and risk management 45 Company Secretary Report for the year ended 31 December 2013. business needs.
It is important for our business to ensure 52 Audit and Risk Strategy 45 Board meetings that our risk and assurance programme is robust and that 52 Training 45 Board balance and independence At Intertek good corporate governance is essential for the we have the appropriate processes and governance in place.
52 Confidential hotlines 45 Directors conflicts of interest operation and management of the business, and we have 52 Internal controls and reporting 45 Diversity continued to strengthen our corporate governance I am committed to ensuring that the Board continues to 53 Internal Audit framework during this period.
This Report contains further provide strong leadership, and has the necessary skills, 46 Effectiveness 53 Quality assurance audits detail on how the governance processes support the delivery experience and diversity needed to create success.
We 53 Priorities for 2014 46 Board activity during the year of our strategy and business goals.
recognise the benefits of a diverse Board, and support the 53 Going concern 46 Strategy setting recommendations made by Lord Davies of Abersoch in his The development and delivery of the Groups strategy 46 Board visit to China report issued in 2011 on Women on Boards.
The benefits continues to be a key focus of the Board, and is included 54 Report of the Nomination Committee 46 Board development of having a diverse Board, including cultural, gender, skills, onthe Boards annual schedule of business.
54 M embership and attendance of the 46 Performance evaluation and regional and industry experience diversity are clear.
NominationCommittee 47 Governance framework In September 2013, Mark Williams was appointed to the During the year, the Board adopted a Diversity Policy, 54 The role of the Committee 47 Board Committees Board as an additional Non-Executive Director.
Mark brings whichis available on the Companys website.
54 The activity of the Committee 48 Operational Committees awealth of experience from his business roles in the oil and Maintaining and promoting the highest standards of gas industry.
He also brings a new perspective to the Board corporate governance remains central to my role as 55 R eport of the Remuneration Committee from his business experience in the United States, and adds Chairman, and I am pleased to endorse the following 55 M embership and attendance of the insight into a growing part of our business related to testing Corporate Governance Report on behalf of the Board.
 in the gas, oil and petrochemical industry.
I am very pleased 55 The role of the Committee to say that Mark is already making valuable contributions 55 The activity of the Committee tothe Group.
55 Relationship with shareholders The Nomination Committee has been very busy this year 56 Remuneration report andhas continued to review our internal talent pool and 57 Remuneration policy report hasfocused on senior management succession planning.
61 Annual Report on Remuneration Sir David Reid Further information on the work of the Nomination Chairman Committee during the year is set out on page 54.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2013, the Company Compliance with the UK Corporate applied all of the principles, and complied with each of the Governance Code provisions, set out in sections A to E of the Code.
Overleaf is an The Board is required to report on the operations of the overview of the Companys compliance with the Code, which Company by reference to t he UK Corporate Governance Codes should be read in conjunction with the adjoining Corporate published in May 2010 and September 2012 together the Governance Report.
Code, which sets out standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and effectiveness, remuneration, accountability A fuller explanation of our compliance with the Code is set and relations with shareholders.
A copy of the Code is available out on the Companys website.
from the UK Financial Reporting Council at www.
uk 40 40 41 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Directors report Governance Corporate governance continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code C. Accountability C. 1 Financial and business The Annual Report and Accounts sets out details of the A brief summary of our compliance with the Code is set out below.
reporting performance of the Company, its financial results, the business model and strategy, and the risks and uncertainties relating to the Companys future prospects.
1 The Boards role The Board meets formally on a regular basis in order to review the Companys performance and strategy against set objectives.
C. 2 Risk management and The Board sets the Companys risk appetite and annually There is a clear schedule of matters reserved for the Board as internal control systems reviews the effectiveness of the Companys risk management further described on page 44. and internal control systems.
The activities of the Audit & Risk Committee, which assists the Board with its responsibilities A.
2 A clear division of The Company has both a Chairman, who is responsible for the inrelation to risk setting and management, are set out on responsibilities leadership and effectiveness of the Board, and a Chief Executive page49.
Officer, who is responsible for leading the day-to-day management of the Company within the strategy set by C. 3 Role and responsibilities The Board has delegated a number of responsibilities to the theBoard.
of the Audit & Risk Audit & Risk Committee, which has oversight of the risk Committee management framework on behalf of the Board.
3 Role of the Chairman The Chairman sets the agendas and timetables for Board of the Committee provides regular reports to theBoard.
meetings and facilitates open and constructive dialogue during themeetings.
D. Remuneration D. 1 Levels and elements The levels of remuneration of Directors, and how the Company A.
4 Role of the The Chairman promotes an open and constructive environment ofremuneration promotes an alignment of interests between Directors and Non-Executive Directors in the boardroom and actively invites the Non-Executive shareholders by linking reward to performance, are explained Directors views.
They are responsible for determining the levels inthe Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 69. of remuneration of Executive Directors and have a prime role D. 2 Development of The activities of the Remuneration Committee and the way inappointing Executive Directors and in succession planning.
remuneration policy inwhich it sets executive remuneration are set out in the andpackages Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 69.
1 Board composition The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly by the Nomination Committee to ensure that there is an appropriate E. Relations with E. 1 Shareholder engagement The Board seeks to engage actively with both institutional and mix of skills, experiences, gender and other qualities.
Details of the shareholder engagement B.
2 Board appointments The appointment of new Directors to the Board is led by the programme are set out on page 55.
Further details of the appointment E. 2 Constructive use The Board values the AGM as an important opportunity to undertaken during the year and succession planning can be oftheAnnual engage with shareholders.
Attendees at the AGM have the found on page 54.
GeneralMeeting opportunity to put questions to the Board and to speak to B.
3 Time commitments The time commitments of Non-Executive Directors are defined individual Directors following the formal business of the meeting.
on appointment and regularly evaluated.
In practice, the time commitments go beyond those set out in the Letters of Appointment.
The Board gives consideration to new directorships which may impact on existing time commitments.
4 Training and A comprehensive induction programme is in place for all new development Directors.
The Chairman reviews each of the Non-Executive Directors training needs, and tailored programmes are in place to meet these needs.
5 Provision of information The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, ensures and support that all Board members receive accurate and timely information.
6 Board and Committee An internally facilitated evaluation was undertaken during 2013 performance evaluation and is described on pages 46 and 47.
The Board undertakes an independent third party facilitated evaluation at least every three years and the last external evaluation was conducted during 2012.
7 Re-election of Directors All Directors were subject to shareholder re-election or election at the 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM, as will be the case at the 2014 AGM.
