Strategic report Operating All four divisions improved review their operating margin.
This reflects a sharp focus on continuous In Canada, the second half of the year saw improvement in many aspects of the a pause in the award of major projects in business, as well as an excellent the resources-related segment of the performance on several major projects construction market, although there are and improving conditions in certain of early signs of activity levels now picking up.
Demand in the commercial, residential and infrastructure segments remained steady.
The three acquisitions we completed in the year give the Group market-leading Continued economic uncertainty in Europe positions in target markets offering meant that recovery in construction demand attractive, long-term growth opportunities.
was patchy and somewhat fragile, with challenging conditions persisting in most Overall, we expect 2014 to be another year of our markets, particularly in Southern of progress.
Looking further ahead, we Europe.
Within the Middle East, we saw remain optimistic about our long-term more projects getting underway, although prospects and we are confident that the competition remained intense.
Group is well positioned to take full Justin Atkinson advantage of future opportunities.
Elsewhere, conditions in our Asian markets Chief Executive were mixed: the strength of the oil and gas Conditions in our major markets sector helped to underpin demand in In the US, which remains by far our biggest some parts of the region, such as Malaysia, market, total construction expenditure last Singapore and Indonesia: whereas in year was 5% ahead of 2012.
The main India, the start of key infrastructure projects driver of growth was once again the continued to be hampered by wider improving residential market, with housing economic issues.
In Australia, where starts up 17% year on year to reach their resources-related construction has lost highest level since 2007.
Private nonmuch of its momentum, the commercial and residential construction was broadly flat, infrastructure segments remained subdued.
with reduced construction expenditure in the power segment offset by increases in most other segments.
As expected, the contraction in publicly-funded construction continued for the third consecutive year, down 3% on 2012.
5.4% Group operating margin 12 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our total revenue from North America was North America up by 20%, with like-for-like revenue growth of 5%.
The trading environment remains meant there were fewer opportunities in the Results summary and KPIs competitive in many regions and sectors: second half of the year, although we remain Revenue m however, the overall improvement in market optimistic about our future participation in conditions, together with measures taken to this market segment.
improve business efficiency, resulted in an 699.4m operating margin of 7.4% 2012: 5.5%, Our US piling companies worked across a 2013 699.4 building on the previous years margin broad range of other market segments, recovery.
often working together on larger projects or 2012 581.9 with Hayward Baker to deliver multi-product Operating profit m The full-year operating profit of 51.6m solutions.
One such project was the 2012: 32.0m reflects improvements Hudson Yards redevelopment, where Case across the board, with all five existing and Hayward Baker worked together on the 51.6m businesses ahead of the previous year.
foundations for Tower C, the first of the structures to be built at this project.
2013 51.6 US 2012 32.0 Hayward Baker Suncoast The largest of our North American Suncoasts revenue increased by 19%, Operating margin % businesses, Hayward Baker, ended the year which compares favourably with a year-onstrongly.
Historically, this business has been year increase in housing starts of 17%.
successful in undertaking a broad portfolio Profit in the year was well ahead of last year, 7.4% of  contracts.
Whilst as the business continued to take full 2013 7.4 Hayward Baker remains committed to this advantage of the recovery in the US base business, in recent years it has also residential market and a strengthening of 2012 5.5 targeted more major projects, to good the high-rise market throughout the country.
For definitions, see page 11. effect.
One of its best-performing contracts Suncoast has been steadily increasing Our US growth compared with the growth of in 2013 was the I-635 managed lanes production to meet this growing demand 1 our US markets % project in Dallas, where it is installing earth and re-started fabrication at its Miami facility 2013 retention systems for new managed in the second half of the year.
Over 1 year high-occupancy vehicle lanes.
A good operational performance was reflected in Canada Our growth 8 scope changes over a period of time, In January, we acquired Geo-Foundations in 1 Market growth 5 which increased the value of this contract Canada, a key target market for the Group.
Geo-Foundations principally serves eastern Over 3 years Canada, where it specialises in geotechnical 51 Our growth As part of its major projects drive, Hayward services which are still relatively new to 1 Market growth 18 Baker teamed up with HJ during the year the market.
1 Market growth for the total US construction market, on an ongoing contract to install CFA piles, from data published by the US Census Bureau of the a piled wall and a bottom-seal slab for a Our presence in Canada was significantly Department of Commerce on 3 February 2014. luxury condominium development at scaled up through the complementary Return on net operating assets % Miamis South Beach.
This type of project acquisition in July of Keller Canada is evidence of the growing strength of the one of the countrys largest foundations 2013 19 Miami commercial market.
A second, larger businesses, based in western Canada and 2012 15 contract to construct another bottom-seal employing approximately 400 people.
The Accident Frequency Rate slab for a commercial development in business offers a broad range of piling- 2013 0.27 Florida was awarded towards the end of related solutions to construction markets the year.
More recently, as announced on across Canada, including the Alberta oil 2012 0.20 13 February, Hayward Baker was awarded sands region.
Staff turnover % a specialty jet grouting contract worth Foundation contracting businesses $41m 25m in connection with the City The integration of these two strategic 2013 12 of Seattles Elliott Bay seawall project.
acquisitions is progressing well: they are 2012 10 performing in line with our expectations at Piling companies the time of acquisition: and we remain Suncoast The successful completion of two major confident about the synergies that will come 2013 14 transmission-line projects, both of which from further co-operation between them 2012 14 were started in 2012, made an important and our other North American businesses.
As we anticipated, the slowdown in the transmission lines market segment, coupled with increased competition in recent years, to find out more please visit our website www.
co. uk before exceptional items.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13 Strategic report Despite the challenging market conditions, EMEA like-for-like revenue from EMEA increased by 7%.
Operating profit trebled, reflecting improvements in performance across most of the businesses in this division.
Europe In November, we acquired Franki Africa, the Results summary and KPIs In general, conditions in our more mature largest ground engineering business in South Revenue m European markets were stable but still very Africa, offering design and build services to challenging and our response was to the mining, civil engineering and construction continue with our self-help measures.
This industries and with a strong track record 399.2m ongoing programme of cost controls and of executing projects in other parts of the 2013 399.2 business improvements has been an continent.
We believe that this acquisition important driver behind the divisions profit will accelerate our entry into selected 2012 358.6 recovery.
Sub-Saharan construction markets, where Operating profit m around half of Franki Africas revenue has Once again, our German subsidiary been earned in recent years and where produced a strong result, with good significant growth is expected over the 6.8m contributions too from the UK and several medium to long term, fuelled by major of our smaller European companies.
Careful infrastructure and resources-related projects.
2013 6.8 selection and execution of work in French- 2012 2.2 speaking territories overseas offset ongoing The integration process, whilst still at an weakness in our French businesss home early stage, is progressing as planned.
Latin America The improved result was also helped by Brazil reported an improved result and the 1.7% good contributions from our large projects, development of this business continues, 2013 1.7 several of which have recently completed with further investment in new equipment or neared completion.
These include the and a broadening of its product range.
2012 0.6 Gdansk Tunnel contract in Poland: and However, we are approaching expansion For definitions, see page 11. our largest contract to date in Russia, in prudently and carefully managing the Our growth compared with the growth of our connection with a new residential complex country-specific risks.
2013 During the year we established small sales Over 1 year In London, we recently reached a major offices in Mexico, Chile and Panama where, milestone at the Victoria Station upgrade in recent years, we have been deploying O Ou ur g r gr row owt th h -7 project, with the completion of 2,000 jet resources from our Spanish business to 1 -3 Market growth grout columns.
Our work on the project is undertake selected contracts.
expected to complete by the end of the Over 3 years year.
At Crossrail, our second major London EMEA organisation Our growth 5 project, pre-treatment grouting, prior to With an increasing share of revenue 1 Market growth -2 tunnelling operations, was successfully coming from outside Europe, two recent 1 Market growth in the construction markets in Austria, completed during 2013, whilst ongoing organisational changes have been France, Germany, Poland, Spain and UK, which grout injections concurrent with the introduced: firstly, Jim fide Waele, who together account for over 75% of revenue from EMEA from estimates of real annual growth plus tunnelling operations are expected to previously ran our North West Europe estimated change in construction prices published by continue until mid-2014.
business, has been made responsible for Euroconstruct in November 2013. our entire European business.
Jim reports Return on net operating assets % Middle East and Africa to Eddie Falk, who heads up the EMEA Although trading in the Middle East division and who is now able to devote 2013 5 remained relatively subdued, there were himself more fully to our newer, high-growth 2012 1 signs of revival in some of our Middle markets.
In addition, dedicated resource Accident Frequency Rate Eastern markets, with an increasing number has been focused on getting maximum 2013 0.88 of large projects on the horizon, albeit that collaboration on large and complex projects the competition remains intense.
which require design expertise and 2012 1.38 multi-product solutions.
We believe these Staff turnover % changes will sharpen our focus on the 2013 11 opportunities in Africa, the Middle East and 2012 10 Latin America.
