Oper ati ng review The Performance Materials division has the ambition to own the electronic environment.
At the heart of all the sectors the division serves are printed circuit boards PCBs that require controlled and stable conditions to deliver the intelligence that the modern world requires.
The division has a unique portfolio of capabilities that can provide the necessary solutions to maintain these stable conditions and which enable it to work in collaboration with its customers to create design options the customer could not have foreseen if it were acting alone.
The Wireless Systems division enables wireless communication.
The customers of this division operate in sectors requiring high performance and high reliability.
Equally importantly those customers are restricted by crowded and challenging radio frequency transmission and interference RF environments.
Whether through antenna systems, wireless modules or machine to machine M2M solutions, the division is trusted by the major OEMs it servesto ensure the customers total system will be securelyconnected.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
indd 41 07 03 2014 19:14 20% 35% Operating review Performance Materials The division designs and supplies an extensive range of Revenue electromagnetic interference EMI shielding materials, thermal management solutions and signal integrity products SIP, providing critical protection for a wide 342.8m range of electronic devices, allowing them to function and connect effectively.
These products isolate and 6% 2012, 324.7m protect sensitive electronic components and systems from the electronic emissions from other components, and filter and remove electromagnetic noise and Underlying operating profit improve a devices performance through the efficient management of heat.
51.5m By product line, the majority of the divisional revenues 66% in 5% 2012, 48.9m 2013 were from EMI shielding materials, with 24% from thermal management solutions and 10% from signal integrity products.
Operating margin By market segment, 24% of the divisions revenues were from sales of EMI shielding materials to the handset smartphone market, 17% were from shielding and thermal solutions used 15.0% in the IT market and 18% from the telecoms market, with the balance from the automotive, consumer, industrial, medical and 2012, 15.1% military markets.
Divisional revenues increased by 6% in 2013 to 342.8m 2012, Revenue by product segment 324.7m.
Organic revenue growth was 8% lower in the first half but grew 3% overall for the full year 2012, 1%.
EMI Underlying operating profit in the division increased 5% in the Thermal year to 51.5m 2012, 48.9m, and operating margin was Signal integrity 15.0% in 2013, similar to 2012.
The Performance Materials division has continued to penetrate new markets and has expanded its offering to existing customers.
A notable success in 2013, delivering a significant uplift in revenues, was business with a gaming console customer which involved products from all three of the divisions business units.
Revenue by market segment IT Telecom Smartphone Other Consumer Medical Transportation 42 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v8.
indd 42 11 03 2014 18:05 5% 24% 10% 6% 66% 10% 24% Clever technology: Performance Materials examples Product development and innovation Ultra fast thermal cycle We have developed superior We developed a new high conductivity thinness in our EMI shielding for a thermal material required by a customer management for rapid DNA analysers leading smartphone customer operating in the telecom market In our active thermoelectric cooling business, the market has EMI begun to show signs of renewed investment with orders received Revenue in the Companys EMI shielding business was down by North American customers, driven by the build-out for LTE 4G 1% year on year, but strong sales in the second half of the year networks.
The recently announced link-up of network providers with demand for electromagnetic shielding components for with smartphone providers to widen network coverage in Asia is smartphones and gaming consoles were a significant driver also expected to be a positive driver of growth for our thermal of the second-half uplift.
Revenues for smartphones in 2013 increased with Lairds largest In February 2013, we announced the acquisition of Nextreme customer and progress was also made in this segment with a Thermal Solutions.
The highly innovative thin-film, high precision leading Asian OEM.
cooling it provides is in ultra small form with faster activation rates than conventional cooling solutions.
We have expanded In the tablet market, the maturity of design, and the preference the scale of this business and secured contracts in the medical for consumers to favour smaller tablet devices, as well as a markets both of which will bring future benefits, albeit at a broadening of our customers supply base to mitigate dependency slower rate of progress than originally anticipated.
on any one supplier, has resulted in lower Laird content.
Signal Integrity Products The significant uplift in revenue which occurred in the second half of the year, was as anticipated, as customers launched The SIP product line serves customers in the IT, automotive, major new products.
Our ability to flex our production facilities telecom and consumer markets.
Revenue from this business one of the core tenets of reliable fulfilment served us well increased by 24% year on year.
as we were able to fulfil a substantial increase in demand frommajor customers by providing a fast ramp up for the Through new product launches and in collaborating with pre-launch build.
other Performance Materials business units, this business has significantly improved its revenue stream this year.
It has We have continued to penetrate further the automotive market broadened its customer base, sold more into the automotive supplying shielding for audio systems used within vehicles, as markets, achieved higher revenues in the printer segment and well as developing innovative high frequency absorbers which has benefited from a good share of business on the gaming reduce the interference found within automotive and telecom console launch referred to above.
The continuing demands for electronic devices to be faster, The telecom market has shown initial signs of expansion during thinner and lighter and yet have more features and increased the year from which we expect to see the ongoing benefit from power, remain key drivers for Laird.
Our engineering teams increased demand for both EMI and Thermal solutions.
continue to focus on innovative solutions which can protect and package our customers next generation products and during Thermal 2013 we have emphasised our focus on markets where we can add value to our customers as they continue their product The Thermal businesses key market segments include Telecoms, evolution.
Our ability to rapidly ramp up production is also being IT and Medical, where we have attracted new customers.
recognised by new and existing customers who want reliability Revenue in the Thermal business was up 11% year on year in delivery and this, combined with our design capabilities, will driven by sales of our thermal interface materials product for allow us to capture new opportunities for growth.
the IT and telecoms markets.
Demand for these products has grown in the year with a significant contributor being revenue from consumer gaming consoles and from market share gains on both gap filler and insulator products.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
indd 43 07 03 2014 19:14 22% 16% Operating review continued Wireless S ystems Laird designs and supplies a range of telematics Revenue and infrastructure antennae products, M2M wireless modules and software-enabled wireless control systems, used in a broad range of markets including 194.2m wireless infrastructure, automotive, asset management, transportation, industrial, mining, datacom, medical 1% 2012, 195.5m andretail markets.
By product line, Telematics M2M accounted for 59% of divisional Underlying operating profit revenues in 2013, with 22% from Wireless Automation and Control Solutions, and 19% from Infrastructure Antennae Solutions.
22.7m By market segment, 61% of the divisions revenues were 12% 2012, 25.8m from the transportation market, 16% were from industrial applications and 19% from the IT telecom sector, with the balance coming from other markets such as consumer.
Operating margin Divisional revenues fell by 1% in 2013 to 194.2m 2012, 195.5m.
Revenue on an organic basis was 6% lower at the half year and 3% lower for the full year 2012, 1% lower.
This result 11.7% was due to the absence of a significant rebound in industrial and 2012, 13.2% public safety markets.
The divisions underlying operating profit decreased 12% in the year to 22.7m 2012, 25.8m.
Operating margin decreased to Revenue by product segment 11.7% from 13.2% in 2012.
Telematics and M2M With 61% of its revenues in the automotive and transportation WACS markets, product life cycles in this division are, on average, Infrastructure and longer than Performance Materials and visibility is greater.
other antannae As within Performance Materials, there have been significant efforts to offer comprehensive solutions to customers combining different product lines which will help drive sustainable growth.
Revenue by market segment Transportation Industrial IT Telecom Other 44 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v8.
indd 44 11 03 2014 18:05 4% 19% 19% 61% 59% In the Wireless Systems division we have started an Product initiative called Blue Ocean which allows the brightest engineers within Laird to collaborate and share their development design ideas.
This collaboration has resulted in the development of a product called Dolphin, which is a and wireless bridge to be used for high speed, long range data communications between mission-critical assets innovation in harsh environments.
Dolphin combines an antenna system and radio module from our Telematics M2M business with a weatherproof case from our Infrastructure Antennae business leveraging core Laird technical competencies to address new and growing markets.
Telematics M2M Infrastructure Antennae Revenues in the Telematics M2M business were 2% higher year Revenue from the Infrastructure Antennae Systems business on year.
The underlying growth in telematics has been driven by was 13% lower as a result of weaker demand from the industrial demand in the automotive markets and has more than offset and public safety markets where sequestration measures in the the effect of exiting lower margin M2M tracking products.
USA have had a significant impact on spending.
Asignificant automotive M2M contract won in a prior year, We have also experienced lower demand from significant will commence in 2014, and is expected to be a driver of future customers in the telecoms market for some wireless internet revenue growth in North America.
During the year, the new services.
This is a market that remains volatile.
business won with major European OEMs will grow our market share in that region when the products are launched in 2015 Demand in the second half of the year has been driven by and beyond.
We have also won business with a Chinese OEM, a return to spending by non-governmental infrastructure amarket where the penetration of our products is low but markets and robust sales for our WLAN products to an existing where there is great market opportunity.
A collaboration project to offer innovative combined infrastructure antennae with our M2M radio modules The M2M side of the business has had lower revenue during has resulted in a new product family being developed which has the year as Bluetooth models were phased out ahead of new been well received by customers.
We have remained focused generation launches with upgraded firmware and software on new product development in this business with launches for and with multiple features.
This product range refresh has now indoor wireless antennae and further development on multiple been completed and is expected to deliver revenue growth in in-multiple out MIMO panels for wireless local area networks 2014.
We have elected to move away from more commoditised for high data capacity environments.
markets and focus on technology development where we can provide differentiated solutions to customers.
Ubiquitous connectivity and the Internet of Things continues to require smart systems to serve a range of markets from We have continued to build our presence in the medical device industrial to automotive.
Laird has proved itself to be a supplier market, partnering with leading customers and completing of choice to facilitate infotainment systems in vehicles and the development of a new range of modules which will launch provide for wireless connectivity in public infrastructure and in 2014. medical markets.
These markets are increasingly looking to wirelessly enabled devices to aid productivity and increase safety.
Wireless Automation and Control Solutions Revenue was 1% lower in the Wireless Automation and Control The value-add solutions which combine software diagnostics Solutions business due to some softness in the industrial with hardware and control systems Laird provides, can be markets and the continued deferral of spending on rail offered as a complementary extension of our core wireless replacement programmes.
After-market services revenues module applications.
This allows us to provide technology for have partially offset reduced new system sales and we saw networks through point-to-point connectivity which broadens a pick-up in rail revenues towards the end of the year.
For our the opportunities available to us.
rail customers we provide replacement equipment to improve safety and efficiency that allows personnel to operate rail locomotives remotely.
The business has started to work closely with Telematics M2M, leveraging off its software and firmware skillset to develop and upgrade the wireless asset management monitoring service offering.
During the year, progress has been made in penetrating the Asian market with new customer contracts secured.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p30-45 v7.
