2012 overview IFC Management and governance 16 Company fi financial statements and notes 70 Business review 02 Consolidated fi financial statements and notes 37 Additional information 80 Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc We have audited the Group fi financial statements of Micro Focus Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 International plc for the year ended 30 April 2012 which comprise In our opinion: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of fi financial position, the consolidated statement of changes the information given in the directors report for the fi financial year in equity, the consolidated statement of cash fl ows, summary for which the Group fi financial statements are prepared is consistent of signifi cant accounting policies and the related notes.
The fi financial with the Group fi financial statements.
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Matters on which we are required to report by exception IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities in our opinion: set out on page 36, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group fi financial statements and for being satisfi ed that they certain disclosures of directors remuneration specifi ed by law give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express are not made: or an opinion on the Group fi financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and we have not received all the information and explanations Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing we require for our audit.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter the directors statement, set out on page 36, in relation 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
to goingconcern: We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report the part of the corporate governance statement relating is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Corporate Governance Code specifi ed for our review: and Scope of the audit of the fi financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and on directors remuneration.
disclosures in the fi financial statements suffi cient to give reasonable assurance that the fi financial statements are free from material Other matter misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes We have reported separately on the parent company fi financial an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate statements of Micro Focus International plc for the year ended to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied 30April 2012 and on the information in the directors remuneration and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signifi cant accounting report that is described as having been audited.
estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the fi financial statements.
In addition, we read all the fi financial and non-fi financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited fi financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Pauline Campbell Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Opinion on fi financial statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion the Group fi financial statements: Reading 20 June 2012 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30April 2012 and of its profi t and cash fl ows for the year thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37
