Independent auditors report to the members of Micro Focus International plc We have audited the parent company fi financial statements of Micro Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2012 which Companies Act 2006 comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related notes.
In our opinion: The fi financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities the information given in the directors report for the fi financial year set out on page 36, the directors are responsible for the preparation for which the parent company fi financial statements are prepared of the parent company fi financial statements and for being satisfi ed that is consistent with the parent company fi financial statements.
they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company fi financial statements in accordance Matters on which we are required to report by exception with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
in our opinion: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do from branches not visited by us: or not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown the parent company fi financial statements and the part of the or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement by our prior consent in writing.
with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the audit of the fi financial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specifi ed by law An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and are not made: or disclosures in the fi financial statements suffi cient to give reasonable assurance that the fi financial statements are free from material we have not received all the information and explanations misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes we require for our audit.
an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently Other matter applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signifi cant We have reported separately on the Group fi financial statements accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall of Micro Focus International plc for the year ended 30 April 2012. presentation of the fi financial statements.
In addition, we read all the fi financial and non-fi financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited fi financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Pauline Campbell Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on fi financial statements for and on behalf of  LLP In our opinion the parent company fi financial statements: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Reading give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs 20 June 2012 as at 30 April 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Micro Focus International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 70
