Report of the auditor We have audited the financial statements of Millennium s the financial statements have been prepared in & Copthorne Hotels plc for the year ended 31 December accordance with the requirements of the Companies 2012 set out on pages 68 to 144.
The financial reporting Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial framework that has been applied in the preparation of statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
the Group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Opinion on other matters prescribed by the adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework Companies Act 2006 that has been applied in the preparation of the parent In our opinion: company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted s the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Accounting Practice.
audited has been properly prepared in accordance This report is made solely to the companys members, with the Companies Act 2006: and as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the s the information given in the Directors Report for the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been financial year for which the financial statements are undertaken so that we might state to the companys prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Matters on which we are required to report assume responsibility to anyone other than the company by exception and the companys members, as a body, for our audit We have nothing to report in respect of the following: work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to Respective responsibilities of directors and report to you if, in our opinion: auditors s adequate accounting records have not been kept by As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit Statement set out on page 65, the directors are have not been received from branches not visited by responsible for the preparation of the financial us: or statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express s the parent company financial statements and the part an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited with applicable law and International Standards on are not in agreement with the accounting records and Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to returns: or comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
s certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements s we have not received all the information and A description of the scope of an audit of financial explanations we require for our audit.
statements is provided on the APBs web-site at Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: www.
s the Directors statement, set out on pages 44 and 45, Opinion on financial statements in relation to going concern: In our opinion: s the part of the Corporate Governance statement on s the financial statements give a true and fair view of page 40 relating to the companys compliance with the state of the Groups and of the parent companys the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the Groups Code specified for our review: and profit for the year then ended: s certain elements of the report to shareholders by the s the Group financial statements have been properly Board on Directors remuneration.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Stephen Masters Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor s the parent company financial statements have been Chartered Accountants properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL Accepted Accounting Practice: 21 February 2013 66 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Annual report and accounts 2012
