Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc We have audited the Group financial Scope of the audit of the Matters on which we are statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc for the financial statements required to report by exception 53 weeks ended 29 September 2012 which An audit involves obtaining evidence about We have nothing to report in respect comprise the Group Income Statement, the the amounts and disclosures in the financial of the following: Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, statements sufficient to give reasonable the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Statement assurance that the financial statements are free Under the Companies Act 2006 we are of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow from material misstatement, whether caused required to report to you if, in our opinion: Statement and the related notes 1 to 29.
This includes an assessment financial reporting framework that has been of whether the accounting policies are certain disclosures of Directors applied in their preparation is applicable law appropriate to the Groups circumstances and remuneration specified by law are not and International Financial Reporting Standards have been consistently applied and adequately made: or IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
disclosed: the reasonableness of significant we have not received all the information accounting estimates made by the Directors: and explanations we require for our audit.
This report is made solely to the Companys and the overall presentation of the financial members, as a body, in accordance with statements.
In addition, we read all the financial Under the Listing Rules we are required Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act and non-financial information in the Annual to review: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Report to identify material inconsistencies with that we might state to the Companys members the audited financial statements.
If we become the Directors Statement, contained those matters we are required to state to them aware of any apparent material misstatements within page 26, in relation to going concern: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
or inconsistencies we consider the implications the part of the Corporate Governance To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do for our report.
Statement relating to the Companys not accept or assume responsibility to anyone compliance with the nine provisions of other than the Company and the Companys Opinion on financial statements the UK Corporate Governance Code members as a body, for our audit work, for this In our opinion the Group financial statements: specified for our review: and report, or for the opinions we have formed.
certain elements of the report to give a true and fair view of the state of the shareholders by the Board on Directors Respective responsibilities Groups affairs as at 29 September 2012 and remuneration.
of Directors and auditor of its profit for the 53 weeks then ended: As explained more fully in the Directors have been properly prepared in accordance Other matter Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are with IFRSs as adopted by the European We have reported separately on the responsible for the preparation of the Group Union: and parent company financial statements of financial statements and for being satisfied that have been prepared in accordance with the Mitchells & Butlers plc for the 53 weeks they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility requirements of the Companies Act 2006 ended 29 September 2012 and on the is to audit and express an opinion on the and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
information in the Report on Directors Group financial statements in accordance with remuneration that is described as having applicable law and International Standards on Opinion on other matter prescribed been audited.
Those standards by the Companies Act 2006 require us to comply with the Auditing Practices In our opinion, the information given in the Stephen Griggs Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Directors report for the financial year for Senior statutory auditor which the Group financial statements are for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP prepared is consistent with the Group Chartered Accountants and financial statements.
Statutory Auditor London, UK 26 November 2012 42 Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2012
