MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012, QGHSHQGHQW DXGLWRUV UHSRUW WR WKH PHPEHUV RI 0,7, URXS 3 & We have audited the parent company financial ibed by the Companies Act 2006 Opinion on other matters prescr statements of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended In our opinion: 31 March 2012 which comprise the Company Balance the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Sheet and the related notes 40 to 53.
The financial audited has been properly prepared in accordance reporting framework that has been applied in their with the Companies Act 2006: and preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally the information given in the Directors Report for the Accepted Accounting Practice.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company This report is made solely to the companys members, financial statements.
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been Matters on which we are required to report by exception undertaken so that we might state to the companys We have nothing to report in respect of the following members those matters we are required to state to them matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the report to you if, in our opinion: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or adequate accounting records have not been kept by assume responsibility to anyone other than the company the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit and the companys members as a body, for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
us: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the parent company financial statements and the part As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are Statement, the Directors are responsible for the not in agreement with the accounting records and preparation of the parent company financial statements returns: or and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified parent company financial statements in accordance with by law are not made: or applicable law and International Standards on Auditing we have not received all the information and UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply explanations we require for our audit.
with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters We have reported separately on the Group financial Scope of the audit of the financial statements statements of MITIE Group PLC for the year ended An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 31 March 2012. and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements Colin Hudson FCA Senior Statutory Auditor are free from material misstatement, whether caused by for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent 21 May 2012 companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
121 Accounts Governance Business review Overview
