Independent Auditors Report Company Accounts To the members of N Brown Group plc.
the overall presentation of the financial Other matters We have audited the parent company statements.
In addition, we read all the We have reported separately on the group financial statements of N Brown Group financial and non-financial information financial statements of N Brown Group plc plc for the 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 in the annual report to identify material for the year ended 3 March 2012. which comprise the Parent Company inconsistencies with the audited financial Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 statements.
The financial reporting framework any apparent material misstatements Damian Sanders ACA that has been applied in their preparation or inconsistencies we consider the Senior Statutory Auditor is applicable law and United Kingdom implications for our report.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Accounting Standards United Kingdom Chartered Accountants and Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Opinion on financial statements Statutory Auditor In our opinion the parent company financial Manchester, UK This report is made solely to the statements: companys members, as a body, in  18 May 2012 accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the companys affairs as at 3 March 2012: the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work  has been undertaken so that we might accordance with United Kingdom state to the companys members those Generally Accepted Accounting matters we are required to state to them Practice: and in an auditors report and for no other  purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted with the requirements of the Companies by law, we do not accept or assume Act 2006. responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as Opinion on other matters prescribed a body, for our audit work, for this report, by the Companies Act 2006 or for the opinions we have formed.
In our opinion: sTHEPARTOFTHE$IRECTORS 2EMUNERATION Respective responsibilities of directors Report to be audited has been properly and auditor prepared in accordance with the As explained more fully in the Directors Companies Act 2006: and Responsibilities Statement, the directors $IRECTORS are responsible for the preparation of the Report for the financial year for which parent company financial statements and the financial statements are prepared for being satisfied that they give a true and is consistent with the parent company fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and financial statements.
express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance Matters on which we are required to with applicable law and International report by exception Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We have nothing to report in respect of the Those standards require us to comply following matters where the Companies with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in Standards for Auditors.
our opinion:  Scope of the audit of the financial been kept by the parent company, or statements returns adequate for our audit have not An audit involves obtaining evidence been received from branches not visited about the amounts and disclosures by us: or in the financial statements sufficient  to give reasonable assurance that the statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are  remuneration specified by law are not appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently made: or  applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting and explanations we require for our audit.
estimates made by the directors: and 68 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
