Independent Auditors Report Group Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the appropriate to the groups circumstances Statement relating to the companys members of N Brown Group plc.
and have been consistently applied and compliance with the nine provisions of We have audited the group financial adequately disclosed: the reasonableness the UK Corporate Governance Code statements of N Brown Group plc for the of significant accounting estimates specified for our review: and 53 weeks ended 3 March 2012 which made by the directors: and the overall  comprise the Consolidated Income presentation of the financial statements.
shareholders by the Board on directors Statement, the Consolidated Statement of In addition, we read all the financial and remuneration.
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated non-financial information in the annual Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash report to identify material inconsistencies Other matters Flow Statement, the Consolidated with the audited financial statements.
We have reported separately on the parent Statement of Changes in Equity, the If we become aware of any apparent company financial statements of N Brown Reconciliation of Operating Profit to material misstatements or inconsistencies Group plc for the 53 week period ended 3 Net Cash from Operating Activities and we consider the implications for our report.
March 2012. the related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework that has been Opinion on financial statements applied in their preparation is applicable In our opinion the group financial Damian Sanders ACA law and International Financial Reporting statements: Senior Statutory Auditor Standards IFRSs as adopted by the  for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP European Union.
the groups affairs as at 3 March 2012 Chartered Accountants and and of its profit for the 53 weeks then Statutory Auditor This report is made solely to the ended: Manchester, UK companys members, as a body, in  accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of accordance with IFRSs as adopted by 18 May 2012 the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work the European Union: and has been undertaken so that we might  state to the companys members those the requirements of the Companies Act matters we are required to state to them 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted Opinion on other matters prescribed by by law, we do not accept or assume the Companies Act 2006 responsibility to anyone other than the In our opinion: company and the companys members as sTHEPARTOFTHE$IRECTORS 2EMUNERATION a body, for our audit work, for this report, Report to be audited has been properly or for the opinions we have formed.
prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Respective responsibilities of directors $IRECTORS and auditor Report for the 53 week period for which As explained more fully in the Directors the group financial statements are Responsibilities Statement, the directors prepared is consistent with the group are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements.
group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair Matters on which we are required to view.
Our responsibility is to audit and report by exception express an opinion on the group financial We have nothing to report in respect of statements in accordance with applicable the following: law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require Under the Companies Act 2006 we are us to comply with the Auditing Practices required to report to you if, in our opinion: Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
 remuneration specified by law are not Scope of the audit of the financial made: or  statements An audit involves obtaining evidence and explanations we require for our audit.
about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material sTHEDIRECTORS STATEMENT CONTAINED within the Director Report, in relation misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment to going concern: sTHEPARTOFTHE#ORPORATE'OVERNANCE of: whether the accounting policies are N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 39
