40 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Independent Auditors report to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and to the Directors of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the regulatory accounting statements of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the National Grid Gas plc the Company for the year ended 31 Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied March 2012, which comprise the Consolidated income and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall income, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated presentation of the regulatory accounting statements.
In statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated cash flow addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information statement, the Accounting policies, the Adoption of new in the regulatory accounting statements to identify material accounting standards, notes 1 to 30 to the Consolidated inconsistencies with the audited Regulatory Accounts.
If we financial statements, the Supplementary analysis of the become aware of any apparent material misstatements or consolidated financial statements by regulatory business inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
contained in appendix 1 and the Unpublished information However, we have not assessed whether the accounting contained in appendix 2.
These regulatory accounting policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company statements have been prepared in accordance with the basis of where these are specified by the Regulatory Licence.
Where preparation and accounting policies set out on pages 42 to 48. the Regulatory Licence does not give specific guidance on the accounting policies to be followed, our audit includes an Respective responsibilities of the Gas and Electricity assessment of whether the accounting policies adopted in Markets Authority, the Directors and the Auditors respect of the transactions and balances required to be As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors included in the regulatory accounting statements are consistent responsibilities set out on page 39, the Directors are with those used in the preparation of the statutory financial responsible for the preparation of the regulatory accounting statements of National Grid Gas plc.
Furthermore, as the statements and for their fair presentation in accordance with the nature, form and content of regulatory accounting statements basis of preparation and accounting policies.
Our responsibility are determined by the Regulator, we did not evaluate the is to audit and express an opinion on the regulatory accounting overall adequacy of the presentation of the information, which statements in accordance with International Standards on would have been required if we were to express an audit Auditing UK and Ireland, except as stated in the Scope of the opinion under Auditing Standards.
audit of the regulatory accounting statements below, and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 Opinion on the regulatory accounting statements Reporting to Regulators of Regulated Entities issued by the In our opinion the regulatory accounting statements: Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
fairly present, in accordance with the Condition of the Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Companys Regulatory Licence and the accounting Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
policies set out on pages 42 to 48, the state of the affairs This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to for the Companys DN businesses, metering business, the Company and the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority the meter reading business, fide-minimis activities and other Regulator in order to meet the requirements of Standard activities at 31 March 2012 and their profit and cash flows Special Condition A30 the Condition of the Companys for the year then ended: and Regulatory Licence.
Our audit work has been undertaken so have been properly prepared in accordance with the that we might state to the Company and the Regulator those Condition of the Regulatory Licence and the accounting matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, in policies.
order: a to assist the Company to meet its obligation under the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Regulatory Regulatory Licence to procure such a report: and b to facilitate Licence the carrying out by the Regulator of its regulatory functions: and The Condition requires the regulatory accounting statements to for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we include a Directors report.
Under the terms of our contract we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the have assumed responsibility to provide the opinion that would Company and the Regulator, for our audit work, for this report be provided if this was the statutory annual report of the or for the opinions we have formed.
Company, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Scope of the audit of the regulatory accounting statements In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the financial year for which the regulatory accounting disclosures in the regulatory accounting statements sufficient to statements are prepared is consistent with the regulatory give reasonable assurance that the regulatory accounting accounting statements.
statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 41 Matters on which we are required to report by exception purpose.
Our audit report in relation to the statutory financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters statements of the Company our Statutory audit was made where, under the Condition of the Companys Regulatory solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance Licence, we have agreed under the terms of our contract to with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our report to you if, in our opinion: Statutory audit work was undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state adequate accounting records have not been kept by the to them in a statutory audit report and for no other purpose.
In Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been these circumstances, to the fullest extent permitted by law, we received from branches not visited by us: do not accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or the regulatory accounting statements are not in to any other person to whom our Statutory audit report is shown agreement with the accounting records and returns: and or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed we have not received all the information and explanations by our prior consent in writing.
Other matters The nature, form and content of regulatory accounting statements are determined by the Regulator.
It is not appropriate for us to assess whether the nature of the  LLP information being reported upon is suitable or appropriate for Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the Regulators purposes.
Accordingly we make no such Birmingham assessment.
26 July 2012 Our opinion on the regulatory accounting statements is separate from our opinion on the statutory financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2012 on which we reported on 2 July 2012, which are prepared for a different a The maintenance and integrity of the National Grid plc web site, on which these regulatory accounting statements are published, is the responsibility of the Companys Directors and the maintenance and integrity of the Regulators web site is the responsibility of the Regulator: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the regulatory accounting statements since they were initially presented on the web sites.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of statutory financial statements and regulatory accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
42 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Accounting policies between businesses and activities.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting activities in respect of the DNs carried out on a centralised statements under IFRS basis, shared services and certain business services.
National Grid Gass principal activities involve the transmission These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering between businesses and activities in accordance with the services within Great Britain.
The Company is a public limited activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
company incorporated and domiciled in England with its registered office at 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
Unrelated items Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, These regulatory accounting statements were approved for liabilities and equity of the Company which are not directly issue by the Board of Directors on 26 July 2012. attributable to a specific business or activity, and where there is These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in no reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition assets, liabilities and equity between the businesses and of the Companys DN gas transporter licence issued under the activities.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, Utilities Act 2000 the licence, and in accordance with IFRS as financial items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
issued by the IASB and as adopted by the EU.
They are These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting standards and apportioned between businesses and activities using the interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March following arbitrary bases: 2012 and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of Corporate costs charged to the Company by National Grid the EU IAS regulation.
The 2011 comparative financial are apportioned using the same metrics as National Grid information has also been prepared on this basis.
uses to determine the allocated charge to the Company.
These metrics take into account relative revenue, The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on a operating profit, employees and net assets.
historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of derivative The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas financial instruments and investments classified as available for Holdings Limited is apportioned between the regulatory sale.
businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory These regulatory accounting statements are presented in values.
pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for Company.
this format of regulatory accounting statements, which comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, management to make estimates and assumptions that affect was apportioned between regulatory businesses in the the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of amounts were apportioned to the fide-minimis business or revenue and expenses during the reporting period see to other activities.
accounting policy W. Actual results could differ from these The amounts at subsequent period ends have been estimates.
determined by separately adjusting these initially Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity apportioned amounts by the cash generated or used by The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net liabilities and equity of the Company are attributed to the debt allocated to each business and other funding businesses and activities reported in the regulatory accounting movements.
Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity Movements in fair value and other funding movements which are not directly attributable to specific businesses or are initially apportioned between the regulatory activities have been apportioned between the businesses and businesses relative to the net debt at the start of the activities according to whether they are related items or period in which the movements occurred.
reallocation of funding between regulatory businesses is then applied so that the overall allocation ratio for closing Related items net debt across our regulatory businesses reflects their Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and liabilities of the Company which are not directly attributable to a individual estimated maximum debt potential, taking into account RAV gearing ratios.
specific business or activity, but where there is a reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 43 Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses the Company and its subsidiaries into line with those used by according to the relative level of net debt determined the Company in its consolidated financial statements under according to the principles set out above.
Current and deferred taxation are apportioned relative to C. Foreign currencies the results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of computations for each business and activity, commencing the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates from 1 April 2005.
Prior year tax adjustments substantially of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are 2005 are apportioned in the ratio of estimated regulatory denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing values at that date.
The estimated capital allowances exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
Current tax liabilities have been Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets apportioned relative to current tax charges and tax paid or and liabilities are included in the income statement, except recovered is determined by balance.
where the adoption of hedge accounting requires inclusion in Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year other comprehensive income accounting policy O. have been apportioned on the basis of profits for the year.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings operations that have a functional currency different from the have been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory Companys functional currency of pounds sterling are translated values.
at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income The apportionment of the total equity of the Company at and expense items are translated at the weighted average 1 April 2005, comprising called up share capital, share exchange rates for the period, where these do not differ premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was materially from rates at the date of the transaction.
Exchange determined as a balancing item at that date.
The amounts differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to at subsequent period ends are determined by separately the consolidated translation reserve.
adjusting these initially apportioned amounts by the equity movements derived for each business or activity as a D. Intangible assets consequence of all other allocations and funding Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less movements.
accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Outer Met Area Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, A geographical area on the boundary of the East of England DN are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: and the London DN, the Outer Met Area forms part of the it is probable that the asset created will generate future London DN for managerial, operational and cost accounting economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset purposes.
For regulatory and income accounting purposes, the can be measured reliably.
Where no internally generated Outer Met Area is treated as part of the East of England DN.
intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is The relevant operating costs, assets and liabilities are reported recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
in these regulatory accounting statements as part of the East of England DN.
Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line The amounts of additions to the gas distribution network for the basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal Outer Met Area are assessed by management based upon amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: project information.
Other amounts for the Outer Met Area, comprising transportation business operating costs, the overall Amortisation periods Years balance of property, plant and equipment, other assets and Software 3 to 7 related liabilities are deemed to be 9% of those amounts of London DN.
Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in accordance with accounting policy R. B.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial E. Property, plant and equipment statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and obtain benefits from its activities.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies used in the individual financial statements of 44 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been contractual rights of use.
Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, Material impairments are recognised in the income statement including capital expenditure for safety and environmental and are disclosed separately.
assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of G. Taxation existing assets.
Current tax Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards the cost of Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount property, plant and equipment, together with contributions expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation towards the cost of relocating plant and equipment, are authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the included in trade and other payables as deferred income and amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by credited on a straight-line basis to the income statement over the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged or credited to the the estimated economic useful lives of the assets to which they income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items relate.
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In these cases the tax is also recognised in other Contributions from customers received post 1 July 2009 comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
towards the cost of property, plant and equipment are recognised in revenue immediately, except where the Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax contributions are consideration for a future service, in which returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax case they are recognised initially as deferred income and regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions revenue is subsequently recognised over the period in which where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid the service is provided.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the Deferred tax course of construction.
Other items of property, plant and Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability equipment are depreciated, on a straight-line basis, at rates method and is recognised on temporary differences between estimated to write off their book values over their estimated the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is computation of taxable profit.
given to any contractual arrangements and operational Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised determined by operational requirements, the depreciation to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be periods for the principal categories of property, plant and available against which deductible temporary differences can equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Depreciation periods Years temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of assets Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 and liabilities in a transaction other than a business Plant and machinery combination that affects neither the accounting nor taxable mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 profit or loss.
meters and metering equipment 10 to 16 Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been F. Impairment of assets enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In these cases the are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is directly in equity, respectively.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each value less costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer the impairment review is undertaken.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow Value in use represents the present value of expected future all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reflects current market assessments of the time value of money balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of become probable that future taxable profit will allow the future cash flows have not been adjusted.
deferred tax asset to be recovered.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 45 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a allocation between operating segments.
The Board of Directors legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against is the chief operating decision-maker and assesses the current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes performance of operations principally on the basis of operating levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle items before exceptionals and remeasurements see current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
accounting policy Q. H. Inventories L. Pensions Inventories, which comprise raw materials, spares and The substantial majority of the Companys employees are consumables, are stated at cost, calculated on a weighted members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK average basis, less provision for damage and obsolescence.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the Cost comprises direct materials and those costs that have been Scheme to the Company.
Accordingly, the Scheme is incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and recognised as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
pension charge for the year represents the contributions payable to the Scheme for the period.
A share of the assets and I.
Environmental costs liabilities, or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme are Provision is made for environmental costs arising from past not recognised in these financial statements.
operations, based on future estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
M. Leases Changes in the provision arising from revised estimates or Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a discount rates or changes in the expected timing of straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
expenditures are recognised in the income statement.
N. Financial instruments The unwinding of the discount is included within the income Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified statement as a financing charge.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Revenue financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in Revenue represents the sales value derived from the this category or not classified in any other categories.
transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services during the year including assessment of the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and value of services provided, but not invoiced at the year end.
It subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
The sales debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or value for the provision of gas metering services is largely significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially derived from monthly charges for the provision of individual recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at meters under contractual arrangements.
Where revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest income, made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables the over-recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income future prices relates to the provision of future services.
an asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus, in under-recovery.
the case of available-for-sale financial investments, directly related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently Income arising from the sale of properties as a result of property carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair management activities, from the sale of emission allowances value of investments classified as available-for-sale are and from the recovery of pension deficit from other gas recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of transporters under regulatory arrangements, is reported under or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative other operating income gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Investment income on K. Segmental information available-for-sale investments is recognised using the effective Segmental information is based on the information the Board of interest rate method and taken through interest income in the Directors uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the income statement.
performance of operating segments and determining resource 46 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at underlying business activities and the financing of those their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds activities.
received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the statement using the effective interest rate method.
hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, or used for effectiveness measurement.
The Company uses two construction of assets that necessarily take a substantial period hedge accounting methods.
of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to their cost.
Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments Such additions cease when the assets are substantially ready that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows for their intended use.
cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income where the fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow derivative asset and where negative, as a derivative liability.
hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right to loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the value are included in the income statement in the period they initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in No adjustment is made with respect to derivative clauses the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being closely related to those instruments or contracts.
These changes are recognised in the income interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item embedded derivative, which is closely related to the underlying for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong line with the hedged item.
relationship between interest rates and inflation in the UK Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for economy.
Consequently these embedded derivatives are not hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
Where there they arise, within finance costs included within are embedded derivatives in host contracts not closely related, remeasurements see accounting policy Q. the embedded derivative is separately accounted for as a derivative financial instruments and recorded at fair value.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently received, net of direct issue costs with an amount equal to the recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in nominal amount of the shares issued included in the share which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For capital account and the balance recorded in the share premium fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the account.
carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active effective interest rate method.
markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is fair values are determined using valuation techniques which are transferred to the income statement immediately.
consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant market.
The techniques use observable market data.
Hedge accounting The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 47 P. Share-based payments R. Emission allowances National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at Equity-settled, share-based payments are measured at fair the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is date of the equity-settled, share-based payments is expensed deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
recognised in the income statement in the period in which Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in Q.
Business performance and exceptional items which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
and remeasurements Income from emission allowances which are sold is reported as Our financial performance is analysed into two components: part of other operating income.
business performance, which excludes exceptional items and remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
S. Cash and cash equivalents Business performance is used by management to monitor Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in financial performance, as it is considered to increase the hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an comparability of our reported financial performance from year to original maturity of less than three months that are readily year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the insignificant change in value.
Net cash and cash equivalents face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial reflected in the cash flow statement are net of bank overdrafts, statements.
which are reported in borrowings.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income T. Net debt and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, The movement in cash and cash equivalents is reconciled to either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our the movements in net debt.
Net debt comprises cash and cash financial performance and significantly distort the comparability equivalents, current financial investments, borrowings and of financial performance between periods.
Items of income or expense that are considered by U.
Other reserves management for designation as exceptional items include such Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in of non-current assets, significant changes in environmental 1999.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share provisions, and gains or losses on disposals of businesses or capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
Redundancy costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which a commitment is made to V. Dividends incur the costs and the main features of the restructuring plan Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to have been announced to affected employees.
Final dividends are recognised in Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the the financial year in which they are approved.
income statement arising from changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
48 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 W. Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The bases used to attribute revenue, costs, assets and liabilities between the regulatory businesses accounting policy A.
The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted earnings note 3.
The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy L. Hedge accounting accounting policy O.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 11, 14 and 26.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy J.
