National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 33 Independent Auditors report to the Members of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the consolidated and Company financial presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all statements the financial statements of National Grid Gas plc the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2012, which comprise the and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Company balance sheet, the consolidated statement of the implications for our report.
changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement, the Opinion on financial statements accounting policies, the Company accounting policies, the In our opinion: adoption of new accounting standards, the notes to the the financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial statements and the notes to the state of the groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 Company financial statements.
The financial reporting March 2012 and of the groups profit and cash flows for framework that has been applied in the preparation of the the year then ended: consolidated financial statements is applicable law and the consolidated financial statements have been properly International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that European Union: has been applied in the preparation of the Company financial the Company financial statements have been properly statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Accepted Accounting Practice: and Practice.
the financial statements have been prepared in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial Responsibilities set out on page 32, the Directors are statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our 2006 responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial In our opinion, the information given in the Directors Report for statements in accordance with applicable law and International the financial year for which the financial statements are Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or adequate accounting records have not been kept by the assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may received from branches not visited by us: or come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in the Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or writing.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Scope of the audit of the financial statements law are not made: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and we have not received all the information and explanations disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give we require for our audit.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Stephen Snook Senior Statutory Auditor policies are appropriate to the groups and Companys for and on behalf of  LLP circumstances and have been consistently applied and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Birmingham accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall 2 July 2012 a The maintenance and integrity of the Company website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
34 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Accounting policies of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
Basis of preparation of consolidated financial balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are statements under IFRS denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing National Grid Gass principal activities involve the transmission exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
The Company is a public limited Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets company incorporated and domiciled in England with its and liabilities are included in the income statement, except registered office at 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
where the adoption of hedge accounting requires inclusion in These consolidated financial statements were approved for other comprehensive income accounting policy O. issue by the Board of Directors on 2 July 2012.
On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in operations that have a functional currency different from the accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB and IFRS as Companys functional currency of pounds sterling are translated adopted by the EU.
They are prepared on the basis of all IFRS at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income accounting standards and interpretations that are mandatory for and expense items are translated at the weighted average periods ending 31 March 2012 and in accordance with the exchange rates for the period, where these do not differ Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under materially from rates at the date of the transaction.
Exchange IFRS and Article 4 of the EU IAS regulation.
The 2011 differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to comparative financial information has also been prepared on the consolidated translation reserve.
D. Intangible assets The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less an historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of derivative accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
financial instruments and investments classified as available for sale.
Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: These consolidated financial statements are presented in it is probable that the asset created will generate future pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset Company.
Where no internally generated The preparation of financial statements requires management intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line expenses during the reporting period see accounting policy W. basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal Actual results could differ from these estimates.
amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: B.
Basis of consolidation Amortisation periods Years The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial Software 3 to 7 statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
accordance with accounting policy R. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to E. Property, plant and equipment obtain benefits from its activities.
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost less Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
accounting policies used in the individual financial statements of Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are the Company and its subsidiaries into line with those used by directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and the Company in its consolidated financial statements under equipment.
Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the C. Foreign currencies Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of contractual rights of use.
the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 35 Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, Material impairments are recognised in the income statement including capital expenditure for safety and environmental and are disclosed separately.
assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of G. Taxation existing assets.
Current tax Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards the cost of Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount property, plant and equipment, together with contributions expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation towards the cost of relocating plant and equipment, are authorities.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the included in trade and other payables as deferred income and amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by credited on a straight-line basis to the income statement over the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged or credited to the the estimated economic useful lives of the assets to which they income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items relate.
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In these cases the tax is also recognised in other Contributions from customers received post 1 July 2009 comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
towards the cost of property, plant and equipment are recognised in revenue immediately, except where the Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax contributions are consideration for a future service, in which returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax case they are recognised initially as deferred income and regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions revenue is subsequently recognised over the period in which where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid the service is provided.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the Deferred tax course of construction.
Other items of property, plant and Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability equipment are depreciated, on a straight-line basis, at rates method and is recognised on temporary differences between estimated to write off their book values over their estimated the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is computation of taxable profit.
given to any contractual arrangements and operational Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised determined by operational requirements, the depreciation to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be periods for the principal categories of property, plant and available against which deductible temporary differences can equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Depreciation periods Years temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of assets Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 and liabilities in a transaction other than a business Plant and machinery combination that affects neither the accounting nor taxable mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 profit or loss.
meters and metering equipment 10 to 16 Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been F. Impairment of assets enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In these cases the are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is directly in equity, respectively.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each value less costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer the impairment review is undertaken.
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow Value in use represents the present value of expected future all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reflects current market assessments of the time value of money balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of become probable that future taxable profit will allow the future cash flows have not been adjusted.
deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against impaired.
current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes 36 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle items before exceptionals and remeasurements see current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
accounting policy Q. H. Inventories L. Pensions Inventories, which comprise raw materials, spares and The substantial majority of the Companys employees are consumables, are stated at cost, calculated on a weighted members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK average basis, less provision for damage and obsolescence.
There is no contractual arrangement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the Cost comprises direct materials and those costs that have been Scheme to the Company.
Accordingly, the Scheme is incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and recognised as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
pension charge for the year represents the contributions payable to the Scheme for the period.
A share of the assets and I.
Environmental costs liabilities, or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme are Provision is made for environmental costs arising from past not recognised in these financial statements.
operations, based on future estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
M. Leases Changes in the provision arising from revised estimates or Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a discount rates or changes in the expected timing of straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
expenditures are recognised in the income statement.
N. Financial instruments The unwinding of the discount is included within the income Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified statement as a financing charge.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Revenue financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in Revenue represents the sales value derived from the this category or not classified in any other categories.
transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services during the year including assessment of the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and value of services provided, but not invoiced at the year end.
It subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
The sales debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or value for the provision of gas metering services is largely significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially derived from monthly charges for the provision of individual recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at meters under contractual arrangements.
Where revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest income, made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables the over-recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income future prices relates to the provision of future services.
an asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus, in under-recovery.
the case of available-for-sale financial investments, directly related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently Income arising from the sale of properties as a result of property carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair management activities, from the sale of emission allowances value of investments classified as available-for-sale are and from the recovery of pension deficit from other gas recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of transporters under regulatory arrangements, is reported under or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative other operating income gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Investment income on K. Segmental information available-for-sale investments is recognised using the effective Segmental information is based on the information the Board of interest rate method and taken through interest income in the Directors uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the income statement.
performance of operating segments and determining resource allocation between operating segments.
The Board of Directors Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail is the chief operating decision-maker and assesses the Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at performance of operations principally on the basis of operating their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 37 received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the statement using the effective interest rate method.
hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology used for effectiveness measurement.
The Company uses two Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, or hedge accounting methods.
construction of assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to their cost.
Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments Such additions cease when the assets are substantially ready that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows for their intended use.
cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow where the fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in derivative asset and where negative, as a derivative liability.
the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right to results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
value are included in the income statement in the period they arise.
Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in No adjustment is made with respect to derivative clauses the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are hedged.
These changes are recognised in the income closely related to those instruments or contracts.
In particular, statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in embedded derivative, which is closely related to the underlying line with the hedged item.
debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong relationship between interest rates and inflation in the UK Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for economy.
Consequently these embedded derivatives are not hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
Where there they arise, within finance costs included within are embedded derivatives in host contracts not closely related, remeasurements see accounting policy Q. the embedded derivative is separately accounted for as a Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument derivative financial instruments and recorded at fair value.
expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently received, net of direct issue costs with an amount equal to the recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in nominal amount of the shares issued included in the share which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
For capital account and the balance recorded in the share premium fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the account.
carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial effective interest rate method.
instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is fair values are determined using valuation techniques which are transferred to the income statement immediately.
consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant P. Share-based payments market.
The techniques use observable market data.
National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to O.
Hedge accounting certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative Equity-settled, share-based payments are measured at fair financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign date of the equity-settled, share-based payments is expensed currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an underlying business activities and the financing of those estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
38 National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of R. Emission allowances share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current Q.
Business performance and exceptional items assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at and remeasurements the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of Our financial performance is analysed into two components: emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is business performance, which excludes exceptional items and deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are Business performance is used by management to monitor recognised in the income statement in the period in which financial performance, as it is considered to increase the carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in comparability of our reported financial performance from year to respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial Income from emission allowances which are sold is reported as statements.
part of other operating income.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income S. Cash and cash equivalents and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an financial performance and significantly distort the comparability original maturity of less than three months that are readily of financial performance between periods.
convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant change in value.
Net cash and cash equivalents Items of income or expense that are considered by reflected in the cash flow statement are net of bank overdrafts, management for designation as exceptional items include such which are reported in borrowings.
items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments of non-current assets, significant changes in environmental T. Net debt provisions, and gains or losses on disposals of businesses or The movement in cash and cash equivalents is reconciled to investments.
the movements in net debt.
Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents, current financial investments, borrowings and Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to derivative financial instruments.
Redundancy costs are charged to the income statement in the year in which a commitment is made to U.
Other reserves incur the costs and the main features of the restructuring plan Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising have been announced to affected employees.
from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the 1999.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share income statement arising from changes in the fair value of capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
V. Dividends Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
National Grid Gas plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 39 W. Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted earnings note 3.
The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy L. Hedge accounting accounting policy O.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 11, 14 and 26.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy J.
