40 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Independent Auditors report to the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority and to the Directors of National Grid Gas plc We have audited the regulatory accounting statements of statements are free from material misstatement, whether National Grid Gas plc the Company for the year ended 31 caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: March 2012, which comprise the Consolidated income whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied income, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated cash flow accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall statement, the Accounting policies, the Adoption of new presentation of the regulatory accounting statements.
In accounting standards, notes 1 to 30 to the Consolidated addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information financial statements, the Supplementary analysis of the in the regulatory accounting statements to identify material consolidated financial statements by regulatory business inconsistencies with the audited Regulatory Accounts.
If we contained in appendix 1, the Unpublished information contained become aware of any apparent material misstatements or in appendix 2 and the Supplementary analysis of the regulatory inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
NTS business by activity contained in appendix 3.
These However, we have not assessed whether the accounting regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in policies are appropriate to the circumstances of the Company accordance with the basis of preparation and accounting where these are specified by the Regulatory Licence.
Where policies set out on pages 42 to 48. the Regulatory Licence does not give specific guidance on the accounting policies to be followed, our audit includes an Respective responsibilities of the Gas and Electricity assessment of whether the accounting policies adopted in Markets Authority, the Directors and the Auditors respect of the transactions and balances required to be As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors included in the regulatory accounting statements are consistent responsibilities set out on page 39, the Directors are with those used in the preparation of the statutory financial responsible for the preparation of the regulatory accounting statements of National Grid Gas plc.
Furthermore, as the statements and for their fair presentation in accordance with the nature, form and content of regulatory accounting statements basis of preparation and accounting policies.
Our responsibility are determined by the Regulator, we did not evaluate the is to audit and express an opinion on the regulatory accounting overall adequacy of the presentation of the information, which statements in accordance with International Standards on would have been required if we were to express an audit Auditing UK and Ireland, except as stated in the Scope of the opinion under Auditing Standards.
audit of the regulatory accounting statements below, and having regard to the guidance contained in Audit 05 03 Opinion on the regulatory accounting statements Reporting to Regulators of Regulated Entities issued by the In our opinion the regulatory accounting statements: Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
fairly present, in accordance with the Condition of the Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Companys Regulatory Licence and the accounting Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
policies set out on pages 42 to 48, the state of the affairs This report is made, on terms that have been agreed, solely to for the Companys NTS business, LNG storage business, the Company and the Gas and Electricity Markets Authority the fide-minimis activities, other activities, the NTS transmission Regulator in order to meet the requirements of Standard owner activity and the NTS system operator activity at 31 Special Condition A30 the Condition of the Companys March 2012 and their profit and cash flows for the year Regulatory Licence.
Our audit work has been undertaken so then ended: and that we might state to the Company and the Regulator those have been properly prepared in accordance with the matters that we have agreed to state to them in our report, in Condition of the Regulatory Licence and the accounting order: a to assist the Company to meet its obligation under the policies.
Regulatory Licence to procure such a report: and b to facilitate Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Regulatory the carrying out by the Regulator of its regulatory functions: and Licence for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we The Condition requires the regulatory accounting statements to do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the include a Directors report.
Under the terms of our contract we Company and the Regulator, for our audit work, for this report have assumed responsibility to provide the opinion that would or for the opinions we have formed.
be provided if this was the statutory annual report of the Scope of the audit of the regulatory accounting statements Company, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for disclosures in the regulatory accounting statements sufficient to the financial year for which the regulatory accounting give reasonable assurance that the regulatory accounting National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 41 statements are prepared is consistent with the regulatory purpose.
Our audit report in relation to the statutory financial accounting statements.
statements of the Company our Statutory audit was made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance Matters on which we are required to report by exception with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Statutory audit work was undertaken so that we might state to where, under the Condition of the Companys Regulatory the Companys members those matters we are required to state Licence, we have agreed under the terms of our contract to to them in a statutory audit report and for no other purpose.
In report to you if, in our opinion: these circumstances, to the fullest extent permitted by law, we adequate accounting records have not been kept by the do not accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been to any other person to whom our Statutory audit report is shown received from branches not visited by us: or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed the regulatory accounting statements are not in by our prior consent in writing.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: and we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Other matters The nature, form and content of regulatory accounting  LLP statements are determined by the Regulator.
It is not Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors appropriate for us to assess whether the nature of the Birmingham information being reported upon is suitable or appropriate for 26 July 2012 the Regulators purposes.
Accordingly we make no such assessment.
Our opinion on the regulatory accounting statements is separate from our opinion on the statutory financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 March 2012 on which we reported on 2 July 2012, which are prepared for a different a The maintenance and integrity of the National Grid plcs web site is the responsibility of the Companys Directors and the maintenance and integrity of the Regulators web site is the responsibility of the Regulator: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the regulatory accounting statements since they were initially presented on the web sites.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of statutory financial statements and regulatory accounting statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
42 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Accounting policies between businesses and activities.
Basis of preparation of regulatory accounting activities in respect of the DNs carried out on a centralised statements under IFRS basis, shared services and certain business services.
National Grid Gass principal activities involve the transmission These revenues, costs, assets and liabilities are apportioned and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering between businesses and activities in accordance with the services within Great Britain.
The Company is a public limited activities giving rise to the income, costs, assets or liabilities.
company incorporated and domiciled in England with its registered office at 1-3 Strand, London WC2N 5EH.
Unrelated items Unrelated items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets, These regulatory accounting statements were approved for liabilities and equity of the Company which are not directly issue by the Board of Directors on 26 July 2012. attributable to a specific business or activity, and where there is These regulatory accounting statements have been prepared in no reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, accordance with Standard Special Condition A30 the condition assets, liabilities and equity between the businesses and of the Companys NTS gas transporter licence issued under the activities.
These items mainly comprise corporate activities, Utilities Act 2000 the licence, and in accordance with IFRS as financial items, taxation, dividends, share capital and reserves.
issued by the IASB and as adopted by the EU.
They are These revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity are prepared on the basis of all IFRS accounting standards and apportioned between businesses and activities using the interpretations that are mandatory for periods ending 31 March following arbitrary bases: 2012 and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS and Article 4 of Corporate costs charged to the Company by National Grid the EU IAS regulation.
The 2011 comparative financial are apportioned using the same metrics as National Grid information has also been prepared on this basis.
uses to determine the allocated charge to the Company.
These metrics take into account relative revenue, The regulatory accounting statements have been prepared on a operating profit, employees and net assets.
historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of derivative The non-current amount owed by National Grid Gas financial instruments and investments classified as available for Holdings Limited is apportioned between the regulatory sale.
businesses in the ratio of their estimated regulatory These regulatory accounting statements are presented in values.
pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the Net debt at 1 April 2005 the first balance sheet date for Company.
this format of regulatory accounting statements, which comprises borrowings and bank overdrafts, less cash, The preparation of regulatory accounting statements requires cash equivalents and financial investments at that date, management to make estimates and assumptions that affect was apportioned between regulatory businesses in the the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of ratio of estimated regulatory values at that date.
No contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of amounts were apportioned to the fide-minimis business or revenue and expenses during the reporting period see to other activities.
accounting policy W. Actual results could differ from these The amounts at subsequent period ends have been estimates.
determined by separately adjusting these initially Attribution of revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity apportioned amounts by the cash generated or used by The condition requires that all the revenues, costs, assets, each regulatory business, movements in fair value of net liabilities and equity of the Company are attributed to the debt allocated to each business and other funding businesses and activities reported in the regulatory accounting movements.
Those revenues, costs, assets, liabilities and equity Movements in fair value and other funding movements which are not directly attributable to specific businesses or are initially apportioned between the regulatory activities have been apportioned between the businesses and businesses relative to the net debt at the start of the activities according to whether they are related items or period in which the movements occurred.
reallocation of funding between regulatory businesses is then applied so that the overall allocation ratio for closing Related items net debt across our regulatory businesses reflects their Related items comprise all those revenues, costs, assets and liabilities of the Company which are not directly attributable to a individual estimated maximum debt potential, taking into account RAV gearing ratios.
specific business or activity, but where there is a reasonable basis for apportioning those revenues, costs, assets or liabilities National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 43 Interest is apportioned between the regulatory businesses On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of overseas financing according to the relative level of net debt determined operations that have a functional currency different from the according to the principles set out above.
Companys functional currency of pounds sterling are translated Current and deferred taxation are apportioned relative to at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Income the results of undertaking notional current and deferred tax and expense items are translated at the weighted average computations for each business and activity, commencing exchange rates for the period, where these do not differ from 1 April 2005.
Prior year tax adjustments substantially materially from rates at the date of the transaction.
Exchange relating to transactions which occurred prior to 1 April differences arising are classified as equity and transferred to 2005 are apportioned in the ratio of estimated regulatory the consolidated translation reserve.
The estimated capital allowances D. Intangible assets pools at 1 April 2005 were apportioned between the Identifiable intangible assets are recorded at cost less regulatory businesses in the ratio of estimated regulatory accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Current tax liabilities have been apportioned relative to current tax charges and tax paid or Internally generated intangible fixed assets, such as software, recovered is determined by balance.
are recognised only if an asset is created that can be identified: Equity dividends primarily funded from profits for the year it is probable that the asset created will generate future have been apportioned on the basis of profits for the year.
economic benefits: and that the development cost of the asset Equity dividends primarily funded from retained earnings can be measured reliably.
Where no internally generated have been apportioned on the basis of relative regulatory intangible asset can be recognised, development expenditure is values.
recorded as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.
The apportionment of the total equity of the Company at Intangible assets under development are not amortised.
Other 1 April 2005, comprising called up share capital, share non-current intangible assets are amortised on a straight-line premium account, retained profits and other reserves, was basis over their estimated useful economic lives.
The principal determined as a balancing item at that date.
The amounts amortisation periods for categories of intangible assets are: at subsequent period ends are determined by separately adjusting these initially apportioned amounts by the equity Amortisation periods Years movements derived for each business or activity as a Software 3 to 7 consequence of all other allocations and funding movements.
Intangible emission allowances are accounted for in accordance with accounting policy R. B.
Basis of consolidation The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial E. Property, plant and equipment statements of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
A subsidiary is defined as an entity controlled by the Company.
Control is achieved where the Company has the power to Cost includes payroll and finance costs incurred which are govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to directly attributable to the construction of property, plant and obtain benefits from its activities.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to bring the Property, plant and equipment include assets in which the accounting policies used in the individual financial statements of Companys interest comprises legally protected statutory or the Company and its subsidiaries into line with those used by contractual rights of use.
the Company in its consolidated financial statements under Additions represent the purchase or construction of new assets, IFRS.
including capital expenditure for safety and environmental C. Foreign currencies assets, and extensions to, enhancements to, or replacement of Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency of existing assets.
the Company or subsidiary concerned are recorded at the rates Contributions received prior to 1 July 2009 towards the cost of of exchange prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
At each property, plant and equipment, together with contributions balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are towards the cost of relocating plant and equipment, are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at closing included in trade and other payables as deferred income and exchange rates.
Other non-monetary assets are not credited on a straight-line basis to the income statement over retranslated unless they are carried at fair value.
the estimated economic useful lives of the assets to which they Gains and losses arising on retranslation of monetary assets relate.
and liabilities are included in the income statement, except Contributions from customers received post 1 July 2009 where the adoption of hedge accounting requires inclusion in towards the cost of property, plant and equipment are other comprehensive income accounting policy O. recognised in revenue immediately, except where the 44 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 contributions are consideration for a future service, in which Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax case they are recognised initially as deferred income and returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax revenue is subsequently recognised over the period in which regulation is subject to interpretation and establishes provisions the service is provided.
where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.
Depreciation is not provided on freehold land or assets in the course of construction.
Other items of property, plant and Deferred tax equipment are depreciated, on a straight-line basis, at rates Deferred tax is provided using the balance sheet liability estimated to write off their book values over their estimated method and is recognised on temporary differences between useful economic lives.
In assessing estimated useful economic the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial lives, which are reviewed on a regular basis, consideration is statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the given to any contractual arrangements and operational computation of taxable profit.
requirements relating to particular assets.
Unless otherwise Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable determined by operational requirements, the depreciation temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised periods for the principal categories of property, plant and to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be equipment are, in general, as shown in the table below: available against which deductible temporary differences can Depreciation periods Years be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the Freehold and leasehold buildings up to 50 temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of assets Plant and machinery and liabilities in a transaction other than a business combination that affects neither the accounting nor taxable mains, services and regulating equipment 30 to 100 profit or loss.
meters and metering equipment 10 to 16 Motor vehicles and office equipment 3 to 10 Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is F. Impairment of assets realised, based on the tax rates and tax laws that have been Impairments of assets are calculated as the difference between enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
the carrying value of the asset and its recoverable amount, if Deferred tax is charged or credited to the income statement, lower.
Where such an asset does not generate cash flows that except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other are independent from other assets, the recoverable amount of comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In these cases the the cash-generating unit to which that asset belongs is tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or estimated.
Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair directly in equity, respectively.
value less costs to sell and estimated value in use at the date The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each the impairment review is undertaken.
balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer Value in use represents the present value of expected future probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow cash flows, discounted using a pre-tax discount rate that all or part of the deferred income tax asset to be recovered.
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at each and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of balance sheet date and are recognised to the extent that it has future cash flows have not been adjusted.
become probable that future taxable profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered.
Tests for impairment are carried out only if there is some indication that the carrying value of the assets may have been Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a impaired.
legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and when they relate to income taxes Material impairments are recognised in the income statement levied by the same taxation authority and it is intended to settle and are disclosed separately.
current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
G. Taxation H. Inventories Current tax Inventories, which comprise raw materials, spares and Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount consumables, are stated at cost, calculated on a weighted expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation average basis, less provision for damage and obsolescence.
The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted by Cost comprises direct materials and those costs that have been the balance sheet date.
Current tax is charged or credited to the incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items condition.
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
In these cases the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 45 payable to the Scheme for the period.
A share of the assets and I.
Environmental costs liabilities, or the actuarial gains and losses of the Scheme are Provision is made for environmental costs arising from past not recognised in these financial statements.
operations, based on future estimated expenditures, discounted to present values.
M. Leases Changes in the provision arising from revised estimates or Rentals under operating leases are charged to income on a discount rates or changes in the expected timing of straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
expenditures are recognised in the income statement.
N. Financial instruments The unwinding of the discount is included within the income Financial assets, liabilities and equity instruments are classified statement as a financing charge.
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into, and recognised on trade date.
Revenue financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated in Revenue represents the sales value derived from the this category or not classified in any other categories.
transmission and distribution of gas and the provision of gas metering services during the year including assessment of the Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and value of services provided, but not invoiced at the year end.
It subsequently measured at amortised cost, less any appropriate excludes value added tax and intra-group sales.
allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
A provision is established for irrecoverable amounts when there is objective The sales value for the transmission and distribution of gas is evidence that amounts due under the original payment terms largely determined from the amount of system capacity sold for will not be collected.
Indications that the trade receivable may the year and the amount of gas transported in the year, become irrecoverable would include financial difficulties of the evaluated at contractual prices on a monthly basis.
The sales debtor, likelihood of the debtors insolvency, and default or value for the provision of gas metering services is largely significant failure of payment.
Trade payables are initially derived from monthly charges for the provision of individual recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at meters under contractual arrangements.
Where revenue for the year exceeds the maximum amount Loans receivable and other receivables are carried at amortised permitted by regulatory agreement and adjustments will be cost using the effective interest rate method.
Interest income, made to future prices to reflect this over-recovery, a liability for together with gains and losses when the loans and receivables the over-recovery is not recognised as such an adjustment to are derecognised or impaired, are recognised in the income future prices relates to the provision of future services.
an asset is not recognised where a regulatory agreement permits adjustments to be made to future prices in respect of an Other financial investments are recognised at fair value plus, in under-recovery.
the case of available-for-sale financial investments, directly related incremental transaction costs and are subsequently Income arising from the sale of properties as a result of property carried at fair value on the balance sheet.
Changes in the fair management activities, from the sale of emission allowances value of investments classified as available-for-sale are and from the recovery of pension deficit from other gas recognised directly in equity, until the investment is disposed of transporters under regulatory arrangements, is reported under or is determined to be impaired.
At this time, the cumulative other operating income gain or loss previously recognised in equity is included in the income statement for the period.
Investment income on K. Segmental information available-for-sale investments is recognised using the effective Segmental information is based on the information the Board of interest rate method and taken through interest income in the Directors uses internally for the purposes of evaluating the income statement.
performance of operating segments and determining resource allocation between operating segments.
The Board of Directors Borrowings, which include interest-bearing loans, UK Retail is the chief operating decision-maker and assesses the Prices Index RPI linked debt and overdrafts, are recorded at performance of operations principally on the basis of operating their initial fair value which normally reflects the proceeds items before exceptionals and remeasurements see received, net of direct issue costs less any repayments.
Subsequently they are stated at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.
Any difference between the L. Pensions proceeds after direct issue costs and the redemption value is The substantial majority of the Companys employees are recognised over the term of the borrowing in the income members of the defined benefit section of the National Grid UK statement using the effective interest rate method.
There is no contractual arrangement or Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the construction of assets that necessarily take a substantial period Scheme to the Company.
Accordingly, the Scheme is of time to prepare for their intended use, are added to their cost.
recognised as if it were a defined contribution scheme.
The pension charge for the year represents the contributions 46 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 Such additions cease when the assets are substantially ready Firstly, changes in the carrying value of financial instruments for their intended use.
that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash flows cash flow hedges are recognised directly in equity and any Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value, and ineffective portion is recognised immediately in the income where the fair value of a derivative is positive, it is carried as a statement.
Amounts deferred in equity in respect of cash flow derivative asset and where negative, as a derivative liability.
hedges are subsequently recognised in the income statement in Assets and liabilities on different transactions are only netted if the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or the transactions are with the same counterparty, a legal right to loss.
Where a non-financial asset or a non-financial liability set-off exists and the cash flows are intended to be settled on a results from a forecasted transaction or firm commitment being net basis.
Gains and losses arising from changes in the fair hedged, the amounts deferred in equity are included in the value are included in the income statement in the period they initial measurement of that non-monetary asset or liability.
Secondly, fair value hedge accounting offsets the changes in No adjustment is made with respect to derivative clauses the fair value of the hedging instrument against the change in embedded in financial instruments or other contracts that are the fair value of the hedged item in respect to the risk being closely related to those instruments or contracts.
These changes are recognised in the income interest payments on UK RPI debt are linked to movements in statement to the extent the fair value hedge is effective.
the UK retail price index.
The link to RPI is considered to be an Adjustments made to the carrying amount of the hedged item embedded derivative, which is closely related to the underlying for fair value hedges will be amortised over the remaining life, in debt instrument based on the view that there is a strong line with the hedged item.
relationship between interest rates and inflation in the UK economy.
Consequently these embedded derivatives are not Changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for accounted for separately from the debt instrument.
Where there hedge accounting are recognised in the income statement as are embedded derivatives in host contracts not closely related, they arise, within finance costs included within the embedded derivative is separately accounted for as a remeasurements see accounting policy Q. derivative financial instruments and recorded at fair value.
Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no longer interest in the consolidated assets of the Company after qualifies for hedge accounting.
At that time, any cumulative deducting all of its liabilities and is recorded at the proceeds gains or losses relating to cash flow hedges recognised in received, net of direct issue costs with an amount equal to the equity are initially retained in equity and subsequently nominal amount of the shares issued included in the share recognised in the income statement, in the same periods in capital account and the balance recorded in the share premium which the previously hedged item affects net profit or loss.
fair value hedges, the cumulative adjustment recorded to the carrying value of the hedged item at the date hedge accounting Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values of financial is discontinued, is amortised to the income statement using the instruments measured at fair value that are quoted in active effective interest rate method.
markets are based on bid prices for assets held and offer prices for issued liabilities.
When independent prices are not available, If a hedged forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, fair values are determined using valuation techniques which are the net cumulative gain or loss recognised in equity is consistent with techniques commonly used by the relevant transferred to the income statement immediately.
The techniques use observable market data.
Hedge accounting National Grid issues equity-settled share-based payments to The Company and its subsidiaries enter into both derivative certain employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
financial instruments derivatives and non-derivative financial Equity-settled, share-based payments are measured at fair instruments in order to manage interest rate and foreign value at the date of grant.
The fair value determined at the grant currency exposures, and commodity price risks associated with date of the equity-settled, share-based payments is expensed underlying business activities and the financing of those on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on an activities.
estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
Hedge accounting allows derivatives to be designated as a Payments made by the Company to National Grid in respect of hedge of another non-derivative financial instrument, to share-based payments are recognised as a reduction in equity.
mitigate the impact of potential volatility in the income statement of changes in fair value of the derivative instruments.
To qualify for hedge accounting documentation is prepared specifying the hedging strategy, the component transactions and methodology used for effectiveness measurement.
The Company uses two hedge accounting methods.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 47 Q.
Business performance and exceptional items R. Emission allowances Emission allowances, which relate to the emissions of carbon and remeasurements dioxide, are recorded as an intangible asset within current Our financial performance is analysed into two components: assets and are initially recorded at cost, and subsequently at business performance, which excludes exceptional items and the lower of cost and net realisable value.
For allocations of remeasurements: and exceptional items and remeasurements.
emission allowances granted by the UK Government, cost is Business performance is used by management to monitor deemed to be equal to fair value at the date of allocation.
financial performance, as it is considered to increase the Receipts of such grants are treated as deferred income and are comparability of our reported financial performance from year to recognised in the income statement in the period in which year.
Business performance subtotals, which exclude carbon dioxide emissions are made.
A provision is recorded in exceptional items and remeasurements, are presented on the respect of the obligation to deliver emission allowances and face of the income statement or in the notes to the financial charges are recognised in the income statement in the period in statements.
which carbon dioxide emissions are made.
Exceptional items and remeasurements are items of income Income from emission allowances which are sold is reported as and expenditure that, in the judgment of management, should part of other operating income.
be disclosed separately on the basis that they are material, either by their nature or their size, to an understanding of our S. Cash and cash equivalents financial performance and significantly distort the comparability Cash and cash equivalents include cash held at bank and in of financial performance between periods.
hand, together with short-term highly liquid investments with an Items of income or expense that are considered by original maturity of less than three months that are readily management for designation as exceptional items include such convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an items as significant restructurings, write-downs or impairments insignificant change in value.
Net cash and cash equivalents of non-current assets, significant changes in environmental reflected in the cash flow statement are net of bank overdrafts, provisions, and gains or losses on disposals of businesses or which are reported in borrowings.
T. Net debt Costs arising from restructuring programmes primarily relate to The movement in cash and cash equivalents is reconciled to redundancy costs.
Redundancy costs are charged to the the movements in net debt.
Net debt comprises cash and cash income statement in the year in which a commitment is made to equivalents, current financial investments, borrowings and incur the costs and the main features of the restructuring plan derivative financial instruments.
have been announced to affected employees.
Other reserves Remeasurements comprise gains or losses recorded in the Other reserves comprise the capital redemption reserve arising income statement arising from changes in the fair value of from the refinancing and restructuring of the Lattice Group in derivative financial instruments to the extent that hedge 1999.
It represents the amount of the reduction in the share accounting is not achieved or is not effective.
capital of the Company as a consequence of that restructuring.
As the amounts included in other reserves are not attributable to any of the other classes of equity presented, they have been disclosed as a separate classification of equity.
V. Dividends Interim dividends are recognised when they become payable to the Companys shareholders.
Final dividends are recognised in the financial year in which they are approved.
48 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2011 12 W. Areas of judgement and key sources of estimation uncertainty The preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period.
Actual results could differ from these estimates.
Information about such judgements and estimation is contained in the accounting policies or the notes to the financial statements, and the key areas are summarised below.
Areas of judgement that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: The bases used to attribute revenue, costs, assets and liabilities between the regulatory businesses accounting policy A.
The categorisation of certain items as exceptional items and remeasurements and the definition of adjusted earnings note 3.
The exemptions adopted on transition to IFRS on 1 April 2004.
The recognition of defined benefit pension costs as if the National Grid UK Pension Scheme was a defined contribution scheme accounting policy L. Hedge accounting accounting policy O.
Key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year: Review of residual lives, carrying values and impairment charges for intangible assets and property, plant and equipment accounting policies D, E and F. Valuation of financial instruments and derivatives notes 11, 14 and 26.
Revenue recognition and assessment of unbilled revenue accounting policy J.
