Overview Business Review Financials New World Resources New World Resources Overview Business Review Financials Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 104 105 Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Strategy Corporate Governance Additional Information Statement of Directors responsibility Independent auditors report The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the group and parent company financial statements in accordance Independent auditors report with applicable law and regulations.
We have audited the group financial statements of New World Resources Plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages 106 to 160.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
they are required to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give atrue and fair view in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to of the state of affairs of the group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the group and anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: formed.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 104, the directors are responsible for the state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent and express an opinion on, the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing company will continue in business.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent company Scope of the audit of the financial statements transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are www.
reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Opinion on financial statements Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing aDirectors Report, Directors Remuneration In our opinion the group financial statements: Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its loss for the year then ended: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give atrue and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken Matters on which we are requires to report by exception as awhole: and We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the Directors report includes afair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as awhole, together with adescription of the principal risks and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: uncertainties that they face.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
By order of the Board Lucie Vvrov Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Company Secretary the directors statement, set out on page 85, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 86 relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of New World Resources Plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Jimmy Daboo Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 25 March 2013
