Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 112 Independent auditors report to the members of Ocado Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Ocado Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Group plc for the period ended 2 December 2012 which comprise Companies Act 2006 the Company balance sheet, the Company statement of cash ows, In our opinion: the Company statement of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as 2006: and applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared Respective responsibilities of Directors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities Matters on which we are required to report by set out on page 71, the Directors are responsible for the preparation exception of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our express an opinion on the parent company financial statements opinion: in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter the parent company financial statements and the part of the 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility with the accounting records and returns: or for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly not made: or agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the audit of the financial statements require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Other matter assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the consolidated financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements of Ocado Group plc for the year ended assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 2 December 2012. the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all for and on behalf of  LLP the financial and non-financial information in the annual report Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material St Albans misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
13 March 2013 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 2 December 2012 and of its cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
