Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 74 Independent auditors report to the members of Ocado Group plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Ocado Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Group plc for the period ended 2 December 2012 which comprise Companies Act 2006 the consolidated income statement, consolidated statement of In our opinion: comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated statement of cash ows, the consolidated statement the information given in the Directors report for the financial of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting period for which the consolidated financial statements are framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Matters on which we are required to report by Respective responsibilities of Directors exception and auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following: As explained more fully in the statement of Directors responsibilities as set out on page 71, the Directors are responsible for the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied in our opinion: that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK not made: or and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the we have not received all the information and explanations we Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
require for our audit: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only a statement of corporate governance has not been prepared by for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter the parent company.
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly the Directors report, set out on pages 68 to 71, in relation to agreed by our prior consent in writing.
going concern: and Scope of the audit of the financial statements the part of the statement of corporate governance relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Directors remuneration.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Other matter adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of We have reported separately on the parent company financial the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and statements of Ocado Group plc for the period ended 2 December non-financial information in the annual report to identify material 2012 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become that is described as having been audited.
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Opinion on financial statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: St Albans give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 2 December 2012 and of its loss and cash ows for the period 13 March 2013 then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
