CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF OPHIR ENERGY PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Ophir Energy plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement and Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, and the related notes 1 to 28.
Thenancial reporting framework that has been applied intheir preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, asabody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and theCompanys members as a body, for our audit work, forthis report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities Statement the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is toaudit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies weconsider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs asadopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement in the annual report with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement in relation to going concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board of directors remuneration.
COM 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Ophir Energy plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
STEVEN DOBSON Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP Statutory Auditor London 4 March 2013 Notes: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Ophir Energy plc web site is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does 03 not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
