0WFSWJFX 4USBUFHZ, 1 T 1FSGPSNBODF PWFSOBODF 'JOBODJBMT 0UIFS JOGPSNBUJPO Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Persimmon Plc We have audited the financial statements of Persimmon Plc 0QJOJPO PO PUIFS NBUUFST QSFTDSJCFE for the year ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages 48 to 89.
"CytIeCoNQBOJFT ""DU The financial reporting framework that has been applied in In our opinion: their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as r the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied audited has been properly prepared in accordance with in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. theCompanies Act 2006: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a r the information given in the Directors Report for the body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the financial year for which the financial statements are Companies Act 2006."
Our audit work has been undertaken so prepared is consistent with the financial statements: and that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for r information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 28 to 36 with respect to internal control no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do and risk management systems in relation to financial not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the reporting processes and about share capital structures Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our isconsistent with the financial statements.
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.. BUUFST PO XIJDI XF BSF SFRVJSFE UP 3FTQFDUJWF SFTQPOTJCJMJUJFT PG %JSFDUPST SFQPSU CZ FYDFQUJPO BOdaVEJUPS We have nothing to report in respect of the following: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 46, the Directors are responsible Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report for the preparation of the financial statements and for being toyou if, in our opinion: satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility r adequate accounting records have not been kept by the is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have statements in accordance with applicable law and not been received from branches not visited by us: or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Thosestandards require us to comply with the Auditing r the Parent Company financial statements and the part of Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or 4DPQF PG UIF BVEJU PG UIe OBODJBM r certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by TUBUFNFOUT law are not made: or A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements r we have not received all the information and explanations is provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at we require for our audit: or www.
uk auditscopeukprivate r a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the Company.
0QJOJPO PO OBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: In our opinion: r the Directors statement, set out on page 33, in relation r the financial statements give a true and fair view of the togoing concern: state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31December 2012 and of the Groups profit for the year r the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages then ended: 28 to 36 relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code r the Group financial statements have been properly specified for our review: and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: r certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board r the Parent Company financial statements have been on Directors remuneration.
properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and BJO.
"PGGBUU 4FOJPS 4UBUVUPSZ ""VEJUPS r the financial statements have been prepared in accordance GPS BOE PO CFIBMG PG, 1."
"""VEJU 1MD 4UBUVUPSZ ""VEJUPS with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as 'FCSVBSZ regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the, 1."
"""VEJU 1MD $IBSUFSFE ""DDPVOUBOUT IASRegulation."
"5IF &NCBOLNFOU FWJMMF 4USFFUFFEsL4 %8 1FSTJNNPO 1MD ""OOVBM 3FQPSU %FDFNCFS"
