104 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Governance Directors statements Directors responsibilities Going concern The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to thenancial statements in accordance with applicable law and affect its future development, performance and position are set out in regulations.
The Directors have chosen to prepare the financial the business review on pages 26 to 40.
The financial position of the statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Company, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities Standards IFRS.
The Directors are also responsible for the aredescribed in the financial review on pages 44 to 46.
In addition, preparation of the Directors remuneration report, which they have note 31 to the financial statements include the Companys objectives, chosen to prepare, being under no obligation to do so under Jersey policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk law.
The Directors are also responsible for the preparation of the management objectives: details of its financial instruments and corporate governance report under the Listing Rules.
hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Jersey Company law the Law requires the Directors to prepare The Company has considerable financial resources together with financial statements for each financial period in accordance with long-term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements acrossdifferent geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, arerequired by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage ofthe Company at the period end and the profit or loss of the itsbusiness risks successfully despite the current uncertain Company for the period then ended.
In preparing these financial economicoutlook.
statements, the Directors should: The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the t make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern t specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
adopted in their preparation t prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it Responsibility statement under the is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the Directors listed on pages 62 and 63 confirm that to the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records best of their knowledge: which are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and as such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the t the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit financial statements prepared by the Company comply with the Law.
of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company taken as a whole: and and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and t the operating and financial review includes a fair view of the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks thecorporate and financial information included on the Companys and uncertainties that they face.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors approach The Boards objective is to present a balanced and understandable By order of the Board assessment of the Companys position and prospects, particularly in the annual report, half year report formerly the interim report and Tim Weller other published documents and reports to regulators.
The Board has Chief Financial officer established an Audit Committee to assist with this obligation.
