Strategy & Performance Overview Operations & Development Exploration, Reserves & Resources Sustainability Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Petropavlovsk PLC For the year ended 31 December 2012 We have audited the financial statements Scope of the audit of the Opinion on other matters prescribed by of Petropavlovsk PLC for the year ended financial statements the Companies Act 2006 31 December 2012 which comprise the An audit involves obtaining evidence about In our opinion: Consolidated Income Statement, the the amounts and disclosures in the financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive statements sufficient to give reasonable Report to be audited has been properly Income, the Consolidated Statement of assurance that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance free from material misstatement, whether Companies Act 2006: and Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Statement, and the related notes 1 to 37, assessment of: whether the accounting the information given in the Directors the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the policies are appropriate to the groups Report for the financial year for which related notes 1 to 11.
The financial reporting and the parent companys circumstances the financial statements are prepared is framework that has been applied in the and have been consistently applied and consistent with the financial statements.
preparation of the group financial statements adequately disclosed: the reasonableness is applicable law and International Financial of significant accounting estimates made Matters on which we are required to Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the directors: and the overall presentation report by exception by the European Union.
The financial of the financial statements.
We have nothing to report in respect of reporting framework that has been applied the following.
in the preparation of the parent company In addition, we read all the financial and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are financial statements is applicable law and non-financial information in the annual report required to report to you if, in our opinion: United Kingdom Accounting Standards to identify material inconsistencies with the United Kingdom Generally Accepted audited financial statements.
If we become adequate accounting records have not Accounting Practice.
aware of any apparent material misstatements been kept by the parent company, or or inconsistencies, we consider the returns adequate for our audit have not This report is made solely to the companys implications for our report.
been received from branches not visited members, as a body, in accordance with by us: or Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Opinion on financial statements the parent company financial statements 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken In our opinion: and the part of the Directors Remuneration so that we might state to the companys the financial statements give a true and fair Report to be audited are not in agreement members those matters we are required to view of the state of the groups and of the with the accounting records and state to them in an auditors report and for parent companys affairs as at 31 December returns: or no other purpose.
To the fullest extent 2012 and of the groups profit for the year permitted by law, we do not accept or certain disclosures of directors then ended: assume responsibility to anyone other than remuneration specified by law are the company and the companys members the group financial statements have been not made: or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs we have not received all the information and or for the opinions we have formed.
as adopted by the European Union: explanations we require for our audit.
the parent company financial statements Respective responsibilities of directors have been properly prepared in accordance Under the Listing Rules we are required and auditor with United Kingdom Generally Accepted to review: As explained more fully in the Directors Accounting Practice: and Responsibilities Statement, the directors are the directors statement, contained responsible for the preparation of the financial the financial statements have been prepared within note 2.1 to the financial statements, statements and for being satisfied that they in accordance with the requirements of the in relation to going concern: give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the the part of the Corporate Governance audit and express an opinion on the financial group financial statements, Article 4 of the Statement relating to the companys statements in accordance with applicable IAS Regulation.
compliance with the nine provisions of the law and International Standards on Auditing UK Corporate Governance Code specified UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us for our review: and to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Douglas King Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 27 March 2013 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2012 119
