Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Playtech Limited We have audited the financial statements of Playtech Limited for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash flow and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
This report is made solely to the Companys members as a body, in accordance with Section 80C of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company, and the Companys members as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinion we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable Isle of Man company law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
cfm Opinion on the financial statements In our opinion: t The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: t The Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board: and t The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Isle of Man Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
BDO LLP Chartered Accountants London United Kingdom 14 March 2013 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
