B C & INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF QINETIQ GROUP PLC We hae audited the financial statements S M of QineQ Group plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 set out on pages 58 to 105.
A descripon of the scope of an audit of We hae nothing to report in respect The financial reporng framework that financial statements is proided on the of the following: has been applied in the preparaon of the APBs website at www.
uk apb hnder the Companies Act 2006 we are Group financial statements is applicable scope priate.
required to report to you if, in our opinion: law and Internaonal Financial Reporng O Adequate accounng records hae not Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Eh.
The In our opinion: financial reporng framework that has been been kept by the parent company, or The financial statements gie a true and applied in the preparaon of the parent returns adequate for our audit hae not company financial statements is applicable fair iew of the state of the Groups and been receied from branches not isited law and h Accounng Standards h of the parent companys aairs as at by us: or Generally Accepted Accounng Pracce.
31 March 2012 and of the Groups profit The parent company financial for the year then ended: statements and the part of the Directors This report is made solely to the Companys The Group financial statements hae Remuneraon Report to be audited are members, as a body, in accordance with been properly prepared in accordance not in agreement with the accounng Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act with IFRSs as adopted by the Eh: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken records and returns: or The parent company financial statements so that we might state to the Companys Certain disclosures of Directors members those maers we are required hae been properly prepared in remuneraon specified by law are to state to them in an auditors report and accordance with h Generally Accepted not made: or for no other purpose.
To the fullest etent Accounng Pracces: We hae not receied all the informaon permied by law, we do not accept or The financial statements hae been and eplanaons we require for our audit.
assume responsibility to anyone other than prepared in accordance with the hnder the Lisng Rules we are required the Company and the Companys members, requirements of the Companies Act to reiew: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, 2006: and, as regards the Group or for the opinions we hae formed.
The Directors statement, set out on financial statements, Arcle 4 of page 43, in relaon to going concern: the IAS Regulaon.
R D The part of the corporate goernance O statement on pages 36 to 43 relang As eplained more fully in the Directors C A 2006 to the Companys compliance with responsibilies statement set out on page In our opinion: the nine proisions of the h Corporate 56, the Directors are responsible for the The part of the Directors remuneraon Goernance code specified for our reiew: preparaon of the financial statements report to be audited has been properly Certain elements of the report and for being sased that they gie a true prepared in accordance with the to shareholders by the Board on and fair iew.
Our responsibility is to audit, Companies Act 2006: Directors remuneraon.
and epress an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable The informaon gien in the Directors Mike Maloney law and Internaonal Standards on report for the financial year for which S S A Auding h and Ireland.
Those standards the financial statements are prepared is for and on behalf of PMG Audit Plc require us to comply with the Auding consistent with the financial statements.
Statutory Auditor Pracces Boards APBs Ethical Standards Chartered Accountants for Auditors.
15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 24 May 2012 YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012 57
