Report of the independent auditors to the members of Randgold Resources Limited We have audited the accompanying financial statements Q have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as of Randgold Resources Limited the company which adopted by the European Union: and comprise the statement of financial position of the company Q have been prepared in accordance with Companies as of 31 December 2012 and the statement of changes in Jersey Law 1991. equity and statement of cash ows for the year then ended and consolidated statement of financial position of the Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued company and its subsidiaries and joint ventures the group by the IASB as of 31 December 2012 and the consolidated statement of As explained in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes the group, in addition to complying with its obligation to in equity and consolidated statement of cash ows for the prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with year then ended and the related notes.
The financial reporting IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also complied framework that has been applied in their preparation is with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Board IASB.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements comply This report is made solely to the companys members, as a with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Matters on which we are required to report by that we might state to the companys members those matters exception we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for We have nothing to report in respect of the following: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to company and the companys members as a body, for our audit report to you if, in our opinion: work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Q proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns adequate for our audit have not been received from Respective responsibilities of directors and branches not visited by us: or auditors Q As explained more fully in the statement of directors the financial statements are not in agreement with the responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation accounting records and returns: or of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give Q we have not received all the information and explanations a true and fair view.
The directors are required to comply with the requirements of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of rules 9.8.
7A of the Listing Rules of the UK Financial the corporate governance statement relating to the companys Services Authority in preparing its annual report.
compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APB Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Scott McNaughton A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements Senior statutory auditor is provided on the APBs website at www.
BDO LLP Chartered Accountants Opinion on financial statements London In our opinion the financial statements: 14 March 2013 Q give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and the companys affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales groups profit for the year then ended: with registered number OC305127.
