Not Inde es t pen o th den e fin t Audit ancial st ors Rat ep e o m rt t en o th ts ce m ontie nmb ueders of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements Opinion on Financial Statements Other matter of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc for the year In our opinion the Group financial statements: We have reported separately on the Parent ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Company financial statements of Reckitt Give a true and fair view of the state of the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement Benckiser Group plc for the year ended Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of Comprehensive Income, the Group Balance 31 December 2012 and on the information in of its profit and cash flows for the year then Sheet, the Group Statement of Changes in the Directors Remuneration Report that is ended: Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement and the described as having been audited.
The financial reporting framework Have been properly prepared in accordance that has been applied in their preparation is with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: applicable law and International Financial and Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Have been prepared in accordance with the European Union.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor Respective Responsibilities of Directors Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
for and on behalf of and Auditors Separate Opinion in Relation to IFRSs as  LLP As explained more fully in the Statement of issued by the IASB Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Directors Responsibilities set out on page 30, As explained in note 1 to the Group financial London the Directors are responsible for the preparation statements, the Group in addition to complying 8 March 2013 of the Group financial statements and for being with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
adopted by the European Union, has also Our responsibility is to audit and express an applied IFRSs as issued by the International opinion on the Group financial statements in Accounting Standards Board IASB.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and In our opinion the Group financial statements Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Standards for Auditors.
Companies Act 2006 This report, including the opinions, has been In our opinion the information given in the prepared for and only for the Companys Report of the Directors for the financial year members as a body in accordance with Chapter for which the Group financial statements 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for are prepared is consistent with the Group no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these financial statements.
opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Matters on which We are Required to other purpose or to any other person to whom Report by Exception this report is shown or into whose hands it may We have nothing to report in respect of come save where expressly agreed by our prior the following: consent in writing.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required Scope of the Audit of the Financial to report to you if, in our opinion: Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration the amounts and disclosures in the financial specified by law are not made: or statements sufficient to give reasonable We have not received all the information and assurance that the financial statements are free explanations we require for our audit.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: Under the Listing Rules we are required whether the accounting policies are appropriate to review: to the Groups circumstances and have been The Directors statement, set out on page 30, consistently applied and adequately disclosed: in relation to going concern: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the The part of the Corporate Governance overall presentation of the financial statements.
Statement relating to the Companys In addition, we read all the financial and compliance with the nine provisions of the UK non-financial information in the annual report Corporate Governance Code specified for our to identify material inconsistencies with the review: and audited financial statements.
If we become Certain elements of the report to Shareholders aware of any apparent material misstatements by the Board on Directors remuneration.
or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our Report.
