Auditors report To the Shareholders of Regus plc S. A.
26, Boulevard Royal L-2449 Luxembourg REPORT OF THE REVISEUR DENTREPRISES AGREE Opinion Report on the consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements, as set out on We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial pages 43 to 89, give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial statements of Regus plc socit anonyme, which comprise position of Regus plc socit anonyme as of 31 December 2012, the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2012 and and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and a Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory Report on other legal and regulatory requirements information, as set out on pages 43 to 89.
The consolidated Directors report, including the corporate Board of Directors responsibility for the consolidated governance statement, which is the responsibility of the Board of financial statements Directors, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and and includes the information required by the law with respect to fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in the Corporate Governance Statement.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and for such internal control KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the Cabinet fide rvision agr preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free Thierry Ravasio from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Luxembourg, 5 March 2013 Responsibility of the Rviseur dEntreprises agr Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted for Luxembourg by the Commission fide Surveillance du Secteur Financier.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the judgement of the Rviseur dEntreprises agr, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the Rviseur dEntreprises agr considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
42 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
