Independent auditors report to the members of The Restaurant Group plc We have audited the Group financial statements of The Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Restaurant Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 30 December Companies Act 2006 2012 which comprise the consolidated income statement, In our opinion the information given in the report of the the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Directors for the financial year for which the Group financial consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated statements are prepared is consistent with the Group balance sheet, the consolidated cash ow statement and the financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and Matters on which we are required to report International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as by exception adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the to you if, in our opinion: Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified so that we might state to the Companys members those by law are not made: or matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report we have not received all the information and explanations and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by we require for our audit.
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the Directors statement, contained within the report we have formed.
of the Directors, in relation to going concern: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that our review: and they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the express an opinion on the Group financial statements in Board on Directors remuneration.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Other matter comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards We have reported separately on the parent company financial for Auditors.
statements of The Restaurant Group plc for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2012 and on the information in Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors remuneration report that is described as having An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and been audited.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Mark Lee-Amies, FCA Senior statutory auditor from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and London, United Kingdom have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: 27 February 2013 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 December 2012 and of its profit for the 52 week period then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
36 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc
