Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 85 Independent auditors report to the members of SABMiller plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the SABMillerplc for the year ended 31March 2012 which comprise Companies Act 2006 theconsolidated income statement, the consolidated statement In our opinion, the information given in the directors report for the ofcomprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the financial year for which the consolidated financial statements are consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement prepared is consistent with the consolidated financial statements.
ofchanges in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law Matters on which we are required to report by exception and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted We have nothing to report in respect of the following: bythe European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors inour opinion: As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the consolidated certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true arenot made: or andfair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion we have not received all the information and explanations we onthe financial statements in accordance with applicable law and require for our audit.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Standards for Auditors.
the directors statement in relation to going concern: and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the part of the corporate governance report relating to the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of thecompanys compliance with the nine provisions of the Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do  Code specified for our review: and not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any certain elements of the directors remuneration report.
other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown orinto whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by Other matter ourprior consent in writing.
We have reported separately on the company financial statements ofSABMiller plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 and on the Scope of the audit of the financial statements information in the directors remuneration report that is described An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and ashaving been audited.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Richard Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an for and on behalf of  LLP assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors thegroups circumstances and have been consistently applied and London adequately disclosed: the reasonableness ofsignificant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of 11 June 2012 thefinancial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the SABMiller plc Annual Report to identifymaterial inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at31March 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
