Independent auditors report to the members of The Sage Group plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of The Sage Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2012 which comprise the In our opinion: Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the parent Company financial statements are prepared Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors is consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent Matters on which we are required to report by exception Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: the parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards visited by us: or for Auditors.
the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of returns: or the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come not made: or save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for Scope of the audit of the financial statements our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Other matters in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused of The Sage Group plc for the year ended 30 September 2012. by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have The maintenance and integrity of The Sage Group plc website is the been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report & Accounts to identify statements since they were initially presented on the website.
material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Charles Bowman Senior Statutory Auditor have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies for and on behalf of  LLP Act 2006.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Newcastle upon Tyne 5 December 2012 The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 125 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
