Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 128 Independent auditors report to the members of SevernTrent Plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 which In our opinion: comprise the company balance sheet, the company statement the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited of total recognised gains and losses, and the related notes 1 to has been properly prepared in accordance with Companies 17.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in Act 2006: and their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom the information given in the Directors report for the financial Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted year for which the financial statements are prepared is Accounting Practice.
consistent with the parent company financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a Matters on which we are required to report by exception body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in might state to the companys members those matters we are our opinion: required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent company financial statements and the part of the work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor agreement with the accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of are not made: or the parent company financial statements and for being we have not received all the information and explanations we satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is require for our audit.
to audit and express an opinion on the parent company Other matter financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March 2012. standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Carl D Hughes Senior statutory auditor disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
London, UK This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies 29 May 2012 are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
