Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 75 Independent auditors report to the membersofSevernTrent Plc We have audited the group financial statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act2006 SevernTrentPlc for the year ended 31 March 2012 which In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated the financial year for which the group financial statements are statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
statement of changes in equity, the consolidated balance Matters on which we are required to report by exception sheet, the consolidated cash ow statement, and the related We have nothing to report in respect of the following: notes 1 to 40.
The financial reporting framework that has been Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you applied in their preparation is applicable law and International if, in our opinion: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or This report is made solely to the companys members, as a we have not received all the information and explanations we body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies require for our audit.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other the directors statement, contained within the Directors purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not report, in relation to going concern: accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the the part of the Chairmans letter relating to the companys company and the companys members as a body, for our audit compliance with the nine provisions of UK Corporate work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Governance Code specified for our review: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility on directors remuneration.
statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of Other matters the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they We have reported separately on the parent company financial give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and statements of Severn Trent Plc for the year ended 31 March express an opinion on the group financial statements in 2012 and on the information in the Remuneration Committee accordance with applicable law and International Standards on report that is described as having been audited.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Carl D Hughes Senior statutory auditor Scope of the audit of the financial statements for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free London, UK 29 May 2012 from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 March 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
