Independent auditors report to the members of Shire plc We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet Matters on which we are required to report by exception of Shire plc and subsidiaries together, the Group as of We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where December 31, 2012 and the related consolidated statements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires us to report to you if, in income, equity, comprehensive income and cash ows for the year our opinion: ended December 31, 2012 and the related Notes 1 to 31 together, Q proper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns the Financial Statements.
These Financial Statements have been adequate for our audit have not been received from branches prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally not visited by us: or accepted in the United States of America.
We have also audited the information in the Directors remuneration report that is Q the Financial Statements are not in agreement with the described as having been audited.
accounting records and returns: or This report is made solely to the Groups members, as a body in Q we have not received all the information and explanations accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. we require for our audit.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Matters on which we are required to report by the Groups members those matters we are required to state to them Listing Rules in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We have nothing to report in respect of our duty under the permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Listing Rules to review: anyone other than the Group and the Groups members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Q the Directors statement contained within the Financial have formed.
Statements in relation to going concern: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Q the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Groups compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Directors remuneration report and the Financial Statements are set Governance Code specified for our review: and out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility Q certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on is to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements and Directors remuneration.
the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and Other matters International Standards on Auditing United Kingdom and Republic We have reported separately on the parent company financial of Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the United statements of Shire plc for the year ended December 31, 2012.
Kingdom Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
In our opinion: Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements Q the Financial Statements have been properly prepared in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 that disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable would have applied were the Group incorporated in the United assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material Kingdom: misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Q the information given in the Directors report for the financial year the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting with the Financial Statements: and estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Q the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has non financial information in the Annual Report to identify material been properly prepared in accordance with the United Kingdom inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become Companies Act 2006 that would have applied were the Group aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies incorporated in the United Kingdom.
we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on the Financial Statements James Bates In our opinion the Financial Statements: For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognized Auditors Q present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the London, United Kingdom Group as of December 31, 2012 and the results of its operations February 25, 2013 and cash ows for the year ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America: and Q have been properly prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
