marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business review review and principal risks governance other information section 7 accounts and other information 91 Independent auditors UK Report Independent auditors US Reports Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Matters on which we are required to report Report of Independent Registered Public Report of Independent Registered Public Smith & Nephew plc by exception Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and Accounting Firm to the Board of Directors and We have audited the Group accounts of Smith & Nephew plc for the year ended We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Shareholders of Smith & Nephew plc Shareholders of Smith & Nephew plc 31 December 2012 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have audited the accompanying Group balance sheets of Smith & Nephew We have audited Smith & Nephew plcs internal control over financial reporting Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash plc as of 31 December 2012 and 2011, and the related Group income as of 31 December 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or statements, Group statements of comprehensive income, Group cash flow Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations 1 to 24.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their we have not received all the information and explanations we require for statements and Group statements of changes in equity for each of the three years of the Treadway Commission the COSO criteria.
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards our audit.
in the period ended 31 December 2012.
These financial statements are the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Smith & Nephew plcs management is responsible for maintaining effective responsibility of the Companys management.
Our responsibility is to express Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying the Directors statement, set out on page 51, in relation to going concern: and with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.
Our undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan responsibility is to express an opinion on the Companys internal control over we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code: and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial financial reporting based on our audit.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility and statements are free of material misstatement.
An audit includes examining, to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and remuneration.
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor for our opinion.
Other matter reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility Statement set out on In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based We have reported separately on the Company financial statements of Smith & page 89 the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial material respects, the consolidated financial position of Smith & Nephew plc at on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered Nephew plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our 31 December 2012 and 2011, and the consolidated results of its operations necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December basis for our opinion.
in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK 2012, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to the International Accounting Standards Board and International Financial Reporting Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Separate Opinion in Relation to IFRSs provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and Standards as adopted by the European Union.
As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as adopted by the European We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over Union, has also compiled with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Scope of the audit of the accounts Accounting Oversight Board United States, Smith & Nephew plcs internal control financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the Standards Board.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the over financial reporting as of 31 December 2012, based on criteria established in maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable In our opinion the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Organisations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated 20 February assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and of its profit for the year then ended.
to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company: Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we Ernst & Young LLP and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection Les Clifford Senior statutory auditor read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify London, England of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the companys assets that could for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become 20 February 2013 have a material effect on the financial statements.
London aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 20 February 2013 Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may the implications for our report.
not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance Opinion on financial statements with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
In our opinion the Group financial statements: In our opinion, Smith & Nephew plc maintained, in all material respects, effective give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2012, based on the 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: COSO criteria.
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company European Union: and Accounting Oversight Board United States, the Group balance sheets of Smith & Nephew plc as of 31 December 2012 and 2011, and the related Group income have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies statements, Group statements of comprehensive income, Group cash flow Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
statements and Group statements of changes in equity for each of the three years in the period ended 31 December 2012 and our report dated 20 February 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Ernst & Young LLP In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year London, England for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the 20 February 2013 Group financial statements.
