overview business review governance financial statements Independent audItors report to the members of spIrent CommunICatIons plC We have audited the Group financial statements of Spirent have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which as adopted by the European Union: and comprise the Consolidated income statement, the Consolidated have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated balance the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
sheet, the Consolidated cash flow statement and the Consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 34.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting the financial year for which the Group financial statements are Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the in our opinion: fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this are not made: or report, or for the opinions we have formed.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Statement set out on page 49, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being the directors statement, set out on page 47, in relation to satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility going concern: and is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to statements in accordance with applicable law and International the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the parent Company financial disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable statements of Spirent Communications plc for the year ended assurance that the financial statements are free from material 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Karl Havers Senior Statutory Auditor adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of London the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and 28 February 2013 nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material Notes inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website become aware of any apparent material misstatements or is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Opinion on financial statements 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination In our opinion the Group financial statements: of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: 69
