overview business review governance financial statements Independent audItors report to the members of spIrent CommunICatIons plC We have audited the parent Company financial statements of have been properly prepared in accordance with United Spirent Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and which comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the related have been prepared in accordance with the requirements notes 1 to 19.
The financial reporting framework that has been of the Companies Act 2006. applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Accounting Practice.
In our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Act 2006: and Companys members those matters we are required to state to the information given in the Directors Report for the financial them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest year for which the financial statements are prepared is extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions Matters on which we are required to report by exception we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 49, the directors are responsible adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent for the preparation of the parent Company financial statements Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our received from branches not visited by us: or responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent the parent Company financial statements and the part of Company financial statements in accordance with applicable the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations Scope of the audit of the financial statements we require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Other matter reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Spirent Communications plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and Karl Havers Senior Statutory Auditor have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made London by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial 28 February 2013 statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Notes nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Spirent Communications plc website is material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditor does not If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditor accepts or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Opinion on financial statements of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: 117
