67 Independent auditors report to the members of Sports Direct International plc We have audited the group financial statements of Sports Direct International plc for the 53 week period ended 29 April 2012 which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash ow statement, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act We have nothing to report in respect of the following: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To in our opinion: the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume s certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the are not made: or opinions we have formed.
s we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, s a Corporate Governance Statement has not been prepared by the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group the company.
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those s the directors statement in relation to going concern: and standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
s the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Scope of the audit of the financial statements Corporate Governance Code 2010 specified for our review: A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is and provided on the APBs website at www.
s certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial s give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at statements of Sports Direct International plc for the 53 week 29 April 2012 and of its profit for the 53 week period then period ended 29 April 2012 and on the information in the Directors ended: Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
s have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Paul Etherington BSc FCA CF s have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Senior Statutory Auditor the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies London Act 2006 19 July 2012 In our opinion: s the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements: and s the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 50 to 55 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
