106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Independent auditors report to the members of Sports Direct International plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Sports Direct International plc for the 53 week period ended 29 April 2012 which comprise the parent company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: companys members those matters we are required to state to them s adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to received from branches not visited by us: or anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we s the parent company financial statements and the part of have formed.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, s certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent not made: or company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an s we have not received all the information and explanations we opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance require for our audit.
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Other matter Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of Sports Direct International plc for the 53 week period ended 29 Scope of the audit of the financial statements April 2012.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Paul Etherington BSc FCA CF Opinion on financial statements Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the parent company financial statements: for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants s give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at London 29 April 2012: 19 July 2012 s have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and s have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
