Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Stobart Group Limited We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Stobart Group Opinion on Financial Statements Limited for the year ended 29 February 2012 which comprise the In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial at 29 February 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash-flow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 29.
The Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as financial reporting framework that has been applied in their adopted by the European Union: and preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Have been properly prepared in accordance with the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
requirements of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 we are required to permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone report to you if, in our opinion: other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for Proper accounting records have not been kept by the Group: our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
The Groups financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 44, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Groups compliance a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with specified for our review.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Other Matter Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of Stobart Group Limited for the year ended 29 February Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements 2012.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material Gary Harding misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Manchester assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 18 May 2012 the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
