Group financial statements Synthomer plc Synthomer plc Annual r Annual repor eport 2 t 20 01 12 2 41 41 Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Synthomer plc for the Opinion on financial statements year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated income In our opinion the Group financial statements: statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the s give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated balance 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash ows for the year sheet, the Analysis of net borrowings, the Consolidated cash ow statement then ended: and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been s have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial by the European Union: and: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
s have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 on page 40, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group In our opinion: financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group s the information given in the Report of the directors for the financial year financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to the Group financial statements.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or in our opinion: to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it s certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
made: or s we have not received all the information and explanations we require Scope of the audit of the financial statements for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting s the directors statement, set out on page 29, in relation to policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been going concern: consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of s the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall companys compliance with the nine provisions of UK Corporate presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial Governance Code specified for our review: and and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material s certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware directors remuneration.
of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Synthomer plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors St Albans 14 March 2013
