Company financial statements Synthomer plc Annual report 2012 79 Independent auditors report to the members of Synthomer plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Synthomer plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which In our opinion the parent company financial statements: comprise the parent Company balance sheet and the related notes.
s give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their 31 December 2012: preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting s have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and s have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Companies Act 2006.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 40, the directors are responsible for the preparation Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that In our opinion: they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance s the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing and Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
s the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed s adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent by our prior consent in writing.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements s the parent company financial statements and the part of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable with the accounting records and returns: or assurance that the financial statements are free from material s certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an not made: or assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to s we have not received all the information and explanations we require the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently for our audit.
applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall Other matter presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all We have reported separately on the Group financial statements the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to of Synthomer plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Andrew Latham Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors St Albans 14 March 2013
