Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 67 Independent auditors report to the Directors of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2012 Act2006 which comprise the Parent Company balance sheet, the Parent In our opinion: Company reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited and the related notes 1 to 9.
The financial reporting framework has been properly prepared in accordance with the that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and Companies Act 2006: and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Matters on which we are required to report by exception state to the Companys members those matters we are required We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or in our opinion: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body for our audit work, for this adequate accounting records have not been kept by the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor the Parent Company financial statements and the part of As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company law are not made: or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and we have not received all the information and explanations we International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those require for our audit.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matters We have reported separately on the Group financial statements Scope of the audit of the financial statements of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC for the year.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Peter ODonoghue Senior Statutory Auditor reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies London, United Kingdom are appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and 16 May 2012 have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012
