Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 31 Independent auditors report to the members of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of TalkTalk Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Telecom Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2012, which Act2006 comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for ofcomprehensive income, the Group statement of changes the financial year for which the Group financial statements are inequity, the Group balance sheet, the Group cash ow prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
statement and the related notes 1 to 26.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is Matters on which we are required to report by exception applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards We have nothing to report in respect of the following: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a youif, in our opinion: body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might law are not made: or state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
we have not received all the information and explanations we To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or require for our audit.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: and the Companys members as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors statement, contained within the financial statements, in relation to going concern: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with on Directors remuneration.
applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Other matters Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC for the year ended Scope of the audit of the financial statements 31 March 2012 and on the information in the Directors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
anddisclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Peter ODonoghue Senior Statutory Auditor from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have London, United Kingdom been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the 16 May 2012 reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by theDirectors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at31 March 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012
