Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Independent Auditors Report to the members of Taylor Wimpey plc We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Taylor Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Wimpey plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise Companies Act 2006 the Company Balance Sheet, and the related notes 1 to 18.
The In our opinion: financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the parent Company financial statements.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Matters on which we are required to report by exception permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where anyone other than the Company and the Companys members the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent we have formed.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the parent Company financial statements and the part of the the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they with the accounting records and returns: or give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law an opinion on the parent Company financial statements in accordance are not made: or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing we have not received all the information and explanations Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matters An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable of Taylor Wimpey plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the Colin Hudson FCA Senior Statutory Auditor financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors become aware of any apparent material misstatements or London, United Kingdom inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
28 February 2013 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
102 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012
