Directors Report: Business Review p02-27 Directors Report: Governance p28-60 Financial Statements p61-111 Shareholder Information p112-121 Independent Auditors Report We have audited the Group financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the consistent with the Group financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 32.
The financial reporting Matters on which we are required to report by exception framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, the European Union.
in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. not made: or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them we have not received all the information and explanations we in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent require for our audit.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the Directors Statement contained within the Directors Report have formed.
on Corporate Governance in relation to going concern: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group on Directors remuneration.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Other matters International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those We have reported separately on the parent Company standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices financial statements of Taylor Wimpey plc for the year ended Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors Scope of the audit of the financial statements Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the Colin Hudson, FCA Senior Statutory Auditor financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditor become aware of any apparent material misstatements or London, United Kingdom inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
28 February 2013 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
