TRAVIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Travis Perkins plc FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 We have audited the financial statements of Travis Perkins plc I]Z [ cVcX Va hiViZbZcih ]VkZ WZZc egZeVgZY c VXXdgYVcXZ l i] for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise Group the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the and Parent Company Income Statements, the Group and Parent Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Company Statements of Comprehensive Income, the Group and Parent Company Balance Sheets, the Group and Parent Company Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group and Parent Company As explained in note 1 to the group financial statements, the Group Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion the group financial statements comply with IFRSs This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, as issued by the IASB.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Companys members those matters we are required to state to them In our opinion: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent I]Z eVgi d[ i]Z 9 gZXidgh GZbjcZgVi dc GZedgi id WZ VjY iZY ]Vh permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for 2006: and our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
I]Z c[dgbVi dc kZc c i]Z 9 gZXidgh GZedgi [dg i]Z [ cVcX Va nZVg for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Matters on which we are required to report by exception statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, statements in accordance with applicable law and International in our opinion: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us 6YZfjViZ VXXdjci c gZXdgYh ]VkZ cdi WZZc `Zei Wn i]Z EVgZci to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Auditors.
from branches not visited by us: or I]Z EVgZci 8dbeVcn [ cVcX Va hiViZbZcih VcY i]Z eVgi d[ i]Z Scope of the audit of the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and with the accounting records and returns: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 8ZgiV c Y hXadhjgZh d[ Y gZXidgh gZbjcZgVi dc heZX [ ZY Wn aVl VgZ assurance that the financial statements are free from material not made: or misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an LZ ]VkZ cdi gZXZ kZY Vaa i]Z c[dgbVi dc VcY ZmeaVcVi dch lZ assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to require for our audit.
the Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances and have been Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness I]Z 9 gZXidgh hiViZbZci!
XdciV cZY l i] c i]Z : cVcXZ 9 gZXidgh of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and review of the year, in relation to going concern: the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, I]Z eVgi d[ i]Z 8dgedgViZ dkZgcVcXZ HiViZbZci gZaVi c id we read all the financial and non-financial information in the the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material 8ZgiV c ZaZbZcih d[ i]Z gZedgi id h]VgZ]daYZgh Wn i]Z 7dVgY dc misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for directors remuneration.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: I]Z [ cVcX Va hiViZbZcih kZ V igjZ VcY [V g k Zl d[ i]Z hiViZ d[ the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December Colin Hudson FCA Senior statutory auditor 2012 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys profit for the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP year then ended: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor I]Z [ cVcX Va hiViZbZcih ]VkZ WZZc egdeZgan egZeVgZY c London, United Kingdom accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and 3 April 2013 81 GOVERNANCE
