FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of Tullow Oil plc 5 We have audited the Group financial statements of Tullow Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Oil plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise As explained in the accounting policies to the Group financial the Group income statement, the Group statement of statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal comprehensive income and expense, the Group balance obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, sheet, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International cash flow statement, the accounting policies and the related Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The financial reporting framework that has been In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with applied in their preparation is applicable law and International IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies This report is made solely to the Companys members, Act 2006 as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so the financial year for which the Group financial statements are that we might state to the Companys members those matters prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Matters on which we are required to report by exception do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities by law are not made: or Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation We have not received all the information and explanations of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that we require for our audit.
they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: accordance with applicable law and International Standards The Directors statement contained within the Directors on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to report in relation to going concern: comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
The part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions Scope of the audit of the financial statements of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts review: and and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Board on Directors remuneration.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Other matter policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and We have reported separately on the parent company financial have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: statements of Tullow Oil plc for the year ended 31 December the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 2012 and on the information in the Directors remuneration by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial report that is described as having been audited.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Carl D Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year London, UK then ended: 12 February 2013 Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
