174 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Vedanta Resources plc We have audited the financial statements of Vedanta Opinion on Financial Statements Resources plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 which In our opinion the parent company financial statements: comprise the balance sheet and the related notes 43 to 55. give a true and fair view of the parent Companys affairs as The financial reporting framework that has been applied in at 31 March 2012: their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom have been properly prepared in accordance with United Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Companies Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so Act2006 that we might state to the Companys members those matters In our opinion: we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Companies Act 2006: and the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our the information given in the Directors Report for the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent Company financial Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor statements As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the Matters on Which we are Required to Report by Exception preparation of the parent Company financial statements for We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent in our opinion: company financial statements in accordance with applicable adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of:whether the accounting Other matter policies are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of Vedanta Resources plc for the year ended adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 31March 2012. presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual Andrew Kelly Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
16 May 2012 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
