98 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Vedanta Resources plc We have audited the financial statements of Vedanta Opinion on Financial Statements Resources plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 which In our opinion the group financial statements: comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the at 31 March 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity adopted by the European Union: and and the related notes 1 to 42.
The financial reporting have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of framework that has been applied in their preparation is the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Companies Act2006 This report is made solely to the companys members, as a In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the for the financial year for which the group financial statements Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so are prepared is consistent with the group financial statements.
that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Matters on Which we are Required to Report by Exception no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we We have nothing to report in respect of the following: do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor law are not made: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in the Directors statement, contained within the Directors Report, in relation to going concern: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Other Matter reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Vedanta Resources plc for the year ended This includes an assessment of:whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and 31March 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by beenaudited.
the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonAndrew Kelly Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
16 May 2012 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
