Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of WH Opinion on financial statements Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2012 which comprise the In our opinion the parent company financial statements: Company Balance Sheet and the related Notes 1 to 9.
The financial give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is as at 31 August 2012: applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Companys members those matters we are required to state to them In our opinion: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has anyone other than the Company and the Companys members been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions 2006: and we have formed.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors the parent company financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent Matters on which we are required to report by exception company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing from branches not visited by us: or Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and with the accounting records and returns: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are assurance that the financial statements are free from material not made: or misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an we have not received all the information and explanations we assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to require for our audit.
the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently Other matters applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2012. presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to Stephen Griggs Senior Statutory Auditor identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
London, United Kingdom 11 October 2012 WH Smith PLC 72 Annual report and accounts 2012
