1 1 O Ov five er rv viie ew w 2 2 D Diir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t a an nd d b bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w 3 3 G Go ov five er rn na an nc ce e 4 4 F Fiin na an nc ciia al l s st ta at te em me en nt ts s Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WH Smith PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of WH Smith PLC for Opinion on financial statements the year ended 31 August 2012 which comprise the Group Income In our opinion the Group financial statements: Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group 31 August 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: Statement of Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 27. have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their by the European Union: and preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Companys members those matters we are required to state to them consistent with the Group financial statements.
in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Matters on which we are required to report by exception anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a We have nothing to report in respect of the following: body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, not made: or the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group we have not received all the information and explanations we financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and require for our audit.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the directors statement contained within the Directors report standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards in relation to going concern: APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free directors remuneration.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Other matters This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are We have reported separately on the parent company financial appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently statements of WH Smith PLC for the year ended 31 August 2012 applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall is described as having been audited.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to Stephen Griggs Senior Statutory Auditor identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
London, United Kingdom 11 October 2012 WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 41
