Independent auditors report to This includes an assessment of: Governance Statement on pages 28 to 34 in the Annual Report and themembers of Whitbread PLC whether the accounting policies Accounts 2011 12 relating to the We have audited the Group financial areappropriate to the Groups Companys compliance with the statements of Whitbread PLC circumstances and have been nine provisions of the UK Corporate for the year ended 1 March 2012 consistently applied and adequately Governance Code specified for our which comprise the Consolidated disclosed: the reasonableness of review: and Income Statement, the Consolidated significant accounting estimates certain elements of the report Statement of Comprehensive made by the directors: and the to shareholders by the Board on Income, the Consolidated overall presentation of the financial directors' remuneration.
Statement of Changes in Equity, statements.
In addition, we read theConsolidated Balance Sheet, all the financial and non-financial Other matter theConsolidated Cash Flow information in the Annual Report We have reported separately on Statement and the related notes toidentify material inconsistencies theparent company financial 1 to 34.
The financial reporting with the audited financial statements.
statements of Whitbread PLC for framework that has been applied If we become aware of any the year ended 1 March 2012 and in their preparation is applicable apparent material misstatements on the information in the directors law and International Financial or inconsistencies we consider the remuneration report that is ReportingStandards IFRSs as implications for our report.
described as having been audited.
adopted by the European Union.
Opinion on financial statements Les Clifford This report is made solely to the In our opinion the Group financial Senior statutory auditor Companys members, as a body, in statements: for and on behalf of Ernst & Young accordance with Chapter 3 of Part give a true and fair view of the state LLP, Statutory Auditor 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our of the Groups affairs as at 1 March audit work has been undertaken 2012 and of its profit for the year London so that we might state to the then ended: Companys members those matters have been properly prepared in 25 April 2012 we are required to state to them accordance with IFRSs as adopted in an auditors report and for no by the European Union: and other purpose.
To the fullest extent have been prepared in accordance permitted by law, we do not accept with the requirements of the or assume responsibility to anyone Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 other than the Company and the of the IAS Regulation.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or Opinion on other matter prescribed forthe opinions we have formed.
by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given Respective responsibilities in the Directors report for the of directors and auditors financial year for which the Group As explained more fully in the financial statements are prepared Directors Responsibilities Statement isconsistent with the Group on page 46, the directors are financialstatements.
responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and Matters on which we are required for being satisfied that they give a to report by exception true and fair view.
Our responsibility We have nothing to report in respect is to audit and express an opinion of the following: on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Under the Companies Act 2006 International Standards on Auditing weare required to report to you if, UK and Ireland.
Those standards inouropinion: require us to comply with the certain disclosures of directors Auditing Practices Boards Ethical remuneration specified by law Standards for Auditors.
arenot made: or we have not received all the Scope of the audit of the information and explanations financial statements werequire for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures Under the Listing Rules we are in the financial statements sufficient required to review: to give reasonable assurance the directors statement, set out that the financial statements are on page 27, in relation to going free from material misstatement, concern: and whether caused by fraud or error.
the part of the Corporate 47
