Our 2012 financial statements Independent auditors report to the members 1 of WPP 2012 plc We have audited the financial statements the Scope of the audit of the financial statements 1 financial statements of WPP 2012 plc for theyearended 31 December 2012 which comprise An audit involves obtaining evidence about the the Balance Sheet and related notes 41 to 42.
The amounts and disclosures in the financial statements financial reporting framework that has been applied sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the in their preparation is applicable law and United financial statements are free from material Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Thisincludes an assessment of: whether the This report is made solely to the Companys accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A circumstances and have been consistently applied of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work andadequately disclosed: the reasonableness of has been undertaken so that we might state to the significant accounting estimates made by the directors: Companys members those matters we are required and the overall presentation of the financial to state to them in an auditors report and for no statements.
In addition, we read all the financial other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, andnon-financial information in the Annual Report we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone toidentify material inconsistencies with the audited other than the Company and the Companys financial statements.
If we become aware of any members as a body, for our audit work, for this apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies report, or forthe opinions we have formed.
weconsider the implications for our report.
Respective responsibilities of directors Opinion on financial statements and auditor In our opinion the financial statements: As explained more fully in the Directors give a true and fair view of the state of the Responsibilities Statement, the directors are Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012 for responsible for the preparation of the financial theyear then ended: statements and for being satisfied that they give have been properly prepared in accordance atrue and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit withUnited Kingdom Generally Accepted andexpress an opinion on the financial statements Accounting Practice: and inaccordance with applicable law and International have been properly prepared in accordance Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those withthe Companies Jersey Law 1991. standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
1 E ffective 2 January 2013, WPP 2012 plc became known as WPP plc.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 223 Our 2012 financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of WPP 2012 plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we arerequired to report to you if, in our opinion: proper accounting records have not been kept bythe Company, or proper returns adequate for ouraudit have not been received from branches notvisited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement withthe accounting records and returns: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
Other matters In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company.
We have reviewed the directors statement, contained within the Directors Report, in relation togoing concern as if the Company had been incorporated in the UK and have nothing to report toyou in that respect.
Graham Richardson individual responsible for the Audit for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors London, United Kingdom 22 April 2013 224 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012
