Our 2012 financial statements Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the Respective responsibilities of directors members of WPP plc and auditors We have audited the Group and parent company As explained more fully in the Directors financial statements the financial statements Responsibilities Statement, the directors are ofWPP plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 responsible for the preparation of the financial whichcomprise the accounting policies, the statements and for being satisfied that they give consolidated income statement excluding the atrue and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit USdollar information, the consolidated statement andexpress an opinion on the financial statements ofcomprehensive income, the consolidated cash inaccordance with applicable law and International flowstatement, the consolidated balance sheet, the Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those consolidated statement ofchanges in equity, the standards require us to comply with the Auditing parent company profit and loss account and balance Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
sheet and the related notes 1 to 40.
Thefinancial reporting framework that has been applied inthe preparation of the Group financial statements is Scope of the audit of the financial applicable law and International Financial Reporting statements Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that An audit involves obtaining evidence about the hasbeen applied in the preparation of the parent amounts anddisclosures in the financial statements company financial statements is applicable law sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the andUnited Kingdom Accounting Standards United financial statements are free from material Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud orerror.
This report is made solely to the Companys Thisincludes an assessment of: whether the members, as a body, in accordance with Article 113A accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work andthe parent companys circumstances and have has been undertaken so that we might state to the been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: Companys members those matters we are required thereasonableness of significant accounting estimates to state to them in an auditors report and for no made by the directors: andthe overall presentation other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, ofthe financial statements.
Inaddition, we read all the we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone financial and non-financial information in the Annual other than the Company and the Companys Report to identify material inconsistencies with the members as a body, for our audit work, for this audited financial statements.
If we become aware of report, or for the opinions we have formed.
any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2012 219 Our 2012 financial statements Independent auditors report Opinion on financial statements We have reviewed the directors statement contained within the Directors Report in relation In our opinion: togoing concern as ifthe Company had been the financial statements give a true and fair incorporated in the UK and have nothing to report viewof the state of the Groups and of the parent toyou in that respect.
companys affairs as at31 December 2012 and of the Groups profit and parent companys loss for the year then ended: Matters on which we are required to report the Group financial statements have been properly byexception prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the parent company financial statements have been Under Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom required toreport to you if, in our opinion: Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and proper accounting records have not been kept by the financial statements have been prepared in the parent company, or proper returns adequate for accordance with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the financial statements are not in agreement Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as withthe accounting records and returns: or issued byIASB we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
As explained in the accounting policies to the Under the UK Listing Rules we are required financial statements, the Group, in addition to toreview thepart of the Corporate Governance complying with its legal obligation to comply with Statement relating to theCompanys compliance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance alsoapplied IFRSs as issued by the International Code specified for our review.
In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs asissued bythe IASB.
Graham Richardson Individual responsible forthe Audit for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors Other matters London, United Kingdom 22 April 2013 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had applied to the Company: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
