Independent Auditors report to the members of Xstrata plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Xstrata plc for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the consolidated In our opinion: income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive the information given in the Directors report for the financial year income, the consolidated statement of financial position, the for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement with the Group financial statements: and, of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is the information given in the Corporate Governance report applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards as set out on pages 38 to 44 with respect to internal control and adopted by the European Union IFRS.
risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the financial statements.
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to in our opinion: anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we are not made, have formed.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor require for our audit: or As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set out on page 64, the directors are responsible for the preparation a Corporate Governance report has not been prepared by of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they the Company.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the directors statement, set out on page 63, in relation to Ireland.
Those Standards require us to comply with the Auditing going concern: Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance report relating to the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Companys compliance with the nine provisions of UK Corporate An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Governance Code specified for our review: and, disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board assurance that the financial statements are free from material on directors remuneration.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Other matter the Groups circumstances, and have been consistently applied and We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting statements of Xstrata plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and as having been audited.
non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements Mirco Bardella Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the Group financial statements: for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as London, United Kingdom at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: 10 April 2013 have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: and The maintenance and integrity of the Xstrata plc website is the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
