Independent Auditors Report audited financial statements.
If we become aware of Independent Auditors Report to the any apparent material misstatements or members of F&C Commercial Property inconsistencies we consider the implications for our Trust Limited report.
We have audited the Group financial statements the financial statements of F&C Commercial Opinion on Financial Statements Property Trust Limited the Company, and In our opinion the financial statements: together with its subsidiaries, the Group, for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the give a true and fair view of the state of the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated its profit for the year then ended: Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated are in accordance with International Financial Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU: and The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, International Financial Reporting Standards as 2008. adopted by the EU.
Matters on Which We Are Required to Report by Exception This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with section We have nothing to report in respect of the 262 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our following matters where the Companies Guernsey audit work has been undertaken so that we might Law, 2008 requires us to report to you if, in our state to the Companys members those matters we opinion: are required to state to them in an auditors report the Company has not kept proper accounting and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent records, or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume the financial statements are not in agreement responsibility to anyone other than the Company with the accounting records: or and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we we have not received all the information and have formed.
explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and belief are necessary for the Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor purpose of our audit.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 28, the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review Directors are responsible for the preparation of the the part of the Corporate Governance Statement financial statements and for being satisfied that they relating to the Companys compliance with the nine give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code audit and express an opinion on the financial specified for our review.
We have nothing to report statements in accordance with applicable law and in respect of this review.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Heather J MacCallum for and on behalf of Standards for Auditors.
KPMG Channel Islands Limited Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the 23 April 2013 amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance financial statements are free from material and integrity of the corporate and financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
information included on the Companys website.
This includes an assessment of: whether the The work carried out by the auditor does not accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups include consideration of these matters and, circumstances and have been consistently applied accordingly the auditor accepts no responsibility for and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of any changes that may have occurred to the financial significant accounting estimates made by the Board statements or audit report since they were initially of Directors: and the overall presentation of the presented on the website.
Legislation governing the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the preparation and dissemination of financial financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the statements may differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction.
