Independent Auditors Report 77 Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB Independent Auditors Report As explained in the Accounting Policies on page 83 to 87 of the to the members of BBA Aviation plc Group financial statements, the Group in addition to complying We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of BBA with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Aviation plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement Accounting Standards Board IASB.
of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
of Changes in Equity, the Accounting Policies and the related notes 1 to 26.
The financial reporting framework that has Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 been applied in their preparation is applicable law and In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the financial year for which the Group financial statements are the European Union.
prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Matters on which we are required to report by exception Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We have nothing to report in respect of the following: state to the Companys members those matters we are required Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
you if, in our opinion: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the are not made: or Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, we have not received all the information and explanations we or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the directors statement, contained within the Directors the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Report on page 75, in relation to going concern: and financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices on directors remuneration.
Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the parent company financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and statements of BBA Aviation plc for the year ended 31 December disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration assurance that the financial statements are free from material Report that is described as having been audited.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate Nigel Mercer Senior statutory auditor to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and London, United Kingdom theoverall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, 28 February 2013 we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the auditedfinancial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
