Independent Auditors Report To the Members of Raven Russia Limited Opinion on financial statements We have audited the financial statements of Raven Russia In our opinion the financial statements: Limited for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise Give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then Comprehensive Income, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group ended: Cash Flow Statement, the Group Statement of Changes in Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as Equity and the related notes 1 to 38.
The financial reporting adopted by the European Union: and framework that has been applied in their preparation is Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Matters on which we are required to report body, in accordance with Section 262 of the Companies by exception Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken so We have nothing to report in respect of the following: that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Where, under the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, we are no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do required to report to you if, in our opinion: not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Proper accounting records have not been kept: or audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
The financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records: or Respective responsibilities of directors and We have not received all the information and explanations auditor we require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Where, under the Listing Rules, we are required to review the Statement set out on page 15, the directors are responsible for part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the the preparation of the financial statements and for being Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Nick Gomer for Auditors.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP London Scope of the audit of the financial statements 10 March 2013 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Note: This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Raven Russia web been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonresponsibility for any changes that may have occurred to financial information in the Raven Russia Limited annual report the financial statements since they were initially presented and financial statements to identify material inconsistencies on the web site.
with the audited financial statements.
Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation and any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we dissemination of financial statements may differ from consider the implications for our report.
