99 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Independent Auditors Report to the members of St. Modwen Properties PLC in respect of the Group Financial Statements th We have audited the Group Financial Statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC for the year ended 30 November 2012 which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Accounting Policies and the related Notes 1 to 23.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: th give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 November 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the Accounting Policies to the Group Financial Statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion the Group Financial Statements comply with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the directors statement, contained within the Corporate Governance Statement, in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company Financial Statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC for the year ended th 30 November 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Jonathan Dodworth Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor th Birmingham, United Kingdom.
Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
