Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 87 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc significant accounting estimates Under the Listing Rules we are We have audited the group financial made by the directors: and the required to review: statements of Berendsen plc for overall presentation of the the year ended 31 December 2012 the directors statement, within financial statements.
which comprise the Consolidated the Directors report on page 84 income statement, the Consolidated In addition, we read all the financial in relation to going concern: and statement of comprehensive income, and non-financial information in the the part of the Corporate the Consolidated balance sheet, the Report and Accounts to identify governance statement relating to Consolidated cash flow statement, the material inconsistencies with the the companys compliance with the Consolidated statement of changes audited financial statements.
nine provisions of the UK Corporate in equity, the Accounting policies to If we become aware of any Governance Code specified for our the consolidated financial statements, apparent material misstatements review: and key assumptions and sources of or inconsistencies we consider certain elements of the report to estimation uncertainty and the the implications for our report.
shareholders by the board on related notes.
The financial reporting directors remuneration.
framework that has been applied Opinion on financial statements in their preparation is applicable law Other matters In our opinion the group financial and International Financial Reporting statements: We have reported separately on the Standards IFRSs as adopted by parent company financial statements the European Union.
give a true and fair view of the of Berendsen plc for the year ended state of the groups affairs as 31 December 2012 and on the Respective responsibilities at 31 December 2012 and of its information in the Directors of directors and auditors profit and cash flows for the year remuneration report that is then ended: As explained more fully in the described as having been audited.
have been properly prepared in Directors responsibilities statement accordance with IFRSs as adopted The maintenance and integrity of set out on page 85, the directors are by the European Union: and the Berendsen plc website is the responsible for the preparation of the have been prepared in accordance responsibility of the directors: the group financial statements and for with the requirements of the work carried out by the auditors being satisfied that they give a true Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 does not involve consideration of and fair view.
Our responsibility is of the lAS Regulation.
these matters and, accordingly, the to audit and express an opinion on auditors accept no responsibility the group financial statements in Opinion on other matters prescribed for any changes that may have accordance with applicable law and by the Companies Act 2006 occurred to the financial statements International Standards on Auditing since they were initially presented UK and Ireland.
Those standards In our opinion: on the website.
Information require us to comply with the Auditing the information given in the published on the internet is Practices Boards Ethical Standards Directors report for the financial accessible in many countries which for Auditors.
year for which the group financial may have different legal requirements This report, including the opinions, has statements are prepared is relating to the preparation and been prepared for and only for the consistent with the group dissemination of financial statements.
companys members as a body in financial statements: and accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 the information given in the of the Companies Act 2006 and Christopher Burns Corporate governance statement Senior Statutory Auditor for no other purpose.
We do not, set out on page 54 with respect for and on behalf of in giving these opinions, accept or to internal control and risk  LLP assume responsibility for any other Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors management systems and about purpose or to any other person to London share capital structures is whom this report is shown or into 28 February 2013 consistent with the financial whose hands it may come save where statements.
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Scope of the audit We have nothing to report in respect of the financial statements of the following: An audit involves obtaining evidence Under the Companies Act 2006 about the amounts and disclosures we are required to report to you if, in the financial statements sufficient in our opinion: to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free certain disclosures of directors from material misstatement, remuneration specified by law whether caused by fraud or error.
are not made: or This includes an assessment of: we have not received all the whether the accounting policies information and explanations are appropriate to the groups we require for our audit: or circumstances and have been a corporate governance statement consistently applied and adequately has not been prepared by the disclosed: the reasonableness of parent company.
