Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 143 Independent auditors report to the members of Berendsen plc We have audited the parent company Scope of the audit of the Matters on which we are required financial statements financial statements of Berendsen plc to report by exception for the year ended 31 December 2012 An audit involves obtaining evidence We have nothing to report in respect which comprise the Company balance about the amounts and disclosures in of the following matters where the sheet, the Accounting policies to the the financial statements sufficient to Companies Act 2006 requires us parent company financial statements give reasonable assurance that the to report to you if, in our opinion: and the related notes.
The financial financial statements are free from adequate accounting records reporting framework that has been material misstatement, whether applied in their preparation is have not been kept by the parent caused by fraud or error.
This includes company, or returns adequate for applicable law and United Kingdom an assessment of: whether the Accounting Standards United our audit have not been received accounting policies are appropriate to from branches not visited by us: or Kingdom Generally Accepted the parent companys circumstances Accounting Practice.
the parent company financial and have been consistently applied statements and the part of the and adequately disclosed: the Respective responsibilities Report on directors remuneration reasonableness of significant to be audited are not in agreement of directors and auditors accounting estimates made by the with the accounting records and As explained more fully in the directors: and the overall presentation returns: or of the financial statements.
In addition, Directors responsibilities statement certain disclosures of directors on page 85, the directors are we read all the financial and nonremuneration specified by law responsible for the preparation of the financial information in the Report are not made: or parent company financial statements and Accounts to identify material we have not received all the and for being satisfied that they give a inconsistencies with the audited information and explanations true and fair view.
Our responsibility is financial statements.
If we become we require for our audit.
to audit and express an opinion on the aware of any apparent material parent company financial statements misstatements or inconsistencies Other matters in accordance with applicable law and we consider the implications for International Standards on Auditing our report.
We have reported separately on UK and Ireland.
Those standards the group financial statements of require us to comply with the Auditing Opinion on financial statements Berendsen plc for the year ended Practices Boards Ethical Standards 31 December 2012.
In our opinion the parent company for Auditors.
financial statements: The maintenance and integrity This report, including the opinions, has of the Berendsen plc website is the give a true and fair view of the been prepared for and only for the responsibility of the directors: the state of the companys affairs companys members as a body in work carried out by the auditors as at 31 December 2012: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 does not involve consideration of have been properly prepared in of the Companies Act 2006 and for these matters and, accordingly, the accordance with United Kingdom no other purpose.
We do not, in giving auditors accept no responsibility for Generally Accepted Accounting these opinions, accept or assume any changes that may have occurred Practice: and responsibility for any other purpose to the financial statements since have been prepared in accordance or to any other person to whom this they were initially presented on the with the requirements of the report is shown or into whose hands it website.
Information published on Companies Act 2006. may come save where expressly the internet is accessible in many agreed by our prior consent in writing.
countries which may have different Opinion on other matters prescribed legal requirements relating to the by the Companies Act 2006 preparation and dissemination In our opinion: of financial statements.
the part of the Report on directors remuneration to be audited has Christopher Burns been properly prepared in Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of accordance with the Companies  LLP Act 2006: and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors the information given in the London Directors report for the financial 28 February 2013 year for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
