Financials INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE BERKELEY GROUP HOLDINGS PLC We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc for the year ended 30 April 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 111, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion the Consolidated Financial Statements: U}i i `v ivi ivi vv `vw `V yvii ii`i` U iLiiii i` VV` Vi, - `i`Li i 1 ` U iLiii i` VV` Viiiiivi i V ` Vi{vi -, i} OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: Uiv }ii iV, iviw V i vVi ` i` V - ii ii i` consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements: and Uiv }ii i i Viiii }iiiVi V ` management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the Consolidated Financial Statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: UVi `Viv iVii iVwi`L i `i Ui iiVii` iv `i iiiv ` U V i}i Vi ii Liii i`Li i Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Ui iV ii]i }i]i }}VVi Ui vi i i Viiii }i V Viiivi1 i Governance Code specified for our review: and UVi iiivii i`iLi ` iVii OTHER MATTER We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Statements of The Berkeley Group Holdings plc for the year ended 30 April 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Mark Gill Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 19 July 2012 114 Berkeley Annual Report 2012
