Financials and otherinformation 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2012 57 Independent auditors report to the members of 3i infrastructure plc We have audited the financial statements of 3i Infrastructure plc for Opinion on financial statements the year ended 31 March 2012 which comprise the Consolidated In our opinion the financial statements: statement of comprehensive income, the Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as cash ow statement and the related notes 1 to 20.
The financial at31March 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is have been properly prepared in accordance with International applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards.
Financial Reporting Standards: and This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in have been prepared in accordance with the requirements accordance with Article 113A of the Companies Jersey Law 1991. oftheCompanies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them Matters on which we are required to report in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to byexception anyone other than the company and the companys members as We have nothing to report in respect of the following: abody, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we haveformed.
Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required to report toyou if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors pr oper accounting records have not been kept, or proper returns andauditors adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 49, the directors are responsible for the preparation the financial statements ar e not in agreement with the accounting of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give records and returns: or atrue and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an we have not received all the information and explanations opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable werequire for our audit.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Scope of the audit of the financial statements Governance Code specified for our review.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Geraint Davies assurance that the financial statements are free from material for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Jersey, Channel Islands assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 8 May 2012 the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Notes: estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the 3i Infrastructure plc web site is the thenancial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the web site.
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies 2.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial weconsider the implications for our report.
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
