Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the members of Betfair Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Betfair Group plc for Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 the year ended 30 April 2012 set out on pages 59 to 97.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is In our opinion: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies is applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally Accepted Act 2006: Accounting Practice.
for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the Financial Statements: and in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the out on pages 43 to 46 in the Annual Report with respect to internal Companys members those matters we are required to state to them control and risk management systems in relation to financial in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone with the Financial Statements.
other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor We have nothing to report in respect of the following: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, set out on page 42, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of in our opinion: the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards from branches not visited by us: or require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements not made: or A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Opinion on financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: In our opinion: going concern: the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 30 April 2012 companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Governance Code specified for our review: and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Directors remuneration.
prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Paul Korolkiewicz Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor.
Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London, E14 5GL 28 June 2012 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 58
