Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Amlin plc We have audited the Group financial statements Opinion on financial statements Other matter of Amlin plc for the year ended 31 December In our opinion the Group financial statements: We have reported separately on the parent 2012 which comprise the consolidated income company financial statements of Amlin plc for give a true and fair view of the state of the statement, the consolidated statement of the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 comprehensive income, the consolidated information in the Directors remuneration and of its profit and cash flows for the year statement of changes in equity, the report that is described as having been audited.
then ended: consolidated balance sheet, and the consolidated statement of cash flows and the have been properly prepared in accordance related notes 1-38.
The financial reporting with IFRS as adopted by the European framework that has been applied in their Union: and preparation is applicable law and International have been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as requirements of the Companies Act 2006 adopted by the European Union.
and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Andrew Kail Respective responsibilities of Directors Senior Statutory Auditor Opinion on other matters prescribed by and auditors for and on behalf of  LLP the Companies Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Statement of Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors In our opinion: Directors responsibilities set out on page 94, London the information given in the Directors Report the Directors are responsible for the 1 March 2013 for the financial year for which the Group preparation of the Group financial statements financial statements are prepared is and for being satisfied that they give a true consistent with the Group financial and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and statements: and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable the information given in the Corporate law and International Standards on Auditing Governance Statement set out on pages UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us 58-63 with respect to internal control and to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards risk management systems and about share Ethical Standards for Auditors.
capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys Matters on which we are required to members as a body in accordance with Chapter report by exception 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for We have nothing to report in respect of no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these the following: opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required whom this report is shown or into whose hands to report to you if, in our opinion: it may come save where expressly agreed by certain disclosures of Directors remuneration our prior consent in writing.
specified by law are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial we have not received all the information and statements explanations we require for our audit: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the a Corporate Governance Statement has not amounts and disclosures in the financial been prepared by the Parent Company.
statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Under the Listing Rules we are required from material misstatement, whether caused by to review: fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: the Directors statement, set out on page 93, whether the accounting policies are appropriate in relation to going concern: to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the part of the Corporate Governance the reasonableness of significant accounting Statement relating to the Companys estimates made by the Directors: and the compliance with the nine provisions of the overall presentation of the financial statements.
UK Corporate Governance Code specified for In addition, we read all the financial and nonour review: and financial information in the Amlin plc 2012 certain elements of the report to shareholders Annual Report to identify material by the Board on Directors remuneration.
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 95 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 95
