Report of the Independent Auditor to the members of BlackRock World Mining Trust plc We have audited the financial statements of BlackRock World Opinion on financial statements Mining Trust plc for the year ended 31 December 2012, which In our opinion: comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, Group and X the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of Company Statements of Financial Position, Group and Company the Groups and Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012 Cash Flow Statements and the related notes 1 to 21.
The financial and of the Groups net pro t loss for the year then ended: reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards X the Groups financial statements have been properly prepared in IFRS as adopted by the European Union and, as regards to the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union: parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
X the Companys financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the accordance with Chapter 3, Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Companies Act 2006: and Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to X the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies have formed.
Act 2006 In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of the directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors X the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited Responsibilities on page 35, the Directors are responsible for the has been property prepared in accordance with the Companies preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that Act 2006: and they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with X the information given in the Directors Report for the financial applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and year for which the financial statements are prepared is Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing consistent with the financial statements.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Group and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report and financial statements to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
36 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc Matters on which we are required to report by exception Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: X adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or X the Companys financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or X certain disclosures of Directors remuneration speci ed by law are not made: or X we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: X the Directors statement on page 23 in relation to going concern: X the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review: and X certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.
Matthew Price Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 19 February 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2012 37
