qxp:BT PLC 04 18 5 12 18:08 Page 33 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS UNITED KINGDOM OPINION Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: Independent Auditors Report to the members of British give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at Telecommunications plc the company 31 March 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year We have audited the consolidated financial statements of British then ended: Telecommunications plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 which have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of by the European Union: and comprehensive income, the Group balance sheet, the Group have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the statement of changes in equity, the Group cash ow statement and Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
The financial reporting framework that has been Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued by the IASB applied in their preparation is applicable law and International As explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply Union.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities In our opinion the consolidated financial statements comply with set out on page 32, the directors are responsible for the preparation IFRS as issued by the IASB.
of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied that Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and In our opinion the information given in the Report of the directors express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements in for the financial year for which the consolidated financial accordance with applicable law and International Standards on statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with financial statements.
the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Matters on which we are required to report by exception only for the companys members as a body in accordance with We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume if, in our opinion: responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where are not made: or expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matter disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable We have reported separately on the parent company financial assurance that the financial statements are free from material statements of British Telecommunications plc for the year ended misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an 31 March 2012. assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonPhilip Rivett Senior Statutory Auditor financial information in the British Telecommunications plc Annual for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Report & Form 20-F for the year ended 31 March 2012 to identify London, United Kingdom material inconsistencies with the audited consolidated financial 16 May 2012 statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implication for our report.
Report of the independent auditors Consolidated financial statements British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 33 04 329013 Statement of Directors Responsibility.
qxp:BT PLC 04 18 5 12 18:08 Page 34 UNITED STATES OPINION overall financial statement presentation.
Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing Board of Directors and Shareholders of British Telecommunications the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating plc the company the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on In our opinion, the accompanying Group income statements, Group the assessed risk.
Our audits also included performing such other statements of comprehensive income, Group balance sheets, Group procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We statements of changes in equity and Group cash ow statements believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process British Telecommunications plc and its subsidiaries at 31 March designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability 2012 and 2011 and the results of their operations and cash ows of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for each of the three years in the period ended 31 March 2012, in for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Also, in reporting includes those policies and procedures that i pertain to our opinion the company maintained, in all material respects, the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March and fairly reect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of 2012, based on criteria established in the Turnbull Guidance.
the company: ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions are The companys management is responsible for these financial recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only control over financial reporting, included in managements in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial the company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding reporting as set out in the first three paragraphs of Internal control prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or over financial reporting in the Report of the directors of the British disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F. on the financial statements.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial statements and on the companys internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, reporting based on our integrated audits.
We conducted our audits projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about policies or procedures may deteriorate.
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the  LLP financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and London, United Kingdom significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the 16 May 2012 34 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report & Form 20-F 2012 Report of the independent auditors Consolidated financial statements
