Financial statements Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 55 Independent auditors report to the members of Caledonia Investments plc We have audited the inancial statements of Caledonia Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: Investments plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 set out on pages 56 to 83.
The inancial reporting framework that has bee n O the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited applied in their preparation is applicable law and International has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Act 2006 and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, O the information given in the Directors Report for the inancil a in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act year for which the inancial statements are prepared is 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state consistent with the inancial statements.
to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or We have nothing to report in respect of the following: assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this if, in our opinion: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
O adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities received from branches not visited by us or Statement set out on page 40, the Directors are responsible for O the preparation of the inancial statements and for being satii s ed the parent company inancial statements and the part of the that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in and express an opinion on, the inancial statements in accordace n agreement with the accounting records and returns or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing O certain disclosures of directors remuneration speciied by UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the law are not made or Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
O we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements require for our audit.
A description of the scope of an audit of inancial statementis s provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: private.
O the directors statement, set out on page 40, in relation to Opinion on Financial Statements going concern In our opinion: O the part of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 42 to 46 O the inancial statements give a true and fair view of the stat of e relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 March of the UK Corporate Governance Code speciied for our review 2012 and of the Groups and the Parent Companys loss for the O certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on year then ended directors remuneration.
O the inancial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and O the inancial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group inancial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
J M Mills Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square London E14 5GL 24 May 2012
