The City of London Investment Trust plc The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 49 49 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The City of London Investment Trust plc We have audited the financial statements of The City of l have been properly prepared in accordance with United London Investment Trust plc for the year ended 30 June 2012 Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and which comprise the Income Statement, the Reconciliation of l have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Movements in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, the of the Companies Act 2006.
Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Act 2006 United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors l the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Responsibilities set out on page 25, the Directors are Companies Act 2006: and responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and l the information given in the Report of the Directors for for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our the financial year for which the financial statements are responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Matters on which we are required to report by standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices exception Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to and only for the Companys members as a body in you if, in our opinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these l adequate accounting records have not been kept, or opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other returns adequate for our audit have not been received purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown from branches not visited by us: or or into whose hands it may come save where expressly l the financial statements and the part of the Directors agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and l certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give law are not made: or reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from l we have not received all the information and explanations material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This we require for our audit.
includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and l the Directors statement, set out on page 15, in relation to the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, going concern: we read all the financial and non-financial information in the l the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to annual report and financial statements to identify material the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
l certain elements of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Opinion on financial statements Marcus Hine Senior Statutory Auditor In our opinion the financial statements: for and on behalf of  LLP l give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors affairs as at 30 June 2012 and of its net return and cash London flows for the year then ended: 24 September 2012
