DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED 2012 REPOR T & ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF DEXION ABSOLUTE LIMITED We have audited the financial statements of Dexion Absolute In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial Limited the Company for the year ended 31 December information in the Report and Accounts to identify material 2012 which comprise the Statement of Financial Position, inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Changes become aware of any apparent material misstatements or in Shareholders Equity, Statement of Cash Flows and the inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Opinion on financial statements Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB.
In our opinion the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its result for the body, in accordance with section 262 of the Companies year then ended: Guernsey Law, 2008.
Our audit work has been undertaken are in accordance with International Financial so that we might state to the Companys members those Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB: and matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008. report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Matters on which we are required to report to anyone other than the Company and the Companys by exception members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters the opinions we have formed.
where the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and the Company has not kept proper accounting records: Auditor or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the financial statements are not in agreement with the Responsibilities set out on page 27, the Directors are accounting records: or responsible for the preparation of the financial statements we have not received all the information and and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our explanations, which to the best of our knowledge and responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the belief are necessary for the purpose of our audit.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part of standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
We Scope of the audit of the financial have nothing to report with respect to this review.
statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Steven D Stormonth from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or For and on behalf of KPMG Channel Islands Limited error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditors accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys 22 April 2013 circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
