Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Direct Line Insurance Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Direct Line t the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Insurance Group plc the Company and its subsidiaries with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, together the Group for the year ended 31 December 2012 as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the which comprise the accounting policies, the consolidated IAS Regulation.
and Company balance sheets as at 31 December 2012, Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued the consolidated income statement, the consolidated and by the IASB Company statements of changes in equity and the consolidated As explained in the accounting policies to the Group financial and Company cash ow statements for the year ended statements, the Group in addition to complying with its legal 31 December 2012 and the related notes 1 to 41 on obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, the consolidated financial statements, and the related notes has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International 1 to 16 on the Company financial statements.
The financial Accounting Standards Board IASB.
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as Opinion on other matters prescribed by the a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken In our opinion: so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for t the part of the Directors remuneration report to be no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we audited has been properly prepared in accordance do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than with the Companies Act 2006: and the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our t the information given in the Directors report for the audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Matters on which we are required to report As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities by exception statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation We have nothing to report in respect of the following: of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance to you if, in our opinion: with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with t adequate accounting records have not been kept by the the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements t the Company financial statements and the part of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts the Directors remuneration report to be audited are not and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or t certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting by law are not made: or policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys t we have not received all the information and explanations circumstances and have been consistently applied and we require for our audit.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual t the Directors statement, contained within the Directors report, Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited in relation to going concern: financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent t the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of implications for our report.
the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: t certain elements of the Remuneration report.
t the financial statements give a true and fair view David Rush Senior Statutory Auditor of the state of the Groups and of the Companys for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the Groups Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom and the Companys profit for the year then ended: 27 February 2013 t the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 97
