the financial statements have been prepared in accordance Independent auditors report to the with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, members of Bovis Homes Group PLC as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements of Bovis Homes Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages Opinion on other matters prescribed by the 65 to 93.
The financial reporting framework that has been Companies Act 2006 applied in their preparation is applicable law and International In our opinion: Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might year for which the financial statements are prepared is state to the companys members those matters we are required consistent with the financial statements to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
Matters on which we are required to report To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or by exception assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this We have nothing to report in respect of the following: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement been received from branches not visited by us: or set out on pages 61 and 62, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied the parent company financial statements and the part of that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance agreement with the accounting records and returns: or with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the are not made: or Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the audit of the financial statements require for our audit.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: is provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope the directors statement, set out on page 36, in relation to private.
going concern: Opinion on financial statements the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 32 In our opinion: relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our the financial statements give a true and fair view of the review: and state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the groups profit for the year certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on then ended: directors remuneration.
the group financial statements have been properly prepared.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Stephen Wardell Senior Statutory Auditor the parent company financial statements have been for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by Chartered Accountants the EU and as applied in accordance with the provisions of London the Companies Act 2006: and 22 February 2013 64 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Auditors report Governance
