40 | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | Independent Auditors Report to the members of F&C Asset Management plc We have audited the financial statements of F&C Asset Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Management plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 set out on Companies Act 2006 pages 42 to 116 and 121 to 133.
The financial reporting framework In our opinion: that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial reporting Act 2006: and framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent the information given in the Report of the Directors for the company financial statements is applicable law and UK Accounting financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Standards UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
consistent with the financial statements.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act by exception 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume in our opinion: responsibility to anyone other than the company and the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been or for the opinions we have formed.
received from branches not visited by us: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the parent company financial statements and the part of the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Responsibilities set out on page 39, the directors are responsible agreement with the accounting records and returns: or for the preparation of the financial statements and for being certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to are not made: or audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in we have not received all the information and explanations we accordance with applicable law and International Standards on require for our audit.
Those standards require us to comply Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the directors statement, set out on page 26, in relation to Scope of the audit of the financial statements going concern: A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on page 26 provided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions www.
of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Opinion on financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on In our opinion: directors remuneration.
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the groups profit for the year then ended: Jonathan Mills Senior Statutory Auditor the group financial statements have been properly prepared in for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Chartered Accountants Edinburgh the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted 25 March 2013 Accounting Practice: the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 | 41 Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 These Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Company Financial Statements of F&C Asset Management plc, given on pages 121 to 133 have been prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
