Independent Auditors Report to the Shareholders of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC We have audited the Financial Statements of Fidelity China MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY Special Situations PLC for the year ended 31 March 2012 which EXCEPTION comprise the Income Statement, the Statement of Changes in We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Equity, the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you applied in their preparation is applicable law and International if, in our opinion: Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches This report is made solely to the Companys shareholders, as a not visited by us: or body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies the Financial Statements and the part of the Directors Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with state to the Companys shareholders those matters we are the accounting records and returns: or required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept are not made: or or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and we have not received all the information and explanations we the Companys shareholders as a body, for our audit work, for this require for our audit.
report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the Directors statement, set out on pages 23 and 24, in Responsibilities set out on page 25, the Directors are responsible relation to going concern: for the preparation of the Financial Statements and for being the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the to audit and express an opinion on the Financial Statements in UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and accordance with applicable law and International Standards on certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Board on Directors remuneration.
with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Marcus Swales Senior Statutory Auditor SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants provided on the APBs website at www.
uk apb scope London private.
12 June 2012 OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion the Financial Statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 March 2012 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is consistent with the Financial Statements.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2012 32
