Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report Independent Auditors Report to the members of Opinion on financial statements Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC In our opinion the financial statements: We have audited the financial statements of Foreign & t give a true and fair view of the state of the companys Colonial Investment Trust PLC for the year ended affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its net returns and 31 December 2012 which comprise the Income Statement, cash flows for the year then ended: the Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, t have been properly prepared in accordance with United the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has t have been prepared in accordance with the requirements been applied in their preparation is applicable law and of the Companies Act 2006.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Respective responsibilities of Directors In our opinion: and auditors t the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Responsibilities set out on page 33, the directors are the Companies Act 2006: and responsible for the preparation of the financial statements t the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Matters on which we are required to report by standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices exception Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared t Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report for and only for the companys members as a body in to you if, in our opinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies adequate accounting records have not been kept, or Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving returns adequate for our audit have not been received these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any from branches not visited by us: or other purpose or to any other person to whom this report the financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified Scope of the audit of the financial statements by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to explanations we require for our audit.
give reasonable assurance that the financial statements t Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: are free from material misstatement, whether caused by the directors statement, set out on page 15, in relation to going concern: fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement circumstances and have been consistently applied and relating to the companys compliance with the nine adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall specified for our review: and presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read certain elements of the report to shareholders by the all the financial and non-financial information in the report Board on directors remuneration.
and accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Alex Bertolotti Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 1 March 2013 34 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
