Directors Report and Business Review continued Note 27 on the accounts sets out the financial risk a figure of 20%: the Board has agreed to make no profile of the Company and indicates the effect on new commitments until the Companys exposure the assets and liabilities of fluctuations in the value of moves back closer to its strategic target of 10%.
securities, and exchange and interest rates.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, with The Directors believe that, in the light of the limited exceptions, no single investment may be made controls and monitoring processes that are in by the Company which exceeds 10% of the value of place, the Company has adequate resources and the total portfolio at the time of acquisition.
Under the arrangements to continue operating within its stated Listing Rules, no more than 10% of the total assets may objective and policy for the foreseeable future.
be invested in other listed closed-ended investment Accordingly, the accounts continue to be drawn up companies, unless such investment companies have on the basis that the Company is a going concern.
themselves published investment policies to invest no Shareholders will be asked to approve the more than 15% of their total assets in other closedadoption of the Annual Report and Accounts at the ended investment companies, in which case the limit is Annual General Meeting Resolution 1.
The Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the total portfolio on investment funds managed by Independent auditors F&C at the time of acquisition, and any such investment So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant requires specific Board approval.
audit information of which PwC are unaware.
The Borrowings, which can be taken out either Directors believe that they have each taken all the in Sterling or foreign currency, would normally be steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in expected to fall within a range of 020% of order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit shareholders funds based on valuing the Companys information and to establish that PwC are aware of debentures at market value.
The Company will typically remain fully invested in PwC have indicated their willingness to continue in equities, but is not prohibited from investing in other office and resolutions will be proposed at the Annual types of securities or assets.
Derivatives may be General Meeting to re-appoint them and determine used for the purpose of income enhancement and their remuneration Resolutions 11 and 12. efficient portfolio management including, if appropriate, protection against currency risks.
With regard to income Investment objective, strategy and policy enhancement, options may only be written on quoted The Companys investment objective is to secure longstocks and the total nominal exposure is limited to term growth in capital and income through a policy a maximum of 5% of the UK portfolio at the time of of investing primarily in an internationally diversified investment for both put and call options.
More details portfolio of publicly listed equities, as well as unlisted can be found on page 60 in note 27 on the accounts.
securities and private equity, with the use of gearing.
The Board believes that the optimum basis for Risk diversification is achieved through geographic achieving its strategic objective and implementing asset allocation and industry sector and stock the investment policy is a strong working relationship selection across a wide range of markets.
Within the with the Manager, the more detailed arrangements general policy of maintaining a diversified portfolio, for which are explained later in this review.
F&C has there are no specific geographic or industry sector overall responsibility for the management of the exposure limits for the publicly listed equities.
The Companys assets, and for asset allocation, gearing, Board has placed a limit of 5% of the value of the stock selection and risk.
total portfolio on unlisted securities, at the time of Specific strategic moves in recent years have been to acquisition and excluding private equity investments, establish the private equity portfolio: to be overweight in and any unlisted investment requires specific Board Emerging Markets relative to the benchmark weighting: approval.
Shareholder approval would be sought in and for F&C to use external sub-managers when this the event that the Board considers that the long-term seems likely to result in better performance.
Future exposure to private equity investments should exceed emphasis will be towards a global equity strategy with 16 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
