Financial Statements Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of British Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2012 Act 2006 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet, and the Notes In our opinion: on the accounts.
The financial reporting framework that has been the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted 2006: and Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors report for the financial year Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors for which the Parent Company financial statements are prepared As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set is consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
out on page 106, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Matters on which we are required to report by exception of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in in our opinion: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility the accounting records and returns: or for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly are not made: or agreed by our prior consent in writing.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Scope of the audit of the financial statements require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Other matter assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the Group financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to year ended 31 December 2012. the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the for and on behalf of  LLP financial and non-financial information in the Annual report to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial London, United Kingdom statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material 27 February 2013 misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
192 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012
