Financial Statements Independent auditors report To the members of British American Tobacco p. l. c. We have audited the Group financial statements of British American Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended 31 December 2012 which Act 2006 comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the Comprehensive Income, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Notes on the accounts, the Principal subsidiary undertakings, and the Principal associate undertakings.
The financial reporting Matters on which we are required to report by exception framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable We have nothing to report in respect of the following: law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, adopted by the European Union.
in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set not made: or out on page 106, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of we have not received all the information and explanations we the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give require for our audit.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and the Directors statement, set out on page 106, in relation to Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing going concern: Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility Directors remuneration.
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Other matter agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of British American Tobacco p. l. c. for the year ended Scope of the audit of the financial statements 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Remuneration An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and report that is described as having been audited.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Paul Cragg Senior Statutory Auditor assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to for and on behalf of  LLP the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting London, United Kingdom estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the 27 February 2013 financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 107
