Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc We have audited the financial statements of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 which comprise the combined consolidated income statement, the combined consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the combined consolidated and parent company balance sheets, the combined consolidated cash flow statement, the accounting policies set out on pages 284 to 295 and the related notes 1 to 56.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with chapter 3 of part 16 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the directors responsibility statement set out on page 265, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups and of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2012 and of the groups profit for the year then ended The group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union The parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB As explained in the accounting policies set out on pages 284 to 295, the group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our opinion, the group financial statements comply with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The part of the directors remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 The information given in the directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements 275 Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc continued The information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 189 to 207 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or The parent company financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations we required for our audit: or A corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the company.
Under the listing rules we are required to review: The directors statement, set out on pages 191, in relation to going concern The part of the corporate governance statement on pages 190 and 191, relating to the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on directors remuneration.
Angus Grant Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor London 13 June 2012 Notes 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Investec plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
276 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements
