Independent auditors report to the members of Investec Limited We have audited the group annual financial statements of Investec Limited, which comprise the directors report, the combined consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2012, the combined consolidated income statement, the combined consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the combined consolidated statement of changes in equity and combined consolidated cash flow statements for the year then ended, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes as set out on pages 278 to 371, the separate annual financial statements of Investec Limited, which comprise the separate balance sheet as at 31 March 2012, the separate income statement and statement of comprehensive income, the separate statement of changes in equity and the separate cash flow statement for the year then ended, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes, as set out on pages 375 to 378 and the information in the risk management section and remuneration report that is marked audited.
Directors responsibility for the financial statements The companys directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
Auditors responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditors judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entitys preparation and presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entitys internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the annual financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the combined consolidated and separate financial position of Investec Limited as at 31 March 2012, and its combined consolidated and separate financial performance and combined consolidated and separate cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act of South Africa.
Other reports required by the Companies Act As part of our audit of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2012, we have read the Audit Committees Report and the Company Secretarys declaration for the purpose of identifying whether there are material inconsistencies between these reports and the audited financial statements.
These reports are the responsibility of the respective preparers.
Based on reading these reports we have not identified material inconsistencies between these reports and the audited financial statements.
However, we have not audited these reports and accordingly do not express an opinion on these reports.
Ernst & Young Inc. Director Farouk Mohideen Chartered Accountant SA Registered Auditor Wanderers Office Park 52 Corlett Drive, Illovo Sandton 13 June 2012 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Annual financial statements 277
