Independent Auditors Report To the members of JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Trust plc In our opinion: We have audited the financial statements of JPMorgan Emerging the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Markets Investment Trust plc for the year ended 30th June 2012 audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the which comprise the Income Statement, Reconciliation of Companies Act 2006: and Movements in Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow the information given in the Directors Report for the Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting financial year for which the financial statements are framework that has been applied in their preparation is prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Responsibilities set out on page 29, the Directors are you if, in our opinion: responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and adequate accounting records have not been kept, or for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our returns adequate for our audit have not been received from responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the branches not visited by us: or financial statements in accordance with applicable law and the financial statements and the part of the Directors International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices with the accounting records and returns: or Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and law are not made: or only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with we have not received all the information and explanations Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other we require for our audit.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come the Directors statement, set out on page 21, in relation save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
to going concern: the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement relating Scope of the audit of the financial statements to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give review: and reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Board on Directors remuneration.
policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by for and on behalf of  LLP the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and London non-financial information in the Annual Report & Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 5th October 2012 statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Notes: misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications a The maintenance and integrity of the JPMorgan Emerging Markets for our report.
Investment Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of JPMAM: the work carried out by the Auditors does not Opinion on financial statements involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial In our opinion the financial statements: statements since they were initially presented on the website.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and affairs as at 30th June 2012 and of its net loss and cash dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
30 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
