Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bumi plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Bumi plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated Balance Sheet, Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 59 the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Basis for qualified opinion on the financial statements Included within the Consolidated Income Statement is Bumi plcs share of loss from PT Bumi Resources Tbk of $167 million for the nine months ending 30 September 2012, during which period it was an associate of the Company, and a loss on reclassification of an associate to an investment of $1,394 million.
We have not been able to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence over this share of loss of associate and consequently the loss on reclassification of associate to investment due to PT Bumi Resources Tbk management withholding its consent to our review of the audit working papers of Tjiendradjaja & Handoko Tomo Mazars Indonesia, and we were unable to perform alternative procedures.
This limitation of scope does not extend to our work on the carrying value of Bumi plcs investment in PT Bumi Resources Tbk as at 31 December 2012.
Additionally, we have been unable to complete our planned audit procedures in respect of the disclosures required under IAS 24 Related party disclosures.
Owing to the nature of the accounting records in the Companys Indonesian subsidiaries and the recent departure of key management of PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk, we were unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence over the completeness of the related party disclosures in note 31.
Qualified opinion on financial statements In our opinion, except for the effects of the matters described in the Basis for qualified opinion paragraph, the Group financial statements: u give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: u have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and u have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Emphasis of matter review of the financial position of PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not modified in this respect, we have considered and draw attention to the matters disclosed in note 2.1c concerning the impact of the review of the financial position of PT Berau Coal Energy Tbk on the basis of preparation of the financial statements.
The note makes specific reference to three areas: other exceptional costs, undisclosed liabilities, commitments and encumbrances over assets, and reclassifications and restatements.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 60 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Bumi plc continued Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: u the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: and u the information given in the Governance Report with respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception In respect solely of the limitations on our work relating to the share of loss loss on reclassification from PT Bumi Resources Tbk and related party disclosures, described above, we have not obtained all the information and explanations that we considered necessary for the purposes of our audit.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: u certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or u a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the Parent Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: u the Directors statement, set out on page 16, in relation to going concern: u the part of the Governance Report relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and u certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
Other matter We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial statements of Bumi plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
That report includes a matter reported by exception under the Companies Act 2006.
Ross Hunter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, London 31 May 2013 Bumi plc Annual Report Page 61
