99 Man Group plc Annual Report 2012 Independent auditors report to the members of Man Group plc on the Groups financial statements We have audited the Group financial statements of Man Group plc for Matters on which we are required to report by exception theyear ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Group income We have nothing to report in respect of the following: statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group balance sheet, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group cash Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our flow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework opinion: that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not theEuropean Union.
made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibility statement set out on page 65, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group the directors statement, set out on page 65, in relation to going financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International concern: Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 directors remuneration.
of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other Other matter purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior statements of Man Group plc for the period ended 31 December 2012 consent in writing.
and on the information in the Remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Richard Oldfield Senior Statutory Auditor by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting for and on behalf of  LLP policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of London significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 28 February 2013 presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Man Group plc Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31December 2012 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
