Overview Strategy Review Markets Responsibility & Board of Governance Financial Share Notice of Annual Glossary of 2012 and risks relationships Directors statements information General Meeting Financial statements 95 Independent Auditors Report We have audited the financial statements the financial statements Opinion on financial statements ofbwin.
party digital entertainment plc for the year ended 31 December In our opinion: 2012 which comprise the Group statement of comprehensive income, The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the the Group and Company statements of financial position, the Group and Groups and the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the Company statements of changes in equity, the Group and Company Groups loss for the year then ended: statements of cash ows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law The Group and Companys financial statements have been properly and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the European Union.
The financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies accordance with our engagement letter.
Our audit work has been Act 1930 as amended : and undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters that we are required to state to them in an auditors report and The part of the Remuneration Report described as having been for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not audited has been properly prepared in accordance with Section 421 of accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the UK Companies Act 2006. the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or Opinion on other matters prescribed by legal and regulatory for the opinions we have formed.
requirements In our opinion information given in the Directors Report for the year Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors ended 31 December 2012 for which the financial statements are As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
the Directors are responsible for preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception Ourresponsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: statements and in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Under Gibraltar legal and regulatory requirements we are required to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards report to you if, in our opinion: forAuditors.
The Company has not kept proper accounting records: bwin.
party digital entertainment plc has complied with the If we have not received all the information and explanations we requirements of rules 9.8.
8 of the Listing Rules of the UK require for our audit: or Financial Services Authority and in accordance with Section 421 of If information speci ed by law regarding Directors remuneration and theUK Companies Act 2006 in preparing its Annual Report, as if it was other transactions is not disclosed.
incorporated in the United Kingdom.
As auditors, we have agreed that our responsibilities in relation to the Annual Report will be those as set Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: out below.
The Directors statement in relation to going concern: We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements The part of the corporate governance statement relating to the givea true and fair view and whether the financial statements have Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate been properly prepared in accordance with the Gibraltar Companies Governance Code speci ed for our review: and Consolidated Accounts Act 1999, the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Certain elements of the Remuneration Report.
Act 1999 and the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 as amended, and the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly BDO LLP prepared in accordance with Section 421 of the UK Companies Act 2006.
Chartered Accountants We also report to you whether in our opinion, the information disclosed 55 Baker Street in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements, if London W1U 7EU theCompany has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not United Kingdom received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, 15 March 2013 orif information speci ed by the Listing Rules and Gibraltar legislation Desiree McHard Statutory Auditor regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
For and on behalf of Scope of the audit of the financial statements BDO Limited A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided Registered Auditors on the APBs website at www.
Regal House PO Box 1200 Gibraltar 15 March 2013 BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC305127.
BDO Limited, a Gibraltar limited company, is registered in Gibraltar with company number 52200.
