The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 31 Independent Auditors Report To the members of The Mercantile Investment Trust plc have been properly prepared in accordance with We have audited the financial statements of The United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Mercantile Investment Trust plc for the year ended Practice: and 31st January 2012 which comprise the Income have been prepared in accordance with the Statement, Reconciliation of Movements in requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholders Funds, Balance Sheet, Cash Flow Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Statement and the related notes.
The financial In our opinion: reporting framework that has been applied in their the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom be audited has been properly prepared in Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors financial year for which the financial statements are As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Responsibilities set out on page 30, the Directors are Matters on which we are required to report by exception responsible for the preparation of the financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to statements in accordance with applicable law and report to you if, in our opinion: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
adequate accounting records have not been kept, or Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing returns adequate for our audit have not been Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
received from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinion, has been prepared the financial statements and the part of the for and only for the Companys members as a body in Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies not in agreement with the accounting records and Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving returns: or this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any certain disclosures of directors remuneration other purpose or to any other person to whom this specified by law are not made: or report is shown or into whose hands it may come save we have not received all the information and where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts the Directors statement, set out on page 22, in and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to relation to going concern: give reasonable assurance that the financial statements the parts of the Corporate Governance Statement are free from material misstatement, whether caused by relating to the Companys compliance with the nine fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the accounting policies are appropriate to the specified for our review: and Companys circumstances and have been consistently certain elements of the report to shareholders by applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness the Board on Directors remuneration.
of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Jeremy Jensen Senior Statutory Auditor statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and for and on behalf of  LLP non-financial information in the Annual Report & Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the London audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any 27th March 2012 apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Notes: a The maintenance and integrity of The Mercantile Investment Trust plc website www.
co. uk is the responsibility of Opinion on financial statements JPMAM: the work carried out by the Auditors does not involve In our opinion the financial statements: consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred give a true and fair view of the state of the to the accounts since they were initially presented on the website.
Companys affairs as at 31st January 2012 and of its b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and net return loss and cash flows for the year then dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation ended: in other jurisdictions.
