ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JANUARY 2012 THE MERCHANTS TRUST PLC Independent Auditors Report to the Members of The Merchants Trust PLC e have audited the financial the information given in the Directors Scope of the audit of the financial W statements of The Merchants Trust Report for the financial year for which statements PLC the company for the year ended 31 the financial statements are prepared is An audit involves obtaining evidence about January 2012 which comprise the Income consistent with the financial statements.
the amounts and disclosures in the financial Statement, the Reconciliation of Movements statements sufficient to give reasonable in Shareholders Funds, the Balance Sheet, Matters on which we are required to assurance that the financial statements are free the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of report by exception from material misstatement, whether caused Accounting Policies and the related notes.
The We have nothing to report in respect of the by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment financial reporting framework that has been following: of: whether the accounting policies are applied in their preparation is applicable law Under the Companies Act 2006 we are appropriate to the companys circumstances and United Kingdom Accounting Standards required to report to you if, in our opinion: and have been consistently applied and United Kingdom Generally Accepted adequate accounting records have not been adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of Accounting Practice.
kept, or returns adequate for our audit have significant accounting estimates made by the not been received from branches not visited directors: and the overall presentation of the Respective responsibilities of by us: or financial statements.
In addition, we read all directors and auditors the financial statements and the part of the financial and non-financial information As explained more fully in the Statement the Directors Remuneration Report to in the annual financial report to identify of Directors Responsibilities set out on be audited are not in agreement with the material inconsistencies with the audited page 36, the directors are responsible for accounting records and returns: or financial statements.
If we become aware the preparation of the financial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration of any apparent material misstatements or and for being satisfied that they give a true specified by law are not made: or inconsistencies we consider the implications and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit we have not received all the information and for our report.
and express an opinion on the financial explanations we require for our audit.
statements in accordance with applicable law Opinion on financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to and International Standards on Auditing UK In our opinion the financial statements: review: and Ireland.
Those standards require us to give a true and fair view of the state of the the directors statement, set out on page comply with the Auditing Practices Boards companys affairs as at 31 January 2012 and 24, in relation to going concern: Ethical Standards for Auditors.
of its net return and cash flows for the year the parts of the Corporate Governance This report, including the opinions, has been then ended: Statement relating to the companys prepared for and only for the companys have been properly prepared in accordance compliance with the nine provisions of the members as a body in accordance with with United Kingdom Generally Accepted UK Corporate Governance Code specified Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Accounting Practice: and for our review: and 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, have been prepared in accordance with the certain elements of the report to in giving these opinions, accept or assume requirements of the Companies Act 2006. shareholders by the Board on directors responsibility for any other purpose or to any remuneration.
other person to whom this report is shown or Opinion on other matters prescribed into whose hands it may come save where by the Companies Act 2006 expressly agreed by our prior consent in In our opinion: writing.
Kelvin Laing-Williams the part of the Directors Remuneration Senior Statutory Auditor Report to be audited has been properly for and on behalf of  prepared in accordance with the Companies LLP, Chartered Accountants and Statutory Act 2006: and Auditor, London 29 March 2012 41
