Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Murray International Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of Murray Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys International Trust PLC for the year ended 31 December affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year 2012 which comprise the Income Statement, Balance Sheet, then ended: Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds, Cash Have been properly prepared in accordance with United Flow Statement and the related notes 1 to 21.
The financial Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and, reporting framework that has been applied in their Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom the Companies Act 2006.
Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a In our opinion: body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the so that we might state to the Companys members those Companies Act 2006: and matters we are required to state to them in an auditors The information given in the Directors Report for the report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent financial year for which the financial statements are permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for Matters on which we are required to report by the opinions we have formed.
exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditor Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities you if, in our opinion: Statement on page 36 the Directors are responsible for the Adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns preparation of the financial statements and for being adequate for our audit have not been received from satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our branches not visited by us: or responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the The financial statements and the part of the Directors financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those with the accounting records and returns: or standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
law are not made: or We have not received all the information and explanations Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements we require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free The Directors statement on page 28 in relation to going from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or concern: error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting The part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by and the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Certain elements of the report to the shareholders by the statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonBoard on Directors remuneration.
financial information in Murray International Trust PLCs 2012 Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Susan Dawe Senior statutory auditor Opinion on Financial Statements for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Edinburgh In our opinion the financial statements: 26 February 2013 Murray International Trust PLC 39
