Where we are going How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business... following the transformation of Old Mutual... with a broad offering in the fastest growing South In March 2010, Old Mutual set its strategic objectives to be African demographic... achieved by the end of 2012, which would fundamentally Through our Old Mutual, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal change our Group and the way we conduct our business.
brands, we have a strong presence across the South African These objectives were: to create a simplified and streamlined retail financial services sector.
These businesses are working Group: to apply rigorous criteria for keeping businesses ever more closely together.
For example, they have cut within the Group: to strengthen our balance sheet: to improve costs by aligning some of their key procurement activities, our returns and implement a strict approach to capital and they are working together on a number of customerallocation: to focus at all times on our customers: and to facing activities.
We continue to seek opportunities for deploy our human capital, expertise and technology further collaboration.
seamlessly across geographies and business units.
At that While parts of the South African financial services sector are time, we also set financial targets for cost and debt reduction undoubtedly heavily penetrated, there is a significant section and return on equity RoE commensurate with meeting our of the population that is currently demonstrating strong strategic objectives.
growth the emerging black middle class.
We expect this Over the past three years, we have regularly reported our trend to continue.
This section of the population, served by progress against these objectives.
We have met or exceeded our Mass Foundation Cluster MFC, represents a spectrum the financial targets and made substantial strides towards of South African workers, ranging from those coming into the achieving our strategic objectives: we will continue to run our formal economy for the first time, to public sector workers business with them in mind.
such as teachers and nurses.
We have invested in enhancing our governance and We believe we have a significant competitive advantage control systems and these are working well, and we have in this section of the market through our footprint of more implemented numerous initiatives to improve our service to than 3,700 tied advisers, our network of more than 200 customers.
We have transferred technology and intellectual Old Mutual Finance branches and our holistic product capital across the Group: for example, we rolled out the offering.
We offer traditional life and savings products South African retail mass model in Mexico in 2012, and we through Old Mutual, general insurance through iWyze, will be introducing the same model to our newly acquired banking through Nedbank Retail and loan and debt Nigerian business in 2013. consolidation through Old Mutual Finance.
This approach ensures that we are well placed to capture the best clients Old Mutual is a significantly different business from that of and advise and help the more distressed clients to manage three years ago.
It is much simpler, more streamlined and their finances.
significantly fide-risked: we have sold or closed a number of businesses, including selling our Nordic operations for Old Mutual now has nearly two million MFC customers, having 2.1 billion and US Life for $350 million.
The criteria for added a further 200,000 in 2012.
In addition, our iWyze direct keeping businesses within the Group are strict: they must general insurance offering has achieved good growth since be able to meet our capital and risk targets: be capable of launch, selling more than 50,000 policies.
Nedbank Retail has achieving a long-term 15% RoE: add value to, or receive value over the past few years extended its focus on entry-level and from, other parts of the Group: have scope to create future youth markets in its drive to be a bank for all and, together sustainable growth: and create future value for shareholders.
with the middle-market, this has resulted in Nedbank gaining These criteria will remain.
We will continue to evaluate the 818,000 entry-level banking customers those earning less than optimal structure for the Group and to consider all options R100,000 per year in the past three years.
in creating value for our shareholders and customers.
Growth in South African retail mass markets In the period since the implementation of the three-year 3 year strategy at the start of 2010 through to its completion at the 2009 2012 CAGR% end of 2012, the London line of Old Mutual shares delivered Mass Foundation a Total Shareholder Return TSR of 77.3%, versus a 21.2% Cluster TSR from the FTSE100 Index.
For the Johannesburg line, APE sales Rm 1,454 2,443 19% Old Mutual delivered a TSR of 102.1% over the three years, Customer numbers 1.5m 2.0m 10% versus a 54.6% return from the JSE-All Share Index.
AOP Rm 1,236 1,621 9% leading to a financially strong and cash Nedbank Retail generative Group... Entry-level 1 We have a strong balance sheet, with our indebtedness much banking clients 2.2m 3.0m 11% reduced.
Our track record of delivering strong and consistent Headline earnings Rm 27 2,552 n a underlying cash returns in the last three years we have iWyze generated 2.25 billion in free surplus from core continuing Number of policies 51k n a operations gives us the ability both to invest for growth and to maintain a secure dividend.
Our gearing ratio has 1 R epresents clients earning less than R100,000 per year.
We continue to see growth in our Retail Affluent business,... which is resilient and focused on growth... which remains the Groups largest profit generator and has Our focus is now on markets where we see sustained growth recently launched a substantially enhanced wealth offering underpinned by structural factors.
These are markets where and reorganised its distribution.
Over time, we expect our experience, expertise and offering give us competitive some of our MFC customers to migrate to Retail Affluent.
advantage, ensuring that we can provide our customers Our Corporate business is focusing on improving its efficiency with the products they want and which will fulfil their and client offering.
19 ANNUAL REVIEW continued... and expansion plan for sub-Saharan Africa... We recently acquired the life assurance business of Oceanic Old Mutual has a substantial presence in the southern area Bank in Nigeria, following the acquisition of Oceanic by of sub-Saharan Africa with more than 1.3 million customers Ecobank.
This can be seen as the template for how we expect outside South Africa.
Rest of Africa customer numbers were to roll out our business model in new markets in Africa.
up 13% on 2011, with most of the growth in Zimbabwe and While initially it will focus on selling credit life and group life Kenya.
Profits rose 39% to 43 million in 2012 and funds assurance schemes, this will be supplemented by the roll-out under management FUM grew 19% to 2.9 billion.
Our of the full retail mass market product suite in 2013, using the target of achieving profits in Africa equivalent to 10% of expertise, knowledge, product and back office systems from OMSAs profits by 2012 has been achieved and we are our South African MFC business.
We are currently building on track to increase this to 15% by 2015. an asset management business in Nigeria to complement this business.
We are also in the process of acquiring Oceanics We are now looking to build our business across countries Nigerian general insurance business from Ecobank which in East and West Africa that demonstrate the right levels of will, once completed, operate under the Old Mutual brand.
growth and have the right demographics.
We have set aside around R5 billion of capital to fund this expansion.
This is split In East Africa, the Old Mutual Kenya life assurance business is between a strategic investment fund of R2 billion, and further growing and our asset manager is the market leader.
Our life capital of R3 billion, intended to be deployed over three to business recently signed a deal with the National Jua Kali, five years.
The strategic investment fund will be used to the co-operative for informal workers in Kenya, to provide acquire minority stakes in businesses in African markets.
insurance services for workers who previously had no access to insurance products.
It is estimated that the informal sector We will target minority stakes for a number of reasons: where currently accounts for around 75% of the working population a majority stake is not immediately available: where we do and around 34% of the countrys GDP.
We will initially sell not have the capacity to take a majority stake: or for strategic burial products, but will look to expand this product range in reasons such as securing a distribution deal.
The further time, with consumers able to pay for their insurance via mobile R3 billion will fund growth through buying majority stakes phones.
We want to build scale in the Kenyan life business and in businesses.
are looking at options in other East African countries.
We will deploy this capital in line with our strict capital We are also exploring the possibility of entering markets in allocation criteria.
We believe that the prospects for growth the South Africa Development Community where we are not in Africa are underpinned by sustainable, structural factors: currently present, but which meet the criteria we apply to a growing population, with more workers entering the formal new markets.
economy for the first time and who are keen to protect their wealth and assets: strong domestic GDP growth in a number of Nedbank currently has a banking presence in five southern countries: growing political stability: and an underpenetrated African countries where it offers retail and wholesale financial sector for the majority of the population.
The focus is on economically profitable markets where Nedbanks rest of Africa division In 2000, Africas GDP was $587 billion, in 2012 it is expected has a competitive advantage.
Nedbank has a deep strategic to be just under $2 trillion, and it is forecast to exceed alliance with Ecobank, providing clients of both institutions $2.5 trillion in 2016.
Fuelling this GDP growth is a growing access to the largest banking network in Africa, with more youthful population which is becoming increasingly than 2,000 staffed outlets in 36 countries.
Nedbank has urbanised, has more discretionary income and is undersubscription rights arising from the three-year term loan serviced by the insurance industry both life insurance and facility made to Ecobank Transnational Incorporated ETI, general insurance.
While the interest shown in Africa has Ecobanks holding company, which, together with a top-up grown exponentially over the past few years as companies investment by way of the anti-dilutionary provisions of the seek investment opportunities that demonstrate real growth, agreement, may result in Nedbank acquiring a 20% equity Old Mutual has the advantage of having operated in Africa stake in ETI, some time between November 2013 and for 168 years.
We understand the climate for business and November 2014. investment, as well as the specific needs and expectations of consumers.
We believe that, as we grow in South Africa and wider Africa, we have an obligation to help the communities where we As in South Africa, as we expand in the rest of Africa we operate.
A significant part of this will be through raising funds increasingly see opportunities for Old Mutual, Nedbank and to create the infrastructure that Africa and its people need.
Mutual & Federal to work together.
For example, OMSA and We are already active in this field.
Through our Infrastructure, Mutual & Federal will collaborate in each country under one Development and Environmental Assets fund we have head who will be responsible for driving growth across both partnered with the South African Government in a number of business lines.
Additionally, we have established a Group infrastructure projects, including: renewable energy projects African Co-operation Forum which will identify and facilitate using wind, solar and hydroelectric technology: toll roads: opportunities for increased co-operation and incremental and the Department of Trade and Industry and Department synergy in South Africa and collaboration on the African of Education buildings.
Following an approach by the Public expansion strategy.
Investment Corporation of South Africa, we established the Schools and Education Investment Impact Fund and have so far allocated more than 35 million to educational projects.
Our Housing Impact Fund raised more than 650 million to build up to 120,000 low-cost houses in South Africa, for South Africans earning less than R1,500 a month.
These projects will make a real, visible difference to the lives of the communities where we operate.
20 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Where we are going How we What Where we have Our risks Financials we do are going performed How we govern our business... combined with a modern, low-risk developed... and the improvement in US Asset Management markets offering... continues We announced our three-year plan for Old Mutual Wealth We continue to focus on driving growth, increasing margins towards the end of 2012.
The combination of our UK, and improving investment performance in our US Asset International and European businesses into one business, Management business and we are beginning to see real supported by the asset management capability of the newly progress.
During the period, we completed our programme merged Old Mutual Global Investors OMGI, will allow of focusing on long-term, , active asset us to develop further our own investment products, which management by disposing of seven out of 17 affiliates.
We in turn should enable us to capture a greater share of the saw a significant improvement in net client cash flow NCCF value chain.
for 2012, with net flows from continuing operations of 0.9 billion compared with an outflow of 3.0 billion in 2011.
This We believe we can unlock value by focusing on our core was the first positive annual NCCF recorded by US Asset growth markets, namely the UK and the International Management since 2007. cross-border markets, while managing the Old Mutual Wealth Europe business and UK heritage book for value.
We continue to explore a partial IPO of the US Asset The manage-for-value strategy involves operating a closed Management business and, as we have previously stated, book model for our retail portfolios in Switzerland, Austria the timing of this will be determined by our progress against and Germany, and the pre-Retail Distribution Review RDR our goals of growth, improved margins and investment pension products in the UK with an emphasis on persistency, performance, as well as by the conditions of the cost efficiency and capital management to maximise cash equity markets.
In Italy, France and Poland we will focus on all driven by our customers developing profitability in our operations.
We will also seek We understand that our success is governed ultimately by to grow our cross-border sales internationally through our our ability to give our customers the products, outcomes and International business based in the Isle of Man.
We will service levels that they expect from us.
We have spent the continue to explore ways to reduce our cost base.
past three years ensuring that the Groups primary focus is on We are targeting IFRS AOP pre-tax profits of more than our customers and that this ethos is embedded in our culture.
300 million p. a. by 2015 from the Old Mutual Wealth business.
We have introduced new customer service metrics and We are aiming to do this while meeting the RoE criterion of added cultural parameters as part of our managements between 12% and 15%, by growing our asset management remuneration targets.
While the progress against these and other product revenues, developing our distribution metrics has been encouraging, we are clear that we must reach and capability, and achieving operational efficiencies.
continue to innovate, in both product offering and customer service.
While we already operate one of the UKs leading platforms, with 22 billion of FUM, we believe that in the post-RDR Outlook world more and more retail financial services business will Our businesses have performed very well in 2012.
While the be conducted via platforms.
It is forecast that the amount economic environment remains uncertain, we now have a of assets held on UK platforms will grow substantially from significantly restructured and fide-risked business which is the current level of 250 billion and that Independent focused on the markets where we want to be and where Financial Advisers IFAs will continue to write most of their we see long-term, structural growth.
We are clear on our business via platforms.
The UK population is growing, most priorities and confident that we will continue to deliver rapidly in the upper age groups who are looking to maximise sustainable value for our customers and shareholders.
income to support their retirement: and those approaching retirement looking for products that will maximise their capital position at retirement.
Our growth focus will be on innovation and distribution.
We will develop investment management and risk solutions tailored to our customers needs.
We will also look to secure and grow distribution in our international cross-border markets.
IFAs will remain our core route to market and we will continue to provide them with tools and investment solutions that will allow them to serve their clients.
