  We have audited the financial statements of Personal Assets Trust PLC for the year ended 30 April 2012 which comprise the Group and Company Statements of Financial Position, the Group Income Statement, the Group and Parent Company Cash Flow Statements, the Group and Parent Company Statements of .
 their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, asregardsthe Parent Companyfinancial statements, as applied in accordance .
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys membersthosematters wearerequired  nootherpurpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the , forourauditwork, forthisreport, orfortheopinionswe haveformed.
 As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 21, the Directors  fairview.
 applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to  APB .
 An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are  adequately disclosed: thereasonableness ofsignificant accountingestimates made by the Directors:and the .
the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Parent :.
the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by theEuropeanUnion:.
the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adoptedbytheEuropean  2006:and.
the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006and, , .
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent .
thepart  Report tobeaudited has beenproperlyprepared inaccordance :.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements :and.
the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 18 20 with respect to  .
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our :or.
the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be :or.
the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 18 20 relating to the Groups compliance :and.
