364 Financial statements Prudential plc Annual Report 2012 Independent auditors report to Prudential plc on the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary information We have audited the EEV basis supplementary information the Scope of the audit of the supplementary information supplementary information of Prudential plc the Company for An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the year ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages 326 to 362. disclosures in the supplementary information suf cient to give The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the reasonable assurance that the supplementary information is free preparation of the supplementary information is the European from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the European This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies CFO Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on are appropriate to Groups circumstances and have been European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the together the EEV Principles using the methodology and reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by assumptions set out on pages 331 to 336 and 356 to 360 the directors: and the overall presentation of the supplementary respectively.
The supplementary information should be read information.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonin conjunction with the Group financial statements which are financial information in the annual report and accounts to identify on pages 147 to 314. material inconsistencies with the audited supplementary information.
If we become aware of any apparent material This report is made solely to the Company in accordance with the misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications terms of our engagement.
Our audit work has been undertaken for our report.
so that we might state to the Company those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and for no other purpose.
Opinion on supplementary information To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or In our opinion, the EEV basis supplementary information of the assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our Company for the year ended 31 December 2012 has been audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the EEV Principles using the methodology and assumptions set out Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor on pages 331 to 336 and 356 to 360 respectively.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 363, the directors have accepted responsibility for the preparation of the supplementary information on the EEV basis in accordance with the EEV Principles.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the supplementary information in accordance with the terms of our Rees Aronson engagement and in accordance with International Standards on for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Chartered Accountants with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards London for Auditors.
