Financial report Financial report Independent auditors report to the members of Schroders plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on financial statements Schroders plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which In our opinion the parent company financial statements: comprise the Schroders plc statement of financial position, the Give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as Schroders plc statement of changes in equity, the Schroders plc at 31 December 2012 and its cash ows for the year then ended: cash ow statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs with the provisions as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance of the Companies Act 2006: and with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors As explained more fully in the statement of Directors Opinion on other matters prescribed responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation by the Companies Act 2006 of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied In our opinion: that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and The part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on and Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply The information given in the Directors report for the financial year with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
for which the parent company financial statements are prepared is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Matters on which we are required to report by exception Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to in our opinion: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come Adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements The parent company financial statements and the part of the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable the accounting records and returns: or assurance that the financial statements are free from material Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an are not made: or assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to We have not received all the information and explanations we the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently require for our audit.
applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the Other matter overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we We have reported separately on the Group financial statements read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual of Schroders plc for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Report and Accounts 2012 to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider Mark Pugh Senior Statutory Auditor the implications for our report.
for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London 6 March 2013 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 149
