Independent Auditors Report to the Directors of St. Jamess Place plc the Company on the Supplementary Information on European Embedded Value Basis We have audited the Supplementary Information on the European Opinion on the Supplementary Information Embedded Value Basis of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended In our opinion, the Supplementary Information for the year 31 December 2012 that comprise the Consolidated Statement of ended 31 December 2012 has been properly prepared in all Income European Embedded Value Basis, Consolidated material respects in accordance with the European Embedded Statement of Changes in Equity European Embedded Value Value basis set out in Note I Basis of Preparation.
Basis, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position European Embedded Value Basis and the related notes the Supplementary  LLP Information, which has been prepared in accordance with the Chartered Accountants European Embedded Value EEV basis set out in Note I Basis Bristol of Preparation and which should be read in conjunction with the 27 February 2013 Groups financial statements.
a The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place Plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Supplementary Responsibilities, the directors are responsible for preparing the Information since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination Supplementary Information on the EEV basis in accordance with of Supplementary Information may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the EEV basis set out in Note I Basis of Preparation.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Supplementary Information in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys directors as a body in accordance with our letter of engagement dated 6 July 2012 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the Supplementary Information An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Supplementary Information sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Supplementary Information is free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Supplementary Information.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Supplementary Information.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
146 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
