Business Review Independent Auditors Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements to the members of St. Jamess Place plc Other Information We have audited the group financial statements of St. Jamess Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise Act 2006 the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, In our opinion: Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Cash year for which the group financial statements are prepared is Flows and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework consistent with the group financial statements: and that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and the information given in the Corporate Governance Report set International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted out on pages 50 to 64 in the Annual Report and Accounts with by the European Union.
respect to internal control and risk management systems and about share capital structures is consistent with the Financial Respective responsibilities of directors andauditors Statements.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 64, the directors are responsible Matters on which we are required to report by for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being exception satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is We have nothing to report in respect of the following: to audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply if, in our opinion: with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Auditors.
are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and require for our audit.
only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume the directors statement, set out in the Directors Report, in responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to relation to going concern: whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Scope of the audit of the financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and directors remuneration.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Other matter misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have reported separately on the parent company financial assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to statements of St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and 31December 2012 and on the information in the Directors adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Craig Gentle Senior Statutory Auditor non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to for and on behalf of  LLP identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Bristol misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications 27 February 2013 for our report.
a The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not Opinion on financial statements involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no In our opinion the group financial statements: responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at since they were initially presented on the website.
31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
thenended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
