Independent Auditors Report to the members of St. Jamess Place plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which Act 2006 comprise the Balance Sheet of the Parent Company and the related In our opinion: notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies AccountingStandards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Act 2006: and Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the parent company financial statements are Respective responsibilities of directors andauditors prepared is consistent with the parent company financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors statements.
Responsibilities set out on page 64, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements Matters on which we are required to report by and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our exception responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where company financial statements in accordance with applicable law the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our and International Standards on Auditing UKand Ireland.
Those opinion: standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and the parent company financial statements and the part of the only for the companys members as a body in accordance with Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other agreement with the accounting records and returns: or purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to are not made: or whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save we have not received all the information and explanations we where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the group financial statements of disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable St. Jamess Place plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Craig Gentle Senior Statutory Auditor assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to for and on behalf of  LLP the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Bristol accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall 27 February 2013 presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report a The maintenance and integrity of the St. Jamess Place plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
138 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
