Active investment working for you Independent auditors report to the members of Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC We have audited the financial statements of Temple Bar have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Investment Trust PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 adopted by the European Union: and which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the have been prepared in accordance with the requirements Statement of Changes in Equity, the Statement of Financial of the Companies Act 2006.
Position, the Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 22.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Act 2006 Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European In our opinion: Union.
the part of the Report on Directors Remuneration to be This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a audited has been properly prepared in accordance with body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the the Companies Act 2006: and Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so the information given in the Report of the Directors for that we might state to the Companys members those matters the financial year for which the financial statements are we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Matters on which we are required to report by Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit exception work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Responsibilities set out on page 26, the directors are Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not responsible for the preparation of the financial statements been received from branches not visited by us: or and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the financial statements and the part of the Report on Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Directors Remuneration to be audited are not in financial statements in accordance with applicable law and agreement with the accounting records and returns: or International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices by law are not made: or Boards APB Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and the directors statement, set out on page 16, in relation disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give to going concern: reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or pages 23 to 25 relating to the Companys compliance error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and Governance Code specified for our review: and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the certain elements of the report to shareholders by the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Board on directors remuneration.
the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the Ashley Coups Senior statutory auditor implications for our report.
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor Opinion on financial statements London In our opinion the financial statements: 19 February 2013 give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 27
