Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Shareholder Information to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Matters on which we are required to report by exception Cash Flow Statement and the related Notes 1 to 39.
The financial We have nothing to report in respect of the following: reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
in our opinion: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. are not made: or Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to we have not received all the information and explanations we them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest require for our audit.
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: have formed.
the directors statement, contained within the Corporate Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Governance Report, in relation to going concern: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give a true Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards directors remuneration.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the financial statements We have reported separately on the Parent Company An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Financial Statements of Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Report on assurance that the financial statements are free from material Directors Remuneration that is described as having been audited.
misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Manbhinder Rana F. C. A.
Senior Statutory Auditor the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and for and on behalf of adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of Deloitte LLP the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor non-financial information in the annual report to identify material London inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we United Kingdom become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 5 March 2013 inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its loss for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
