Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2012 Chairmans Statement & Business Review Governance Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report Shareholder Information to the Members of Tullett Prebon plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of In our opinion: Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Parent Company Balance Sheet and the related notes the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited 1 to 8.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Act 2006: and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the Parent Company Financial Statements are This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in prepared is consistent with the Parent Company Financial accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Matters on which we are required to report by exception them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members our opinion: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, received from branches not visited by us: or the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in an opinion on the Parent Company Financial Statements in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements we have not received all the information and explanations we An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and require for our audit.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Other matter misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements of assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Tullett Prebon plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Manbhinder Rana F. C. A.
Senior Statutory Auditor accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall for and on behalf of presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to Deloitte LLP identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material London misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for United Kingdom our report.
5 March 2013 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
