Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Centamin Plc We have audited the Group financial statements Emphasis of matter significant uncertainty the financial statements of Centamin plc for the relating to the outcome of the Sukari year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise of the exploitation lease judgement Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, In forming our opinion on the financial statements, the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the which is not modied, we have considered the adequacy Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated of the disclosures made in Notes 3, 4, 6 and 20 to Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes the financial statements concerning the judgement of 1 to 30.
The financial reporting framework that has the Egyptian Administrative Court, which found the been applied in their preparation is applicable law and 2 Companys 160km exploitation lease for the Sukari mine International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS to be invalid, but separately found that there was as adopted by the European Union.
2 in existence a valid 3km exploitation lease.
The company This report is made solely to the companys members, has led an appeal before the Supreme Administrative as a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Court in Egypt to challenge this judgement and on Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been 20 March 2013 the Court suspended the enforcement undertaken so that we might state to the companys of the 30 October 2012 judgement pending a hearing on members those matters we are required to state to them the merits of the appeal.
Whilst the Directors are confident in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the based on legal advice that the matter will be resolved in fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the Companys favour, the ultimate outcome of the appeal assume responsibility to anyone other than the company cannot presently be determined with any certainty, and and the companys members as a body, for our audit no impairment or other impact that may result has been work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
recorded in the financial statements.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR In our opinion the financial statements: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibility s give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups Statement, the directors are responsible for the affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the Groups preparation of the financial statements and for profit for the year then ended: being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
s have been properly prepared in accordance with Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion IFRS as adopted by European Union: on the financial statements in accordance with s have been properly prepared in accordance with the applicable law and International Standards on Auditing Companies Jersey Law 1991.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued Standards for Auditors.
by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB Scope of the audit of the financial statements As explained in the accounting policies to the financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts statements, the Group, in addition to complying with its and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the give reasonable assurance that the financial statements European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued by are free from material misstatement, whether caused by the IASB.
In our opinion the group financial statements fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether comply with IFRSs as issued by IASB.
the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
90 An n u a l R e p o r t 2 0 1 2 Matters on which we are required to report by Other matters exception In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in We have nothing to report in respect of the following: accordance with the provisions of the UK Companies Act Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are 2006 as if that Act had applied to the company.
required to report to you if, in our opinion: We have reviewed the Directors Statement, contained s proper accounting records have not been kept by within the Directors Report in relation to going concern the parent company, or proper returns adequate for as if the company had been incorporated in the UK and our audit have not been received from branches not have nothing to report to you in that respect.
visited by us: or s the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or Douglas King s we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the Chartered Accountants and Recognised Auditor part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to London, UK the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 27 March 2013 UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
