Overview Strategy Performance Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Auditors Reports on the Financial Statements and on Internal Control overFinancial Reporting Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 The report set out below is provided in compliance with International Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404.
The Directors statement on Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
KPMG Audit Plc has also internal control over financial reporting is set out on page 140. issued reports in accordance with standards of the Public Company KPMG Audit Plc has also reported separately on the Company Accounting Oversight Board in the US, which will be included in the Financial Statements of AstraZeneca PLC and on the information Annual Report on Form 20-F to be filed with the US Securities and in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having Exchange Commission.
Those reports are unqualified and include been audited.
This audit report is set out on page 192. opinions on the Group Financial Statements and on the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as at 31 December 2012 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of AstraZeneca PLC We have audited the Group Financial Statements of AstraZeneca Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 set out on pages 142 As explained in the Group Accounting Policies section to the Group to191.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied Financial Statements set out on pages 146 to 149, the Group, in intheir preparation is applicable law and International Financial addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
adopted by the EU, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, In our opinion, the Group Financial Statements comply with IFRSs in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 as issued by the IASB.
and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued Opinion on other matter prescribed by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, on terms by the Companies Act 2006 that have been agreed with the Company.
Our audit work has been In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members thefinancial year for which the Group Financial Statements are those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
report and, in respect of the separate opinion in relation to IFRSs as issued by the IASB, those matters that we have agreed to state Matters on which we are required to report by exception to them in our report, and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent We have nothing to report in respect of the following: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, if, in our opinion: as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions wehave formed.
certain disclosures of Directors Remuneration specified bylaware not made: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor we have not received all the information and explanations As explained more fully in the Preparation of the Financial werequire for our audit.
Statements and Directors Responsibilities Statement set out on page 140, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Group Financial Statements and for being satisfied that they give the Directors Statement, set out on page 146, in relation a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an togoingconcern: opinion on, the Group Financial Statements in accordance with the part of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and 110 to121 relating to the Companys compliance with Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
specified forour review: and Scope of the audit of the financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements onDirectors Remuneration.
isprovided on the Financial Reporting Councils website at Other matters frc.
We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial Opinion on Financial Statements Statements of AstraZeneca PLC for the year ended 31 December In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: Jimmy Daboo have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Senior Statutory Auditor adopted by the EU: and For and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Chartered Accountants the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
15 Canada Square, London, E14 5GL 31 January 2013 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2012 141
