Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 53 Independent auditors report to the members of Chemring Group PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Chemring Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Group PLC for the year ended 31 October 2012 which comprise the Companies Act 2006 consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of In our opinion the information given in the directors report for the comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is equity, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated cash ow consistent with the group financial statements.
statement, the notes to the consolidated cash ow statement, and the related notes 1 to 36.
The financial reporting framework that Matters on which we are required to report has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and by exception International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted We have nothing to report in respect of the following: by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in in our opinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Companys members those matters we are required to state to company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest received from branches not visited by us: or extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the parent company financial statements and the part of to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members the directors remuneration report to be audited are not in as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we agreement with the accounting records and returns: or have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Respective responsibilities of directors are not made: or and auditors we have not received all the information and explanations we As explained more fully in the directors responsibilities statement, require for our audit.
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion the directors statement contained within the statement on on the group financial statements in accordance with applicable law corporate governance in relation to going concern: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the part of the statement on corporate governance relating to standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and Scope of the audit of the financial statements certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and directors remuneration.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Other matters misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Chemring Group PLC for the year ended assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and 31 October 2012 and on the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and Nigel Mercer ACA Senior Statutory Auditor non-financial information in the annual report to identify material for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor aware of any material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
London, United Kingdom 24 January 2013 Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 October 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2012
