OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION REPORT OF THE AUDITOR Independent Auditor Report to the Members of The British Land Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Company PLC In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for We have audited the Group Financial Statements of The British Land the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared Company PLC for the year ended 31 March 2012 which comprise is consistent with the Group financial statements.
the consolidated income statement, consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated Matters on which we are required to report by exception statement of cash flows, consolidated statement of changes in equity, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: and the related notes 1 to 25.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted in our opinion: by the European Union.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. we have not received all the information and explanations we Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the require for our audit.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility the Directors statement contained within the Corporate to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members governance section in relation to going concern: as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group on Directors remuneration.
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion Other matter on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable We have reported separately on the parent company financial law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
statements of The British Land Company PLC for the year Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices ended 31March 2012 and on the information in the Directors Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Richard Muschamp Senior Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and London, United Kingdom adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting 20 May 2012 estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our Report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31March 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial statements and other information 133
