FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE AUDITOR Independent Auditor Report to the Members of The British Land Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Company PLC In our opinion: We have audited the parent company financial statements of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited The British Land Company PLC for the year ended 31 March 2012 has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies which comprise the parent company balance sheet, and the related Act 2006: and notes A to K. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom the information given in the Directors Report for the financial Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent Accounting Practice.
with the parent company financial statements.
This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Matters on which we are required to report by exception in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, Companys members those matters we are required to state to in our opinion: them in an Auditors Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members received from branches not visited by us: or as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent by law are not made: or company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an we have not received all the information and explanations opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance we require for our audit.
with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Other matter Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of The British Land Company PLC for the year ended 31 March 2012.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Richard Muschamp Senior Statutory Auditor misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently London, United Kingdom applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant 20 May 2012 accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our Report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the parent companys affairs as at 31 March 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Financial statements and other information The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 146
