Strategic review Governance Financial statements Independent auditors report Other information Independent auditors report on the Group financial statements We have audited the Group financial statements Scope of the audit of the Opinion on other matter the financial statements of Hammerson plc financial statements prescribed by the Companies for the year ended 31 December 2012, which An audit involves obtaining evidence about Act 2006 comprise the consolidated income statement, the amounts and disclosures in the financial In our opinion the information given in the the consolidated statement of comprehensive statements sufficient to give reasonable Directors Report for the financial year for income, the consolidated balance sheet, the assurance that the financial statements are free which the financial statements are prepared is consolidated statement of changes in equity, from material misstatement, whether caused consistent with the Group financial statements.
the consolidated cash flow statement, the by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment analysis of movement in net debt and the of: whether the accounting policies are Matters on which we are required related notes 1 to 30.
The financial reporting appropriate to the Groups circumstances and to report by exception framework that has been applied in the have been consistently applied and adequately We have nothing to report in respect of preparation of the Group financial statements disclosed: the reasonableness of significant the following: is applicable law and International Financial accounting estimates made by the Directors: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by and the overall presentation of the financial Under the Companies Act 2006 we are the European Union.
In addition, we read all the financial required to report to you if, in our opinion: and non-financial information in the Annual This report is made solely to the Companys certain disclosures of Directors remuneration Report to identify material inconsistencies with members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter specified by law are not made: or the audited financial statements.
If we become 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. we have not received all the information aware of any apparent material misstatements Our audit work has been undertaken so that we and explanations we require for our audit.
or inconsistencies we consider the implications might state to the Companys members those for our report.
matters we are required to state to them in Under the Listing Rules we are required an auditors report and for no other purpose.
to review: To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Opinion on the financial not accept or assume responsibility to anyone statements the Directors statement contained within the other than the Company and the Companys In our opinion the Group financial statements: Directors Report in relation to going concern: members as a body, for our audit work, for this give a true and fair view of the state of the the part of the Corporate Governance report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 Statement relating to the Companys and of its profit for the year then ended: compliance with the nine provisions of the Respective responsibilities UK Corporate Governance Code specified have been properly prepared in accordance of directors and auditor for our review: and with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: As explained more fully in the Directors and certain elements of the report to Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are shareholders by the Board on Directors responsible for the preparation of the Group have been prepared in accordance with the remuneration.
financial statements and for being satisfied requirements of the Companies Act 2006 that they give a true and fair view.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Other matter Our responsibility is to audit and express We have reported separately on the parent an opinion on the financial statements company financial statements of Hammerson in accordance with applicable law and plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 International Standards on Auditing UK and and on the information in the Directors Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply Remuneration Report that is described with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs as having been audited.
Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, UK 28 February 2013 HAMMERSON ANNUAL REPORT 2012 81
