Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Independent auditors report to the members of Cobham plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Cobham plc for the Matters on which we are required to report by exception year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the accounting policies, We have nothing to report in respect of the following: the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, statement of changes in equity, the consolidated cash flow statement and in our opinion: the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied Certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting not made: or Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors A corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities set out parent company.
on page 60, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial The Statement of Directors responsibilities, set out on page 60 in relation statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards to going concern: on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with The part of the Corporate governance section relating to the Companys the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of Directors remuneration.
the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to Other matter any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Cobham plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Stuart Watson Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused for and on behalf of  LLP by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been London consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of 6 March 2013 significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: Have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: The information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 61
