London & Stamford Property Plc 28 Report and Accounts 2012 Independent auditors report to the members of London & Stamford Property Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of London & Opinion on other matter prescribed Stamford Property Plc for the year ended 31 March 2012 which by the Companies Act 2006 comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Balance In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for Sheet, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group the financial year for which the Group financial statements are Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Matters on which we are required to report by exception IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act if, in our opinion: 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
are not made: or To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or we have not received all the information and explanations we assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the require for our audit.
Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors statement in relation to going concern: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the part of the corporate governance statement relating to As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express on Directors remuneration.
an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Other matters Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
statements of London & Stamford Property Plc for the year Scope of the audit of the financial statements ended 31 March 2012 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at Russell Field www.
Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor Opinion on financial statements London United Kingdom In our opinion the Group financial statements: 30 May 2012 give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales at 31 March 2012 and its profit for the year then ended: with registered number OC305127.
have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
