Consolidated financial statements Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 67 I Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction Opinion on other matters prescribed We have audited the Group financial statements of Compass Group by the Companies Act 2006 PLC for the year ended 30 September 2012 which comprise the In our opinion: consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of 2006: and changes in equity, the accounting policies and the related notes 1 to the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year 37.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting the Group financial statements.
Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Matters on which we are required to This Report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. report by exception Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility in our opinion: to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is as a body, for our audit work, for this Report, or for the opinions we not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: have formed.
certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
the directors statement contained within the Finance Directors Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group statement in relation to going concern: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and for Auditors.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Other matters disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an statements of Compass Group PLC for the year ended assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to 30 September 2012. the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP consider the implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom Opinion on financial statements 21 November 2012 In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
