124 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2012 I Independent auditors report to the members of Compass Group PLC Introduction Opinion on other matters prescribed We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of by the Companies Act 2006 Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2012 which In our opinion: comprise the Parent Company balance sheet, the accounting policies the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year and the related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United the Parent Company financial statements.
Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our Companys members those matters we are required to state to them opinion: in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been anyone other than the Company and the Companys members received from branches not visited by us: or as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement we have formed.
with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor we have not received all the information and explanations we As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, require for our audit.
the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give Other matters a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company financial statements in accordance We have reported separately on the Group financial statements with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and of Compass Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2012.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements Ian Waller Senior Statutory Auditor An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate London, United Kingdom to the Parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently 21 November 2012 applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 30 September 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
