61 BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial Statements FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Group Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Croda International Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Croda International Plc Opinion on Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Group income In our Opinion the Group Financial Statements: statement, Group statement of comprehensive income and expense,  SAFFAIRSASAT Group balance sheet, Group statement of changes in equity, Group 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended:  &23SASADOPTEDBY statement of cash ows, Group cash ow notes, the Group accounting policies, and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has the European Union: and been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International  Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Opinion on Other Matters Prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities statement set out In our Opinion: on page 60, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group $IRECTORS  financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Matters on Which we are Required to Report by Exception Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to We have nothing to report in respect of the following: comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the in our opinion: Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 $IRECTORS  of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving made: or these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to  our audit.
any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the Audit of the Financial Statements sTHE$IRECTORS STATEMENT SETOUTONPAGE  sTHEPARTOFTHE# An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether Governance Code specified for our review: and caused by fraud or error.
"This includes an assessment of: whether the ""OARDON$IRECTORS accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and remuneration."
have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Other Matter reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we of Croda International Plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report the information in the Remuneration Report that is described as having to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Richard Bunter Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors, Hull 1 March 2013
