SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Independent auditors report to the members of Kesa Electricals plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of Kesa Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Electricals plc for the year ended 30 April 2012 which comprise the In our opinion: Company balance sheet and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Accepted Accounting Practice.
2006: and Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors the information given in the Directors report for the financial year As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement set for which the parent company financial statements are prepared out on page 44, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
parent company financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an Matters on which we are required to report by exception opinion on the parent company financial statements in accordance with We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for from branches not visited by us: or the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do the parent company financial statements and the part of the not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any Directors remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown with the accounting records and returns: or or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and we have not received all the information and explanations disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable we require for our audit.
assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Other matter assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the We have reported separately on the Group financial statements parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 30 April 2012. and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become Keith Harrington Senior Statutory Auditor aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we for and on behalf of  LLP consider the implications for our report.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors London Opinion on financial statements 20 June 2012 In our opinion the parent company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the companys affairs as at 30 April 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 101
