SECTION 4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Independent auditors report to the members of Kesa Electricals plc We have audited the Group financial statements of Kesa Electricals plc Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 for the year ended 30 April 2012 which comprise the Group income In our opinion: statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group balance sheet, the Group the information given in the Directors report for the financial year cash ow statement, and the related notes.
The financial reporting forwhich the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law with the Group financial statements: and and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
the information given in the corporate governance statement set out on pages 32 to 36, in the Annual report with respect to internal Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors control and risk management systems and about share capital As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement on structures is consistent with the financial statements.
page 44, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair Matters on which we are required to report by exception view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group We have nothing to report in respect of the following: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
in our opinion: This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of are not made: or Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any we have not received all the information and explanations other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown werequire for our audit.
or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements the Directors statement, set out on page 20, in relation to An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures goingconcern: in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether the part of the corporate governance statement relating to caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the theCompanys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we onDirectors remuneration.
read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
Other matters If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
of Kesa Electricals plc for the year ended 30 April 2012 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described Opinion on financial statements as having been audited.
In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30April 2012 and of its loss and cash ows for the year then ended: Keith Harrington Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of  LLP have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors by the European Union: and London 20 June 2012 have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2011 12 45
