Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report We have audited the consolidated and the company financial IFRSs issued by the IASB statements of Dixons Retail plc for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2012 As explained in notes 1.1 and C1 to the Group and Company which comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated financial statements, respectively, the Group and Company in statement of comprehensive income and expense, the consolidated addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRSs as and company balance sheets, the consolidated and company adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRSs as issued cash ow statements, the consolidated and company statement by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
In our of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 32 and C1 to C16.
opinion the financial statements comply with IFRSs as issued The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their bytheIASB.
preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as In our opinion: regards the Company financial statements as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Q the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, with the financial statements: and in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Q the part of the Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Matters on which we are required to report by exception permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to We have nothing to report upon in respect of the following: anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as abody, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, haveformed.
in our opinion: Q adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, branches visited by us: or the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial Q the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial the accounting records and returns: or statements in accordance with applicable law and International Q certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require are not made: or us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Q we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Q the directors statement contained within the Directors Report assurance that the financial statements are free from material and Business Review in relation to going concern: misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Q the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Q certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the on directors remuneration.
overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
Nicola Mitchell FCA Senior Statutory Auditor Opinions for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Financial statements Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor In our opinion the financial statements: London, United Kingdom Q give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the 21 June 2012 Companys affairs as at 28 April 2012 and of the Groups loss for the 52 weeks then ended: Q have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and Q have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
68 Dixons Retail plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12
