Overview Operating and financial review Directors report Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of Dominos Pizza Group plc We have audited the group financial statements of Dominos Pizza Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Group plc for the 53 weeks ended 30 December 2012 which Act 2006 comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the Comprehensive Income, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared Statement of Changes in Equity, the Group Cash Flow Statement is consistent with the group financial statements.
The financial reporting framework Matters on which we are required to report byexception thathas been applied in their preparation is applicable law and We have nothing to report in respect of the following: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted bythe European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the not made: or companys members those matters we are required to state to them we have not received all the information and explanations we in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent require for our audit.
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: abody, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the Directors statement, set out on page 36, in relation to going haveformed.
concern: and Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Responsibilities set out on page 38, the directors are responsible for Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on audit and express an opinion on the group financial statements in directors remuneration.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Other matter Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply We have reported separately on the parent company financial with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
statements of Dominos Pizza Group plc for the 53 weeks ended Scope of the audit of the financial statements 30 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Simon ONeill assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Senior statutory auditor the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting Birmingham estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of 22 February 2013 thefinancial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts toidentify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications forour report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at 30December 2012 and of its profit for the 53 weeks then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 67
