FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ENQUEST PLC We have audited the parent Company financial statements Opinion on financial statements of EnQuest PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 which In our opinion the parent Company financial statements: comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs to 14.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied as at 31 December 2012 and of its loss for the year then ended: in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom have been properly prepared in accordance with United Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and Accounting Practice.
have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might In our opinion: state to the Companys members those matters we are required the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Act 2006: and assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this year for which the financial statements are prepared is report, or for the opinions we have formed.
consistent with the parent Company financial statements.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor Matters on which we are reTuired to report by exception As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters Responsibilities set out on page 93, the Directors are responsible where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, for the preparation of the parent Company financial statements in our opinion: and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law received from branches not visited by us: or and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those the parent Company financial statements and the part of the standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law Scope of the audit of the financial statements are not made: or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts we have not received all the information and explanations we and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give require for our audit.
reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Other matter This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies We have reported separately on the Group financial statements are appropriate to the parent Companys circumstances and of EnQuest PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012. have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Ernst Young LLP Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
Gary Donald Senior Statutory Auditor In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information for and on behalf of Ernst & oung LLP, Statutory Auditor in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material London inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we 26 March 2013 become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
