72 Independent auditors report Independent auditors report to the members of Scope of the audit of the financial statements Essar Energy plc An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts We have audited the financial statements of Essar Energy plc anddisclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give for the 15 month period ended 31 March 2012 which comprise reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Comprehensive Income, the Group and parent company This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Balance Sheets, the Group and parent company Cash Flow policies are appropriate to the groups and the parent Statements, the Group and parent company Statements of companys circumstances and have been consistently applied Changes in Equity and the related Notes 1 to 45.
The financial and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall is applicable law and International Financial Reporting presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as all the financial and non-financial information in the annual regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the This report is made solely to the Companys members, implications for our report.
asabody, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Opinion on financial statements so that we might state to the Companys members those In our opinion: matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report t the financial statements give a true and fair view of the and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by state of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone as at 31 March 2012 and of the Groups loss for the other than the Company and the Companys members as a period then ended: body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we t the Group financial statements have been properly have formed.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor t the parent company financial statements have been As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation by the European Union and as applied in accordance with ofthe financial statements and for being satisfied that they give the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express t the financial statements have been prepared in an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012 COMPAN Y BUSINES S FINANCIAL OVERVIE W REVIE W GOVERNAN C E STATEMENT S 73 Emphasis of matter Going concern Matters on which we are required to report In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which is not by exception modied, we have considered the adequacy of the disclosure We have nothing to report in respect of the following: made in Note 1 to the financial statements concerning the Group and Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to As discussed in Note 1, following a ruling of the Supreme you if, in our opinion: Court of India, the Group has a liability to pay sales tax, t adequate accounting records have not been kept by the although the timing of such payment is uncertain and is parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have dependent on a separate legal process.
The Group is in not been received from branches not visited by us: or advanced stages of establishing a new loan facility with its t the parent company financial statements and the part of lenders to fund the sales tax repayment as and when required the Directors Remuneration report to be audited are not but the facility is not yet committed.
in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or t certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Accordingly in these circumstances, the Directors have had to law are not made: or conclude that this represents a material uncertainty which may t we have not received all the information and explanations cast significant doubt about the Group and Companys ability we require for our audit.
to continue as a going concern.
The financial statements do not include the adjustments that would result if the Group and Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Company were unable to continue as a going concern.
t the Directors statement, contained within the Directors report and Financial review sections of the Annual Report, Emphasis of matter Interest on sales tax liability in relation to going concern: In forming our opinion on the financial statements, which t the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating isnot modied, we have considered the adequacy of the to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of disclosures made in Note 29 to the financial statements the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our concerning the uncertain outcome of a lawsuit relating to review: and theGroups liability to pay interest on sales tax owed to the t certain elements of the report to shareholders by the State of Gujarat.
The Group has led a writ petition seeking Board on Directors remuneration.
remission of interest and is awaiting the outcome of such action.
The ultimate outcome of the matter cannot presently be determined, and no provision for any interest liability that James Leigh may result has been made in the financial statements.
Senior statutory auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Opinion on other matters prescribed by the London, United Kingdom Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: 22 June 2012 t the part of the Directors Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and t the information given in the Directors report for the financial period for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Essar Energy plc Annual Report and accounts 2012
