Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com Independent Auditors Report to the members of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC We have audited the group financial statements of Euromoney Opinion on financial statements Institutional Investor PLC for the year ended September 30 2012 In our opinion the group financial statements: which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Statement of give a true and fair view of the state of the groups affairs as at Financial Position, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the September 30 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related notes 1 to 31.
The have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the European Union: and is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the adopted by the European Union.
Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Opinion on other matter prescribed by the accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our Companies Act 2006 audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors financial year for which the group financial statements are prepared is report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we consistent with the group financial statements.
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, Matters on which we are required to report by exception or for the opinions we have formed.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, our opinion: the directors are responsible for the preparation of the group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the group financial not made: or statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards we have not received all the information and explanations we require on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with for our audit.
the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures the directors statement contained within the Directors Report in in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that relation to going concern: the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate accounting policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have Governance Code specified for our review: and been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness certain elements of the report to shareholders by the board on of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall directors remuneration.
presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify Other matter material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies of Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC for the year ended September 30 we consider the implications for our report.
2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Robert Matthews Senior Statutory Auditor for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom November 14 2012 53 Independent Auditors Report Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
