Fidessa group plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc We have audited the financial statements of Fidessa group plc for the year ended 31st December 2012.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and, as regards the parent company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements A description of the scope of an audit of financial statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: 0$!
!#1 0% Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: 0$!,.
0 Fidessa group plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Independent auditors report to the members of Fidessa group plc continued Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: !-1 0!
1 %0 Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: 0$!
"0% Mike Harper Senior Statutory Auditor ""."
