GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts !
"Independent auditors report to the. """""
members of GKN plc We have audited the Group financial statements of GKN plc for the year Matters on which we are required to report by exception ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Income We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Balance opinion: Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting not made: or Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
we have not received all the information and explanations we Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors require for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: set out on page 76, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a the Directors statement, set out on page 35, in relation to going true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion concern: on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law the part of the corporate governance statement relating to the and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Governance Code specified for our review: and Ethical Standards for Auditors.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for Directors remuneration.
the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in Other matter giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other We have reported separately on the parent company financial purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into statements of GKN plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as consent in writing.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and Ian Chambers Senior Statutory Auditor have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the for and on behalf of  LLP reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, Birmingham we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 25 February 2013 statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Notes a The maintenance and integrity of the GKN plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
b Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
