2-54 Strategic review 55-86 Financial review & risk 87-136 Governance & remuneration 137-223 Financial statements 224-248 Investor information GSK Annual Report 2012 139 Independent Auditors report Separate opinion in relation to IFRS as issued Independent Auditors report by the IASB to the members of GlaxoSmithKline plc As explained in Note 1 to the Group financial statements, the Group We have audited the Group financial statements of GlaxoSmithKline in addition to complying with its legal obligation to apply IFRS as plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the adopted by the European Union, has also applied IFRS as issued by consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
comprehensive income, the consolidated balance sheet, the In our opinion the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as consolidated statement of changes in equity, the consolidated issued by the IASB.
cash ow statement, and the related Notes 1-44.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards Act 2006 IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared As explained more fully in the Directors statement of responsibilities is consistent with the Group financial statements.
set out on page 138 the directors are responsible for the preparation Matters on which we are required to report by of the Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they exception give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with We have nothing to report in respect of the following: applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing in our opinion: Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
s certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only not made: or for the companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
s we have not received all the information and explanations we We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility require for our audit.
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: agreed by our prior consent in writing.
s the directors statement, set out on page 138, in relation to going concern: Scope of the audit of the financial statements s the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an s certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to directors remuneration.
the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Other matters adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of We have reported separately on the parent company financial the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and statements of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become that is described as having been audited.
aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we The company has passed a resolution in accordance with section consider the implications for our report.
506 of the Companies Act 2006 that the senior statutory auditors Opinion on financial statements name should not be stated.
In our opinion the Group financial statements: s give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash ows for the year then ended:  LLP s have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors by the European Union: and London s have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the 5 March 2013 Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
