Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Financial statements Independent auditors report to the members of the Go-Ahead Group plc We have audited the parent company financial statements of the Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2012 which comprise Companies Act 2006 the parent company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 15.
The In our opinion: financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Act 2006: and This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the parent company financial statements.
the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest Matters on which we are required to report by extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility exception to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, we have formed.
in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditor adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement not been received from branches not visited by us: or set out on page 135, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the parent company financial statements and for being satisfied the parent company financial statements and the part of that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not and express an opinion on the parent company financial statements in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply law are not made: or with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
we have not received all the information and explanations Scope of the audit of the financial statements we require for our audit.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Other matter assurance that the financial statements are free from material We have reported separately on the Group financial statements misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an of the Go-Ahead Group plc for the year ended 30 June 2012. assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all Kathryn Barrow Senior statutory auditor the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor, London and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited 5 September 2012 financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for Notes: our report.
The maintenance and integrity of the Go-Ahead Group plc website is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration Opinion on financial statements of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented In our opinion the parent company financial statements: on the website.
give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of as at 30 June 2012: financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. www.
