Independent auditors report to the members of Howden Joinery Group Plc We have audited the Group financial statements of OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Howden Joinery Group Plc for the 53 weeks ended In our opinion the Group financial statements: 29 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Statement of give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 29 December 2012 and of its profit for Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the the 53 weeks then ended: Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity and the have been properly prepared in accordance with related notes 1 to 29.
The financial reporting framework IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards have been prepared in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 OPINION ON OTHER MATTER PRESCRIBED BY of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 undertaken so that we might state to the Companys In our opinion the information given in the Directors members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the Report for the financial year for which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or financial statements.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS We have nothing to report in respect of the following AND AUDITOR matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the directors are responsible for the certain disclosures of directors remuneration preparation of the Group financial statements and for specified by law are not made: or being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the we have not received all the information and Group financial statements in accordance with applicable explanations we require for our audit.
law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the OTHER MATTER Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Howden Joinery Group Plc for SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE the 53 weeks ended 29 December 2012 and on the FINANCIAL STATEMENTS information in the Directors Remuneration Report that An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts is described as having been audited.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused Edward Hanson Senior statutory auditor by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the London, United Kingdom directors: and the overall presentation of the financial 27 February 2013 statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
