Financials Overview Strategic Review Performance Risk Governance 95 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Imperial Opinion on Other Matter Prescribed by the Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2012 Companies Act 2006 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the the financial year for which the Group financial statements are Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Changes in Equity, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and related notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been Matters on Which We Are Required to applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the Report by Exception European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to Respective Responsibilities of Directors you if, in our opinion: and Auditors certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors law are not made: or Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being satis ed that we have not received all the information and explanations they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit we require for our audit.
and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to the Directors statement in the Corporate Governance comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards Report, in relation to going concern: and for Auditors.
the part of the Corporate Governance Report relating to the This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Corporate Governance Code speci ed for our review: and Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or ectors remuneration.
on dir assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it Other Matter may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent We have reported separately on the parent company financial in writing.
statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for the year ended 30 September 2012 and on the information in the Directors Scope of the Audit of the Financial Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
Statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: David Charles Senior Statutory Auditor the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made for and on behalf of  LLP by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonBristol financial information in the Annual Report and Accounts to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial 30 October 2012 statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 30 September 2012 and of its pro t and cash ows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLC|Annual Report and Accounts 2012
