Report of the independent auditors to the members of Inchcape plc We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Inchcape OPINION ON OTHER MATTER PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the ACT 2006 consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of In our opinion: comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of financial the information given in the Directors report for the financial position, the consolidated statement of changes in equity, the year for which the Group Financial Statements are prepared consolidated statement of cash flows, the accounting policies is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted BY EXCEPTION by the European Union.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you As explained more fully in the statement of the Directors if, in our opinion: responsibilities set out on page 63, the Directors are responsible certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for are not made: or being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group we have not received all the information and explanations we Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and require for our audit.
International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
the Directors statement, in relation to going concern: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to only for the Companys members as a body in accordance the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other on Directors remuneration.
person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent OTHER MATTER in writing.
We have reported separately on the parent company Financial Statements of Inchcape plc for the year ended 31 December SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2012 and on the information in the Directors report on An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts remuneration that is described as having been audited.
and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free MARK GILL, from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
Senior Statutory Auditor This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies for and on behalf of  LLP are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors.
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the London reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made 11 March 2013 by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Financial Statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
126 Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012
