OV FINE A R NC VIE IA W L STATEMENTS Informa plc Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Informa plc We have audited the Group financial statements the OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS financial statements of Informa plc for the year ended In our opinion the financial statements: 31December2012 which comprise the Consolidated Income t give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive as at 31 December 2012 and of the Groups profit for the Income, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, year then ended: the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and the related notes t have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs 1 to 39.
The financial reporting framework that has been as adopted by the European Union: and applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the t have been properly prepared in accordance with the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED a body, in accordance with Article 113A of the Companies TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Jersey Law 1991.
Our audit work has been undertaken so We have nothing to report in respect of the following: that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for Under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 we are required no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we to report to you if, in our opinion: do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than t p roper accounting records have not been kept by the the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our Company, or proper returns adequate for our audit have audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
not been received from branches not visited by us: or RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF t th e financial statements are not in agreement with the DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR accounting records and returns: or As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the t we ha five not received all the information and preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied explanations we require for our audit.
that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review the part and express an opinion on the financial statements in of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the accordance with applicable law and International Standards Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.
comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
OTHER MATTERS In our opinion the part of the Directors Remuneration Report SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with FINANCIAL STATEMENTS the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 as if that Act had An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and applied to the Company.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free We have reviewed the directors statement, in relation to from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
going concern as if the company had been incorporated in This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting the UK and have nothing to report to you in that respect.
policies are appropriate to the groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Ian Waller the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonChartered Accountants and Recognized Auditor financial information in the annual report to identify material London, UK inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or 21 February 2013 inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2012 63
