Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Inmarsat plc We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which CompaniesAct2006 comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the for the financial year for which the consolidated financial Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow statements are prepared is consistent with the consolidated Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity financial statements.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and Matters on which we are required to report by exception International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted We have nothing to report in respect of the following: by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a if, in our opinion: body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law state to the Companys members those matters we are required are not made: or to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
we have not received all the information and explanations we To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or require for our audit.
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the Directors statement, contained within the Statement Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor on Corporate Governance, in relation to going concern: As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the of the consolidated financial statements and for being satisfied UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on audit and express an opinion on the consolidated financial Directors remuneration.
statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Other matter require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial Standards for Auditors.
statements of Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Scope of the audit of the financial statements Report that is described as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give Stephen Griggs FCA reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free Senior statutory auditor from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and London, United Kingdom have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: 7 March 2013 the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the consolidated financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
60 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012
