Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Inmarsat plc We have audited the Parent Company financial statements Opinion on financial statements of Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which In our opinion the Parent Company financial statements: comprise the Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes.
The give a true and fair view of the state of the Parent Companys financial reporting framework that has been applied in their affairs as at 31 December 2012: preparation is applicable law and International Financial have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the Companies Act 2006. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Act2006 state to the Companys members those matters we are required In our opinion: to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company has been properly prepared in accordance with the and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, Companies Act 2006: and for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor consistent with the Parent Company financial statements.
As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation Matters on which we are required to report by exception of the Parent Company financial statements and for being We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, is to audit and express an opinion on the Parent Company in our opinion: financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those adequate accounting records have not been kept by the standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
been received from branches not visited by us: or the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Scope of the audit of the financial statements Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and agreement with the accounting records and returns: or disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This are not made: or includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are we have not received all the information and explanations we appropriate to the Parent Companys circumstances and have require for our audit.
been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by Other matter the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial We have reported separately on the consolidated financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and statements of Inmarsat plc for the year ended 31 December 2012. non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
Stephen Griggs FCA If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements Senior statutory auditor or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 7 March 2013 100 Inmarsat plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2012
