Independent Auditors Report to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC We have audited the Parent Company Financial Statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December Companies Act 2006 2012 which comprise the parent company balance sheet and the In our opinion: related notes 1 to 10.
The financial reporting framework that has the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
the information given in the Directors Report for the financial This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, year for which the Financial Statements are prepared is in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. consistent with the Parent Company Financial Statements.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to Matters on which we are required to report them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest by exception extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions in our opinion: we have formed.
adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors responsibilities received from branches not visited by us: or set out on page 133, the Directors are responsible for the preparation the Parent Company Financial Statements and the part of the of the Parent Company Financial Statements and for being satisfied Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and agreement with the accounting records and returns: or express an opinion on the Parent Company Financial Statements in certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law accordance with applicable law and International Standards on are not made: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with we have not received all the information and explanations we the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements Other matter An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and We have reported separately on the Group Financial Statements disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from 31 December 2012. material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the parent companys circumstances and have been Alison Duncan Senior statutory auditor consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the London overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we 18 February 2013 read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Notes: Financial Statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC website misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not for our report.
involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In our opinion the Parent Company Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
134 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Other information In this section we present a glossary of terms used in the Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 and some analyses of our share ownership at the end of 2012.
We also provide a range of information designed to be helpful to shareholders and contact details for the Company and for a number of service providers.
136 Glossary 137 Shareholder profiles 138 Investor information 139 Dividend history 139 Five year history 140 Financial calendar 140 Contacts 141 Forward-looking statements Crowne Plaza Changi Airport, Singapore Independent Auditors Report and Other information 135
