GROUP FINANCIAL PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Independent Auditors Report to the members of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC We have audited the Group Financial Statements of Opinion on other matter prescribed by the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December Companies Act 2006 2012 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report for statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of the financial year for which the Group Financial Statements are changes in equity, the Group statement of financial position, prepared is consistent with the Group Financial Statements.
the Group statement of cash flows, accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that Matters on which we are required to report has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and by exception International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted We have nothing to report in respect of the following: by the European Union.
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in our opinion: in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the are not made: or Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest we have not received all the information and explanations we extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility require for our audit.
to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the Directors statement, set out on page 80, in relation to going have formed.
concern: and the part of the Corporate Governance statement relating to Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the As explained more fully in the Statements of Directors UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and responsibilities set out on page 82, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group Financial Statements and for being certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Directors remuneration.
audit and express an opinion on the Group Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Other matter Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply We have reported separately on the Parent Company Financial with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Statements of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors Scope of the audit of the Financial Statements Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements sufficient to give Alison Duncan Senior statutory auditor reasonable assurance that the Financial Statements are free from for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This London includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are 18 February 2013 appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness Notes: of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the InterContinental Hotels Group PLC website overall presentation of the Financial Statements.
In addition, we is the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited since they were initially presented on the website.
If we become aware of any apparent material 2.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Financial Statements In our opinion the Group Financial Statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Statements of Directors responsibilities and Independent Auditors Report 83
