Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc Registered number 1675285 We have audited the consolidated accounts of AMEC plc Have been prepared in accordance with the for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the consolidated income statement, the consolidated andArticle4ofthe IAS Regulation.
statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated Opinion on other matters prescribed balance sheet, the consolidated statement of changes inequity, the consolidated cash flow statement and the bythe Companies Act 2006 related notes 1 to 27.
The financial reporting framework In our opinion the information given in the Directors Report that has been applied in their preparation is applicable for the financial year for which the consolidated accounts law and International Financial Reporting Standards are prepared is consistent with the consolidated accounts.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Matters on which we are required to This report is made solely to the companys members, report by exception asa body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to so that we might state to the companys members those reportto you if, in our opinion: matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent Certain disclosures of directors remuneration permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility specified by law are not made: or to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We have not received all the information and orfor the opinions we have formed.
explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors statement, set out on page 54, in As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities relation to going concern: and Statement set out on page 111, the directors are responsible The part of the Corporate Governance Statement for the preparation of the consolidated accounts and for relating to the companys compliance with the nine being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our provisions of the June 2008 Combined Code specified responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the for our review: and consolidated accounts in accordance with applicable law andInternational Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing board on directors remuneration.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Other matter Scope of the audit of the We have reported separately on the parent company consolidatedaccounts accounts of AMEC plc for the year ended 31 December An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration and disclosures in the consolidated accounts sufficient Report that is described as having beenaudited.
togive reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud Hywel Ball orerror.
This includes an assessment of: whether the Senior statutory auditor accounting policies are appropriate to the groups for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, circumstances and have been consistently applied and Statutory Auditor adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant London accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the consolidated accounts.
14 February 2013 Opinion on consolidated accounts Notes In our opinion the consolidated accounts: 1 The maintenance and integrity of the AMEC plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the Give a true and fair view of the state of the groups auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they theyear then ended: were initially presented on the web site.
Have been properly prepared in accordance with 2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in IFRSsas adopted by the European Union: and other jurisdictions.
112 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012
