Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financials Independent auditors report to the members of AMEC plc Registered number 1675285 We have audited the parent company accounts of AMEC Have been prepared in accordance with the plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise requirements of the Companies Act 2006. the company balance sheet and the related notes 1 to 10.
Opinion on other matters prescribed The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom bythe Companies Act 2006 Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted In our opinion: Accounting Practice.
The part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be This report is made solely to the companys members, audited has been properly prepared in accordance asa body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the with the Companies Act 2006: and Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken The information given in the Directors Report for the so that we might state to the companys members those financial year for which the accounts are prepared is matters we are required to state to them in an auditors consistent with the parent company accounts.
report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Matters on which we are required to to anyone other than the company and the companys report by exception members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, We have nothing to report in respect of the following orfor the opinions we have formed.
matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Adequate accounting records have not been kept by As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit Statement set out on page 111, the directors are have not been received from branches not visited by responsible for the preparation of the parent company us: or accounts and for being satisfied that they give a true and The parent company accounts and the part of the fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are opinion on the parent company accounts in accordance notin agreement with the accounting records and with applicable law and International Standards on returns: or Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us tocomply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Certain disclosures of directors remuneration Standards for Auditors.
specified by law are not made: or Scope of the audit of the accounts We have not received all the information and An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts explanations we require for our audit.
and disclosures in the accounts sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the accounts are free from material Other matter misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This We have reported separately on the group includes an assessment of: whether the accounting consolidated accounts of AMEC plc for the policies are appropriate to the parent companys yearended31 December 2012. circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant Hywel Ball accounting estimates made by the directors: and the Senior statutory auditor overall presentation of the accounts.
In addition, we read for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, all the financial and non-financial information in the Statutory Auditor annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the London audited accounts.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider 14 February 2013 the implications for our report.
Notes 1 The maintenance and integrity of the AMEC plc web site is Opinion on accounts theresponsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the In our opinion the parent company accounts: auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any Give a true and fair view of the state of the companys changes that may have occurred to the accounts since they affairs as at 31 December 2012: were initially presented on the web site.
2 Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation Have been properly prepared in accordance with and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting other jurisdictions.
Practice: and AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2012 119
