ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report to the Members of ITV plc We have audited the Group and Parent Company financial F the financial statements have been prepared in statements of ITV plc for the year ended 31 December 2012 accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act set out on pages 96 to 156.
2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements Opinion on other matters prescribed by the is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Companies Act 2006 Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
The financial In our opinion: reporting framework that has been applied in the F the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be preparation of the Parent Company financial statements is audited has been properly prepared in accordance with applicable law and UK Accounting Standards UK Generally the Companies Act 2006: and Accepted Accounting Practice.
F the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are This report is made solely to the Companys members, prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken Matters on which we are required to report by so that we might state to the Companys members those exception matters we are required to state to them in an auditors We have nothing to report in respect of the following: report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to to anyone other than the Company and the Companys you if, in our opinion: members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
F adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have Respective responsibilities of Directors and not been received from branches not visited by us: or auditor F the Parent Company financial statements and the part of As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not Responsibilities set out on page 91, the Directors are in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or responsible for the preparation of the financial statements F certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
law are not made: or Our responsibility is to audit, and express an opinion on, the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and F we have not received all the information and explanations International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those we require for our audit.
standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: Scope of the audit of the financial statements F the Directors statement, set out on page 102, in relation A description of the scope of an audit of financial to going concern: statements is provided on the APBs website at www.
F the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating uk auditscopeukprivate.
to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our Opinion on financial statements review: and In our opinion: F certain elements of the report to shareholders by the F the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Board on Directors remuneration.
state of the Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: Mark Summerfield Senior Statutory Auditor F the Group financial statements have been properly for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc, Statutory Auditor prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Chartered Accountants 15 Canada Square F the Parent Company financial statements have been London, E14 5GL properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: 27 February 2013 94 ar2012.
com Stock code: ITV Introduction and Table of Contents In this section...
The financial statements have been presented in a style which attempts to make them less complex and more relevant to shareholders.
We have grouped notes in sections under five headings: Basis of Preparation, Results for the Year, Operating Assets and Liabilities, Capital Structure and Financing Costs and Other Notes.
Each section sets out the accounting policies applied in producing these notes together with any key judgements and estimates used.
The purpose of this format is to provide readers with a clearer understanding of what drives financial performance of the Group.
Text in boxes provides commentary on each section in plain English.
Keeping it simple... Notes to the financial statements provide additional information required by statute, accounting standards or Listing Rules to explain a particular feature of the financial statements.
The notes which follow will also provide explanations and additional disclosure to assist readers understanding and interpretation of the annual report and the financial statements.
Contents Page Primary statements Consolidated Income Statement 96 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 97 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 98 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 99 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 101 Section 1 Basis of Preparation 102 Section 2 Results for the Year 107 2.1 Profit before tax 107 2.2 Exceptional items 110 2.3 Taxation 110 2.4 Earnings per share 113 Section 3 Operating Assets and Liabilities 115 3.1 Working capital 115 3.2 Property, plant and equipment 118 3.3 Intangible assets 120 3.4 Acquisitions 125 3.5 Assets held for sale and disposals 127 3.6 Provisions 128 3.7 Pensions 129 Section 4 Capital Structure and Financing Costs 136 4.1 Net cash debt 136 4.2 Borrowings and held to maturity investments 138 4.3 Derivative financial instruments 140 4.4 Net financing costs 142 4.5 Financial risk factors 143 4.6 Fair value hierarchy 145 4.7 Equity 146 Section 5 Other Notes 150 5.1 Related party transactions 150 5.2 Contingent liabilities 151 5.3 Subsequent events 151 ITV plc Company Financial Statements 152 Shareholder information 157 Financial Record 160 95 Financial Statements Governance Responsibility Performance & Financials Strategy & Operations Directors Report Overview
