INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT to the members of J D Wetherspoon plc We have audited the financial statements of have been prepared in accordance with the J D Wetherspoon plc for the 53-week period ended requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
29 July 2012 which comprise the income statement, the statement of comprehensive income, the cash flow Opinion on other matters prescribed by the statement, the balance sheet, the statement of changes Companies Act 2006 in shareholders equity and the related notes.
The In our opinion: financial reporting framework which has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International the part of the directors remuneration report to be Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the audited has been properly prepared in accordance with European Union.
the Companies Act 2006. the information given in the directors report for the Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors financial year for which the financial statements are As explained more fully in the statement of directors prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
responsibilities, set out on page 48, the directors are the information given in the corporate governance responsible for the preparation of the parent company statement, set out on pages 58 to 62, with respect financial statements and for being satisfied that they give to internal control and risk management systems and a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and about share capital structures, is consistent with the express an opinion on the financial statements, in financial statements.
accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards Matters on which we are required to report require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards by exception Ethical Standards for Auditors.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to and only for the Companys members, as a body, in report to you whether, in our opinion: accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving adequate accounting records have not been kept or these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any returns adequate for our audit have not been received other purpose or to any other person to whom this report from branches not visited by us.
is shown or into whose hands it may come, save where the financial statements and the part of the directors expressly agreed on by our prior consent in writing.
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts by law are not made.
and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give we have not received all of the information and reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free explanations which we require for our audit.
from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or a corporate governance statement has not been error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the prepared by the Company.
accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and Under the Listing Rules, we are required to review: adequately disclosed, the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors, and the overall the directors statement, set out on pages 48 and 49, presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we in relation to going concern.
read all of the financial and non-financial information in the parts of the corporate governance statement the annual report and accounts to identify material relating to the Companys compliance with the nine inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code become aware of any apparent material misstatements or specified for our review.
inconsistencies, we consider the implications for our report.
certain elements of the report to shareholders, by the board, on directors remuneration.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion, the financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys Andrew Paynter Senior Statutory Auditor affairs as at 29 July 2012 and of its profit and cash flows for and on behalf of  LLP for the 53-week period then ended.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs London as adopted by the European Union.
