OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 49 Role The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and internal audit function.
The Audit Committee also oversees the relationship with the external auditors and assesses their performance.
Members of the Audit Committee David Beldotti Chairman Hans Kraus Brendan Lyons David MacFarlane appointed 29 August 2012 Hassan Abas resigned 29 August 2012 Main responsibilities t Monitoring the integrity of the reported financial performance of the Group, including its preliminary results announcement, Annual Report and interim report and to review the appropriateness of related accounting policies, material assumptions and significant judgements adopted in their preparation.
t Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls.
t Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
t Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of the external auditors.
t Monitoring the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
t Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
t Meeting at least annually with the external auditor and Group Internal Audit Manager in the absence of executive management.
David Beldotti Chairman, Audit Committee Appointment of external auditors  Ireland PwC were appointed auditors of the Company in June 2012.
The Audit Committee considered the following factors when deciding to undertake a tender process: t BDO LLP BDO had been the Companys external auditors since 1995.
The Financial Reporting Council FRC recommends that all FTSE 350 companies should hold a tender process for external auditors at least every ten years.
t BDO had been auditors of the Group and a small number of subsidiaries.
The Audit Committee considered it beneficial that the Group and all material subsidiaries within the Group be audited by the same audit rm.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board decided to authorise the Committee to conduct a tender process for audit services.
The Audit Committee considered a number of possible candidate rms and following a rigorous tender process in which PwC had demonstrated their knowledge, ability and geographical presence, the Committee recommended to the Board that PwC be appointed as auditors to the Company and its subsidiaries.
As PwC have not yet been auditors of the Group for a 12 month period, the Committee will postpone their evaluation of the effectiveness of PwC until their meeting in August 2013.
Discharge of responsibilities The Audit Committee met seven times during the year at appropriate times in the reporting and audit cycle and otherwise as required.
During some of those meetings, other members of the Board were invited to attend meetings when appropriate and the Groups external auditor is invited to attend meetings of the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the following: t 2011 full-year and 2012 half-year financial statements.
t 2011 full-year and 2012 half-year results announcements made to the London Stock Exchange.
t Effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management procedures.
t Proposals from three external audit rms during the tender process and further scrutiny of detailed plans from PwC.
com Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Kentz Corporation Limited
