BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE ACCOUNTS Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 101 ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF KINGFISHER PLC We have audited the Company financial statements of Kingsher plc for OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES the year ended 28 January 2012 which comprise the Company balance ACT 2006 sheet and the related notes 1 to 15.
The financial reporting framework In our opinion the information given in the Directors report for the that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted consistent with the Company financial statements.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or Companys members those matters we are required to state to them returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent not visited by us: or permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for the Company financial statements and the part of the Directors our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
remuneration report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, the not made: or Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Company financial we have not received all the information and explanations we require statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International OTHER MATTER Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us We have reported separately on the Group financial statements to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards of Kingsher plc for the year ended 28 January 2012 and on the forAuditors.
information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the Panos Kakoullis reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Senior Statutory Auditor Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements London, United Kingdom or inconsistencies we consider the implications for ourreport.
21 March 2012 OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In our opinion the Company financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 28January 2012: have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
