86 Kingsher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 12 ACCOUNTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF KINGFISHER PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Kingsher plc for the OPINION ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES year ended 28 January 2012 which comprise the Consolidated income ACT 2006 statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the In our opinion: Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the Consolidated balance the part of the Directors remuneration report to be audited has been sheet, the Consolidated cash ow statement and the related notes 1 to properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and 36.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting which the Group financial statements are prepared is consistent with Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Companys members those matters we are required to state to them Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent ouropinion: permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for made: or our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITOR for our audit.
As explained more fully in the Directors responsibilities statement, Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial the Directors statement, contained within the Directors statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibilities statement in relation to going concern: responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial the part of the Corporate governance statement relating to the statements in accordance with applicable law and International Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require Governance Code specified for our review: and us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards forAuditors.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
SCOPE OF THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures OTHER MATTER in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether statements of Kingsher plc for the year ended 28 January 2012. caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in Panos Kakoullis the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited Senior Statutory Auditor financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP ourreport.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom OPINION ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 March 2012 In our opinion the Group financial statements: give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 28January 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
