Financial accounts Independent auditors report to the members of Laird PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Group income statement, the Group statement of comprehensive income, the Group statement of changes in equity, the Group statement of financial position, the Group cash ow statement and the related notes 1 to 35.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Ouraudit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them inanauditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we haveformed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the statement of directors responsibilities set out on page 67, the directors are responsible for the preparation ofthe Group financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Thosestandards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the Group financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the Group financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies weconsider the implications for our report.
Opinion on Group financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: F give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of its profit for the year then ended: F have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and F have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: F the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the Group financial statements: and F the information given in the Corporate governance report set out on pages 49 to 54 with respect to internal control and risk management systems in relation to financial reporting processes and about share capital structures is consistent with the Group nancialstatements.
68 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business review Operating review Financial review Governance Financial accounts Additional information Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: F certain disclosures of directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or F we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit: or F a Corporate governance report has not been prepared by the Company.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: F the directors statement, set out on page 47, in relation to going concern: and F the part of the Corporate governance report relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and F certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Other matter We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of Laird PLC for the year ended 31 December 2012 and on the information in the Directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
