Financial statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ANGLO AMERICAN PLC We have audited the financial statements of Anglo American plc for the Matters on which we are required to report by exception year ended 31 December 2012 which comprise the Consolidated income We have nothing to report in respect of the following: statement, the Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our Consolidated balance sheet, the Consolidated cash ow statement, the opinion: Consolidated statement of changes in equity, the accounting policies, the adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or related notes 2 to 39 and the balance sheet of the Company and related returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not information in note 40.
The financial reporting framework that has been visited by us: or applied in the preparation of the Group financial statements is applicable law the Company financial statements and the part of the Remuneration and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records European Union.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in and returns: or the preparation of the Company financial statements is applicable law and certain disclosures of directors remuneration speci ed by law are not United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted made: or Accounting Practice.
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in our audit.
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members the directors statement contained within the Directors report in relation those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for to going concern: no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or the part of the Corporate governance section relating to the Companys assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we Code speci ed for our review: and have formed.
certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on directors remuneration.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Statement of directors responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satis ed that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to Carl D. Hughes Senior Statutory Auditor audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with for and on behalf of Deloitte LLP applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards London, United Kingdom APBs Ethical Standards for Auditors.
14 February 2013 Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements suf cient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of signi cant accounting estimates made by the directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and nonfinancial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the Companys affairs as at 31 December 2012 and of the Groups loss and the Companys pro t for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006: and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2012 137
