48 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marstons PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of Marstons PLC Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act for the period ended 29 September 2012 which comprise the 2006 Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of Comprehensive In our opinion: Income, the Group Cash Flow Statement, the Group Balance Sheet, the Group Statement of Changes in Equity and the related t the information given in the Directors Report for the financial notes.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in period for which the Group financial statements are prepared is their preparation is applicable law and International Financial consistent with the Group financial statements: and Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
t the information given in the Corporate Governance Statement set out on pages 31 to 38 with respect to internal control and Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors risk management systems and about share capital structures is As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors consistent with the financial statements.
Responsibilities set out on page 46, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Group financial statements and for being Matters on which we are required to report by exception satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to We have nothing to report in respect of the following: audit and express an opinion on the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply in our opinion: with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
t certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only t we have not received all the information and explanations we for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter require for our audit: or 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
t a corporate governance statement has not been prepared by the We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility parent Company.
for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: agreed by our prior consent in writing.
t the Directors statement, set out on page 30, in relation to going concern: Scope of the audit of the financial statements t the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and assurance that the financial statements are free from material t certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an Directors remuneration.
assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances and have been consistently applied and Other matters adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting We have reported separately on the parent Company financial estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the statements of Marstons PLC for the period ended 29 September financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and 2012 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material that is described as having been audited.
inconsistencies with the audited financial statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion the Group financial statements: Keith Harrington Senior Statutory Auditor t give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs as at for and on behalf of  LLP 29 September 2012 and of its loss and cash ows for the period Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors then ended: Birmingham t have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRS as 29 November 2012 adopted by the European Union: and t have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the lAS Regulation.
