Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
co. uk Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 87 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Marstons PLC We have audited the parent Company financial statements of Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act Marstons PLC for the period ended 29 September 2012 which 2006 comprise the Company Balance Sheet and the related notes.
The In our opinion: financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United t the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Respective responsibilities of Directors and Auditors t the information given in the Directors Report for the financial As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent Responsibilities set out on page 46, the Directors are responsible with the financial statements.
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and Matters on which we are required to report by exception express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with We have nothing to report in respect of the following: applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
in our opinion: This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only t adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Chapter adequate for our audit have not been received from branches 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
not visited by us: or We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility t the financial statements and the part of the Directors for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly the accounting records and returns: or agreed by our prior consent in writing.
t certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or Scope of the audit of the financial statements t we have not received all the information and explanations we An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and require for our audit.
disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material Other matters misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to Marstons PLC for the period ended 29 September 2012. the Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the Annual Report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial Keith Harrington statements.
If we become aware of any apparent material Senior Statutory Auditor misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for for and on behalf of  LLP our report.
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors Birmingham Opinion on financial statements 29 November 2012 In our opinion the financial statements: t give a true and fair view of the state of the Companys affairs as at 29 September 2012 and of its profit for the period then ended: t have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: and t have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
