888. com Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee INTERESTS & THEIR REMUNERATION Incentive plans are aligned to profitability of the business, long-term sustainable growth and shareholder value, which we believe derive from implementation of 888s strategy.
Zvika Zivlin Chairman of the Remuneration Committee annual pension contribution equal Remuneration policy to 15% of salary, which is aligned to and strategy the workforce average and statutory Following a review of the current policy, requirement in Israel, where the Group the Committee has concluded that subsidiary which employs the most the policy continues to support Group Group personnel is located.
For any strategy and that no significant changes new appointments, the Committee are required.
will align pension contributions to the workforce level, taking into account Our goal is to reward executives fairly, market practice and legal requirements by providing an appropriate balance in the country of the executive and the between fixed and variable remuneration, wider workforce.
linked to the achievement of suitably challenging performance measures.
As a two-year post-vesting holding period highlighted at the front of this Annual will be introduced for LTIP awards Report, our strategy focuses on the granted in or after 2019 to create a following pillars: five-year period between the grant of awards and the earliest opportunity for development of core B2C brands: Dear Shareholder sale of vested shares except for any I am pleased to present our Directors earlier sale of shares to meet any tax driving margin growth through Remuneration Report to shareholders.
operational efficiencies: As a company incorporated in our share ownership requirement will expansion in regulated markets: Gibraltar, 888 Holdings plc is not be retained at 200% of base salary.
bound by UK law or regulation in the B2B partner of choice: and The Committee has considered area of Directors remuneration to carefully the UK Corporate Governance the same extent that it applies to UK continue to protect our customers, Code requirement to develop a policy incorporated companies.
However, employees, community and act by virtue of 888s Premium Listing for post-employment shareholdings responsibly.
on the London Stock Exchange and and how to provide an appropriate reflecting the Committees approach Our incentive plans are aligned to balance between aligning executives to good governance, we have profitability of the 888 business, longto Company performance postadopted in full the disclosure and term sustainable growth and shareholder employment, which is in part a shareholder voting requirements value, which we believe derive from continuation of the business strategy of a UK incorporated company.
they have developed, but also taking At this years Annual General into account the fact that the volatility The Committee has taken the opportunity Meeting we will seek triennial in the market, likely future changes in shareholder approval to our to incorporate into the new policy regulation and the actions of a new Directors Remuneration Policy and changes to take account of latest best management team are not under their shareholders will be provided with practice and the new UK Corporate control.
To achieve the right balance, a binding resolution to approve Governance Code.
The changes to the an updated policy on post cessation of the Policy and the usual annual policy are set out in summary below: employment shareholdings for leavers advisory vote to approve this Annual Statement and our Annual Report will require LTIP post vesting holding the policy currently provides for a on Remuneration.
periods to continue post cessation of maximum annual pension contribution employment to the extent that this of 15% of salary.
Our new CEO, Itai provides an interest in shares for two Pazner, and our CFO receive an 58 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Governance years after leaving.
A good leaver be disclosed with performance against The annual bonus was focused on the would also retain an interest in both them retrospectively in next years annual achievement of stretching like-for-like unvested annual bonus deferred share report on remuneration.
Like-for- 1 awards and prorated LTIP awards postlike adjusted EBITDA growth in 2018 was We believe that a focus on EBITDA, employment.
The Committee will keep 6.3% resulting in bonuses to the Directors the most important KPI based on the under careful review developments of 43.8% of salary.
As the pay-out is less profitability of the Company, is the most in market practice, but other than than 100% of base salary, none of the straightforward approach to ensure those LTIP awards subject to a holding bonus will be deferred into shares this a robust link between reward and period, there will be no requirement to year.
For full details of Executive Directors performance.
hold beneficially-owned shares after bonuses and the associated performance cessation of employment under the delivered see page 69.
The Committee has considered carefully proposed policy.
the performance metrics for the 2019 LTIP In relation to long-term incentives, the awards given the increasingly difficult the Committee will have discretion LTIP awards granted in 2016 will vest regulatory environment in which 888 to adjust the formulaic outcome of based on EPS growth targets for 50% operates and recognising the difficulty incentive awards in circumstances of the award and for the other 50% based to set accurate long-term financial where the Committee believes the on relative TSR measured over three performance conditions for the next outcome is not reflective of underlying financial years to 31 December 2018.
The corporate performance, the investor Adjusted EPS growth over this period Committee has therefore determined experience or employee reward was 9.5% p. a. compounded, against a that the 2019 LTIP award will be based outcome.
target range of 5% p. a. compounded to on a performance condition comparing 20% p. a. compounded.
The Companys the current clawback and malus 888s relative TSR to that of its gaming TSR was 11%, putting it above the target provisions are being broadened, industry peers, all of whose performance for maximum vesting.
This results in 73.8% enabling the Committee to recover is likely to be affected by similar external of the 2016 award vesting in 2019. and or withhold payments in the industry-related factors.
The Committee event of failures of risk management, believes this provides a strong alignment Overall, in light of the annual and corporate failure and reputational of interest between executives and long-term performance delivered, the damage.
Previously, awards have Committee is satisfied that there has been been based 50% on adjusted EPS and a robust link between performance and dividend equivalent payments on 50% on relative TSR.
In addition to reward and that no discretion needed to deferred share awards granted achieving the TSR condition, there will be exercised.
under the new Policy will be made in be an additional requirement that the shares and only exceptionally where Committee is satisfied that the Companys Considerations for FY19 necessary in cash previously there was TSR is reflective of underlying financial the choice of cash or shares.
The Terms of Reference of the Committee performance.
have been updated to include the The Committee has also reviewed the TSR broader remit of the Committee as set Operation of our policy peer group, as recent corporate activity out in the new UK Corporate Governance in 2019 has reduced the size of the existing group, Code.
Not only does this mean that and concluded the current peer group of With CEO succession we have taken the the Committee must review and set five companies, being GVC Holdings plc, opportunity to reduce remuneration.
the remuneration for the tier of senior Sportech plc, Playtech plc, Paddy Power Our new CEO, Itai Pazner, was appointed management immediately below the Betfair plc and William Hill plc, should be on 24 January 2019 on a base salary Executive Directors, but also that it must expanded.
Therefore, the following five of ILS2,520,000 equivalent to circa review the wider group workforce policies companies will be added to the current 540,000 which will not be increased and practices and take these into account peer group: Betsson AB, International during FY19.
Our former CEO, Itai when setting Executive Director pay.
Game Technology plc, JPJ Group plc, Frieberger, will remain on his FY18 base The Committee has already agreed a Kindred Group plc and OPAP SA.
The TSR salary ILS 3,275,000 for the duration of timetable and agenda of actions for 2019 vesting schedule will continue to be 25% his notice period.
The CFO will receive a to ensure it is fully compliant with the UK of the award vesting if 888s TSR is equal salary increase of 2% for FY19 compared Corporate Governance Code with regards to the median TSR of the peer group to an average workforce increase of just to this and can report its activities in the increasing to 100% vesting if 888s TSR is over 4%.
The Committee is 33% i. e. 10% CAGR over the three-year also considering how it can best fulfil Annual bonus maximum opportunity for performance period or more above the its obligations to engage with the wider FY19 will be the same as FY18 being 150% TSR of the median company in the peer workforce to explain the alignment of of salary for the CEO, CFO and our former group.
Executive Director pay to the wider CEO, Itai Frieberger.
Our new CEO will receive the same level Pay outcomes for 2018 The Committee is committed to of LTIP award as our former CEO, of The Annual Report on Remuneration sets maintaining an open and constructive 200% of salary, and the CFOs LTIP award out in detail the performance outcomes dialogue with our shareholders on will be 150% of salary, in line with the and total remuneration paid in respect remuneration matters.
I welcome any award he received in FY18.
feedback you may have and look forward will be granted to former CEO to your support for our remunerationItai Frieberger for FY19.
The Committee noted the solid based resolutions at our 2019 AGM.
performance of the Company and the The annual bonus performance condition management team over the year, which will continue to be based on like-for-like continued to drive growth in regulated adjusted EBITDA, with target payment markets, enhance compliance and of 50% of maximum for achieving a develop product innovations.
stretching budget figure, increasing to full pay-out for a stretching target Zvika Zivlin above budget.
The target range is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee lower than the FY18 EBITDA figure, 12 March 2019 recognising the currently extremely challenging regulatory environment and the general industry outlook for the year ahead.
The targets are, however, as stretching as those set last year and will 888 Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 59
