GOVERNANCE REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT Michael Kenyon Compensation committee chair Implementation of policy for 2019 Dear shareholders, Peter will be eligible for an STI award of up to 150% of salary based on a combination of Group and individual performance, weighted 80% and On behalf of the Board, I am pleased 20% respectively.
The Committee will continue to adopt strenuous performance requirements for the vesting of bonus awards to ensure that to present the Directors Remuneration vesting levels remain focused on the achievement of target and above Report for the year ended 31 December target performance, with further details to be provided in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
In line with the change adopted 2018. effective 1 November 2018, Peters target bonus opportunity for 2019 will be 100% of salary, this being consistent with the approved Implementation of Remuneration Policy during 2018 Remuneration Policy, the previous CEO bonus structure and reflecting Peter Geleta was appointed to the role of Interim Chief Executive Officer Peters progression in the CEO role.
with effect from 1 January 2018 and received a salary of 400,000 per annum.
The Committee reviewed the Chief Executives remuneration In 2019, Peter will be granted an LTIP award over nil-cost options during the year, taking into account Peters progression in the role, the representing 400% of salary, with vesting subject to five-year relative TSR performance of the Company and with an eye to market data for other performance against a group of listed gold miners.
As a result of this review, the Committee approved Remuneration Policy considerations an increase to Peters salary to 425,000 and an increase in his The Committee last submitted the Remuneration Policy to shareholders target annual bonus from 75% of salary to 100% of salary, each effective at the 2017 AGM, receiving 88% support for the relevant resolution.
Payments made during 2018 were made in accordance with this new The annual bonus for 2018 paid out at 78.1% of maximum equivalent to policy which is repeated on pages 88 to 92 of this report for ease of 124% of Peters average salary across the year, reflecting performance reference.
against the stretching financial, operational and individual targets set at The 2020 AGM will mark the third anniversary of the adoption of the the start of the year.
Across the year, the Group significantly exceeded its current Remuneration Policy and, in line with UK reporting regulations, free cash flow targets, ended between stretch and wall for production we will need to submit a new Policy to shareholders for approval at that and exceeded budget on AISC.
Safety performance, as measured by time.
Given this, the Committee will be conducting a detailed review of TRIFR, saw a Group-wide improvement of 58% during the year, however the existing remuneration arrangements over the course of 2019 and as a result of a fatality at North Mara in June, the Committee and will seek to engage major shareholders to seek their input as part of management unanimously agreed that there should be no reward under this process.
The review will take into account recent market trends this element of the bonus.
Our sincere condolences go out to the family and developments in best practice including recent changes to the and colleagues of Mr. Tindahinile.
Further details as regards the CEOs UK Corporate Governance Code and investor voting guidelines - with 2018 bonus assessment are provided on pages 96 to 98. the ultimate aim of ensuring the Companys remuneration arrangements On long-term incentives, PRSUs granted to senior executives in February are able to attract, motivate and retain executives of the calibre required 2016 including to Peter Geleta in his prior role of Head of People were to continue to deliver against Acacias longer-term strategy.
tested for performance in February 2019.
Vesting of these awards was As required under the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups based on Acacias TSR performance against the constituents of the EMIX Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the remaining Global Gold Index.
Over the relevant performance period, Acacias TSR content of this Remuneration Report is divided into the Directors was below the median of constituents and accordingly these awards Remuneration Policy pages88 to 92 and the Annual Report on lapsed in full.
As noted last year, and in accordance with the current Remuneration Policy, Peter was granted an LTIP award in the form of nil-cost options representing 400% of base salary on 28 February 2018, with vesting subject to five-year relative TSR performance against a group of listed gold miners.
Further details on this award are included later in this report.
Michael Kenyon Chair of the Compensation Committee ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 87 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED This section of the report sets out the Policy for Executive Directors, which shareholders approved at the 2017 Annual General Meeting on 20 April 2017, and which came into effect from that date.
No changes have been made to the Policy since the 2017 AGM but the disclosure below has been enhanced to provide more details around the malus and clawback framework available to the Compensation Committee.
Summary table for Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Base salary Pension Benefits Fixed remuneration Purpose To provide an appropriately competitive level of To help provide for an To provide benefits which are competitive in the base salary with due regard to the size and appropriate retirement market in which the individual is employed.
nature of the responsibilities of each role, as benefit.
well as an individual executives experience.
Operation Reviewed annually, with any adjustments Executive Directors Executive Directors receive benefits, which effective 1 January and made at the discretion receive contributions into usually include the provision of a company car of the Compensation Committee.
a personal pension or cash alternative, health and life insurance, scheme of their choice, liability insurance, fitness club membership and Salaries are benchmarked against international or a cash supplement of professional membership: however, the gold mining, general mining and FTSE listed commensurate value.
Compensation Committee retains discretion to companies of similar size and complexity.
approve any other form of benefit that it deems The Group does not The Compensation Committee also takes into appropriate to award depending on individual operate any defined account corporate and individual performance circumstances.
For example, relocation benefit schemes.
and experience: general market conditions: and allowances and international transfer-related salary increases applied within the Company as benefits are often provided for, when required, a whole.
in line with general industry practices for the recruitment of international employees.
Opportunity To avoid setting expectations of Executive Executive Directors The value of benefits will generally be assessed Directors and other employees, no maximum receive pension on the basis of market norms at the relevant salary is set under the Remuneration Policy.
It is contributions or an point in time.
not anticipated that salary increases for equivalent cash The Compensation Committee retains the Executive Directors will exceed those of the supplement equal to a discretion to approve a higher total cost of wider workforce over the period during which percentage of gross benefits in exceptional circumstances e. g. this Remuneration Policy is effective.
Where base salary in line with relocation or in circumstances where factors increases are awarded in excess of the wider market norms at the outside the Companys control have changed employee population, relevant point materially e. g. increases in medical coverage the Committee will provide the rationale in the in time.
relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Short-Term Incentive STI Purpose To reinforce the delivery of key short-term operational objectives on an annual basis in order to promote performance as regards business priorities for each financial year in the context of individual and Company performance.
Operation Performance measure weightings and targets are set at the start of the year and weighted to reflect business priorities.
At the end of the year, the Compensation Committee determines the extent to which targets have been achieved, taking into account Company-wide performance and the individual performance of each Executive Director.
STI payments are delivered in cash and are subject to appropriate clawback provisions, further details of which are included as a note to the policy table.
Opportunity The STI provides Executive Directors with an annual bonus opportunity in the range of 0% to 150% of base salary, with target bonus opportunity of up to 100% of base salary, unless otherwise determined by the Compensation Committee.
Performance Bonus outcomes are assessed by the Compensation Committee on a scorecard assessment, based on the achievement of measures the targets set for each performance measure and the Committees broad assessment of Company performance.
Performance measures are based on challenging budget and stretch targets for Company-wide financial and operational performance and, where appropriate, individual performance.
Performance measures may include financial, operational, growth, production, cost and capital expenditure control and sustainability metrics.
Performance measures are selected annually to reflect key strategic initiatives and matters underpinning the key financial and non-financial performance indicators used to manage performance across the Acacia Group.
Performance measures will be weighted appropriately each year according to the business plan.
Weightings of performance measures may vary, typically up to 10% and 50%, with the range of performance required under each measure calibrated to reflect the Companys annual published guidance range, particularly as regards production, cash costs and capital expenditure.
Whilst performance measures, weightings and targets for any given year will not be disclosed on a prospective basis due to commercial sensitivities, the Compensation Committee aims to provide such details retrospectively as part of the Annual Report on Remuneration, unless ongoing commercial sensitivities discourage such disclosures.
88 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose To reinforce an enterprise culture that promotes and protects shareholders long-term interests, so as to reward long-term decision making and performance that support the delivery of shareholder returns and drive shareholder value over the long term.
Operation Awards of conditional shares, nil-cost options or restricted stock units RSUs may be granted annually, with the maximum value that may be awarded to each Executive Director defined as a percentage of base salary at the date of grant.
Vesting is based on Acacias corporate performance over a period of not less than three years.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the relevant performance period, awards will lapse.
Awards under the LTIP are subject to malus and clawback provisions, further details of which are included as a note to the policy table.
Opportunity The LTIP permits a maximum award with a value equal to 400% of base salary at the time of grant to be made each year under normal circumstances.
The Committee may exceed this limit in exceptional circumstances only.
Such circumstances would include, for example, specific recruitment or retention scenarios.
The exercise of this discretion would be assessed in each case on the circumstances in question.
The level of LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors each year is determined by the Committee, within the limits set out above, with reference to a range of factors including individual performance ratings.
Dividends accrue on unvested LTIP awards over the vesting period and are released, to the extent the LTIP award vests, on the date of release.
Performance Subject to continued employment and Acacias relative TSR performance over the performance period when compared to a measures relevant listed index currently comprising the constituents of the EMIX formerly Euromoney Global Gold Index.
TSR performance must be at least equal to that of the TSR comparator group in order to receive any payment under LTIP awards, at which level 25% of the maximum award will vest.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the performance period, awards will lapse.
The Compensation Committee reviews the comparator group of international gold miners against which TSR performance is measured from time to time to ensure it remains appropriate.
The Compensation Committee has the discretion to determine the treatment of comparators in the event of their delisting or otherwise in any event which, in the opinion of the Committee, compromises the suitability of a company as a comparator for Acacia.
Additionally, the Committee may, at its discretion, reduce the number of awards vesting in the event that the achievement against the performance condition is not a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company.
More generally, the performance measures applied to LTIP awards are reviewed periodically to ensure they remain aligned with shareholder interests and, in this regard, the Committee retains discretion to employ performance measures other than TSR to the LTIP in order to allow for performance assessments to evolve over time.
Share Option Plan SOP Purpose To reinforce an enterprise culture that promotes and protects shareholders long-term interests, so as to reward long-term decision making and performance that support the delivery of shareholder returns and drive shareholder value over the long term.
Operation Whilst the LTIP is expected to be used as the main long-term incentive for Executive Directors going forward, the Committee retains the ability to grant stock options under the SOP where appropriate, such as in recruitment or retention scenarios.
The Compensation Committee will set a vesting period for SOP awards appropriate to the circumstances at the time of grant.
Historically, this has included vesting in equal parts over four years or vesting after three years.
All awards expire seven years from the date of grant.
There are no clawback provisions included under the SOP.
Opportunity The SOP permits a maximum share option award with a value equal to 200% of base salary at the time of grant to be made each year under normal circumstances.
In the event that a stock option award was used for annual incentive purposes, such awards would ordinarily be granted at a target level equal to 150% of base salary at the time of grant.
In this regard, the Committee would look to use an appropriate valuation model, for example, the Black-Scholes model, for purposes of ascertaining the fair value of any award made.
Performance The Compensation Committee determines the performance metrics applying to share option awards as appropriate to the measures circumstances at the time of grant, based on the purpose of making such award, i. e. whether for recruitment, retention or as a matter of annual performance incentive.
Generally, in the event that the Committee were to grant an SOP award as an incentive, it would look to apply an appropriate performance condition.
Shareholding guidelines Purpose To align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders through the building up of a significant shareholding in the Company.
Operation Executive Directors are required to establish a shareholding equivalent to four times base salary by retaining 50% of vested awards net of tax until the guideline has been met.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 89 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis Use of Compensation Committee discretions The chart below provides an estimate of the potential future reward Generally, it is not possible for any remuneration policy to pre-empt every opportunity for the Interim CEO, and the potential split between the possible scenario and for this reason the Compensation Committee has different elements of remuneration under three different performance been provided with the ability to apply various discretions and scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
judgements in order to ensure the achievement of fair outcomes and to maintain the flexibility required to balance the interests of individuals and Potential reward opportunities are based on the Remuneration Policy.
For example, the Compensation Committee may each scenario, the STI and LTIP are based on the maximum opportunities be required to exercise discretion when determining whether or not the in 2019 applied to the CEOs 2019 salary.
From 2017 onwards, the LTIP outcomes of performance measures and targets applicable to incentive awards granted in a year will not normally vest until at least the fifth plans are fair in context, or if realities encourage the use of upward or anniversary of the date of grant, and the projected value excludes the downward adjustments.
By means of illustration, this may be the case as impact of share price movement.
a result of the impact of wider socio-economic or political factors or market-wide developments that were generally unforeseeable or remote Peter Geleta at the time of setting performance measures, but nonetheless occur 000 2,870 during a performance period.
It is for such reasons that the Compensation Committee retains a number of discretions for the operation of all incentive schemes STI, LTIP and SOP including, but not 1,807 59% limited to, the ability to determine the following: 47% 22% 532 Scheme participants.
24% 100% 29% 19% The timing of grant and size of awards.
Appropriate treatment of vesting of awards in the context of Minimum On-target Maximum restructurings and or takeovers.
Fixed remuneration Appropriate adjustments to awards in the event of variations to the Annual bonus Companys share capital.
Long-term incentives Absent specific bad leaver scenarios, the ability to determine and designate leavers as good leavers in order to determine appropriate The minimum scenario reflects the 2019 base salary, pension and treatment of awards in exit scenarios.
estimated benefits i. e. fixed remuneration which are the only elements Treatment, size and grant of awards in a recruitment context.
of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration package not linked to performance.
The application, scope, weighting and targets for applicable performance measures and performance conditions from time to time, including any The on-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus target amendments to existing performance measures conditions and related STI 100% of salary and half of the LTIP vesting 200% of salary.
The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus maximum Whilst it may not be possible to give an exhaustive list of Compensation payout under all incentives 150% of salary under the STI and full Committee discretions, the exercise of discretions and the rationale vesting of an LTIP award 400% of base salary.
underpinning their use, if any, will generally be provided in context, as part of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Malus and clawback Awards under the STI and the LTIP are subject to clawback and, in respect of the LTIP from 2017, malus provisions which can be applied to both vested and unvested awards.
Clawback provisions will apply for a period of up to one year from the end of the performance period.
Circumstances in which malus and clawback may be applied include misconduct and misstatement.
The Company has determined a specific framework to help ensure the consistent assessment and application of malus and clawback, including: i the process by which trigger events and culpable individuals are identified, ii categorisation of the materiality of the trigger event, iii calculating the appropriate adjustment to remuneration in terms of quantum and practical application, and iv the process by which an affected employee may appeal a decision.
Approach to recruitment of Executive Directors When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive Director the Compensation Committee aims to offer a package that is sufficiently competitive, to attract, motivate and retain candidates of the calibre and experience required to run our business.
This will generally be determined in each case not only in the context of the skills required for a position and those of each candidate, but also on the basis of recruitment trends within the global mining industry and any additional considerations relevant to the recruitment of executives.
In addition, our approach to recruitment will also depend on whether we use external recruitment or internal promotion routes.
90 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT External recruitment In determining appropriate remuneration for an external candidate, the Compensation Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
For such purposes, the Compensation Committee may make use of all of the existing components of the Remuneration Policy as follows: Maximum annual Component Approach grant value Fixed Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, N A remuneration experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and their current basic salary.
Where new appointees have initial basic salaries set below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of two to three years subject to their development in the role.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions or an equivalent cash supplement, which is N A equivalent to that received by existing executives and in line with market norms.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include but are not limited to the N A provision of a company car or cash alternative, private medical insurance and any necessary relocation expenses.
Variable STI The STI described in the Summary Table for Executive Directors Remuneration Policy will apply 150% of salary remuneration to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
Targets for the individual element will be tailored towards the executive.
1 LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on the same terms as 400% of salary other executives, as described in the Summary Table for Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
1 SOP New appointees may be granted awards under the SOP, as described in the Summary Table for 200% of salary Executive Directors Remuneration Policy.
1 A ward can be higher in circumstances deemed by the Committee to be exceptional, i. e. where it is necessary to buy out incentive arrangements or make offers equivalent to sign-on bonuses.
The Compensation Committee may also make an award under the terms Approach to Executive Director exit arrangements of one of the Companys incentive plans outlined above in respect of a Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving termination, are carefully considered by the Compensation Committee a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate directors of the quality factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, required to manage the Company.
The Committee considers the likelihood of those conditions being met and the term remaining to appointments of an indefinite term and with a notice period of one year to their vesting.
In addition, where candidates are recruited from overseas, be appropriate.
The service contract used for the Companys current the Committee may be required to consider additional benefits received Interim CEO, being the sole Executive Director at present, provides for in the home jurisdiction or arrange for a form of substitution of such compensation of 12 months salary in the event of early termination.
benefits in addition to the payment of suitable relocation allowances.
The The Company has the discretion to pay such compensation in Compensation Committee may also consider it appropriate to grant an instalments, requiring the Executive Director to mitigate loss i. e. by award under a structure not included in the Remuneration Policy, gaining new employment over the relevant period, or in a lump sum.
In exercising the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R where respect of the Interim CEO, this discretion is not included in his legacy necessary.
Such an award would include, for example, a sign-on contract.
The Compensation Committee confirms that any arrangement specifically established to recruit an individual would take the form of If notice to terminate is served by either the Executive Director or the performance-related variable remuneration.
On recruitment, the value of Company, the Executive Director can continue to receive basic salary, this remuneration would be capped at the limits contained in the LTIP benefits and pension for the duration of his her notice period during and SOP or the value of awards which the individual had to surrender in which the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil his her order to be recruited, whichever is the greater.
The policy that exists for current duties or may assign a period of garden leave, depending on the current Executive Directors would then apply to the balance of the circumstances in question.
The service contract used for any new hire individuals remuneration package.
In addition, the Compensation would be based on similar terms.
The Interim CEOs service contract is Committee does not envisage that a cash payment such as a golden available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Generally, in an exit scenario the Company will honour all contractual Internal promotion entitlements, this being a matter required by the operation of law, and for In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal individuals who relocated from overseas, reasonable relocation costs will promotion, the Committee will be consistent with the policy used for be considered as appropriate in the circumstances.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to his or her promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even in instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 91 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The treatment of incentive arrangements in exit scenarios is considered in which the Board determines a need to change the Companys strategic on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual direction or focus, or is required to review Board and management terms of the individual, the circumstances of the exit and any applicable composition generally, as a result of operational or market duty to mitigate.
Generally, the payment of incentives as part of exit developments, or other developments in the business, such as entry into arrangements is determined on the basis of good leaver bad leaver and new markets or a restructuring of the business.
In any event, when change of control scenarios, subject to Committee discretions, as exercising such discretion the Compensation Committee would always follows: recognise and take into account the balance of shareholder interests and those of the departing individual.
STI There is no automatic eligibility for payment under the STI.
The Executive Director external appointments Committee may exercise discretion to award a bonus for the performance It is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept nonyear.
Such discretion would generally only be used in good leaver executive directorships of other quoted companies for which they would scenarios.
If an award is made, the award will be made on a pro-rata normally be allowed to retain fees.
Any such directorships must be basis for the period of time served to the agreed termination date.
Any formally approved by the Chair of the Board.
Currently, no such positions STI payment would be subject to applicable STI performance measure are held by the Companys sole Executive Director.
and target assessments for the year in question.
Approach to Non-Executive Director remuneration LTIP pre-2017 and SOP The Board aims to recruit Non-Executive Directors of a high calibre with In the event of a Directors resignation, all outstanding awards will lapse.
broad commercial, international and other experience relevant to mining For good leavers, vesting of LTIP awards is typically calculated based on operations.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board on the performance to the end of the relevant performance period with awards recommendation of the Nomination & Governance Committee.
pro-rated to reflect time employed, although the Committee may exercise Their appointment is for an initial term of three years, subject to annual discretion to waive time pro-rating of awards in certain circumstances.
re-election by shareholders at each AGM in accordance with the Stock options for good leavers vest in full subject to the vesting schedule requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Upon the determined at grant.
Any stock options which remain unexercised six recommendation of the Nomination & Governance Committee, they may months following the vesting date will lapse.
be re-appointed for two additional terms of three years, subject to their LTIP 2017 onwards continuing to satisfy requirements for continuing appointment and, again, As executive LTIP awards made from 2017 onwards have five-year subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The terms of engagement performance and vesting periods, the treatment of awards held by of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in a letter of appointment.
leavers will depend on the period elapsed from the date of grant.
These These letters do not contain any provision for compensation for early leaver conditions are drafted to ensure broad consistency of leavers with termination of office.
Requirements for notice periods are reviewed on a market norms for a more traditional LTIP with a three-year performance case by case basis.
All letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors period, and two-year holding period.
are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
If a Director leaves the Group during the first 36 months from the date of Non-Executive Director remuneration primarily focuses on the payment of grant and is a bad leaver, awards will lapse.
For good leavers within the fees.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any of the first 36 months from the date of grant, vesting of LTIP awards will incentive plans available to Executive Directors.
However, Non-Executive typically be calculated based on performance to the end of the relevant Directors may participate in the Companys DSU Plan.
This plan provides performance period with awards pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the Non-Executive Directors with the option to receive some or all of their first 36 months from grant elapsed at the time of leaving and released at annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment, payable only the normal date, unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Broadly, cash payments under this plan are calculated by reference to the fair market Awards for which more than 36 months have elapsed will lapse only in value of the Companys shares at the time of payment and remain the event of misconduct on the part of the Director.
In all other scenarios, subject to market fluctuations in the context of the Companys share awards will continue in the plan with no time-based reduction, but with price until the time of payment.
This plan was adopted by the Company in vesting based on performance to the end of the relevant performance 2012 to address certain equivalent practices and trends of North period and released at the normal date, unless otherwise determined by American mining companies to ensure that our practices for Nonthe Committee.
Executive Director compensation structures remain flexible and On a change of control, outstanding LTIP awards will vest according to competitive against our global peers.
DSUs are granted annually, usually performance up to the date of the event and be subject to a time-based in April of each year.
In addition, to align Non-Executive Director interests reduction if such awards are less than 36 months from the grant date, with shareholders, the Company has adopted Non-Executive Director unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Alternatively, Acacia awards shareholding guidelines for its independent Non-Executive Directors, may be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer where which require relevant individuals to acquire a minimum shareholding agreed.
equivalent to their annual base fee within five years from election to the Board, which may be satisfied through the purchase of Acacia Ordinary Summary termination, termination for misconduct or gross negligence or Shares or by DSUs holdings.
termination in circumstances which would justify summary termination are all examples of bad leaver scenarios.
Good leavers include Details as regards current outstanding awards under the DSU Plan and individuals who have left the Company as a result of retirement, injury, Acacia Ordinary Shares currently held by Non-Executive Directors are disability or death.
In addition, the Compensation Committee retains the provided on page 100. discretion to determine any leaver that is not a bad leaver as a good leaver.
This discretion is viewed as necessary by the Company given the vast range of scenarios in which an individual may leave the Company where conduct is not at issue.
Whilst it is not possible to provide an exhaustive list of such scenarios, examples would include circumstances 92 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT Summary table for Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy Fees Purpose To attract and retain candidates with the required skill and experience to form part of the Board and to ensure fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are competitive and comparable with other companies of equivalent size and complexity operating within the global mining industry.
Operation The base fee for Non-Executive Directors is reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective 1 April each year.
Fees payable to the Chair are determined by the Compensation Committee, while the base fee and any other fee payable to the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chair of the Board on behalf of the Board.
In addition to the base fee, additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director and as Chair of any of the Boards Committees Audit, Compensation, EHS&S, Nomination & Governance and for individual membership of such Committees.
These additional fees are also reviewed annually, with any adjustment effective 1 April each year.
In the event that the Board requires the formation of an additional Board Committee, fees for the Chair and membership of such Committee will be determined by the Board at the time.
No base fee or fee for membership of Board Committees is payable to Non-Executive Directors appointed by Barrick pursuant to the nomination rights contained in the Relationship Agreement.
Non-Executive Director fee levels are benchmarked against international gold mining, general mining and FTSE listed companies of similar size and complexity.
Time commitment, responsibility, and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to an effective Board are taken into account when reviewing fee levels.
Opportunity Non-Executive Director fee increases are set in response to the outcome of the annual fee review.
Fees for the year ending 31 December 2018 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for all Directors provided in the Companys Articles of Association is 3,000,000.
Deferred Share Unit Plan DSU Plan Purpose To ensure Acacia Non-Executive Director compensation structures remain flexible and competitive against global peers.
Operation Non-Executive Directors can receive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment under the DSU Plan.
The value of additional DSUs is credited to reflect dividends paid on Acacia Ordinary Shares over the period of participation.
Cash payments become payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Cash payments are calculated by reference to the fair market value of Acacias Ordinary Shares at the time of payment and remain subject to market fluctuations in Acacias share price until payment.
Awards lapse in the event that an individual is summarily terminated for: i breach of contract: ii breach of Directors duties: or iii misconduct, or if an individual resigns in circumstances justifying summary termination.
Opportunity Non-Executive Directors can waive up to 100% of their annual fee.
Approach to recruitment of Non-Executive Directors In the case of appointing a new Non-Executive Director, the Board will utilise the Remuneration Policy summarised in the table entitled Summary Table for Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy, above.
A base fee which is aligned with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payable for acting as Senior Independent Director or as Chair of any of the Boards Committees and for individual membership of such Committees.
Non-Executive Directors would also be eligible to waive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment under the DSU Plan.
Approach to Non-Executive Director exit arrangements As regards Non-Executive Director resignation, retirement or termination, base fee and any additional fees would be payable to the resignation retirement termination date.
In respect of DSU awards, save in the case of summary termination, termination for gross misconduct or termination in circumstances which would justify summary termination, DSU awards vest in full on leaving office, whereby the relevant cash payment made in respect of awards is determined by reference to the fair market value of an Acacia Ordinary Share at the time of payment.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 93 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration for 2018 Advisers During the year, the Committee received independent advice on executive Compensation Committee membership in 2018 compensation matters from Mercer which forms part of the MMC group As of 31 December 2018, the Compensation Committee comprised of companies.
Mercer was first appointed by the Compensation three Non-Executive Directors, all of whom were, and remain, Committee in 2010 and retained during the year.
The Compensation independent: Committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually and is Michael Kenyon Chair comfortable that the Mercer team provides independent remuneration Steve Lucas advice to the Committee and does not have any connections with the Rachel English Company that may impair its independence.
Mercer is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration The following individual also attended meetings by invitation during the Consultants, details of which can be found at year and provided information to the Committee to enable it to make www.
com informed decisions: In 2018, Mercer provided independent advice on trends and Peter Geleta, Interim Chief Executive Officer developments and reporting regulations, and attended the Compensation No Director is present when his or her own remuneration is being Committee meetings.
Mercer does not advise the Company on any determined.
The Compensation Committee met four times during the issues outside compensation and governance thereof.
Mercers total year and details of members attendance at meetings are provided on fees for the provision of remuneration services in 2018 were 67,910 on page 76.
An overview of Committee activities during the year is provided the basis of time and materials.
Other than advice on remuneration, no as part of the Committee Chairs introduction to this report.
other services were provided by Mercer or any other part of the MMC group of companies.
The Committee also received legal advice from Travers Smith LLP as regards certain remuneration practices during the year, the total fees for which equalled 17,260.
Details of Directors service contracts and letters of appointment As at 31 December 2018, Directors current appointments were as follows: Date of current service Unexpired term as of contract letter of appointment 31 December 2018 Executive Director Peter Geleta 01 January 2018 N A Non-Executive Directors Rachel English 23 October 2016 10 months Andre Falzon 18 April 2016 4 months Stephen Galbraith 18 April 2016 4 months Michael Kenyon 18 April 2016 4 months Steve Lucas 23 October 2016 10 months Further details on the Interim CEO service contract Details of exit arrangements included in the Interim CEOs service contract are outlined on page 91.
In addition to these arrangements, and reflecting that the Interim CEO is subject to contractual commitments made prior to his promotion to Executive Director level, Peter Geletas service contract includes an entitlement to a severance payment in the event of a Change of Control, as outlined below.
The Interim CEO will be entitled to a severance payment in the event that he is dismissed without cause or resigns for good reason in the 12 months following a Change of Control of the Company.
As of 1 January 2019, such payment would be equal to two times the combined value of: his annual base salary immediately prior to the Change of Control: The greater of: his target annual bonus and the average over the last two completed financial years immediately preceding the Change of Control: the annual employer pension contribution immediately prior to the Change of Control: the annual fair value of company vehicle-related benefits prior to the Change of Control Additionally, the Company will pay for any costs relating to job relocation counselling services incurred within 18 months following his termination ofemployment capped at 10,000 plus VAT and for his continued participation for up to 30 months in any and all life insurance, medical, dental, health and accident and disability plans in which he participated prior to the termination of his employment or an equivalent cash lump sum.
94 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT Single total figure of remuneration for Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Director for the financial years ending 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
1 2 3 4 5 Salary fees Taxable benefits STI benefits LTIs Pension Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Executive 6 Peter Geleta 404,167 N A 43,538 N A 500,500 N A 0 N A 60,625 N A 1,008,830 N A Non-Executive 7 Kelvin Dushnisky Andre Falzon 149,833 144,875 149,833 144,875 Michael Kenyon 200,647 159,875 200,647 159,875 Steve Lucas 123,833 119,625 123,833 119,625 7 Rachel English 194,500 131,875 194,500 131,875 Stephen Galbraith Notes: 1 N on-Executive Director fees payable include all base fees paid in respect of the appointment as a Non-Executive Director and additional fees payable in respect of appointments as SID, Chair and or members of Board committees.
An overview of fees payable for 2018 is provided on page 92.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors can elect to receive all or some of their annual fees in DSUs, pursuant to the terms of the Companys DSU Plan.
Further details of this plan are provided on page 92.
Non-Executive Directors appointed pursuant to Barricks nomination rights under the Relationship Agreement do not receive any fees in respect of their appointment.
2 A b reakdown of 2018 taxable benefits is provided below: Car allowance Medical Total Peter Geleta 38,128 5,410 43,538 3 T his represents the short-term incentive payable in cash for annual performance.
Details as regards the performance assessment applicable to the CEO 2018 STI award are provided on page 96.
In addition, the retention award granted to Peter Geleta in 2017 when he was Head of People, prior to being appointed Interim CEO, was 425,000 which fully vested during 2018.
4 PRSUs granted in February 2015 lapsed in February 2018.
No other long-term incentive awards were eligible to vest during the year.
5 No DSU elections were made by any Non-Executive Directors in 2018.
6 Peter Geleta was appointed to the Board as Interim Chief Executive Officer in January 2018.
7 Kelvin Dushnisky stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2018.
Rachel English was appointed as Interim Chair on 1 September 2018.
Executive Director salaries Peter Geleta was appointed to the role of Interim Chief Executive Officer on 1 January 2018 on a salary of 400,000 per annum.
The Committee reviewed the Chief Executives salary during the year, taking into account Peters progression in role, the performance of the company and with an eye to market data for other international miners.
As a result, the Committee approved an increase to his salary to 425,000 effective 1 November 2018.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 95 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Non-Executive Director fees For the year ending 31 December 2018, no fees were paid to Non-Executive Directors appointed by Barrick pursuant to its nomination rights under the Relationship Agreement.
Non-Executive Director fees are typically assessed in April each year, however for 2018, the fee review was postponed until September which coincided with the appointment of the Interim Chair, Rachel English.
Noting the significant increase in time commitment being asked of the Non-Executive Directors given the ongoing challenges for the Company in recent years, the Interim Chair and Interim Chief Executive proposed a fee structure to better compensate Non-Executive Directors for this increased workload and to help ensure the Companys ability to attract talent to the Board.
Effective 1 November 2018, Non-Executive Directors will now receive a base fee for their roles on the Board and in chairing or acting as members of the various Board Committees.
In addition, for any meetings held in excess of the scheduled number of meetings each year, Non-Executive Directors will receive an additional per meeting fee as outlined below.
The Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Interim Chair, similarly proposed a fee structure for the Interim Chair of the Board consisting of a base fee and additional per meeting fee for Board meetings held in excess of the scheduled number each year.
Fees for the Interim Chair a role which had previously been undertaken by Directors appointed by Barrick were set taking into account market practice at international gold mining, general mining and FTSE listed companies of similar size and complexity to Acacia.
Fees payable effective 1 November 2018 1 September 2018 in respect of the Interim Chair are as follows: Fee for scheduled meetings Per meeting fee for additional meetings Scheduled meetings per year Chair Non-Executive Director Chair Non-Executive Director Board 5 200,000 95,000 3,500 2,500 Fee for scheduled meetings Per meeting fee for additional meetings Scheduled meetings per year Chair of Committee Member of Committee Chair of Committee Member of Committee Audit Committee 4 20,000 8,000 3,000 1,500 Compensation Committee 4 16,000 8,000 2,500 1,500 Nominations & Governance Committee 2 10,000 6,000 2,500 1,500 EHS&S Committee 4 16,000 6,000 2,500 1,500 Independent Committee N A SID 30,000 N A 3,000 1,500 In addition, Non-Executive Directors are eligible for a 1,000 per day travel allowance in respect of attendance at meetings held outside their countries of domicile.
Fees payable prior to 1 November 2018 were as follows.
Fee component Amount Base fee 85,000 Senior Independent Director fee 25,000 Chair of Audit Committee fee 20,000 Chair of Compensation Committee, EHS&S Committee, and Nomination & Governance Committee fee 15,000 Board Committee membership fee 5,000 Chair of Independent Committee fee 2,200 per meeting Member of Independent Committee fee 1,500 per meeting Executive Directors Short-Term Incentive awards For the year ending 31 December 2018, Executive Director STI awards were earned on the basis of Company-wide performance 80%, this being representative of the overall leadership, management and performance of an individual holding this position and also include a component to assess individual performance 20%.
Company-wide performance measures continue to focus on the core metrics which we use to assess performance as regards safety, production, cost control and profit generation.
These performance metrics were assessed on the basis of individual weightings and in line with a range of performance targets to provide for base threshold, target, wall and stretch maximum performance, as outlined in the table opposite.
The Committee has given careful consideration to the retrospective disclosure of annual bonus targets and has concluded that it does not consider the 2018 targets to be commercially sensitive at this time.
Consequently, the targets set for the 2018 annual bonus are disclosed below.
Disclosure of the 2017 annual bonus targets, which in the opinion of the Committee remained commercially sensitive at the publication of last years report, are included at the end of this report on page 101.
Despite an increasingly challenging operating environment and a number of factors outside managements control, performance during the year was pleasing.
2018 gold production came in significantly ahead of initial guidance for the year, with strong operating performance at all three mines.
Similarly, 2018 AISC was below the full year guidance range, helped by a higher production base, lower capital allocation and strong cost discipline.
In respect of free cash flow, 2018 performance significantly exceeded the stretch targets set at the start of the year, driven by the Groups return to cash flow generation in the second quarter of the year and sustained performance during H2 2018.
Safety performance during 2018 demonstrated significant progress on the previous year, with the Company recording a Group-wide TRIFR of 0.19 compared to 0.45 in 2017, a 58% improvement.
Alone, this result would have been sufficient to have delivered a full payout under this element of the STI, however, as a result of a fatality at North Mara in June, the Committee and management unanimously agreed that there should be no reward under this element of the STI.
96 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT As in previous years, the Committee elected to make a number of adjustments to the production, cash flow and AISC outturns to ensure the targets were of broadly equivalent difficulty to those set at the start of the year and remained motivational for participants.
Adjustments were based on material, unforeseen deviations to Acacias 0 12 forecasts on which targets were set at the start of the year, and included, for example, normalisation for arbitration legal fees, deferred capital expenditure and regulatory spend.
Against these adjusted figures, and reflecting no payment in respect of the TRIFR element of the STI, Company-wide performance was assessed as 157.7% overall.
The Committee is satisfied that this overall outcome reflects what was a strong year for Acacia, despite the circumstances and its belief that the Company enters 2019 in good shape.
2018 Company STI scorecard assessment Overall Scorecard Strategic focus KPI Weighting Performance assessment 2018 Outcome Rating % Safety Total Reportable Injury 10% Base 50% : 0.35 N A 0% 1 Frequency Rate TRIFR Target 100% : 0.32 Stretch 150% : 0.29 Wall 200% : 0.26 2 Production Ounces of gold produced oz 30% Base 30% : 444,982 512,232 58.07% Target 50% : 468,402 Stretch 150% : 491,823 Wall 200% : 515,243 3 Free cash flow 40% Base 30% : 26,066 36,227 80.00% Profit generation Target 50% : 27,438 Stretch 150% : 30,181 Wall 200% : 32,925 Cost control All-in sustaining cost 20% Base 30% : 978 927 19.63% 4 per ounce sold AISC Target 50% : 949 Stretch 150% : 902 Wall 200% : 855 Sum of Company scorecard ratings 157.7% Notes to Company STI scorecard table: 1 Please refer to page 26 of this Annual Report for an explanation of how TRIFR is measured and its relevance to safety performance.
2 Please refer to page 26 of this Annual Report for an explanation of how gold production is measured and its relevance to our productivity levels.
3 For STI KPI purposes, free cash flow is calculated as: gold revenue, copper revenue, silver revenue all costs including sustaining capital, corporate social responsibility costs, finance leases relating to operations and exploration dividends working capital.
4 Please refer to page 26 of this Annual Report for an explanation of how AISC is measured and its relevance to cost control achievements across the business.
Please note that 2018 outcomes for STI purposes were adjusted as explained in the accompanying narrative.
The remaining 20% of the STI for 2018 was based on individual performance.
Following year end, the Committee reviewed Peters performance against a number of objectives linked to the Groups strategic pillars and concluded that overall he had exceeded expectations for the year equivalent to a 4.5 rating on the Groups grading scale, or 150% of target in terms of Group leadership, continuing to maintain operational performance despite ongoing challenges and continuing to maintain relationships with the communities within the localities of the operations, notwithstanding wider challenges in the operating environment.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 97 REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Taking into account all of the above, the overall outcome of the CEOs 2018 STI assessment Company and individual performance was as follows: Element Weighting Assessment Outcome Company-wide performance 80% 157.7% 405k Individual performance 20% 150.0% 96k Total 156.2% 501k In line with the change adopted effective 1 November 2018, Peters target maximum STI opportunity for 2019 will be 100 150% of salary, consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy, the previous CEO bonus structure and reflecting Peters progression in the role.
Performance measures for 2019 will continue to focus on production, costs, safety and profitability and will be assessed on broadly the same basis as in 2018.
Company performance will continue to account for 80% of the total bonus opportunity, with individual performance accounting for the remaining 20%.
Executive Director LTIP awards vesting in 2018 audited PRSU awards made to senior executives in February 2015 including to Peter Geleta in his prior role as Head of People were tested for performance in February 2018.
Over the three-year performance period, Acacias TSR was below the median of the constituents of the EMIX Global Gold Index, which resulted in the award lapsing in full.
Details of the lapsed award held by Peter Geleta are as follows: Form Shares over Market price Performance Award date of award which awards held at date of award period Vesting date Vesting % 17 February 2015 17 February 2015 PRSU 149,404 2.73 to 16 February 2018 17 February 2018 nil Executive Director LTIP awards existing as at 31 December 2018 audited As at 31 December 2018, Peter Geleta had the following outstanding awards under the LTIP.
Save for the February 2018 awards, each of these awards were made prior to his appointment to the Board.
Shares over Shares over End of Form which awards held as which awards granted Market price performance Award date of award of 01 January 2018 during the year at date of award period Vesting date Peter Geleta 16 February 2016 PRSU 224,772 2.27 15 February 2019 15 February 2019 26 April 2017 NCO 195,163 4.21 25 April 2022 25 April 2022 26 February 2018 NCO 1,077,731 1.48 25 February 2023 25 February 2023 Following year end, the 16 February 2016 award was tested for performance in February 2019 which resulted in the award lapsing in full.
Further details will be included in next years report.
Executive Director LTIP awards to be granted in respect of 2018 audited On 26 February 2019 Peter Geleta received an LTIP award in the form of nil cost options over 696,664 Acacia shares equivalent to 400% of base salary.
The market value of an Acacia share at the time of grant was 244.02 pence per share.
The award will be subject to a five-year performance period, with the vesting date being the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
The award will be subject to the assessment of the Companys TSR performance against the constituents of the EMIX Global Gold Index as follows: % of interests Acacias TSR % outperformance of comparator group median over five years transferred 50% 100% 16% 50% 0% 25% Below 0% 0% Note: Straight-line vesting between points Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for ELT members.
Given that the Company operates across a number of diverse economies with pay levels and structures reflecting local market conditions, the Compensation Committee believes that using the ELT as a subset for the purposes of comparing CEO remuneration provides a more meaningful comparison than using pay data for all employees.
98 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT The CEOs remuneration includes base salary, taxable benefit and STI payments.
Figures reflect the remuneration of the former CEO, Brad Gordon, for 2017 and the current Interim CEO, Peter Geleta, for 2018.
ELT data is based on an average of such individuals' remuneration.
For 2018 purposes there was a reduction in the number of ELT members.
Further details of the Companys economic contribution, including the economic value we add by paying our employees, Governments, suppliers, shareholders, contractors and communities, is included in the sustainability review of this Annual Report.
2018 000 2017 000 % change 20172018 Shareholder distributions - 26,450 -100% Total employee expenditure 78,426 93,895 -16.5% Comparison of Company performance The following graph shows Acacias TSR performance for the period from the IPO to 31 December 2018 calculated in accordance with the regulations against the FTSE 350 and Acacias LTIP comparator group.
The FTSE 350 was chosen on the basis of it being a recognised broad equity market index, of which Acacia was a member for the majority of the reporting period.
The CEO remuneration table below details the Chief Executive Officers single figure remuneration over the same period.
Historical TSR performance Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding from IPO to 31 December 2018 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 18 Mar 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Acacia FTSE 350 2018 LTIP comparator group unweighted median Based on spot share prices in GBP 2018 LTIP comparator group based on an unweighted median ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 99 Value of 100 invested at IPO REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED CEO remuneration table Individual 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Greg Hawkins 774 936 1,282 1,171 N A N A N A N A N A CEO single figure of remuneration 000 Brad Gordon N A N A N A 317 931 919 11,650 967 N A Peter Geleta N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A 1,433 Greg Hawkins 60% 50% 43% 90% N A N A N A N A N A STI payout as % of maximum opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A 90% 36% 17% 63% 74% N A Peter Geleta N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A 78% Greg Hawkins N A N A N A 44% N A N A N A N A N A LTIP RSU vesting as % of maximum opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A N A N A N A 100% N A N A Peter Geleta N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A 0% Greg Hawkins N A 100% 100% N A N A N A N A N A N A Option vesting as % of maximum opportunity Brad Gordon N A N A N A N A 100% 100% 100% 0% N A Peter Geleta N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A Executive Director exit arrangements audited There were no payments to past Directors during 2018.
Brad Gordon stepped down as Chief Executive Officer on 31 December 2017.
Details of his leaver arrangements, were included in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
Directors interests in Acacia Ordinary Shares and shareholding requirements audited Following approval of the 2017 Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding in Acacia Ordinary Shares equivalent to four times base salary by retaining 50% of vested awards net of tax until the guideline has been met.
Independent Non-Executive Directors are required to acquire a minimum holding equivalent to their annual base fee within five years of election to the Board, which may be satisfied via the acquisition of Acacia Ordinary Shares or by the receipt of DSU awards under the Acacia DSU Plan.
The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2018 along with the form of their interests in Acacia Ordinary Shares.
DSUs held Shares held Options held Options held RSUs held Unvested and Unvested and subject to subject to Shareholding Current Owned outright Vested but not performance performance requirement % shareholding % Requirement 1 1 2 3 4 or vested exercised condition condition Unvested salary fee salary fee met?
Executive Director Peter Geleta 1,272,894 224,772 400% 0 N A 5 Non-Executive Directors Rachel English 17,383 14,156 100% 106% Yes Andre Falzon 9,000 15,559 100% 119% Yes Michael Kenyon 41,683 100% 159% Yes Steve Lucas 12,570 100% 42% N A Stephen Galbraith N A N A N A Notes: 1 O ptions and RSUs vest subject to a relative TSR performance condition.
Following year end, the unvested RSU award was tested for performance in February 2019 which resulted in the award lapsing in full.
2 T he Companys DSU Plan for Non-Executive Directors provides Non-Executive Directors with the option to receive some or all of their annual fees in return for a deferred right to a cash payment, payable only after a participant ceases to hold office with the Company.
Broadly, cash payments under this plan are calculated by reference to the fair market value of Acacias Ordinary Shares at the time of payment and remain subject to market fluctuations in the context of Acacias share price until the time of payment.
No DSUs were allocated for 2018.
3 A s regards Executive Directors this is calculated by reference to annual base salary at the time of the relevant individuals appointment against the value of relevant awards at the time of grant.
As regards existing Independent Non-Executive Directors, this is calculated by reference to either: i the annual Non-Executive Director base fee at the time of adopting the guidelines, if appointed to the Board at that time: or ii the annual Non-Executive Director base fee at the time of appointment, assessed against the higher of: i the number of shares multiplied by the mid-market price on the last trading day before the valuation date: or ii the number of shares multiplied by the share price on the date of acquisition of each relevant interest during the applicable five-year acquisition period.
4 T he reduction since 2017 in the level of shares held by the Non-Executive Directors as a % of their fees is primarily as a result of the increase in the base fee paid to the NonExecutive Directors during 2018 as a result of the significant additional time commitment associated with managing the ongoing challenges around the Tanzanian concentrate ban.
The Committee and Board will take into account the frequency of closed periods impacting the Group in any review of Directors compliance with applicable ownership requirements, and reserves the right to extend the period over which the relevant shareholding is to be acquired.
5 A s at his cessation date, Kelvin Dushnisky held no Acacia shares.
There have been no other changes in Directors shareholdings between 31 December 2018 and 28 March 2019.
100 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 GOVERNANCE REPORT Summary of shareholder voting at the 2018 AGM The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2018 AGM: Annual Report on Remuneration 2017 Total number of votes % votes cast For 300,675,151 81.31 Against 69,124,575 18.69 Votes cast excluding withheld votes 369,799,726 Votes withheld 597,019 Total votes cast including withheld votes 370,396,745 The Directors Remuneration Policy was last subject to a binding vote at the 2017 AGM, when 87.69% of shareholders voted in favour of the relevant resolution.
It is currently intended that the Directors Remuneration Policy will next be put to a binding vote at the 2020 AGM.
2017 STI target disclosure The 2017 Company scorecard STI targets have not been provided to date as they have been considered to be commercially sensitive.
We indicated in last years report that retrospective disclosure of those targets would be given where this is no longer the case, and in any event within two years.
Targets applying to the 2017 Company scorecard are now included in the table below for reference: Performance Strategic focus KPI Weighting assessment Target 2017 Outcome Safety Total Reportable Injury 10% Base 50% : 0.61 0.45 1 Frequency Rate TRIFR Target 100% : 0.55 Stretch 150% : 0.49 Wall 200% : 0.43 2 Production Ounces of gold produced oz 30% Base 30% : 751,996 775,883 Target 50% : 791,575 Stretch 150% : 815,322 Wall 200% : 839,069 3 Profit generation Free cash flow 40% Base 30% : 164,909 146,234 Target 50% : 173,588 Stretch 150% : 190,947 Wall 200% : 208,305 Cost control All-in sustaining cost per ounce 20% Base 30% : 960 887 4 sold AISC Target 50% : 932 Stretch 150% : 905 Wall 200% : 877 1 Please refer to page 26 of this Annual Report for an explanation of how TRIFR is measured and its relevance to safety performance.
3 F or STI KPI purposes, free cash flow is calculated as: gold revenue, copper revenue, silver revenue all costs including sustaining capital, corporate social responsibility costs, finance leases relating to operations and exploration dividends working capital.
The 2017 outcomes for STI payment purposes were subject to adjustments as disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report Approval of Directors Remuneration Report The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Michael Kenyon Chair of the Compensation Committee ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 101
