Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy COMPLIANCE STATEMENT KEY PRINCIPLES OF ADMIRAL Significantly share-based our base REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS salaries are targeted towards the lower This Remuneration Report has been end of market, but are combined with prepared according to the requirements The Group is committed to the primary meaningful annual share awards that of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, objective of maximising shareholder value vest on long-term performance to ensure Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large over time in a way that also promotes strong alignment with shareholders and and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups effective risk management and excellent the long-term interests of the Group.
Accounts and Reports Amendment customer outcomes, and ensuring that Executives are also encouraged to build Regulations 2013 and other relevant there is a strong link between performance up significant shareholdings in the Group requirements of the FCA Listing Rules.
This is reflected in the Groups to maximise shareholder alignment: In addition, the Board has applied the stated Remuneration Policy of paying principles of good corporate governance competitive, performance-linked and Long-term perspective a significant set out in the UK Corporate Governance shareholder-aligned total remuneration part of senior executives remuneration is Code the Code and has considered the packages comprising basic salaries coupled based on the achievement of stretching guidelines issued by its leading shareholders with participation in performance-based performance targets that support and bodies such as ISS, the Investment share schemes to generate competitive total the delivery of the Groups strategy Association, and the Pensions and Lifetime reward packages for superior performance.
The Committee has The Board is satisfied that the adoption of performance and vesting horizons decided to implement early the changes to this Policy continues to meet the objectives promote a long-term perspective that is Schedule 8 on UK remuneration reporting of attracting and retaining executives of the appropriate to the insurance sector: requirements which is required from highest quality across the Group.
Effective risk management incentives FY2019 and includes both the disclosure are designed to ensure they do not The Committee reviews the remuneration of discretion used by the Remuneration encourage excessive risk-taking.
They framework and packages of the Executive Committee in the Annual Statement and are aligned with the delivery of positive Directors and the most senior managers CEO pay ratios.
customer outcomes and reinforce the and recognises the need to ensure that Groups risk policy: Unless otherwise stated, information the Remuneration Policy is firmly linked Open and honest culture the Group has contained within this Remuneration Report to the Groups strategy, including its risk a strong culture of focussing on collective is unaudited.
In setting the success, whilst still recognising individual Policy and making remuneration decisions, The following Remuneration Policy was contribution to the Groups performance, the Committee takes into account pay and approved, and therefore came into effect, and this is reflected in our remuneration conditions elsewhere in the Group.
There have been structure across the business: and principles underlying the Remuneration two minor changes to the Remuneration Policy are: Transparency to stakeholders the Policy since the 2018 AGM.
These changes remuneration structure is designed to are in the Remuneration Policy table and Competitive total package the Group be simple and easy to understand, and are updates to the malus and clawback aims to deliver total remuneration all aspects are clear to employees and provisions for the Discretionary Free Share packages that are market-competitive, openly communicated to employees, Scheme DFSS and DFSS bonus awards taking into account the role, job size, shareholders, and regulators.
to reflect the malus and clawback policy responsibility, and the individuals developed in 2018. performance and effectiveness.
Prevailing market and economic conditions and developments in governance are also considered, as are general salary levels throughout the organisation: 90 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE This table describes the key components of the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity and performance metrics Base Salary To attract and retain talent Salaries are reviewed annually or following a significant Any salary increases are applied in line by setting base salaries at change in responsibilities.
with the outcome of the review.
levels appropriate for the Salary levels increases take account of: In respect of existing Executive Directors, business.
it is anticipated that increases in cash Scope and responsibility of the position.
salary, or in the number of salary shares, will normally be in line with the increase Individual performance and effectiveness, and experience for the general employee population over of the individual in the role.
More significant Average increase awarded across the Group.
increases may be awarded in certain circumstances including, but not limited The CFO receives an annual award of salary shares in to: where there has been a significant addition to his cash salary.
The salary share award vests increase in role size or complexity, to after three years subject to continued employment, and an apply salary progression for a newly additional two-year holding period applies, during which appointed Executive Director, or where time shares may not be sold, save to meet income tax, NI or the Executive Directors salary has fallen other regulatory obligations.
Malus and clawback provisions significantly behind market.
apply during the vesting and holding periods.
The salary share award is not included in base salary when calculating Where increases are awarded in excess of the CFOs pension benefit.
that for the general employee population, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension To provide retirement The Group operates a Personal Pension Plan, a Defined In the UK, the Group matches employee benefits.
contributions up to a maximum of 6% of base salary subject to an overall This is available to all employees following completion of their maximum employer contribution of probationary period.
15,000, or provides the equivalent value in cash.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
Other Benefits To provide competitive Includes but not limited to : Benefits may vary by role.
None of the existing Executive Directors Death in service scheme.
received total taxable benefits Private medical cover.
exceeding 5% of base salary during the most recent financial year, and it is not Permanent health insurance.
anticipated that the cost of benefits Relocation, at the Committees discretion.
provided will exceed this level over the term of this Policy.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation, or in circumstances driven by factors outside the Companys control e. g. material increases in healthcare insurance premiums.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity and performance metrics Discretionary Free Share Scheme DFSS To motivate and reward Executive Directors may be granted awards annually at the Maximum opportunity: 2,000,000.
For longer term performance, aid discretion of the Committee.
David Stevens has declined to awards above 1,000,000 a maximum of long term retention of key participate given his significant shareholding.
600% of base salary excluding any salary executive talent, use capital shares applies.
Threshold performance Awards may be in the form of nil or nominal priced options efficiently, grow profits will result in vesting of up to 25% of the or conditional shares.
Awards vest after a minimum of sustainably and further maximum award.
three years subject to Group performance and continued strengthen the alignment of employment.
Vesting of DFSS awards is subject to the the interests of shareholders Groups performance over a three-year For DFSS awards made in 2018 and subsequent years, a twoand staff.
The performance year holding period applies to vested awards, during which measures may include EPS, ROE and time Executive Directors may not sell the vested awards relative TSR, or other measures selected except to cover tax liabilities.
by the Committee, as appropriate.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions, i. e. Measures will typically be weighted forfeiture or reduction of unvested awards and recovery of equally unless the Committee determines vested awards needs to be awards.
Events which may lead otherwise to reflect strategic priorities.
to the malus and clawback are set out in the Groups Malus Details of the measures, weightings and and Clawback Framework and include material financial performance targets used for specific misstatement, responsibility for conduct which results in DFSS grants are included in the relevant significant loss, material failure of risk management and years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to adjust the formulaic vesting outcome to ensure the final outcome is a fair and true reflection of underlying business performance.
DFSS Bonus To further align incentive To incentivise shareholder value creation, in particular in Maximum opportunity: sum equal structures with shareholder the form of dividends, management participate in a bonus to the dividends payable during the interests through the delivery scheme which directly links their awards to dividends paid year on awarded but unvested DFSS of dividend equivalent to shareholders.
Bonus is calculated to be equivalent to shares, subject also to a possible 20% bonuses.
dividends that would have been payable during the year on all enhancement based on the Committees outstanding DFSS shares awarded but not vested, including assessment of the risk metrics scorecard.
salary shares for the CFO.
No bonus is payable unless dividends are The DFSS bonus is subject to a 20% adjustment based on payable on Admiral shares.
performance against a set of risk metrics.
The metrics will be set each year for all significant areas of the business with specified targets to determine the amount of any DFSS bonus adjustment.
It is anticipated that many of these measures will be directly related to customer outcomes.
Whilst the bonus may be adjusted upwards or downwards by up to 20% in any given year, it is not anticipated that the adjustment will increase the CFOs remuneration on average over the long term.
The DFSS bonus is subject to malus and clawback provisions, i. e. forfeiture or reduction of unvested awards and recovery of vested awards needs to be awards.
Events which may lead to the malus and clawback are set out in the Groups Malus and Clawback Framework and include material financial misstatement, responsibility for conduct which results in significant losses, material failure of risk management and misconduct.
92 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity and performance metrics Approved Free Share Incentive Plan SIP To encourage share All UK employees participate in the SIP except David Stevens, The SIP is an all-employee scheme and ownership across all who has declined to participate.
Grants are made twice a year Executive Directors participate on employees using HMRC based on the results of each half year and vest after three the same terms as other employees.
years subject to continued employment.
The acquisition of shares is therefore not subject to the satisfaction of a performance target.
Maximum opportunity is in line with HMRC limits.
Shareholding Requirement To align interests of Guideline to be met within five years of the later of the 300% of base salary base salary excludes Executive Directors with introduction of the guidelines and an Executive Directors any salary shares.
The Committee is satisfied that the above Remuneration Policy is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promote excessive risk-taking.
The Committee retains discretion to make changes required to satisfy legal or regulatory requirements and other nonsignificant changes to the Remuneration Policy without reverting to shareholders.
NOTES TO THE REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE Payments from Existing Awards Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
This includes all outstanding awards under the previous 2015 Remuneration Policy, or any awards made prior to appointment to the Board.
Details of any such payments will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Selection of Performance Measures Vesting under the DFSS is currently linked to EPS vs. LIBOR, ROE, and relative TSR.
EPS vs. LIBOR has been selected as a performance measure as the Committee feels it is a strong indicator of both long-term shareholder return and the underlying financial performance of the business.
It is transparent and visible and provides good line-of-sight to executives.
ROE has been selected as the Committee believes that a returns metric reinforces the focus on capital efficiency and delivery of strong returns for our shareholders, thereby further strengthening the alignment of incentives with Admirals strategy.
The third DFSS measure is relative TSR vs. the FTSE 350 excluding investment companies.
This has been selected to reflect value creation for Admirals shareholders as compared with the general market.
The specific performance measures and their respective weightings in respect of each DFSS award may vary to reflect the strategic priorities at the time of the award.
Performance targets are set taking into account broker forecasts for Admiral and its insurance peers, the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
The Committee believes that the performance targets set are stretching and motivational, and that maximum outcomes are available only for outstanding performance.
Remuneration Policy for Other Employees The Companys approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the role size, experience required, individual performance and pay levels in comparable companies.
In general, the Remuneration Policy which applies to other senior executives is consistent with that for Executive Directors.
Remuneration is typically linked to Company and individual performance in a way that reinforces shareholder value creation.
Approximately 3,945 employees from across the Group, as well as the CFO, participate in the DFSS.
The Committee recommends for approval by the Board DFSS awards for those executives within its remit and on an aggregate basis for all other participants in the DFSS.
For the CFO, all DFSS share awards are subject to performance conditions.
For other senior managers and employees at lower organisational levels, a proportion of awards ranging from 50% to two-thirds is subject to performance, with performance conditions either in line with those described above, or set based on key performance drivers of the individuals relevant business unit, and the remainder has no performance conditions attached other than the requirement that the recipient remains an employee of the Group at the date of vesting.
Award sizes vary by organisational level and an assessment of both financial and non-financial individual and business unit performance.
All holders of DFSS awards receive the DFSS bonus.
Most overseas employees receive an equivalent award to the UK SIP awards which comes within the DFSS scheme and these awards have no performance measures attached.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the SIP on the same terms.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration Arrangements for David Stevens Founding Director David Stevens is a founding Director, and he and the Committee continue to hold the view that his significant shareholding provides sufficient alignment of his interest in the performance of the Group with the interests of other shareholders.
In light of this, David Stevens remuneration package consists only of a cash salary, benefits such as private medical cover, permanent health insurance and death in service cover, and matching pension contributions from the Company under the Groups Personal Pension Plan.
David Stevens has not participated, nor is it intended that he participates, in any Group share schemes.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LEAVER CHANGE OF CONTROL PROVISIONS The Companys Policy is to limit termination payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
Under normal circumstances, Executive Directors are entitled to receive termination payments in lieu of notice based on base salary and compensation for loss of benefits.
The Company has the ability to pay such sums in instalments, requiring the Executive Director to mitigate loss over the relevant period.
The notice period for all Executive Directors is one year.
Executive Director Date of appointment David Stevens 22 October 1999 Geraint Jones 13 August 2014 There is no provision in the Executive Directors contracts for compensation to be payable on early termination of their contract over and above the notice period element.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office.
When considering termination payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
The table below summarises how the awards under the DFSS and DFSS bonus scheme are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion: Plan Scenario Treatment of awards Timing of vesting Resignation.
n a DFSS Death, injury or disability, Any unvested award will be pro-rated for time with Normal vesting date.
redundancy, retirement or any reference to the proportion of the vesting period other reasons the Committee remaining at termination, and performance, unless may determine.
Any unvested award will be pro-rated for time Immediately.
with reference to the proportion of the vesting period remaining at change of control, and extent to which the Committee determines that the performance conditions have been met or are likely to be met at the point of change of control, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
n a n a DFSS bonus Death, injury or disability, Not payable after the event.
n a redundancy, retirement or any other reasons the Committee may determine.
Not payable after the event.
n a 94 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Plan Scenario Treatment of awards Timing of vesting Resignation.
n a Salary shares CFO only Death, injury or disability, Any unvested award will be pro-rated for time Normal vesting date, with redundancy, retirement or any with reference to the proportion of the vesting Committee discretion to other reasons the Committee period remaining at termination, unless the accelerate.
Any unvested award will be pro-rated for Immediately.
time with reference to the proportion of the vesting period remaining, at the point of change of control, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Note: the good leaver provisions for the salary shares disclosed in the 2017 Policy Report had a typographical error which mistakenly referred to performance being assessed on leaving: as such shares have no performance conditions attached such wording has been removed from the table for clarity.
For all leavers with the exception of in the event of termination for cause, in respect of vested DFSS and vested salary share awards that are still subject to a holding period, awards will normally be released in full at the end of the holding period, though the Committee has discretion to determine otherwise, taking into account the circumstances at the time.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Company has entered into letters of appointment with its Non-Executive Directors NEDs.
Summary details of terms and notice periods are included below.
Initial date of Commencement of NED Term appointment current contract Notice period Annette Court 3 years 21 March 2012 26 April 2017 Three months Mike Brierley 3 years 5 October 2018 5 October 2018 One month Owen Clarke 3 years 19 August 2015 19 August 2018 One month Andy Crossley 3 years 27 February 2018 27 February 2018 One month Karen Green 3 years 14 December 2018 14 December 2018 One month Jean Park 3 years 17 January 2014 17 January 2017 One month Justine Roberts 3 years 17 June 2016 17 June 2016 One month Manning Rountree 3 years 16 June 2015 16 June 2018 One month The NEDs are not eligible to participate in the DFSS or DFSS bonus scheme and do not receive any pension contributions.
Details of the Policy on NED fees are set out in the table below: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity and performance metrics To attract and retain NEDs Fees are reviewed annually.
Fee levels are set by reference to NED of the highest calibre with fees at companies of a similar size and The Group Chairman fee is determined by the Committee experience relevant to the complexity.
It is anticipated that NED after consultation with the Executive Directors.
fee increases will normally be in line with are determined by the Group Chairman together with the the increase for the general employee Executive Directors.
population over the term of this Policy.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent In the event that there is a material Director or as Chair or member of a Board Committee as misalignment with the market or a appropriate, and may be payable as appropriate in relation change in the complexity, responsibility to other additional responsibilities e. g. attending meetings or time commitment required to fulfil overseas.
an NED role, the Board has discretion to Fees are paid in a mix of cash and Company shares for the make an appropriate adjustment to the Company Chair, and in cash for other Non-Executive Directors.
The Board retains discretion to vary the mix or determine that The maximum aggregate annual fee for fees are paid entirely in cash or Company shares.
NEDs is capped at the limit provided for in the Companys Articles of Association.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued PAY-FOR-PERFORMANCE: SCENARIO ANALYSIS The following charts provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of pay under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
As described above, Admirals DFSS bonus is directly aligned with dividends received by our shareholders, with a final adjustment for risk.
Whilst the CFOs final DFSS bonus outcome may be adjusted upwards or downwards for risk by up to 20% in any given year, it is anticipated that the average adjustment over the long term will be close to 0%.
The figures shown in the chart below for the CFOs DFSS bonus therefore include the value of the actual DFSS bonus paid in 2018 as an illustration of the value he might receive.
Under all scenarios, potential reward opportunities are based on the Remuneration Policy, applied to salaries as at 1 January 2019.
Fixed Rem 2,500 DFSS bonus DFSS 72% 2,000 64% 1,500 1,000 27% 8% 500 33% 24% 12% 20% 100% 100% 100% 100% 67% 49% 24% 0 Maximum Maximum Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target 50% share 50% share growth price growth price CFO: Geraint Jones CEO: David Stevens The value of DFSS awards is calculated based on the average share price in the last three months of 2018 20.07 and the number of DFSS shares awarded in 2018 50,000 shares and salary shares expected to be awarded in 2019 5,000 shares.
We have included in the charts above an additional scenario consistent with the remuneration reporting regulations which will come into effect for accounting periods starting 1 January 2019.
This scenario Maximum with share price growth is based on the same assumptions as used in the Maximum scenario but also assuming the share price increases by 50% as prescribed by the regulations.
96 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Maximum with share Component Minimum On-target Maximum price growth Same as other Base salary Annual cash salary and salary shares CFO only for 2019 scenarios but with Pension 15,000 annual contribution for CFO and CEO 50% share price appreciation on Benefits Taxable value of annual benefits provided salary shares DFSS 0% vesting 20% average vesting 100% vesting 100% vesting plus 50% share price appreciation DFSS bonus Based on DFSS bonus paid in 2018 APPROACH TO REMUNERATION RELATING TO NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR APPOINTMENTS External Appointments In the case of appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration as set out in the Policy Table.
The Committees policy is to set the remuneration package for a new Executive Director in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy at the time of the appointment.
In determining the appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will consider all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Where an individual is appointed on an initial base salary that is below market, any shortfall may be managed with phased increases over a period of time, subject to the individuals performance and development in the role.
This may result in above-average salary increases during this period.
The Committee may also make an award in respect of a new Executive Director appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met to ensure that the value of the buy-out award is no greater than the fair value of the awards it replaces.
The Committee may also avail itself of Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R if appropriate in respect of buy-out incentive arrangements.
Internal Appointments Remuneration for new Executive Directors appointed by way of internal promotion will similarly be determined in line with the Policy for external appointees, as detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Incentive opportunities for below-Board employees are typically no higher than for Executive Directors, but measures may vary if necessary.
OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS Executive Directors are permitted to accept appointments as Non-Executive Directors of companies with prior approval of the Group Chairman.
Approval will be given only where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Groups activities, and where the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
CONSIDERATIONS OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP The Committee considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for Executive Directors.
CONSIDERATIONS OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account best practice guidelines issued by institutional shareholder bodies.
The Committee is open to feedback from shareholders on the Remuneration Policy and will continue to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the remuneration structure for our Executive Directors remains appropriate.
CONSIDERATIONS OF REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS The Committee regularly reviews the Remuneration Policy and structure in the context of Solvency II remuneration guidance.
The Chief Risk Officer periodically attends Committee meetings as part of this process and provides support to the Committee in understanding any risk-related implications of remuneration decisions.
Whilst the Remuneration Policy includes several features which help ensure compliance with current regulatory guidance, the Committee reserves the discretion to adjust the Remuneration Policy, and its execution, to take into account any developments in such regulatory guidance.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration This section of the report provides details of how Admirals Remuneration Policy was implemented in 2018 and how the Remuneration Committee intends to implement the Remuneration Policy in 2019.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP IN 2018 The Board sets the Groups Remuneration Policy and, through the authority delegated to it by the Board, the Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on the structure and implementation of the Remuneration Policy across the Group with consideration to the prevailing economic climate within the economies in which the Group operates.
Its remit includes recommending the remuneration of the Group Board Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary: approving the remuneration of senior management: and reviewing the composition of and awards made under the performance-related incentive schemes.
At the end of 2018 the Committee consisted of Owen Clarke, Jean Park and Justine Roberts.
The Committee met 8 times during the year.
The Group Chairman, CEO, CFO and Chief Risk Officer are invited to meetings where the Committee considers it appropriate to obtain their advice on Group strategy and performance and Senior Executive pay strategy.
The members of the Committee do not have any personal financial interests other than shareholdings, or any conflicts, that relate to the business of the Committee.
The Committee members do not have any day-to-day involvement in the running of the Group.
ADVISOR TO THE COMMITTEE During the year, in order to enable the Committee to reach informed decisions on Executive remuneration, advice on market data and trends was obtained from independent consultants, Mercer Kepler.
Mercer Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman, and is a signatory to and abides by the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
Other than advice on remuneration, no other services were provided by Mercer Kepler to the Company.
The fees paid to Mercer Kepler in respect of work carried out in 2018 based on time and materials totalled 54,956 excluding expenses and VAT.
The Committee undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that Mercer Kepler remains independent of the Company and that the advice provided is impartial and objective.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Mercer Kepler is independent.
The Company Secretary also circulates market survey results as appropriate.
SUMMARY OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT THE 2018 AGM The table below shows the results of the binding vote on the 2018 remuneration policy and the advisory vote on the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2018 AGM.
For Against Total votes cast Abstentions Total number of votes 214,282,051 2,306,994 216,589,045 136,242 2018 Remuneration Policy % of votes cast 98.93% 1.07% Total number of votes 190,878,704 20,357,584 211,236,288 5,479,236 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration % of votes cast 90.36% 9.64% 98 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information TOTAL SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out the total single figure remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
The figures have been calculated as follows: 1.
Base salary fee: amount earned for the year.
For Geraint Jones, this also includes 2,500 salary shares awarded on 9 March 2018, and 2,500 awarded on 24 August 2018.
These have been valued using closing share price at date of grant of 18.70 and 20.59 respectively.
Benefits: the taxable value of annual benefits received in the year.
Pension: the value of the Companys contribution during the year.
SIP: the face value at grant.
DFSS: the value at vesting of shares vesting on performance over the three-year periods ending 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
For the 2018 figures, given that vesting occurs after the 2018 Directors Remuneration Report is finalised, the figures are based on the average share price in the last three months of 2018 20.07.
The 2017 figures have been trued up based on the actual share price on vest 20.80.
For 2018, an unfavourable movement of 31,552 is included in the DFSS value, attributable to a reduction in the share price over the vesting period.
For 2017, 220,300 of the DFSS value is attributable to share price appreciation over the vesting period.
DFSS bonus: the bonus equivalent to dividends that were paid during the year on all outstanding DFSS shares awarded but not yet vested.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued TOTAL SINGLE FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out the total single figure remuneration received by each NED for the year ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
Annette Court was appointed Chairman of the Board with effect from 26 April 2017 on an annual fee of 300,000 split 210,000 cash and 90,000 to be used to buy shares the share fee.
Due to the timing of the cash payments for the share fee for 2017, the 2017 fee includes only one instalment of 45,000, representing the fee for 6 months.
As Annette was in the role of Chairman for 8 months, an additional cash payment of 15,000 representing 2 months of the 2017 fee was paid alongside the first 2018 instalment.
A payment of 3,062, in respect of Annettes annual fee for 2018, was paid in 2019.
Jean Parks fees for 2017 and 2018 include additional fees relating to her position as Chair of the Group Risk Committee and is in recognition of the increased time commitment required of her as a consequence of Solvency II regulations and the Internal Model Application Process.
The 2017 fees also include an amount relating to this role for 2016, which was paid during 2017.
Andy Crossley was appointed to the Board on 27 February 2018.
Michael Brierley was appointed to the Board on 5 October 2018 and his fee includes fees paid for Board and Committee attendance prior to his formal appointment.
Alastair Lyons retired from the Board with effect from 26 April 2017.
Penny James retired from the Board with effect from 8 September 2017.
Karen Green was appointed to the Board on 14 December 2018 and her fee includes fees paid for Board and Committee attendance from June 2018 prior to her formal appointment.
The 2018 fees for Andy Crossley and Michael Brierley include additional fees in relation to their positions as Chairman of the Admiral Financial Services Limited and EUI Limited Board of Directors respectively.
INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR FINANCIAL YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER 2018 AUDITED DFSS Awards Vesting on Performance to 31 December 2018 In September 2016, Geraint Jones was granted an award under the DFSS of 50,000 shares with a value at the date of award of 1,039,500 based on a grant date share price of 20.79, equivalent to 495% of salary at date of grant.
Vesting of the award was based 100% on the achievement of performance conditions, being EPS growth vs. LIBOR, TSR vs. FTSE 350 excluding investment companies, and ROE, weighted equally and all measured over the three-year period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
Over this period, the returns to our shareholders were strong, with TSR in the top of the second quartile versus FTSE350 companies and with ROE of 50%.
The combination of these shareholder returns and EPS growth contributed to a vesting level of 87.6%.
The Committee reviewed this vesting outcome and concluded that it was appropriate.
In particular, the Committee considered the EPS performance over the period, taking into account the positive impact of the partial reversal of the provisioning for the Ogden rate change two years ago, and concluded that no adjustment should be made to ensure consistency of approach with that taken previously by the Committee for the vesting of the 2014 DFSS awards where no adjustment was made to neutralise the substantial negative impact on 2016 EPS from the initial provision for the Ogden rate change.
100 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The table below details the Companys performance against targets and the resulting vesting outcome.
Performance range Vesting outcome % Performance measure Threshold Maximum Vesting schedule Actual outturn of maximum Growth in line Growth of 36 points 10% for achieving threshold EPS growth vs. LIBOR 26.2% points in 75.5% with LIBOR equivalent to 10% with straight line relationship weighted 33% excess of LIBOR p. a. in excess to 100% for maximum of LIBOR performance Median Upper quartile 25% for median, with straight TSR vs. FTSE 350 74th percentile 100% line relationship to 100% for excluding investment upper quartile companies 33% Return on Equity 25% 55% 25% for achieving threshold 50.0% 87.5% ROE 33% with straight line relationship to 100% for maximum performance Total vesting 87.6% Based on performance, the total amount that will vest to Geraint Jones in September 2019 will therefore be 87.6% of his award i. e. 43,800 shares, subject to his continued employment on the vesting date.
Vested DFSS awards are subject to clawback provisions.
Events which may lead to the application of clawback are set out in the Groups Malus and Clawback Framework and include material financial misstatement, responsibility for conduct which results in significant losses, material failure of risk management and misconduct.
DFSS BONUS IN RESPECT OF 2018 In line with the Remuneration Policy, the Group paid a bonus to all holders of DFSS shares in 2018, which was equivalent to the dividend payable on all outstanding DFSS shares awarded but not yet vested.
The Committee continues to believe that having a bonus equivalent to the dividend flow received by investors further aligns the incentive structure with shareholders.
The 2018 Remuneration Policy was updated to include a - 20% adjustment to the DFSS Bonus based on performance of a set of risk metrics.
The Committee invested considerable time in reviewing appropriate measures and targets for determining any adjustments which would also apply for the wider senior management population in 2019, and the Committee concluded that the adjustment would be first introduced for the 2019 DFSS bonus.
This decision was taken as the risk metrics were still being developed during 2018 and consistency with the wider senior management population was preferred.
David Stevens did not receive a DFSS bonus as he does not participate in the DFSS.
DFSS bonus payments are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
SCHEME INTERESTS GRANTED IN 2018 AUDITED DFSS In September 2018, Geraint Jones was granted an award under the DFSS of 50,000 shares with a value at the date of award of 1,020,000 based on share price of 20.40, equivalent to 416% of base salary.
The three-year period over which performance will be measured is 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2020.
The award is eligible to vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant i. e. September 2021, subject to performance and to continued employment.
Vested awards will be subject to an additional two-year post-vest holding period.
David Stevens again declined to be included given his significant shareholding.
The award will vest on three-year EPS growth vs. LIBOR, TSR vs. FTSE 350 excluding investment companies, and ROE, weighted equally.
The performance conditions are summarised in the table below.
Performance range Performance measure Threshold Maximum Vesting EPS growth vs. LIBOR Growth in line Growth of 36 points 10% for achieving threshold with straight line with LIBOR equivalent to 10% p. a. relationship to 100% for maximum performance in excess of LIBOR TSR vs. FTSE 350 excluding Median Upper quartile 25% for median, with straight line relationship investment companies to 100% for upper quartile Return on Equity ROE 25% 55% 25% for achieving threshold with straight line relationship to 100% for maximum performance Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued SCHEME INTERESTS GRANTED IN 2018 AUDITED CONTINUED DFSS continued DFSS awards are subject to clawback and malus provisions, i. e. forfeiture or reduction of unvested awards and recovery of vested awards.
Events which may lead to the application of malus or clawback are set out in the Groups Malus and Clawback Framework and include material financial misstatement, responsibility for conduct which results in significant losses, material failure of risk management and misconduct.
SIP In March and August 2018, Geraint Jones was granted awards under the SIP of 96 shares with a face value of 1,795, and 87 shares with a face value of 1,791 respectively.
The shares will vest on 9 March 2020 and 24 August 2020 respectively subject to continued employment only.
EXIT PAYMENTS AUDITED No exit payments were made to an Executive Director during the year.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED No payments were made to a past Director during the year.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2019 Executive Directors Salary, Pension and Benefits Salaries for the Executive Directors in 2019 will be determined in line with the proposed Remuneration Policy, subject to shareholder approval.
David Stevens salary will be increased by 2.5% effective 1 September 2019.
For 2019, the CFOs cash salary will be 251,125, an increase of 2.5% effective 1 January 2019, and he will continue to be granted an award of 5,000 salary shares, unchanged from 2018.
The salary share award will vest after three years subject to continued employment.
An additional two-year holding period will apply, during which time shares may not be sold, save to meet income tax, NI or other regulatory obligations.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply during the vesting and holding periods.
The salary share award is not included in base salary when calculating the CFOs pension benefit.
The Executive Directors will continue to participate in the Group Personal Pension Plan, where employee contributions are matched up to a maximum 6% of base salary with a cap on the maximum employer contribution of 15,000 p. a.
The Company will offer individuals a choice between pension contributions and cash in lieu.
Both Executive Directors will continue to receive benefits in line with the Policy.
DFSS As in prior years, the Committee intends to make an award under the DFSS to Geraint Jones in September 2019.
In advance of each DFSS cycle, the Committee reviews the appropriateness of the performance measures and corresponding targets.
The Committee will determine the award size to be attached to the 2019 DFSS award closer to the award date expected to be in September 2019, and will disclose this in the 2019 Annual Report on Remuneration.
It is currently anticipated that the vesting of 2019 DFSS award for the CFO will continue to depend on three-year EPS growth vs. LIBOR, TSR vs. FTSE 350 excluding investment companies, and ROE as well as additional non-financial customer and risk metrics.
The Committee believes that the additional emphasis on risk and customer will help to reinforce our focus on risk management and our customers, whilst also more clearly demonstrating alignment of Group remuneration practices with the requirements of Solvency II.
As per award size, the Committee will determine the performance conditions and targets to be attached to the 2019 DFSS award closer to the award date, and will disclose them in the 2019 Annual Report on Remuneration.
DFSS bonus As in prior years, Geraint Jones will be eligible to receive a DFSS bonus in 2019.
The bonus is calculated to be equivalent to dividends that would have been payable during the year on all outstanding DFSS shares and any salary shares awarded but not vested.
The DFSS bonus will include a 20% adjustment based on performance against a set of risk metrics.
The details of the risk metrics and any adjustment applied will be provided in the 2019 Annual Report on Remuneration.
102 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Fees for the Board Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors were last reviewed in January 2019, with increases effective from 1 January 2019.
The fees are as follows: 2019 fee p. a.
1 1 Chairman 315,187 307,500 NED base fee 60,500 60,500 Additional fee for chairing: Audit Committee 21,000 21,000 3 2 Group Risk Committee 41,000 41,000 Remuneration Committee 15,000 15,000 Nomination and Governance Committee 10,000 5,250 Additional fee for membership of: Audit Committee 12,600 12,600 Group Risk Committee 12,600 12,600 Remuneration Committee 5,000 Nomination Committee 5,000 Additional fee for being Senior Independent Director 11,025 11,025 1.
The 2019 fee for the Board Chairman increased by 2.5% from 307,500 to 315,187 inclusive of committee membership or committee chair fees and comprises a cash fee of 220,631 and a share fee of 94,556 with which the Chairman is required under a Share Agreement entered into with the Group to use the net proceeds in two equal instalments to purchase Group shares after the Groups Full Year Results and Half Year Results are announced each year.
The fee payable to Jean Park, Chair of the Group Risk Committee, includes an additional fee of 20,000 per annum, with effect from 1 January 2017 until 31 December 2018, in recognition of the increased time commitment required of her as a consequence of the Solvency II regulations and Internal Model Application Process.
The fee payable to Jean Park with effect from 1 January 2019 will include an additional fee of 20,000 per annum in continued recognition of the continued increased time commitment required as a consequence of the Solvency II regulations and Internal Model Application Process.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from 2017 compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all other employees.
The analysis is based on a consistent set of employees, i. e. the same individuals appear in the 2017 and 2018 populations.
As the CEO does not participate in the DFSS bonus scheme, to provide a meaningful comparison we have also included data for the CFO who receives DFSS awards.
DFSS bonus change represents the change in dividends paid, which is the driver of the level of bonus payable to holders of unvested DFSS shares.
The employee salary change figure of 5% reflected increases, particularly in respect of employee basic pay, that were made to recognise movements in the Minimum Wage and adjustments to reflect local market pressures.
CEO AND CFO PAY RATIO The UK Government has introduced legislation that will require all companies with more than 250 employees to publish the ratio of the CEOs pay, using his single figure remuneration, to that of the 25th percentile, median and 75th percentile total remuneration of the full time equivalent employees.
Whilst the legislation does not require Admiral to comply until the 2019 Annual Report, the Committee is cognisant of the interest in this area and has concluded that early disclosure in this Annual Report is helpful.
Furthermore, given our CEO does not participate in the DFSS, the Committee has also provided the equivalent pay ratios against the CFO single figure remuneration, which includes salary, pension, benefits, DFSS Bonus and vested DFSS awards for the year.
The table below sets out the pay ratios for CEO and CFO for the period ended 31 December 2018.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued CEO AND CFO PAY RATIO CONTINUED Financial year 2018 Method Lower quartile Median quartile Upper quartile CEO pay ratio Option A 18:1 15:1 11:1 CFO pay ratio 62:1 54:1 38:1 The CEO pay ratio will likely be relatively stable from one year to the next given David Stevens pay does not include any variable components.
The CFO pay ratio, however, will vary from year to year as Geraint Jones remuneration package is heavily weighted to variable and equity-based components.
The Lower Quartile and Median employees were not in receipt of DFSS Bonus and or DFSS vesting in the year.
The legislation provides three options to calculate the pay ratio: Option A, which involves calculating the actual full time equivalent FTE remuneration for all relevant employees for the fiscal year in question, has been used for the calculation above, consistent with the Governments and investor bodies preferred approach.
The employee data has been reviewed and we are satisfied that it fairly reflects pay at the relevant quartiles.
No adjustments have been applied in determining the employee pay levels which are set out below.
The single figure of remuneration for the CEO and CFO includes actual salary and pension costs paid during 2018, in line with The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting regulations 2018.
For other employees, salary and pension costs are included on an FTE basis, in line with the legislation.
While the basis of calculation differs between CEO CFO and other employees, management considers this a fair comparison of remuneration.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below shows the percentage change in dividends and total employee remuneration spend from the financial year ended 31 December 2017 to the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
2018 2017 % m m change Distribution to shareholders 357 320 12% Employee remuneration 382 324 18% The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 66 pence per share bringing the total dividend for 2018 to 126 pence per share 2017: 114 pence per share.
PAY FOR PERFORMANCE The following graph sets out a comparison of Total Shareholder Return TSR for Admiral Group plc shares with that of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 350 indices, of which the Company is a constituent, over the ten-year period to 31 December 2018.
The Directors consider these to be the most appropriate indices against which the Company should be compared.
TSR is defined as the percentage change over the period, assuming reinvestment of income.
104 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 10-YEAR TSR PERFORMANCE: ADMIRAL VS. FTSE 100 AND FTSE 350 INDICES Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over the 10 years to 31 December 2018.
Henry Engelhardt stepped down from the Board on 13 May 2016.
His 2016 remuneration includes salary and benefits in respect of his service as CEO.
David Stevens was appointed as the CEO on 13 May 2016.
His 2016 remuneration includes salary, pension and benefits in respect of his service as CEO.
Kevin Chidwick left the Board on 13 August 2014 to focus on his new role as CEO of Elephant Auto.
His 2014 remuneration includes salary, pension and benefits in respect of his service as CFO, his full year DFSS and his full year DFSS bonus.
Geraint Jones was appointed to the Board as CFO on 13 August 2014.
These figures include reimbursement of 177,104 and 165,000 in 2014 and 2013, respectively, for expenses incurred in respect of the previous CFOs relocation.
This figure has been trued up since the 2017 report for the value of the 2015 DFSS based on the actual share price on vest 20.80.
87.6% of Geraint Jones 2016 DFSS award will vest in September 2019 subject to his continued employment on the vesting date.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Corporate Governance Annual Report on Remuneration continued There are no annual bonus outcomes to report in the table as the Admiral DFSS Bonus is not structured as a traditional annual bonus scheme and consequently a vesting outcome as a percentage of max is meaningless.
DILUTION The Company currently uses newly issued shares to fund the DFSS and SIP.
The Company has controls in place to ensure that shares awarded under the incentive schemes operated by the Company within any rolling ten-year period do not exceed 10% on a net basis of the number of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in issue at the time of each award.
As at the end of 2018, assuming full vesting of outstanding awards, the maximum number of shares granted under the DFSS and SIP was 100% of shares outstanding.
It is currently anticipated that a combination of attrition and actual vesting will result in dilution of less than 10%.
As required by the rules of our share schemes, the Company will in any event ensure that the actual dilution level does not exceed 10% in any rolling ten-year period by funding of any vested and future DFSS and SIP awards as appropriate with market-purchased shares.
INTERESTS HELD BY DIRECTORS AUDITED The Company has adopted Executive Director shareholding guidelines whereby all Executive Directors are required to acquire and retain a beneficial shareholding in the Company equal to at least 300% of base salary excluding salary shares, where applicable, which can be built up over a period of five years from the later of the introduction of the guidelines and the individuals date of appointment.
All Executive Directors currently hold shares in excess of the guideline.
As at 31 December 2018, the Directors held the following interests: Shares held Subject to continued Subject to Shareholding Current Beneficially employment performance requirement shareholding Requirement Director owned outright only conditions % of salary % of salary met?
1 Geraint Jones 61,819 43,800 100,000 300% 300% Yes David Stevens 9,082,950 n a n a 300% 300% Yes Annette Court 6,410 Owen Clarke 142,852 Colin Holmes 23,500 Jean Park 4,000 Justine Roberts Manning Rountree Andy Crossley Mike Brierley 1,384 Karen Green 1.
Total includes SIP shares both matured and awarded.
Total reflects shares from the 2016 DFSS award performance test has been applied, and award is due to vest in September 2019.
There have been no changes to Directors shareholdings since 31 December 2018.
None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
The vesting percentage for performance-related awards made in 2014 was 74.2%.
The award made to Geraint Jones in September 2015 was 100% performance-related, which resulted in the lapsing of 12,850 shares.
The value at maturity relates only to shares vested.
The closing price of Admiral shares on 31 December 2018 was 20.47 per share.
By order of the Board, Owen Clarke Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 March 2019 Admiral Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107
