GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE FOCUS IN 2018 Anne Stevens Confirmation of incentive results for the 2017 annual Chair bonus, including executive director personal key Remuneration Committee performance indicators, and the 50% vesting of the 2015 LTIP Setting of incentive targets for 2018, including the 2018 annual bonus and 2018 LTIP Following feedback from shareholders, the addition of thesafety deductor to the annual bonus for all senior managers across the Group, further aligning reward outcomes with our goal of achieving zero harm Implications of changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and reporting requirements, including the decision to publish the chief executive pay ratio a year early.
COMMITTEE MEMBERS Anne Stevens Chair with effect from 1 January 2019 LOOKING AHEAD TO 2019 Sir Philip Hampton resigned 31 December 2018 Implementation of changes to broaden the remit of Ian Ashby appointed on 1 January 2019 the committee under the Code, including greater oversight ofreward policy across the wider workforce Byron Grote and a more structured approach to engagement Jim Rutherford with other stakeholders, including employees, on Jack Thompson remuneration matters For more on biographies and Board experience details Development of a new directors remuneration policy, See pages 74-77 and consultation with shareholders to be put forward toshareholders at the 2020 AGM.
This will include The chairman, chief executive and Group head of people addressing specific changes required under the Code, and organisation also attend meetings of the committee.
including post-exit shareholding requirements and executive pension contribution rates ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Possible selection and appointment of a new adviser Establishing and developing the Groups general policy to the committee as a result of audit rotation.
on executive and senior management remuneration Determining specific remuneration packages for the chairman, executive directors and members of the GMC for review and approval by the Board Designing the Groups share incentive schemes 1.
INTRODUCTORY LETTER Input and oversight on the reward policy for the DEAR SHAREHOLDER, broader workforce The primary role of the Remuneration Committee is to Consultation with shareholders and other stakeholders ensure that the remuneration arrangements for executive regarding executive remuneration.
directors, and Group Management Committee GMC The committees terms of reference are available to members, offer them sufficient encouragement to deliver view online.
our strategy and create stakeholder value in a sustainable and responsible manner.
It is also our task to ensure that such For more information, visit www.
com about-us governance remuneration is proportionate to the levels of performance achieved and is appropriate in relation to the remuneration received by the wider workforce, and to shareholder returns.
I am acutely aware that executive pay remains a contentious topic.
It is never easy to strike an equitable balance between incentivising and rewarding management and reflecting the interests of shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Volatility in remuneration outcomes, and especially regarding long-term 100 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance incentive plans LTIPs, continues to be a factor of the mining and 2016 LTIP awards to the sum of the total face value of sector and of product prices.
The committee carefully seeks those awards at grant, with any value above that being to ensure that each outcome reflects the original intention forfeited before the start of the two-year holding period.
ofthe committee when the incentive was set and that it is an Azero vest on the 2014 LTIP and a partial vest in 2015 appropriate reflection of the performance delivered and the resulted in a cap on the 2016 LTIP vest for the chief value created for shareholders.
Through the application of a executiveof 10.2million, compared with an uncapped cap on LTIP vesting Cap, the committee acted robustly to vesting value of 16.6 million, representing a substantial ensure that executive remuneration for 2018 was appropriate forfeit of 6.4million.
A similar impact was seen for the and that the impact on remuneration of the share price rise technical director and GMC members.
over the past three years was reduced significantly.
The committee has carefully reviewed this outcome and is Safety satisfied that the Cap has met the desired goal of constraining The Boards priority to achieve zero harm and eliminate the windfall gains.
A full explanation can be found on page 117. causes of harm in the workplace is reflected in our safety Salaries statistics.
From, and including, 2018 we have introduced a The committee has decided to increase the executive safety deductor to individual annual bonuses to ensure that directors salaries in 2019 by 2%, in line with the Groups UK all our global leaders are held personally responsible for any based employees.
failures on our journey to zero harm.
2019 consultation on the remuneration policy While positive performance based on safety, health and The remuneration policy will be revised, in consultation environment SHE targets continues to be recognised and withshareholders, during 2019 and put to shareholders rewarded through a 10% bonus weighting, there is no limit forapproval at the 2020 AGM.
The committee will carefully onthe deduction that can be applied.
A set percentage for consider the recent changes to corporate governance, as each fatality above a baseline initially set at best-ever annual wellas the guidance notes provided by investors and investor safety performance by business unit and reducing each bodies.
This is an opportunity to further align our approach to year will be deducted from individual bonuses.
For 2018, the remuneration with the Companys strategy and culture, as well safety deductor resulted in a 7.5% deduction to executive as reflecting ongoing thinking about the most effective and directors final bonus values.
appropriate ways to incentivise and reward executives.
I look Pay for performance forward to meeting and working with our shareholders to Performance across our key business metrics is reflected achieve these aims.
Underlying earnings per share Governance EPS were $2.55, supported by underlying EBITDA of The committee believes in balancing clear regulation with $9.2billion, an increase of 4 %, and attributable free cash strong delegated authority for the Board to make decisions flow of $3.2 billion.
Net debt reduced by a further 37% to that are in the best interests of the Company and its $2.8 billion.
Return on capital employed was 19% well shareholders.
It has reviewed the implications of the changes above our 16% target.
to the UK Corporate Governance Code and reporting Annual bonus requirements and will seek to address these within the new Half of the annual bonus result is determined by underlying directors remuneration policy to be developed in 2019 and EPS performance, with 50% measured using fixed prices put to shareholders at the 2020 AGM.
and foreign exchange FX rates and the other half based The committee understands the views of many investors onactual results.
Continued improvements in operational with regards to the need to align executive pensions with productivity and cost control, and higher realised prices for those of other employees.
While the new policy to be most of the Groups products, were offset by the suspension adopted in 2020 will address this, the committee has of operations at Minas-Rio from March to December.
These determined that any new executive directors appointed factors resulted in the vesting of 58% of EPS targets.
before the adoption of the new policy will receive a reduced The remaining 50% is measured against safety, health employer contribution of 15%, instead of the current 25%.
and environment targets, weighted 10%, and individual Although the committees primary purpose is the and strategic performance measures, weighted 40%.
The governance of remuneration for executive directors and Group delivered a best-ever safety performance and made senior management, it has always included within its remit further progress towards our environmental and health oversight of pay policy across the wider workforce.
The goals, resulting in a 55% payment against safety, health committee has taken a keen interest in discussions on the and environment targets.
The safety deductor, introduced disclosure of a chief executive pay ratio and has taken the for the 2018 annual bonus, is applied to the final bonus decision to report early.
The 2018 ratio of 191:1 reflects the outcomes of all the Groups senior leaders, and reduced much greater impact of long-term incentives and share price overall annual bonus values for the executive directors by movements on the pay of the chief executive compared to 7.5%.
Bonus outcomes after the deductor were between other employees, and is therefore significantly higher as a 63% and 66%, between 11% and 19% lower than the result of the 2016 LTIP values.
Estimated pay ratios for bonuses paid in respect of 2017.
See page 113. previous years are more representative of a typical year and, Long-term incentive using readily available data, these are 90:1 in 2017, and 55:1 Relative total shareholder return TSR over the three in 2016.
A full explanation can be found on page 123. yearsto December 2018 was 285%, significantly above the Thanks maximum vesting targets for the FTSE 100 and the sector Finally, I would like to express sincere thanks to index.
As attributable ROCE was above the maximum vesting Sir Philip Hampton, who stepped down from the Board target, the LTIP awards granted in 2016 will vest 100%.
on 31 December 2018, having been Chairman of the To address investor concerns about the potential windfall Remuneration Committee, since April 2010. gains for executive directors arising from the volatility of the Companys share price, a Cap on the value of the 2016 LTIP Anne Stevens was introduced in 2017.
This Cap limited the maximum Chair, Remuneration Committee combined value that can vest in relation to the 2014, 2015 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 101 2024 FIVE-YEAR 2023 VESTING TWO-YEAR 2022 HOLDING 2021 THREE-YEAR VESTING THREE-YEAR 2020 PERFORMANCE 2019 ONE YEAR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE The remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM is set out below.
Each component of remuneration is designed to reward the accomplishment of aspects of the Groups strategy.
For more information on the pillars of value, refer to page 11.
LINK TO STRATEGY KEY FEATURES SALARY Reviewed annually by Remuneration Committee Recruitment and retention Increases based on Group performance, individual performance, of high-calibre executives levels of increase for the broader UK population and inflation.
BONUS CASH Maximum bonus award of 210% of salary Rewards delivery of strategic Outcome based on underlying EPS and individual strategic safety priorities and financial success objectives subject to a safety deductor 40% of bonus is paid in cash BONUS DEFERRED SHARES 60% of bonus is deferred into shares Bonus Shares Encourages sustained performance Two-thirds of Bonus Shares will vest after three years, with the in line with shareholder interests remaining Bonus Shares vesting after a further two years Unvested Bonus Shares are subject to malus and clawback.
LTIP Shares granted with a face value of 300% of salary Encourages long-term shareholder Shares vest after a three-year performance period and released return and accomplishment of after a further two-year holding period longer-term strategic objectives Vesting based on TSR performance and achievement against a balanced scorecard of financial and strategic measures and subject to malus and clawback.
For more on the Purpose to Reward journey See page 10-11.
KEY PERFORMANCE METRICS FROM 2019 Metrics Pillars of value Rationale Safety and zero harm bonus Safety and health Employee safety is the Groups first and most important value Underlying EPS bonus Financial EPS links reward to delivery of in-year underlying equity returns to shareholders Financial Creates a direct link between executive pay and shareholder value TSR LTIP Measure is split between comparison against sector index Euromoney Global Mining Index and comparison against local peers constituents of FTSE 100 index Group attributable ROCE LTIP Financial ROCE promotes disciplined capital allocation by linking reward to investment return Attributable free cash flow LTIP Financial Attributable free cash flow incentivises cash generation for use either as incremental capital investment, for capital returns to shareholders, or debt reduction Sustainable Mining Plan LTIP Environment Water Management Standard implementation by the end of 2021 Employee Well-being LTIP Safety and health All operations to have Well-being strategy by 2021 Socio-political We are committed to six values which guide how we best of who they are to work.
Our values and the way in Our Values conduct ourselves.
We are creating an organisation where which we, as individuals, are expected to behave are the all people are treated in such a way that they bring the foundation of our Code of Conduct.
102 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance UNDERLYING EPS THREE-YEAR SHAREHOLDER RETURN GROUP ATTRIBUTABLE ROCE $2.55 share 285% 19% 2018 $2.55 share 2018 285% 2018 19% 2017 $2.57 share 2017 21% 2017 19% 2018 PAY OUTCOMES 000 MARK CUTIFANI 2018 1,749 1,754 10,892 2017 1,706 2,077 3,238 STEPHEN PEARCE 2018 1,072 1,088 5,209 2017 1,877 1,529 TONY ONEILL 2018 1,102 1,112 5,839 2017 1,081 1,365 1,744 Fixed Bonus paid LTIP paid Fixed pay comprises salary, benets and pension Bonus gures include deferred shares LTIP paid includes dividend equivalent amounts Executive directors are expected to build up and hold a percentage of their salary in shares 300% for the chief executive, 200% for other executive directors.
For more information see Annual Report on Remuneration See page 120.
2018 ANNUAL BONUS OUTCOME EPS 50% of overall opportunity Personal KRAs 40% of overall opportunity The Groups actual EPS was $2.55 share Each executive director has a set of personal objectives for the year This is $0.18 below the target for maximum vesting of $2.73 share The vesting for each executive director is as follows: The Groups fixed price and FX rates EPS was $1.52 share Mark Cutifani: 85% 34% of overall opportunity This is $0.32 below the target for maximum vesting of $1.84 share Stephen Pearce: 90% 36% of overall opportunity As a result, 58% of the overall EPS component of the annual bonus will pay out Tony ONeill: 88% 35% of overall opportunity.
Safety, health and environment SHE target 10% of overall opportunity Safety deductor SHE target for executive directors has a weighting of 10% In 2018, a safety deductor was introduced, aligned to our goal of zero harm The outcome for 2018 is 55% of the overall component The deduction for 2018 is 7.5% of overall bonus value.
This reflects the good result in reducing total recordable injury rate, but also the environmental impact of the MinasRio incident.
The overall vesting level for the annual bonus award was 63.4% of maximum for Mark Cutifani and 65.2%, and 64.3% for Stephen Pearce, and Tony ONeill, respectively.
2016 LTIP VESTING TSR vesting 50% of overall opportunity Group attributable ROCE vesting 50% of overall opportunity The Groups TSR performance for the performance period was 285% The Groups attributable ROCE for 2018 was 19% This is above the maximum vesting threshold for both the sector index and This is above the maximum performance for vesting of 16% As a result, 100% of the ROCE component of the 2016 LTIP will vest.
FTSE 100 performance As a result, 100% of the TSR component of the 2016 LTIP will vest.
The ROCE target range was restated from 5-15% to 6-16% as a result of impairments and portfolio changes from the time of target setting.
The overall vesting level for the 2016 LTIP award is 100% but with the application of the LTIP vesting cap these awards were significantly reduced.
See page 117 for a full explanation.
Safety Care and respect Accountability Collaboration Integrity Innovation Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 103 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 2.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY For ease of reference, the committee has decided to 2.1 FUTURE POLICY TABLE reproduce the remuneration policy in full in the following The Companys remuneration policy, as set out in the sections, excluding the paragraphs explaining the changes 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, received approval from the 2014 remuneration policy.
The table below, from shareholders at the AGM held on 24 April 2017. therefore, sets out the key components of executive The Company intends that this policy should apply directors pay packages, including the rationale for use and until the Companys 2020 AGM.
Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose Maximum opportunity Basic salary To recruit and retain high-calibre executives.
Maximum increase of 5% of salary per annum.
People Operation Assessment of performance Basic salary levels are reviewed annually by the committee, Individual performance is considered for context when taking account of Group performance, individual considering any salary increases awarded.
performance, levels of increase for the broader UK Discretion population and inflation.
There may be occasions when the committee needs Reference may also be made to median levels within to recognise, for example, development in role, change relevant FTSE 50 and natural resources companies.
in responsibility and or specific retention issues.
Alternative peer groups may be considered as appropriate.
External factors such as sustained high inflation may also be a consideration.
The committee also considers the impact of any basic salary increase on the total remuneration package.
In these circumstances, the committee may offer a higher annual increase, the rationale for which will be explained Increases awarded each year will be set out in the to shareholders in the relevant remuneration report.
statement of implementation of policy.
Purpose Malus and clawback Annual bonus To encourage and reward delivery of the Groups strategy.
The committee is able to reduce any unvested Bonus Share awards, or future awards, in the event of a material Safety To help ensure, through the share-based elements, and health misstatement in the Groups results, misconduct or a that any resulting performance is sustained over the material failing in risk management processes that has Environment longer term in line with shareholder interests.
given, or is likely to give, rise to significant and lasting value Operation destruction for the Group.
Socio-political Each year, executive directors participate in the annual Maximum opportunity People bonus, which rewards EPS, individual performance 210% of salary.
targets and improvements in safety over the full year.
Financial Partof the award is deferred into Bonus Shares under Assessment of performance theCompanys BSP.
The final performance measurement Cost will be 50% based on actual prices and FX rates and 50% The EPS measure has been chosen as it continues to based on fixed prices and FX rates.
link reward to the delivery of earnings and returns to shareholders.
The EPS targets are set each year to ensure Up to 50% scorecard of measures based on individual they are demanding yet realistic.
Consideration is given to objectives linked to the Groups strategic priorities internal budgets and price expectations for the year, as well and safety performance.
as prior performance and external expectations.
A modifier to the above is applied depending on the extent The individual objectives measure was chosen to provide to which safety targets are met.
a balance and reflect managements underlying activity Where relevant, targets will be disclosed retrospectively towards delivering the Groups strategy regardless of price as they are considered to be commercially sensitive.
The individual objectives are based on the Groups strategic priorities for the year and will be fully Outcome at threshold disclosed in the relevant remuneration report.
Form and timing of payment Discretion 40%: cash award at end of year Under the BSP Rules, the Company has the standard discretion to take appropriate action in the event of 40%: Bonus Shares vesting three years after unforeseen events which affect the Bonus Shares end of bonus year for example, on a variation in share capital and to settle 20%: Bonus Shares vesting five years after the Bonus Shares in cash for example, on a termination.
Should circumstances change such that EPS is no longer Dividends are paid on Bonus Shares.
considered to be the most appropriate financial measure, the committee retains the discretion to replace EPS with one or more alternative financial measures.
Full details of any such change would be given in the relevant remuneration report.
104 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Purpose Maximum opportunity Long-Term To encourage and reward the generation of long-term 300% of salary.
Incentive Plan sustainable shareholder returns and the delivery of LTIP The value that can be received in the year of vesting will financial strategic priorities.
be limited to twice the face value of the award at grant, with Safety Operation any value above that level being forfeit or, in exceptional and health The committee makes an annual conditional award of circumstances and at the committees discretion, deferred Financial shares to each executive director.
Environment The TSR measures have been selected to reflect the extent Performance measures to which value is being delivered to shareholders and the 70%: TSR relative to sector index and leading UK-listed Socio-political balanced scorecard to reflect the Groups financial and comparator companies.
30%: Balanced scorecard of key performance indicators, Each year, the committee reviews the performance linking to the Companys KPIs.
The relative TSR targets are set so Vesting at threshold that only a quarter of the relevant portion of the award is TSR: 25% of award portion.
payable for index median performance, while maximum vesting requires exceptional relative performance.
Balanced scorecard: 25% of award portion.
The balanced scorecard will be based on a small number Discretion of measurable financial and or strategic performance The committee does not intend to make adjustments to the indicators.
The measures may vary each year to reflect the method by which it measures LTIP performance conditions.
Groups financial and or strategic priorities and will be set However, it reserves the discretion to make adjustments to out in the statement of implementation in the year of grant outcomes in very exceptional circumstances, whether to the extent that they are not commercially sensitive.
related to internal or external factors for example, on a sequestration of assets.
Shareholders would be given Dividend equivalents are paid on any shares that vest.
details of any exercise of this discretion in the relevant In order to mitigate potential excessive gains brought about remuneration report.
by the volatile nature of the mining industry, the value that Under the LTIP rules, the Company also has the standard can be delivered on an award vesting will be limited to twice discretion to take appropriate action in the event of the face value of the award on grant.
Any gains above this unforeseen events during an award cycle for example, on level will be forfeit before the start of the two-year holding a variation in share capital and to settle the awards in cash period or, in exceptional circumstances and at the for example, on a termination.
committees discretion, deferred for a further period.
The committee may, in exceptional circumstances, allow Performance period the value delivered in the year of vesting to be above the Three years.
limit described under Operation and Maximum Additional holding period opportunity.
Should this discretion be applied, Two years.
consideration would be given to deferring any gains above the normal limit for an extended time period.
In addition, the Malus and clawback committee would take account of the Companys overall The committee is able to reduce any unvested awards, financial performance, the magnitude of commodity and vested awards subject to a holding period or future grants share price movements and overall remuneration in the event of a material misstatement in the Companys outcomes in recent years.
The exercise of any such results, misconduct or a material failing in risk management discretion would be fully explained in the relevant processes that has given, or is likely to give, rise to remuneration report.
significant and lasting value destruction for the Company.
Purpose Maximum opportunity Pension To offer market-competitive levels ofpension provision.
Operation Executive directors participate in defined contribution pension arrangements.
Executive directors have the option for contributions which may not be paid to a UK-registered pension scheme as a result of HMRC limits either annual allowance or lifetime allowance to be treated as if paid to an unregistered unfunded retirement benefit scheme a UURBS.
As set out in the letter to shareholders, the policy on pensions will be updated as Executive directors may request a pension allowance to part of the new directors remuneration report.
Until then, new executive director appointments will be awarded a company contribution of 15%.
be paid in place of defined contribution arrangements.
Purpose SAYE SIP As UK employees, UK-based executive directors are eligible to participate in the Companys Save As You Earn SAYE scheme and SIP.
Operation The plans are registered with HMRC and do not have performance conditions.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 105 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Figure 1: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors Other benefits Purpose Maximum opportunity To provide market-competitive benefits.
Operation Discretion The Company provides the following ongoing benefits: The committee reserves the discretion to exceed the ongoing maximum level for certain situation-specific 28 days leave and encashment of any accumulated benefits, such as relocation.
Full details of the exercise leave in excess of 20 days of any such discretion will be provided to shareholders Car-related benefits in the following remuneration report.
Medical insurance Death and disability insurance Directors liability insurance Limited personal-taxation and financial advice Club membership Other ancillary benefits, including attendance at relevant public events.
In addition, the Company pays additional benefits when specific business circumstances require it, including costs and allowances related to relocation and international assignments.
The Company reimburses all necessary and reasonable business expenses.
Figure 2: Recruitment and promotion arrangements Purpose For external appointments, the committee may also offer To secure the appointment and promotion of additional cash and or share-based elements including high-calibre executives.
in-flight LTIPs to replace any remuneration forfeited, when it considers this to be in the best interests of the Operation Company and its shareholders.
The terms of any The remuneration arrangements for a newly recruited share-based elements offered will reflect the nature, time or promoted executive director will reflect the horizons and performance requirements of remuneration remuneration policy in place for executive directors at forfeited and will have equivalent performance conditions the time of the appointment.
Shareholders will be informed of any such therefore comprise basic salary, annual bonus, LTIP payments at the time of appointment.
If necessary, the awards, benefits, pension and SAYE SIP on the bases Company can go outside of existing plans as currently set out above.
permitted under the Listing Rules.
The initial basic salary level for a newly recruited or Pensions for new hires will be set at a level commensurate promoted executive director will be set to reflect the with the wider workforce and will be no greater than 25% individuals experience, salary levels within the Company of salary.
Where basic salary is set below the level that might be expected, given the executives For internal appointments, any commitments made relative inexperience, and the executive then develops before appointment and not relating to appointment are successfully into the role, the committee has the allowed to pay out according to their terms.
For external discretion to give a salary increase in the year s after and internal appointments, the committee may agree appointment above the standard maximum level of 5%.
that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
As set out in the letter to shareholders, the policy on pensions will be updated as part of the new directors remuneration report.
106 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance 2.2 SUPPLEMENT ARY INFORMATION 2.2.
2 POLICY IN REST OF COMPANY 2.2.
1 SHAREHOLDING TARGETS The remuneration arrangements for the executive directors Within five years of appointment, executive directors are outlined in Figure 1 are consistent with those for other expected to hold Anglo American plc shares with a value executives serving on the GMC, although opportunity of three times basic salary in respect of the chief executive levels vary.
The majority of our employees are located in and two times basic salary in respect of other executive South Africa and South America, and the remuneration directors.
The committee takes into consideration arrangements of these employees are aligned to local achievement against these targets when making grants market practices and levels.
under the Companys various incentive plans.
Figure 3: Key aspects of the remuneration policy for non-executive directors Chairman Purpose Operation Fees To attract and retain a highThe chairman is paid a single fee for all of his responsibilities.
The level of this fee is calibre chairman by offering a reviewed every two to three years by the committee and chief executive, with reference market-competitive fee level.
to UK market levels FTSE 50 companies, and a recommendation is then made to the Board in the absence of the chairman.
Maximum increase Equivalent to annual increase Fees are paid in cash, with the flexibility to forgo all or part of the net fees to acquire of 5% of fee level.
Chairman Purpose Operation Benefits To provide market-competitive The chairman is entitled to the reasonable use of a car and driver.
The chairman has, to benefits.
date, made use of ad hoc chauffeur services.
Maximum benefits Reasonable and necessary expenses are reimbursed.
Non-executive Purpose Operation directors To attract and retain high-calibre The non-executives are paid a basic fee.
The chairmen of the main Board committees Fees non-executive directors by and the senior independent director are paid an additional fee to reflect their extra offering market-competitive fees.
These fee levels are reviewed every few years by the chairman and executive directors, with reference to UK market levels FTSE 50 companies, and a Maximum increase for each recommendation is then made to the Board.
type of fee Equivalent to annual increase Fees are paid in cash, with the flexibility to forgo all or part of the net fees to acquire of 5% of fee level.
Reasonable and necessary expenses are reimbursed.
Non-executive directors fees were reviewed in 2017.
The Board decided to increase base fees to make them market-competitive.
Prior to this, base fees had not increased since 2010.
Committee fees were also introduced.
Full details can be found on page 118.
Other fees Purpose Operation payments To have the flexibility to The Company has the discretion to pay an additional fee, up to the equivalent of the provide additional fees benefits committee chairmanship fee currently 30,000, to a non-executive director should if required.
the Company require significant additional time commitment in exceptional or unforeseen circumstances.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 107 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY 2.3 INDICATIVE TOTAL REMUNERATION LEVELS Figure 4 illustrates how the total pay opportunities for the chief executive, the finance director and the technical director vary under three different performance scenarios: Figure 4: Indicative executive director total remuneration at different levels of performance 10.0 8.6 8.0 6.2 6.0 5.4 5.2 4.0 3.9 3.8 2.0 1.8 1.1 1.1 0 Above Target Below Above Target Below Above Target Below Performance level Performance level Performance level Chief executive Finance director Technical director 2019 basic salary, benets and pension Annual bonus cash and Bonus Shares LTIP Note: Pay element Above Target Below Fixed 2019 basic salary, benefits and pension 2019 basic salary, benefits and pension 2019 basic salary, benefits and pension Annual bonus 100% of maximum bonus opportunity 65% of maximum bonus opportunity None 60% deferred into shares 60% deferred into shares LTIP 100% of maximum LTIP opportunity 65% of maximum LTIP opportunity None Estimates of 36,000, 40,000 and 33,000 have been used for ongoing non-pension benefits for the chief executive, finance director and technical director, respectively.
Share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded from all figures.
Participation in the SAYE and SIP has been excluded, given the relative size of the opportunity levels.
Charts have not been included for the non-executive directors as their fees are fixed and do not vary with performance.
108 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Indicative total pay m Governance 2.4 POLICY ON TERMINATION AND CHANGE IN CONTROL 2.4.
2 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Figure 5 sets out the Companys policy on termination.
This All non-executive directors have letters of appointment policy is consistent with provisions relating to termination of with the Company for an initial period of three years, subject employment in the executive directors service agreements to annual re-appointment at the AGM.
The chairmans and with provisions in the incentive plan rules.
appointment may be terminated by the Company with six months notice.
The appointment letters for the chairman Figure 6 sets out key provisions relating to change of control, and non-executive directors provide that no compensation where there is no termination.
There are no provisions for is payable on termination, other than any accrued fees enhanced payments in the event of a change of control of and expenses.
Figure 5: Principles of determining payments for loss of office Notice periods Notice periods do not exceed 12 months.
Upon appointment, the committee can agree an extended Company notice period for the first year following appointment.
Good leaver Voluntary resignation Bad leaver Circumstances Typical reasons include retirement, redundancy, death, Typically, of departure of illhealth, injury, disability or as defined by the committee.
Where departure is on mutually agreed terms, the committee directors may treat the departing executive as a Good leaver in terms of one or more elements of remuneration.
The committee uses this discretion judiciously and shareholders will be notified of any exercise as soon as reasonable.
Salary and Salary and benefits continue to be paid to the date of Salary and benefits continue to be Immediate benefits for termination of employment, including any notice period paid to the date of termination of termination with notice period and or gardening leave period.
employment, including any notice no notice period.
period and or gardening leave period.
The Company may terminate employment with immediate effect and, in lieu of the unexpired portion of any notice The Company may terminate period, make a series of monthly payments based on salary employment with immediate effect and benefits or make a lump sum payment based on salary and, in lieu of the unexpired portion of only.
Any monthly payments will be reduced to take account any notice period, make a series of of any salary received from alternative employment.
monthly payments based on salary and benefits or make a lump sum payment based on salary only.
Any monthly payments will be reduced to take account of any amounts received from alternative employment.
Bonus accrued A time-pro-rated bonus award may be made by the No accrued bonus is payable.
No accrued prior to Company, with the committees approval, and will bonus is payable.
termination be paid wholly in cash.
Unvested Normal circumstances Forfeit Forfeit Bonus Shares Bonus Shares are released in full on the normal release date i. e. awards will not be released early.
Exceptional circumstances e. g. death or other compassionate grounds.
Bonus Shares are released in full, and eligible for immediate release.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 109 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Figure 5: Principles of determining payments for loss of office Good leaver Voluntary resignation Bad leaver Five-year Bonus Normal circumstances If an employee resigns to join a Forfeit Shares during Released in full to the employee at the end of the competitor as defined by the final two years five-year period.
committee during the final two of vesting period years of the five-year vesting period, Exceptional circumstances then the Bonus Shares will be forfeit.
e. g. death or other compassionate grounds.
Outside of these circumstances, Bonus Bonus Shares are released in full, and eligible for Shares are released to the employee immediate release.
at the end of the five-year period.
Unvested LTIP Normal circumstances Forfeit Forfeit awards LTIP awards will vest subject to the performance conditions at the end of the normal performance period and, if applicable, released at the end of the holding period.
LTIP awards may be released on departure, subject to assessment of the performance conditions at that time.
Vested LTIP Normal circumstances If an employee resigns to join a Forfeit awards subject Vested LTIP awards that are subject only to a holding competitor as defined by the to a holding period are released in full to the employee at the end committee, then even those vested period of the holding period.
LTIP awards that remain subject only to the holding period will be forfeit.
Outside of these circumstances, such awards are released to the employee Vested LTIP awards subject to a holding period may be at the end of the holding period.
Unvested There is no standard policy in respect of the treatment Generally forfeit.
Forfeit Restricted of any restricted share awards to executive directors.
Shares Terms are set on a case-by-case basis.
SAYE and SIP Outstanding shares and or options under the Companys According to HMRC rules.
According to SIP and SAYE vest in accordance with the relevant HMRC rules.
Other Limited disbursements for example, legal costs, relocation None None costs, untaken holiday.
Malus and Malus and clawback provisions in the relevant incentive plan clawback rules apply.
110 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance Figure 6: Policy on change in control Incentive plan Bonus Shares provisions The Bonus Shares awarded under the BSP will be released.
relating to LTIP awards change of The number of shares that vest under the LTIP will be calculated by reference to the extent to which the applicable control without performance conditions have been met at the time of the change of control.
termination Vested LTIP awards subject to holding period LTIP awards will be released.
2.5 DEVELOPMENT OF DIRECTORS 2.6 PAYMENTS UNDER REMUNERATION POLICY PREVIOUS POLICIES The current directors remuneration policy was approved The committee reserves the right to make any remuneration by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
It is the intention of payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding thecommittee to conduct a full review of the policy, in that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where consultation with shareholders and other stakeholders, the terms of the payment were agreed: during 2019.
The resulting policy will be put to shareholders Under a previous policy, in which case the provisions of for approval at the 2020 AGM.
that policy shall continue to apply until such payments The committee will address the changes to the Corporate have been made: Governance Code and reporting requirements, as well as Before the policy or the relevant legislation came into the latest guidance from investors, as part of the new policy effect: or for 2020.
At a time when the relevant individual was not a director The committee understands the view expressed by ofthe Company and, in the opinion of the committee, the shareholders regarding executive pensions and, the payment was not in consideration for the individual committee has determined that any new executive becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes, directors and GMC members who are appointed before payments includes the satisfaction of awards of variable the adoption of the new policy will receive a reduced remuneration and, in relation to awards of shares, the employer contribution of 15%, instead of 25% set out in terms of the payment which are agreed at the time the thecurrent policy.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 111 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 3.
A NNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The information set out in this section which constitutes the Implementation Report has been subject to external audit.
3.1 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION IN 2018 Figure 7 sets out the remuneration paid to the executive directors for 2018.
Figure 7: Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors Annual 1 bonus cash LTIP Total basic Benefits and Bonus award Total Total 2 salary inkind Shares vesting Pension Other 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Section Section Section Section Section Executive directors 3.1.
As the awards are due to vest after publication of this report, an average share price between 1 October 2018 and 31 December 2018, 16.716, was used to calculate the value and will be trued up in the 2019 report.
The values are capped in line with the vesting cap introduced in 2016, see page 117, with a share price increase of 276% accounting for a 131% increase in the value, since the grant date.
The LTIP values shown include dividend equivalent amounts of 692,465 for Mark Cutifani, 110,962 for Stephen Pearce and 371,216 for Tony ONeill: based on shares received after the cap, where applicable.
The values of LTIP awards that vested in 2018 figures have been trued up to reflect the actual share price at vest of 16.93, see page 117 for more details.
2 Other comprises free and matching shares under the SIP and dividend payments from unvested shares.
3 For Stephen Pearce, two awards vested.
Both were granted on joining under the terms of the LTIP as buy-out awards to compensate for incentives forfeited at Fortescue Metals Group.
203,692 shares vested in July 2018 with a share price at vest of 17.005.
97,770 shares are due to vest in March 2019, and are valued using the average share price from 1 October to 31 December 2018 of 16.716.
See 2017 Remuneration report for more details.
4 The March 2019 vesting will be subject to a two-year holding period starting on the vesting date.
1 BASIC SALARIES FOR 2018 Figure 8: Basic salaries for 2018 Figure 8 sets out the basic salaries for 2018.
2 BENEFITS IN KIND FOR 2018 2017: 1,286 Benefits for executive directors with a value over 5,000 are set out in Figure 9.
The executive directors also receive club 1,318 membership, death and disability insurance, directors liability insurance, medical insurance and other ancillary benefits.
STEPHEN PEARCE 2017: 716 Figure 9: Benefits in kind for 2018 Car-related benefits Tax advice 794 Mark Cutifani 30,760 1,353 TONY ONEILL Stephen Pearce 29,418 7,416 2017: 804 Tony ONeill 29,664 936 824 all amounts in 000 112 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance 3.1.
3 ANNUAL BONUS OUTCOMES FOR 2018 Excluding the improvement in prices, the fixed prices and FX element of the award vested at 29%, driven by the Figure 10 shows the annual bonus outcomes for 2018. suspension of operations at Minas-Rio from March to At the start of 2018, the committee approved performance December, offset by excellent performance at Metallurgical targets for the EPS element of the bonus outcome.
In line Coals longwall operations and strong mine and plant with the prior period, 50% of the earnings element of the performance, coupled with planned higher ore grades, annual bonus was evaluated against fixed prices and FX at Copper, as well as the impact of cost-saving initiatives rates, with the remaining portion evaluated at actual prices across the Group.
The fixed EPS portion is designed to monitor Measurement of both these targets, therefore, resulted Group operational performance, excluding the impact of the investing of the overall EPS element relating to 50% of variations in price and currency fluctuations.
Budget prices theannual bonus award of 58% equivalent to 29% of and FX rates were selected for the fixed prices and FX rates, overallopportunity.
given the budgets importance as the primary comparative used for measuring performance internally.
Both target The executives individual objectives were set at the start ranges are illustrated in the table below, with 25% vesting of the year and reflect the Groups strategic priorities for taking place with performance at threshold.
Each category contained between one and four specific objectives, incorporating a combination of Threshold Maximum Outcome Vesting quantitative and qualitative metrics.
Following the end of Actual prices $1.68 $2.73 $2.55 87% the year, the committee made a detailed assessment of and FX rates share share share performance against each objective, leading to the evaluations shown in Figure 12.
Fixed prices $1.50 $1.84 $1.52 29% and FX rates share share share The Boards first priority is zero harm.
It is in this context that, from 2018, we introduced a safety deductor to individual annual bonuses for business leaders to ensure that we Higher realised prices across many of the Groups products, further align the bonus with our safety culture and our key particularly in PGMs and thermal and metallurgical coal, focus on initiatives towards the elimination of fatalities.
and continued productivity improvements and cost control across the portfolio resulted in 87% vesting performance While positive safety, health and environmental of the actual prices and FX element of the award.
While performance continues to be recognised and rewarded average market prices for the Groups basket of products through a 10% SHE target for executive directors see increased by 4%, EPS performance fell below the maximum Figure 11a, there is no limit on the deduction applied to vesting due to the $0.4 billion shortfall against the $0.8 billion bonus results through the safety deductor.
For 2018, the cost and volume improvement target, primarily driven by the safety deductor for the executive directors resulted in a effect of above-inflation increases in oil and other energy 7.5% deduction to final 2018 bonus values.
costs and the impact of third party rail constraints at Kumba.
Figure 11a: SHE performance and safety deductor Figure 10: Annual bonus outcomes for 2018 Weighting 2018 outcome cash and Bonus Shares Total recordable case frequency rate TRCFR 2.0% 2.0% Level 4 5 environmental incidents 2.0% 0.0% MARK CUTIFANI 2017: 2,077 HIV management 2.0% 0.5% 1 Elimination of fatalities 4.0% 3.0% 1,754 Overall 5.5% 1 Establish an Elimination of Fatalities Taskforce and implement control strategies.
STEPHEN PEARCE 2017: 1,229 Figure 11b: Safety deductor 1,088 Safety deductor 7.5% TONY ONEILL A set percentage deduction on overall bonus value for each fatality 2017: 1,365 above a baseline initially set at best ever annual safety performance and reducing each year.
1,112 all amounts in 000 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 113 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Figure 12: Annual bonus performance assessment for 2018 50% of each executive directors bonus outcome was dependent on an EPS target, with a result of 58%.
40% of the bonus outcomes related to a set of individual objectives for the year.
The achievement and outcomes of these objectives are set out for each executive director below.
10% of the bonus outcomes are dependent on SHE targets with a 55% result.
In addition, bonuses are subject to a safety deductor.
For executive directors this resulted in a 7.5% deduction on overall values.
Refer to page 113 for more detail.
Mark Cutifani 2018 Percentage weighting outcome Financial 50% 29% SHE targets 10% 5.5% Personal objectives 40% 34% Total 100% 68.5% Safety deductor A percentage deduction from overall bonus outcomes 7.5 % Overall result 63.4% Objectives Achievement Outcome Portfolio 20% Board approval of Quellaveco copper project, at a capital cost of $5.0-$5.3 billion, 18% firstproduction expected in 2022.
Deliver targeted progress Project partner, Mitsubishi, increased its interest from 18.1% to 40%, realising on major projects $500million in upfront consideration.
Targeted asset sales to be Ramping up of recently delivered projects, including Grosvenor up 82% year-on-year completed by end of 2018 and Gahcho Ku.
Key regulatory approval relating to the Minas-Rio Step 3 licence area Identify endowment and Mineral achieved in December, as planned.
Resource opportunities sufficient to In the year, completed disposals, including South African domestic coal assets, and cover Ore Reserve depletion in 2018 interests in Union Mine and the Bafokeng Rasimone Platinum Mine associate.
Identified and secured mineral tenure in established and frontier settings, including Brazil, Ecuador, and Australia.
Continued focus on mineral tenure around Anglo Americans existing assets, including Los Bronces and Quellaveco copper districts and Mogalakwena PGMs district.
Innovation 10% Generated $3.2 billion in attributable free cashflow, and after payment of $1.3 billion in 6% shareholder dividends, reduced net debt to $2.8 billion.
Deliver $0.8 billion EBITDA Delivered 6% increase in Copper Equivalent CuEq production excl Minas Rio and improvements through cost and maintained CuEq unit costs at the same levels as 2017. volume improvements Delivered $0.4 billion cost and volume improvement, with above CPI inflation and Develop improvement plans to support third-party logistics constraints at Kumba impacting target achievement.
Developed and implemented plans to support future growth, with production anticipated Innovative technology and digitalisation to increase by 20-25% over the next 5 years e. g. Quellaveco ramp-up and improvements to develop the Groups value in Metallurgical Coal.
proposition Deployment of programmes to operate key assets and equipment at industry best Develop and launch new approach to practice and beyond P101.
Progressed technology development and digitalisation sustainable mining strategies to deliver Operating Model and P101.
Progressed development of FutureSmart Mining approach with $0.1 to $0.5 billion p. a. allocated to technology and innovation initiatives.
fide Beers : pilot launch of first blockchain technology spanning the diamond value chain, and launched Lightbox, a laboratory grown diamond fashion jewellery brand a unique value proposition.
Launched an ambitious approach to sustainability and committed to transformational 2030 stretch goals in respect of 1 thriving communities e. g. 5 jobs created for every job on-site : 2 a healthy environment e. g. improve energy efficiency by 30%, reduce freshwater abstraction by 50%, and 3 being a trusted corporate leader e. g. all operations certified to relevant mine certification standards.
People 10% Reorganisation of GMC: dedicated Strategy and Business Development capability, 10% South American representation with new CEO of Base Metals.
Continue to strengthen the GMC Launched the Group Purpose and deployed it globally.
and functional leadership Developed and deployed I&D strategy across the Group.
Develop and deploy the Women in senior management increased to 21% from 15% in 2017, target of 25% Groups Purpose by 2020.
Establish and roll out a Group-wide Inclusion and Diversity I&D strategy Overall individual performance 34.0% 114 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance Figure 12: Annual bonus performance assessment for 2018 Stephen Pearce 2018 Percentage weighting outcome Financial 50% 29% SHE targets 10% 5.5% Personal objectives 40% 36% Total 100% 70.5% Safety deductor A percentage deduction from overall bonus outcomes 7.5 % Overall result 65.2% Objectives Achievement Outcome Portfolio 10% Concluded several disposals, including interests in Union Mine and the Bafokeng 10% Rasimone Platinum Mine associate and Eskom-tied thermal coal operations, all in Continue portfolio upgrading, South Africa.
completing announced disposals Completed acquisition of Chidliak Diamond Resource in Canada and remaining 50% and acquisitions interest in the Mototolo platinum joint operation.
Optimise investment and holding Board approval of development of Quellaveco project at a capital cost of structure for the Quellaveco project, $5.0-$5.3 billion, first production expected in 2022. subject to decision to proceed Agreement reached with Mitsubishi to increase its stake from 18.1% to 40% in With the Technical Director, develop Quellaveco project, realising $500 million in upfront consideration.
plans to drive technology and Mitsubishi to fund its share of 40% of capital expenditure, meaning AA plc only innovation rollout that will support the required to contribute to development capital in mid-2019.
long-term optionality of key assets Progressed development of the FutureSmart Mining programme with $0.1-$0.5 billion p. a. allocated to technology and innovation initiatives.
Advanced the asset option evaluations through the improved planning and project governance model.
Innovation 15% Achieved net $0.4 billion cost and volume improvement, with above CPI inflation and 12% external logistics constraints, primarily at Kumba, impacting achievement of the target.
Achieve $0.8 billion EBITDA Advanced plans to support the 5-year EBITDA improvement target with resources, capital improvement in 2019 and develop and initiatives allocated to key programmes to realise the objective.
plans to deliver $3-4 billion Generated $3.2 billion in attributable free cashflow, and after payment of $1.3 billion in improvement by 2022 shareholder dividends, reduced net debt to $2.8 billion.
Take actions to reduce net debt and Reduced near term refinancing requirements by 50% and increased weighted average further improve debt repayment profile maturity profile of outstanding bonds by one year to 5.0 years.
Engage with credit rating agencies to Achieved further rating upgrades from the credit rating agencies.
improve Group rating People 10% Developed finance talent population via new appointments, supporting Groups business 10% requirements including new finance team for the Quellaveco project.
Build finance function to support Established I&D goals for finance function.
Group strategic objectives Piloted a reciprocal mentoring programme focused on gender diversity and increased Implement plans to support Group awareness of working with people with disabilities.
inclusion and diversity I&D strategy Investor relations 5% Active and ongoing engagement with shareholders setting out the Groups financial 4% and operating performance and progress in achieving strategic objectives.
Continued expansion of the shareholder base and increased engagement with various stakeholders.
Overall individual performance 36.0% Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 115 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Figure 12: Annual bonus performance assessment for 2018 Tony ONeill 2018 Percentage weighting outcome Financial 50% 29% SHE targets 10% 5.5% Personal objectives 40% 35% Total 100% 69.5% Safety deductor A percentage deduction from overall bonus outcomes 7.5 % Overall result 64.3% Objectives Achievement Outcome Portfolio 15% All feasibility work and third-party reviews completed enabling the Quellaveco 13% project to proceed.
Quellaveco ready to proceed by mid-2018.
Progressed options for development of the Los Bronces copper district, the Mogalakwena and Northern Limb PGM district: implementation of mine Optimise the configuration of key modernisation strategy at Amandelbult Platinum mine, and the optimisation assets and deliver key projects.
of the Groups processing assets.
Identify endowment and mineral Continued ramping up of Grosvenor, Gahcho Ku and Venetia.
resource opportunities to cover Ore Reserve depletion in 2018.
Completed the technical work to repair Minas-Rio pipeline, licence received to restart operations.
Progress discovery of new greenfield targets.
Identified and secured extensive mineral tenure including in Brazil, Ecuador, and the US, drilling programmes underway.
Continued brownfield exploration around existing assets.
Innovation 15% Formed dedicated taskforce, which completed detailed safety assessments of 17 sites.
13% Deploy Group-wide safety Deployment of critical controls for most prominent fatal risks identified.
Recorded 23% year-on-year improvement in the total recordable injury rate.
Drive operational improvements in Regrettably, five work related fatalities were recorded, representing the Groups lowest the asset portfolio.
fatal injury count on record.
Develop and implement a suite of Pathways to achieve P101 performance on critical assets in place, and implementation FutureSmart Mining technologies.
of bespoke interventions underway, copper equivalent production increased Formulate a digital strategy and 6% year-on-year.
Deployment plans for coarse particle recovery CPR, bulk sorting, and other Identify strategies and actions to FutureSmart Mining technologies in place.
Installations of bulk sorting and CPR ensure the integrity of critical assets.
underway at El Soldado and Mogalakwena.
Installation of Shock Break Vero technology progressing at Barro Alto.
Digitalisation strategy formulated covering the entire mining value chain.
Technology partners selected, teams recruited, initial portfolio of use cases defined, and first pilots being implemented.
Asset integrity tactics developed in full at critical sites, including maintenance strategies to support development plans.
People 10% Successful Technical training for key staff focused on achieving beyond-benchmark 9% performance.
P101 supported by leadership and resource deployment.
Deployment of Train and align key Functional mentoring programmes and communities of practice.
and BU technical staff on team breakthrough, P101 defined Talent processes to identify and develop emerging talent held and accelerated and launched at a Group deployment into key roles to support the Groups objectives.
Operating model implemented at a further 10 operations, with significant re-training Develop talent process emphasis andupskilling of technical teams.
Deliver Operating Model roll-out per schedule.
35.0% Overall individual performance 116 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance Critical tasks are identified in each of the performance The LTIP amounts shown in last years report in respect of the LTIPs granted in categories at the start of the year.
These form the basis 2015 were calculated on an expected basis, with an assumed share price of ofmeasurement, but are overlaid with an assessment of 14.42.
The actual share price at vesting was 16.93, leading to the following overall executive performance in the relevant category.
increases in value: The assessment for 2018 took place against a backdrop of Estimated value Actual value Increase improved operational and financial performance through a Mark Cutifani 2,611,996 3,067,336 455,340 continued focus on greater operational efficiency and Tony ONeill 1,405,950 1,651,045 245,095 upgrading the asset portfolio.
The personal performance outcomes set out in the previous Figure 13a: Performance assessment for 2016 LTIP awards pages, combined with 58% EPS achievement andan overall safety performance of 55%, have generated overall bonus Threshold Stretch performance performance Actual Vesting outcomes of 68.5%, 70.5% and 69.5%.
When applied to the Measure 25% vesting 100% vesting performance outcome maximum bonus of 210% of salary, these performance Euromoney Global 102% 120% 285% 100% outcomes translate into bonuses of 1,896,061: 1,176,072: index TSR index TSR Mining Index TSR and 1,202,339 for Mark Cutifani, Stephen Pearce and 6% p. a.
25% of total award Tony ONeill respectively.
FTSE 100 13% 55% 285% 100% Once the safety deductor of 7.5% for 2018 is applied to this median TSR upper quartile constituents TSR outcome, the resultant bonus values are 1,753,856: TSR 25% of total award 1,087,867: and 1,112,164.
Group attributable 6% 16% 19% 100% 40% of the total bonus is payable in cash, with 60% deferred ROCE into Bonus Shares.
Two-thirds of the Bonus Shares will vest 50% of total award after three years, subject to continued employment: the remaining third will vest after five years.
Figure 13b: Total outcome including impact of the Cap 3.1.
4 LTIP AWARD VESTING Dividend In 2016, Mark Cutifani and Tony ONeill received LTIP grants Capped equivalents on 1 4 of 993,810 and 532,398 conditional shares respectively, 100% value Cap value with vesting subject to: Mark Cutifani maximum 16,612,528 10,199,085 692,465 opportunity 300% of salary a the Groups TSR performance relative to: i the Euromoney Global Mining Index: and 2 3 Stephen Pearce 5,098,189 110,962 ii FTSE 100 constituents over the three-year period Tony ONeill maximum 8,899,565 5,467,517 371,216 to 31 December 2018: and opportunity 300% of salary b Group Attributable ROCE to 31December 2018.
1 2016 L TIP vesting exceeds the Cap.
Values based on a share price of 16.716.
See note 1 to figure 7 for further information.
To limit potential windfall gains for executive directors 2 For Stephen Pearce, two awards vested.
Both were granted on joining under the terms of the LTIP as buy-out resulting from share price volatility, as outlined in our 2016 awards to compensate for incentives forfeited at Fortescue Metals Group.
203,692 shares vested in July 2018 with report, a Cap on the value that can be received from the a share price at vest of 17.005.
97,770 shares are due to vest in March 2019, and are valued using the average 2014, 2015 and 2016 LTIP awards was introduced.
The share price from 1 October to 31 December 2018 of 16.716.
3 The March 2019 vesting will be subject to a two-year holding period starting on the vesting date.
Cap is equal to the total face value of the 2014, 2015 and 4 Based on shares received after the Cap, using the average share price for 1 October to 31 December 2018 2016 LTIP awards at grant.
For Mark Cutifani this limit is of 16.716.
13.1 million and for Tony ONeill 7million.
If the total market value of the vested LTIP awards exceeds the Cap 3.1.
5 PENSION based on the value at the date of vesting for each award then the excess value above the Cap will be forfeited.
The pension contribution amounts in Figure 14 should beread in conjunction Stephen Pearce did not participate in the 2016 LTIP, only with the following information: joining the Group in 2017: the vesting amounts in Figure 13b During 2018 Stephen Pearce joined the UURBS.
The amount of pension relate to his awards on joining.
contribution treated as having been paid into the scheme was 59,580 As outlined in Figure 13, the 2016 LTIP performance The total amount of pension contributions treated as having been paid assessment resulted in an overall achievement of 100% and, into the UURBS for Mark Cutifani and Tony ONeill is 385,428 and as a result of share price growth over the three-year period, 235,478 respectively the Cap limits were significantly exceeded.
As a result of the Cap, the 2016 LTIP vest for Mark Cutifani of 16,612,528 was Contributions treated as being paid into the UURBS earn a return equivalent reduced by 38% to 10,199,085 based on 2015 LTIP vest of to the Groups pre-tax sterling nominal cost of debt, capped at a rate 2,951,938 and a zero vest on the 2014 LTIP.
The 2016 LTIP determined by the committee.
The total return earned in 2018 was 17,484 vest for Tony ONeill of 8,899,565 was reduced by 38% to for Mark Cutifani, 1,451 for Stephen Pearce, and for Tony ONeill 8,578 5,467,517 based on 2015 LTIP vest of 1,588,926 million As at 31 December 2018, the total balance due to executive directors in relation and a zero vest on the 2014 LTIP.
The 2015 LTIP vest for tothe UURBS was 922,428.
Retirement benefits can only be drawn from these purposes was valued using the share price of the UURBS if a member has attained age 55 and has left Group service.
16.2967, the three month average prior to vesting.
The committee has carefully reviewed this outcome, Figure 14: Pension for 2018 taking into consideration the very strong improvement UURBS NIC paid by in the underlying performance of the business over the DC contribution Cash allowance contribution Company Total 000 000 000 000 000 past three years and believes that the Cap has met the desired goal of ensuring rewards are appropriate to the Mark Cutifani 10 385 395 performance delivered.
Taking into consideration the Stephen Pearce 157 60 22 239 effect of the Cap, no further discretion was applied by the committee during 2018.
Tony ONeill 10 235 245 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 117 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 3.1.
6 EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS Executive directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices without the prior approval of the Board.
If approved, they may each retain the fees payable from only one such appointment.
In the year, Mark Cutifani retained fees for one external directorship, at Total, amounting to 106,522 for 2018.
2 PAYMENTS FOR PAST DIRECTORS Figure 15 sets out the remuneration paid to the Companys In addition to retirement benefits, the Company continues non-executive directors in 2018.
Fees shown include any to provide seven former executive directors with private additional fees paid in respect of chairing or being a member medical insurance arrangements.
The annual cost to of one of the Boards committees or acting as the senior the Company is minimal.
The committee continues to independent director.
meet these longstanding commitments, but no new commitments have been made recently or will be made As disclosed in the 2017 remuneration report, the Board in future.
approved an increase in base fees and the introduction of committee membership fees, with a phased implementation The former finance director, Ren Mdoris, 2016 LTIP will for both.
The current annual fees for non-executive directors vest in 2019.
The capped value of the award is 5.1 million are set out below: and is a pro-rated amount to reflect the months he worked of the performance period.
This includes dividend 1 Chairman 700,000 equivalents.
Values based on the average share price 2 Non-executive director base fee 87,500 of 16.716.
Chair of the Audit, Remuneration or Sustainability Committee 30,000 Senior independent director 30,000 Committee membership 10,000 for serving on each of the Audit, Remuneration or Sustainability committees: 3 5,000 for the Nomination Committee 1 Includes service on any Board committee 2 On 1 July 2019, base fee will increase to 90,000 3 On 1 July 2019, committee membership fees will increase to 15,000 and 10,000 respectively.
Figure 15: Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive directors Benefits Total fees Benefits in Total Total fees inkind Total 2018 kind 2018 2018 2017 2017 2017 3 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-executive directors 1 Stuart Chambers 700 7 707 175 175 1 Ian Ashby 91 91 37 37 1 Nolitha Fakude 101 101 63 63 Byron Grote 126 126 115 115 2 Sir Philip Hampton 156 156 145 145 Mphu Ramatlapeng 91 91 83 83 Jim Rutherford 111 111 93 93 Anne Stevens 106 106 90 90 Jack Thompson 126 126 115 115 1 Stuart Chambers, Ian Ashby and Nolitha Fakude were appointed during 2017: which therefore includes part-year figures.
2 Sir Philip Hampton resigned from the Board with effect from 31 December 2018.
3 Relates to travel expenses during 2018.
118 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance 3.3 SCHEME INTERESTS GRANTED DURING 2018 The information in this section has been subject to The value of Bonus Shares awarded to directors in external audit.
respect of 2018 is included in the annual performance bonus figures, set out in Figure 10.
They are also Figure 16 summarises the longer-term, conditional included in Figure 17. share awards granted to executive directors during 2018.
Receipt of these awards is dependent on the Groups performance over 2018-2020 and to the maximum vesting value imposed by the committee, as detailed below.
Figure 16: Summary of conditional share awards and options granted in 2018 Performance Performance Number of Face value 1 Type of award measure Vesting schedule period end Director Basis of award sharesawarded atgrant LTIP share TSR vs. 25% for TSR 31 12 2020 Mark Cutifani 300% of salary 222,263 3,954,237 awards Euromoney equal to the Index: Stephen Pearce 300% of salary 133,952 2,383,113 Global Mining 100% for the Index Index 47% 6% pa or above Tony ONeill 300% of salary 138,914 2,471,391 TSR vs. 25% for TSR FTSE100 equal tomedian: constituents 100% for 80th percentile 23% orabove Balanced ROCE 10% Scorecard 25% for 13%: 30% 100% for 23% Cumulative attributable free cash flow 10% Sustainable Mining Plan 7% Concurrent rehabilitation 3% 1 The face value of each award has been calculated using the share price at time of grant, 17.7908, for the LTIP awards.
As receipt of these awards is conditional on performance, the actual value of these awards may be nil.
In addition, the maximum value that may be received in the year of vesting is limited for each executive director to 200% of the face value at grant.
Any value over this level will be forfeit.
Vesting outcomes will be disclosed in the Remuneration Report for 2020.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 119 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Tony ONeill to a value of two times salary.
At the date of 3.4 TOTAL INTERESTS IN SHARES preparation of this report, Mark Cutifani has net shareholdings including Bonus Shares equal to 828% Figure 17 summarises the total interests of the directors of basic salary, 308% for Stephen Pearce and 682% for in shares of Anglo American plc as at 31 December 2018.
TonyONeill, calculated using the average share price These include beneficial and conditional interests, and between 1 October to 31 December 2018 of 16.716. shareholdings of their connected persons.
As already disclosed, Mark Cutifani is expected to hold interests in shares to a value of three times basic salary built up over five years, and for Stephen Pearce and Figure 17: Shares in Anglo American plc at 31 December 2018 Conditional Conditional no performance conditions with performance conditions Total Within a BSP Directors Beneficial holding period Bonus Shares SAYE SIP LTIP Other Mark Cutifani 218,501 96,002 351,283 8,337 1,582,679 2,256,802 Stephen Pearce 107,764 41,446 3,481 354,896 97,770 605,357 Tony ONeill 71,095 51,675 220,276 6,102 900,441 1,249,589 Stuart Chambers 2,679 2,679 Ian Ashby Nolitha Fakude 2,035 2,035 1 Byron Grote 32,396 32,396 Mphu Ramatlapeng 6,407 6,407 Jim Rutherford 30,156 30,156 Anne Stevens 2,122 2,122 1 14,950 14,950 Jack Thompson Former directors 2 Sir Philip Hampton 24,510 24,510 1 Included in the beneficial interests of Messrs Grote and Thompson are shares held via unsponsored ADRs.
2 Sir Philip Hampton resigned with effect from 31 December 2018, his interests are shown at his resignation date.
Differences from 31 December 2018 to 21 February 2019 Mark Cutifanis, Stephen Pearces and Tony ONeills interests increased by 32 shares each from 31 December 2018 to 21 February 2019, as a result of the acquisition of shares under the SIP.
Their total holdings therefore increased to 2,256,834: 605,389: and 1,249,621 respectively.
120 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance The remaining 10% of the balanced scorecard for 3.5 STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION 2019 will be based on the implementation of the Water OF POLICY IN 2019 Management Standards 7% and the approval of an Employee Well-being 3% strategy.
The Groups policy on executive director remuneration for 2019 is summarised in the policy statements in Figure 1.
The three-year cumulative attributable free cash flow Figure 18 summarises how that policy will be implemented target within the LTIP is considered by the Board in 2019. to be commercially sensitive: disclosing it would enable competitors to derive information as to our detailed The EPS performance range for 2019 is considered by business plan.
The actual targets, along with the outcomes, the Board to be commercially sensitive, although it will will be disclosed in the 2021 remuneration report.
The be disclosed in the 2019 remuneration report.
Further details definition of attributable free cash flow can be found on of the individual performance targets for 2019 bonuses will page 209. also be included in the 2019 remuneration report.
The financial elements of the balanced scorecard for the 2019 LTIP awards will remain the same as 2018.
ROCE 10% has again been selected to maintain focus on disciplined capital allocation.
A cash flow target 10% has also been included to continue to ensure linkage between managements remuneration outcomes and the Groups goal of reducing net debt through cash generation, thereby maintaining the Groups net debt EBITDA ratio below 1.5.
Figure 18: Summary of key remuneration aspects in 2019 Performance measure 1, Performance measure 2, Element weighting and component detail weighting and component detail Director Level Basic salary Mark Cutifani 1,344,444 2% increase Stephen Pearce 810,263 2% increase Tony ONeill 840,278 2% increase Mark Cutifani 210% of salary Annual EPS 50% Individual objectives and bonus Half on performance at SHE targets 50% Stephen Pearce 210% of salary outturn prices and FX and Personal and strategic objectives supporting Tony ONeill 210% of salary half on performance at fixed the Groups delivery on projects, business prices and FX improvement, capital allocation, commercial activities, employee development, stakeholder engagement, safety, health and environment Safety deductor A set percentage deduction on overall bonus for each fatality over a baseline, representing a significant reduction on best ever performance Mark Cutifani 300% of salary Long-Term TSR 70% Balanced scorecard 30% Incentive TSR vs. Euromoney Global ROCE 10% Stephen Pearce 300% of salary Plan LTIP Mining Index 47% 25% for 12% Tony ONeill 300% of salary 25% for TSR equal to Index 100% for 20% 100% for Index 6% pa Cumulative attributable free cash flow 10% or above Water Management Standard TSR vs. FTSE 100 23% implementation 7% 25% for TSR equal to median 100% for 80th percentile Employee Well-being 3% or above Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 121 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 3.5.
1 OUTSTANDING LTIP AWARDS Mark Cutifanis remuneration levels in 2013 and 2014 are not reflective of his underlying remuneration, given As explained in the 2016 remuneration report, the value that hereceived a compensatory share award in 2013 that can be received from awards granted from 2017 and compensation for tax on relocation benefits in onwards is limited to twice the face value at grant.
Theimpact of longer-term incentives was only realised in 2015 asaconsequence of the vesting of the 2013 LTIP award.
3.6 REMUNERATION DISCLOSURES Mark Cutifanis remuneration level for 2018 is higher than usual as a result of significant share price growth in the 2016 3.6.
1 TEN-YEAR REMUNERATION AND RETURNS LTIP vesting value.
Figure 19 shows the Groups TSR performance against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index from 1January 2008 to 31 December 2018.
Figure 19: Ten-year TSR performance 300 TSR is calculated in US dollars, and assumes all dividends are reinvested.
The TSR level shown as at 31 December 250 each year is the average of the closing daily TSR levels for the five-day period up to and including that date.
200 Figure 20 shows the total remuneration earned by the incumbent chief executive over the same ten-year period, 150 along with the proportion of maximum opportunity earned in relation to each type of incentive.
The total amounts are 100 based on the same methodology as for Figure 7.
2 CHANGE IN THE CHIEF EXECUTIVES 3.6.
3 DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT FOR2018 REMUNERATION IN 2018 RELATIVE TO Figure 22 sets out the total expenditure on employee UK EMPLOYEES reward over 2018, compared to profit generated by Figure 21 sets out the chief executives basic salary, the Company and the dividends received by investors.
benefits and annual bonus amounts for 2018 and the Underlying earnings are shown, as this is one of the Groups year-on-year change.
We show the average change in each key measures of performance, while employee numbers element for London employees below GMC level, which is help put the payroll costs of employees into context.
considered to be the most relevant employee comparator group given the Group-wide nature of roles performed at the corporate head office.
Ahead of the reporting requirements, we have voluntarily disclosed a chief executive pay ratio for 2018.
The chief executives single figure for 2018 is higher than usual as a result of significant share price growth in the 2016 LTIP vesting.
Due to the structure of executive pay which is heavily weighted to share-based long-term incentives, share price appreciation has a greater impact on the chief executives pay level than the wider workforce.
Estimated pay ratios for previous years are more representative of a typical year and using readily available data these are approximately 90:1 in 2017 and 55:1 in 2016.
50th Financial year ending Method used percentile 2018 Option A 191 Figure 21: Change in chief executives remuneration compared to UK employees 1 Salary Benefits Bonus Chief executive 000 1,318 36 1,754 % change 2.5 5.4 15.5 2 London employees Average 6.6 11.2 8.0 % change 1 Benefits for London employees comprise pension and car allowances where applicable, these being the most material.
2 Annual salary increase was 2.5% for London employees, the 6.6% and 11.2% include pay increases resulting from promotions, and the resultant increase in benefit levels.
Figure 22: Distribution statement for 2018 Distribution statement 2018 2017 1 Underlying earnings $m 3,237 3,272 % change 1 48 Dividends payable for year to Company shareholders $m 1,291 618 % change 109 100 Dividends payable for year to non-controlling interests $m 873 672 % change 30 1,580 Payroll costs for all employees $m 3,490 3,370 % change 4 10 Employee numbers 000 64 69 % change 7 14 1 Please see page 139 for details on how underlying earnings are calculated.
Figure 23: 2018 AGM shareholder voting Number of votes Vote For Against Abstain 2017 Implementation report 912,841,691 97,468,881 10,093,338 90.35% 9.65% 2017 Remuneration Policy 875,719,701 66,854,666 3,153,118 92.91% 7.09% Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 123 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION 3.7 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE IN 2018 3.7.
1 MEMBERSHIP The committee comprised the non-executive directors listed on page 100 on 31 December 2018.
2 EXTERNAL ADVISERS TO THE COMMITTEE Figure 24 details the external advisers to the committee and the fees paid for services provided during 2018.
The fees are charged in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in each relevant engagement letter.
PwC is a signatory, and adheres to, the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants which can be found at www.
In addition, the committee chairman has regular direct dialogue with advisers.
For these reasons, the committee considers that the advice it receives is independent.
Figure 24: External advisers and fees Other services provided Fees for committee Advisers to the Company assistance Pricewaterhouse Appointed by the Company, with Investment advice, actuarial and 100,251 Coopers LLP the agreement of the committee, audit work for various pension PwC to support and advise on the Groups schemes: advice on internal audit incentive arrangements, in addition projects: taxation, payroll and to the provision of specialist executive compensation advice.
valuation services and market remuneration data.
Deloitte LLP In its capacity as Group auditor, n a Deloitte Deloitte undertakes an audit of sections 3 and 4 of the remuneration report annually.
However, it provides no advice to the committee.
Note: Certain overseas operations within the Group are also provided with audit-related services from Deloittes and PwCs worldwide member firms.
APPROVAL This directors remuneration report has been approved by the Board of directors of AngloAmerican plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board of directors.
Anne Stevens Chair, Remuneration Committee 20 February 2019 124 Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 Governance GENDER PAY Targeted changes Mining has been an industry that has struggled to attract women Summary and gender imbalance is therefore prevalent.
This is particularly The UK Gender Pay Gap reporting requirement is a regulation the case in many of the most senior roles, where we often require under The Equality Act 2010 Gender Pay Gap Information significant operational and engineering experience.
We know that Regulations 2017 that is designed to provide public transparency change will take time and we are committed to building on the in relation to the difference between mens and womens earnings, positive progress we have made across Anglo American globally, on average, within a company.
This regulation came into effect on 6 April 2017 and all UK Across our global business, we are aligned with the Hamptonregistered companies that employ, in the UK, 250 or more people Alexander recommendations to achieve at least a 33% female are required to disclose the specifically defined information by representation across our ExCo and those that report to them, 4April 2019.
The source data for the required information must be improving from 15% in 2017, to 21% by the end of 2018. atthe snapshot date of 5 April 2018.
Our targeted changes to areas such as recruitment and talent Anglo American is confident that it complies with the UKs Equal development, along with changes to our ways of working, including Pay legislation, which governs the right to equal pay between men more flexible and family-friendly arrangements, are making a real and women for equal work.
Our wider work to foster a more inclusive culture and to Hourly pay gap ensure equality of opportunity for all will enable us to appoint the The key measure that is required to be reported is the mean UK right person to the right role and for everyone to have the hourly pay gap.
Anglo American Services UK Limiteds mean opportunity to fulfil their potential.
hourly pay gap is 52%, which is primarily a function of the Percentage Percentage representation of men in the most senior management roles in males in females in Hourly pay quartiles Quartile Quartile our UK head office.
Lower 24.66 75.34 Anglo American is a globally diversified mining business, headquartered in the UK, and the majority of the senior leadership Lower Middle 53.42 46.58 team is UK-based.
The gaps shown below are largely attributable Upper Middle 68.49 31.51 tothe fact that more men than women are working in more highly paid, senior roles.
Upper 82.19 17.81 At the snapshot date of 5 April 2018, Anglo American Services UK Limited had a UK workforce of 292 employees, of which: Remuneration Committees commitment 57% were men and 43% were women: Reducing the gender imbalance, and therefore the gender pay gap, will of course take time, and the gap is unlikely to reduce The senior management population was made up of a significantly significantly in the short term.
However, we are confident that as higher proportion of men 80% than women 20% : we progress our inclusion and diversity work, the more our annual Leading to a 52% mean and 41% median UK hourly pay gap UK gender pay gap will narrow.
The Remuneration Committee continues to critically review our pay structures to make sure that 1 On a global basis, our gender pay gap of approximately 15% they support inclusion and diversity for our whole employee reflects the far greater gender balance across the full breadth of population: we take this responsibility very seriously.
For more information on the UK gender pay gap, visit www.
com  1 Weighted average gender pay gap of the guaranteed pay of those employees in Australia, Brazil, Chile, Singapore, South Africa and the UK who are subject to the Anglo American Group-wide reward structures.
Anglo American plc Integrated Annual Report 2018 125
