Governance Remuneration report Remuneration Committee I was pleased to take on the role of Remuneration Committee In determining the awards made to the CEO and GFD this year, Chairman from Simon Fraser, and would like to thank him for his the Remuneration Committee has considered both operational stewardship in this important area of the business.
performance and the statutory results, to reflect the experience of shareholders.
I would also like to thank our shareholders for approving the Ashmore Group plcs Directors remuneration policy the The CEO and GFDs performance during the period, relative to Remuneration Policy, the Policy, which was approved by over their operational annual performance measures and to the 85% of shareholders at the October 2017 AGM and will remain in Companys key performance indicators has been positive.
AUM place for the years ending 30 June 2018, 2019 and 2020. has increased by 26%, 94% of AUM is outperforming over three years and the high adjusted EBITDA margin has been maintained.
Remuneration Policy structure If looked at in isolation this performance would justify higher The Remuneration Policy has served clients, employees awards than have been made.
and shareholders extremely well and is deliberately simple.
However, statutory profit before tax and diluted EPS are both The principles supporting it are applied across all of the Groups lower than in the prior period.
The Committee has therefore employees in order to instil a common equity ownership culture exercised its discretion and determined that this year lower awards based on pay for performance.
The key principles are: are appropriate for the Executive Directors.
A consistent remuneration structure for all employees, This years report is split into three sections: not just Executive Directors.
A low cap on fixed salaries, currently 120,000, with both an at a glance summary, which includes details of this years Executive Directors currently paid 100,000, and variable awards remuneration outcomes for the CEO and GFD: that genuinely reflect performance.
the Directors remuneration policy which was approved at the Simplicity, with a single profit-derived bonus pool for all October 2017 AGM, for reference: and finally employees and no separate LTIP for Executive Directors.
the Annual Report on Remuneration, which explains how the A cap on the aggregate variable compensation pool for all Policy has been applied during the year and which will be subject employees, including executives, currently at 25% of earnings to an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting.
before variable compensation, interest and tax EBVCIT.
The Remuneration Committee would welcome your support for Long-term deferral with a five-year cliff vest of a substantial the 2018 Directors Remuneration report.
Clive Adamson Additional performance conditions for Executive Directors that Remuneration Committee Chairman put a significant proportion of their total pay at risk.
Strong alignment of interests with shareholders and clients Activities through significant employee equity ownership.
The members of the Remuneration Committee have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and Reflecting performance in remuneration knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their Key to the success of the policy is that the remuneration structure respective duties and responsibilities effectively, and met six times is designed to support and fit with the long-term strategy of the during the year.
The Group operates in a growth sector which During the year under review, the Remuneration Committee experiences market cycles and the remuneration policy plays a key comprised the following Non-executive Directors and was fully role in minimising fixed costs, providing flexibility in variable costs, compliant with the Code: enabling key staff retention, and thereby aligning the interests of clients, shareholders and employees through market cycles.
Clive Adamson current Chairman Simon Fraser previous Chairman David Bennett Peter Gibbs Dame Anne Pringle Simon Fraser stepped down from the Board effective 31 December 2017.
As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 553 3 Remuneration report continued For ease of reference, below is a summary of this years remuneration outcomes, which have been delivered under the current Policy, The Group Finance Directors remuneration outcomes approved in 2017.
The Group Finance Directors total annual bonus comprising cash and share awards at grant value, prior to any waivers or voluntary elections Performance for the year ending 30 June 2018 he may choose to make, decreased from 950,000 FY 2016 17 to Performance in relation to the Groups KPIs and the short term 875,000.
Should the Group Finance Director voluntarily elect to performance measures by which the Executive Directors are assessed, commute the maximum of 50% of his cash bonus, and as a result has been positive through the period.
Particular highlights include: receive a matching share award, his maximum annual bonus will be 26% increase in AuM to US$73.9bn 2017: US$58.7bn : 1,137,500, as shown in the below chart.
The total sum ultimately to be received by the Group Finance Director will be dependent on Continued strong investment performance over one, three and achievement relative to the performance conditions, which means five years: that 306,250 of this sum may not be paid out when the share Improved adjusted EBITDA margin of 66% 2017: 65% : awards vest in 2023.
7% decrease in profit before tax: 10% decrease in diluted EPS to 21.3p per share 2017: 23.7p : Continued focus on cost control.
Annual cash bonus 22% Further detail can be found in Figure 5 of the Annual Report on Annual bonus deferred into equity 51% Remuneration on page 62.
Annual bonus deferred into equity, with additional performance conditions 27% The Chief Executives remuneration outcomes The Chief Executives total annual bonus comprising cash and share awards at grant value, prior to any waivers or voluntary elections he may choose to make, decreased from 4,000,000 FY2016 17 to 2,000,000.
Should the Chief Executive voluntarily elect to commute the maximum 50% of his cash bonus, and as a result receive a Details of any elections made to commute cash bonus and related matching share award, his maximum annual bonus will be 2,600,000 awards of matching shares will be provided in the Remuneration as shown in the below chart.
The total sum ultimately to be received report for the year in which the awards are made, as will the vesting by the Chief Executive will be dependent on achievement relative to outcome of the awards made in 2013 due to vest on 18 September the performance conditions, which means that up to 700,000 of this 2018.
As has been the case in previous years, base salaries for sum may not be paid out when the share awards vest in 2023.
Executive Directors have remained unchanged at 100,000, a level significantly below fixed pay levels for equivalent positions at peer Restricted and restricted matching shares awarded to the Chief organisations, consistent with the Companys management of its Executive in 2012, vesting in 2017 with a grant value of 2,100,000, fixed cost base and strong belief in pay for performance.
lapsed in full as a result of the application of the stretching performance conditions.
Regulatory considerations for the year ending 30 June 2018 Annual cash bonus 4% For remuneration relating to the year ending 30 June 2018, the Remuneration Committee has again ensured that pay will be delivered Annual bonus deferred into equity 44% to Executive Directors and other employees categorised by the FCA Annual bonus deferred into as Identified Staff, consistent with the requirements of the Alternative equity, with additional Investment Fund Managers Directive.
This has meant that Executive performance conditions 23% Directors and other relevant employees will receive a proportion of Annual bonus waived to their upfront or cash bonus delivered as a further award of restricted charity or for the general benefit of employees 29% shares which are retained and restricted from sale for a six-month period, rather than as cash.
Further details of this can be found in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Consideration of malus and clawback for the year ending 30 June 2018 A clawback principle applies to variable remuneration, enabling the Committee to recoup variable remuneration under certain circumstances.
Clawback can be applied to both the cash and share-based elements of variable remuneration, via the reduction or cancellation of any outstanding unvested deferred share awards regardless of the year to which they relate.
The Committee considered there were no events or circumstances that would have made it appropriate to recoup remuneration during the year ending 30 June 2018.
5 54 4 AAshmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 shmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Remuneration report continued For ease of reference, below is a summary of this years remuneration outcomes, which have been delivered under the current Policy, The Group Finance Directors remuneration outcomes Chief Executive Officer variable remuneration Impact of Remuneration Policy on shareholder approved in 2017.
2 The Group Finance Directors total annual bonus comprising cash and outcomes over time returns across market cycles share awards at grant value, prior to any waivers or voluntary elections The chart below shows variable remuneration awarded to the The chart below shows the share of annual revenues Performance for the year ending 30 June 2018 he may choose to make, decreased from 950,000 FY 2016 17 to CEO each year between 2009 and 2017.
As can be seen, the between shareholders, in the form of ordinary dividends and Performance in relation to the Groups KPIs and the short term 875,000.
Should the Group Finance Director voluntarily elect to Committee exercises its discretion in setting the annual level of retained earnings, employees and taxation.
As revenues have performance measures by which the Executive Directors are assessed, commute the maximum of 50% of his cash bonus, and as a result award at an appropriate level based on the CEOs performance fluctuated through the market cycle, the Remuneration Policy has been positive through the period.
Particular highlights include: receive a matching share award, his maximum annual bonus will be and the performance of the business each year: and as such, has provided significant cost flexibility and therefore protected 26% increase in AuM to US$73.9bn 2017: US$58.7bn : 1,137,500, as shown in the below chart.
The total sum ultimately to the variation in award level is reflective of the range of annual returns to shareholders.
be received by the Group Finance Director will be dependent on Continued strong investment performance over one, three and outcomes.
In addition, as a result of the stretching performance achievement relative to the performance conditions, which means five years: conditions measured over the five year deferral period of restricted that 306,250 of this sum may not be paid out when the share Improved adjusted EBITDA margin of 66% 2017: 65% : awards, the amount eventually received by the CEO when awards Impact of Remuneration policy on shareholder Chief Executive officer Remuneration outcomes awards vest in 2023.
1 vest can vary significantly from the original award amount.
7% decrease in profit before tax: 2 returns across market cycles over time 10% decrease in diluted EPS to 21.3p per share 2017: 23.7p : m 100% 12 Continued focus on cost control.
90% 10 Further detail can be found in Figure 5 of the Annual Report on 80% 70% Remuneration on page 62.
8 60% 50% 6 40% The Chief Executives remuneration outcomes 4 30% The Chief Executives total annual bonus comprising cash and share 20% 2 awards at grant value, prior to any waivers or voluntary elections he 10% 0 0% may choose to make, decreased from 4,000,000 FY2016 17 to 2,000,000.
Should the Chief Executive voluntarily elect to commute the maximum 50% of his cash bonus, and as a result receive a Details of any elections made to commute cash bonus and related Retained earnings Dividends Taxation Bonus awarded Bonus accepted Bonus received matching share award, his maximum annual bonus will be 2,600,000 awards of matching shares will be provided in the Remuneration as shown in the below chart.
The total sum ultimately to be received Bonus pre tax Salary pre tax Bonus awarded includes cash paid in the year and restricted, bonus and matching report for the year in which the awards are made, as will the vesting shares at grant value by the Chief Executive will be dependent on achievement relative to outcome of the awards made in 2013 due to vest on 18 September Bonus received includes cash paid in the year and the vesting value of any shares the performance conditions, which means that up to 700,000 of this 5 years later 2018.
As has been the case in previous years, base salaries for Bonus accepted shows the final amount accepted by the CEO after any waivers sum may not be paid out when the share awards vest in 2023.
Executive Directors have remained unchanged at 100,000, a level to charity or for the general benefit of staff significantly below fixed pay levels for equivalent positions at peer Restricted and restricted matching shares awarded to the Chief organisations, consistent with the Companys management of its Executive in 2012, vesting in 2017 with a grant value of 2,100,000, fixed cost base and strong belief in pay for performance.
lapsed in full as a result of the application of the stretching 1.
This chart includes data on shares awarded in 2010 which vested in 2015, shares awarded in 2011 which vested in 2016 and shares awarded in 2012 which vested in 2017. performance conditions.
The chart will be updated in future years to show the vesting outcomes for shares awarded in 2013 onwards.
Regulatory considerations for the year ending 2.
Dividends includes the estimated cost of the proposed final dividend for FY2017 18.
30 June 2018 For remuneration relating to the year ending 30 June 2018, the Remuneration Committee has again ensured that pay will be delivered Terms of reference to Executive Directors and other employees categorised by the FCA The terms of reference for the Remuneration making recommendations to the Board ensuring that contractual terms on as Identified Staff, consistent with the requirements of the Alternative Committee include: as to the Companys framework or policy termination, and any payments made, Investment Fund Managers Directive.
This has meant that Executive for the remuneration of the Chairman, the are fair to the individual and the Company, Directors and other relevant employees will receive a proportion of reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and Executive Directors and the Company that failure is not rewarded and that the their upfront or cash bonus delivered as a further award of restricted relevance of the Remuneration Policy: Secretary and to determine their total duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
shares which are retained and restricted from sale for a six-month reviewing the design of all share individual remuneration packages including period, rather than as cash.
Further details of this can be found in The number of Remuneration Committee incentive plans for approval by the bonuses, incentive payments and share the Annual Report on Remuneration.
meetings and their attendance by the Board and shareholders: options or other share awards: Directors are set out in the table on page 47. ensuring that members of the Consideration of malus and clawback for the year ensuring that a significant proportion executive management of the Company ending 30 June 2018 of Executive Directors remuneration are provided with appropriate incentives is structured so as to link rewards to A clawback principle applies to variable remuneration, enabling to encourage enhanced performance corporate and individual performance and the Committee to recoup variable remuneration under certain and that remuneration incentives are that performance conditions are stretching circumstances.
Clawback can be applied to both the cash and compatible with the Companys risk and designed to promote the long-term share-based elements of variable remuneration, via the reduction policies and systems: success of the Company: and or cancellation of any outstanding unvested deferred share awards regardless of the year to which they relate.
54 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 555 5 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Directors remuneration policy This section of the Remuneration report How the views of shareholders The Company does not operate formal has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 are taken into account employee consultation on remuneration.
of The Large and Medium-sized Companies However, employees are able to provide The Remuneration Committee regularly and Groups Accounts and Reports direct feedback on the Companys compares the Companys Remuneration Amendment Regulations 2013.
It sets out Remuneration Policy to their line managers Policy with shareholder guidelines, and takes the Remuneration Policy for the Company.
or the Human Resources department.
account of the results of shareholder votes The Policy has been developed taking into on remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee monitors account the principles of the UK Corporate the effectiveness of the Companys If material changes to the Remuneration Governance Code 2016 and shareholders Remuneration Policy in recruiting, retaining, Policy are contemplated, the Remuneration executive remuneration guidelines.
The engaging and motivating employees, and Committee Chairman consults with major current Policy was approved by a binding receives reports from the Chief Executive shareholders about these in advance.
shareholder vote in October 2017, and is set Officer on how the Companys remuneration out on pages 57 to 60.
Details of votes cast to approve the Directors policies are viewed by employees and Remuneration Policy and last years Annual Policy overview whether they are meeting business needs.
Report on Remuneration are provided in the The Remuneration Committee determines, The Remuneration Committee does not Annual Report on Remuneration section of and recommends to the Board, the seek to apply fixed ratios between the total this report.
Companys policy on the remuneration of the remuneration levels of different roles in Board Chairman, Executive Directors and Consistent Company-wide the Company, as this would prevent it from other members of executive management approach recruiting and retaining the necessary talent including employees designated as The Company applies a consistent in a highly competitive employment market.
Code or Identified Staff under the FCAs remuneration philosophy for employees However, the base salary multiple between Remuneration Codes.
The Remuneration at all levels.
the highest and lowest paid UK-based Committees terms of reference are employees in the Company is less than 4.5x.
The cap on base salary means that available on the Companys website.
Executive Directors base salaries are set at In determining the Remuneration Policy, the a similar level to other senior investment and Remuneration Committee takes into account professional employees in the Company, and the following: the base salary range from lowest to highest in the Company is considerably narrower than the need to encourage and promote the the market norm.
All employees are eligible long-term success of the Company: for a performance-related annual bonus, and the need to attract, retain and motivate the principle of bonus deferral into Company talented Executive Directors and shares or equivalent applies to annual senior management: bonuses for all employees who have at least consistency with the remuneration one full years service.
Employees other than principles applied to Ashmore employees Executive Directors may elect to receive as a whole: up to the first 50,000 or local currency external comparisons to examine current equivalent of their annual bonus delivered market trends and practices and equivalent as 90% cash and 10% as restricted shares, roles in similar companies taking into rather than in the Companys usual account their size, business complexity, proportions of 60% cash and 40% restricted international scope and relative shares.
Rates of pension contribution and performance: and fringe benefit provisions are consistent the requirements of the Remuneration between executives and other employees Codes of the UK financial services within each country where the regulator.
5 56 6 AAshmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 shmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration policy This section of the Remuneration report How the views of shareholders The Company does not operate formal Policy table has been prepared in accordance with Part 4 are taken into account employee consultation on remuneration.
The table below summarises the key aspects of the Companys Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, which is effective from of The Large and Medium-sized Companies However, employees are able to provide The Remuneration Committee regularly 20 October 2017. and Groups Accounts and Reports direct feedback on the Companys compares the Companys Remuneration Figure 1 Amendment Regulations 2013.
Remuneration Policy the Policy for Executive Directors account of the results of shareholder votes The Policy has been developed taking into on remuneration.
BASE SALARY FIXED PAY The Remuneration Committee monitors account the principles of the UK Corporate the effectiveness of the Companys If material changes to the Remuneration Governance Code 2016 and shareholders PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND Remuneration Policy in recruiting, retaining, Policy are contemplated, the Remuneration executive remuneration guidelines.
The STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK engaging and motivating employees, and Committee Chairman consults with major current Policy was approved by a binding Provides a level of fixed remuneration sufficient to permit a zero Base salaries are capped.
receives reports from the Chief Executive shareholders about these in advance.
shareholder vote in October 2017, and is set bonus payment, should that be appropriate.
The cap on base salary Officer on how the Companys remuneration MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY out on pages 57 to 60.
Details of votes cast to approve the Directors helps to contain fixed costs.
policies are viewed by employees and Remuneration Policy and last years Annual The current cap is 120,000.
Policy overview whether they are meeting business needs.
Report on Remuneration are provided in the The Remuneration Committee determines, The cap is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the cap to be The Remuneration Committee does not Annual Report on Remuneration section of and recommends to the Board, the changed if this is deemed necessary to meet business, legislative seek to apply fixed ratios between the total this report.
Companys policy on the remuneration of the or regulatory requirements.
remuneration levels of different roles in Board Chairman, Executive Directors and Consistent Company-wide the Company, as this would prevent it from other members of executive management approach recruiting and retaining the necessary talent including employees designated as The Company applies a consistent in a highly competitive employment market.
FRINGE BENEFITS FIXED PAY Code or Identified Staff under the FCAs remuneration philosophy for employees However, the base salary multiple between Remuneration Codes.
the highest and lowest paid UK-based PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND Committees terms of reference are employees in the Company is less than 4.5x.
STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK The cap on base salary means that available on the Companys website.
Provide cost-effective benefits, to support the wellbeing The Company currently provides benefits such as medical insurance Executive Directors base salaries are set at In determining the Remuneration Policy, the of employees.
In the event of relocation of an executive, the a similar level to other senior investment and Remuneration Committee takes into account Company could consider appropriate relocation assistance.
Specific professional employees in the Company, and the following: benefits provision may be subject to minor change from time to the base salary range from lowest to highest time, within the Policy.
in the Company is considerably narrower than the need to encourage and promote the the market norm.
All employees are eligible long-term success of the Company: MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY for a performance-related annual bonus, and the need to attract, retain and motivate Fringe benefits are not subject to a specific cap, but represent only the principle of bonus deferral into Company talented Executive Directors and a small percentage of total remuneration.
shares or equivalent applies to annual senior management: bonuses for all employees who have at least consistency with the remuneration one full years service.
Employees other than principles applied to Ashmore employees PENSION FIXED PAY Executive Directors may elect to receive as a whole: up to the first 50,000 or local currency external comparisons to examine current equivalent of their annual bonus delivered PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND market trends and practices and equivalent as 90% cash and 10% as restricted shares, STRATEGY PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK roles in similar companies taking into rather than in the Companys usual Provides a basic level of Company contribution, which employees Company contributions are made, normally on a defined account their size, business complexity, proportions of 60% cash and 40% restricted can supplement with their contributions.
contribution basis, either to a pension plan or in the form of an international scope and relative shares.
Rates of pension contribution and equivalent cash allowance.
performance: and fringe benefit provisions are consistent MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY the requirements of the Remuneration between executives and other employees Codes of the UK financial services The current level of Company contribution is 9% of base salary, within each country where the regulator.
with a further matching contribution of up to 1% of base salary, Company operates.
should the Executive Director make a personal contribution of an equivalent amount.
The contribution level is reviewed periodically: the Policy permits the contribution rate to be amended if necessary to reflect trends in market practice and changes to pensions legislation.
56 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 557 7 Directors remuneration policy continued VARIABLE COMPENSATION DISCRETIONARY PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND equivalents on deferred restricted bonus share or phantom LONG-TERM STRATEGY equivalent awards and on the portion of restricted share and restricted matching share awards that are not subject to a Rewards performance and ensures interests of executives are performance condition vesting after five years will be paid out in closely aligned with other shareholders.
line with the Companys dividend payment schedule.
Dividends or dividend equivalents on the portion of restricted and restricted OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES matching share or phantom equivalent awards which are subject AND PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK to a performance condition will be accrued and paid out at the time Executive Directors are considered each year for a discretionary the award vests and to the extent of vesting.
For any awards made variable pay award depending on personal and Company to a Director prior to his or her appointment as a Director, the performance, by applying a range of performance indicators such dividend or dividend equivalent payments are made on share as growth in AuM, investment performance, profits, and strategic awards in full, under previous commitments made to participants.
The variable pay award comprises a cash bonus part of which may be voluntarily deferred into The Remuneration Policy permits the award of deferred restricted shares and a long-term incentive in the form of both a remuneration in alternative forms such as share options, although restricted share award and a restricted matching share award on none have been granted in recent years, and to vary the percentage any voluntarily deferred cash bonus.
split of award between cash and share awards to meet business, legislative or regulatory requirements.
Cash bonus 60% of total award The executive may voluntarily commute up to half of the cash bonus MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY in return for the same value in a restricted bonus share award or The aggregate variable compensation pool for all employees, phantom equivalent deferred for five years.
The deferred shares are including executives, is capped, currently at 25% of earnings before eligible for restricted matching shares or phantom equivalent vesting variable compensation, interest and tax EBVCIT.
The Policy after five years subject to conditions see 3 below.
permits the Remuneration Committee to vary this cap if necessary to meet business needs.
Long-term incentives under the Company Executive The policy is to cap the aggregate sum available for variable Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan compensation rather than to cap individual variable 2.
Restricted shares award 40% of total award compensation awards.
There is no separate long-term incentive plan, rather 40% of the executives annual bonus is compulsorily deferred into Company The high proportion of variable compensation deferral, with shares or phantom equivalent for a period of five years and does vesting after five years and subject in part to ongoing performance not qualify for matching.
Half of this deferred portion is subject to conditions, encourages a prudent approach to risk management, additional performance conditions on vesting.
The Policy permits in support of the Companys risk and compliance controls.
Most the Committee to set suitable performance conditions each year importantly, though, the remuneration structure is designed to for each award type.
The performance condition for the most support and fit with the long-term strategy of the business.
The recent awards was a combination of: Group operates in a growth sector which experiences market cycles and this aspect of the Remuneration Policy plays a key role 25% relative total shareholder return TSR in providing flexibility in variable costs, enabling key staff retention, Measured against an asset management peer group and thereby aligning the interests of clients, shareholders and over five years.
employees including Directors through such cycles.
25% investment outperformance MALUS AND CLAWBACK Relative to the relevant benchmarks over three and five years.
In addition to the performance condition described above, malus 25% growth in AuM and clawback can be applied to all elements of variable A compound increase in AuM over the five-year remuneration at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, performance period.
including to unvested share awards made in prior periods.
25% profitability Circumstances that may trigger the application of the Committees Ashmores diluted earnings per share EPS performance discretion include a material misstatement of the Companys relative to a comparator index over the five-year results, a material failure in risk management, serious reputational performance period.
damage, or the executives misconduct.
Restricted matching shares awarded on the voluntarily PERSONAL SHAREHOLDING commuted cash bonus from 1 above Existing Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding Matching is provided on the voluntarily commuted cash bonus, equivalent to 200% of salary over the three-year period from subject to the same performance conditions on half of the matching October 2017, and from the first five-year vesting date for newly award as that described in 2 above.
The maximum match used to appointed Executive Directors.
date on any award made under the current policy was one-for-one: the Policy permits the matching level to be changed for future awards but not to exceed three-for-one.
Dividends or dividend 5 58 8 AAshmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 shmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration policy continued VARIABLE COMPENSATION DISCRETIONARY Differences in Remuneration Policy In addition, the Remuneration Committee In summary, the contractual provisions are for Executive Directors compared may offer additional cash and or share-based as follows: with other employees elements to take account of any PURPOSE AND LINK TO SHORT AND equivalents on deferred restricted bonus share or phantom Provision Detailed terms remuneration relinquished when leaving the The Remuneration Policy for the Executive LONG-TERM STRATEGY equivalent awards and on the portion of restricted share and Notice period 12 months former employer, when it considers these to Directors is generally consistent with that for restricted matching share awards that are not subject to a Rewards performance and ensures interests of executives are Termination payment Base salary plus value be in the best interests of the Company and employees across the Company as a whole.
performance condition vesting after five years will be paid out in closely aligned with other shareholders.
in the event of of benefits including therefore shareholders.
In considering any However, there are some differences which line with the Companys dividend payment schedule.
Dividends or termination by the pension paid monthly such payments, the Committee would take the Remuneration Committee believes are dividend equivalents on the portion of restricted and restricted OPERATION, PERFORMANCE MEASURES Company without and subject to account of the nature, vesting dates and any necessary to reflect the different matching share or phantom equivalent awards which are subject AND PERIODS, DEFERRAL AND CLAWBACK due notice mitigation performance requirements attached to the responsibilities of employees across the to a performance condition will be accrued and paid out at the time Executive Directors are considered each year for a discretionary relinquished remuneration.
Below Executive Director level, Change of control Same terms as above the award vests and to the extent of vesting.
For any awards made variable pay award depending on personal and Company may determine to make any such recruitment while the same five-year deferral policy on termination to a Director prior to his or her appointment as a Director, the performance, by applying a range of performance indicators such related awards outside the variable pay pool applies, share awards are not subject dividend or dividend equivalent payments are made on share as growth in AuM, investment performance, profits, and strategic Any outstanding share-based entitlements cap.
For an internal appointment, any variable to additional performance conditions.
awards in full, under previous commitments made to participants.
The variable pay award comprises granted to an Executive Director under the pay element awarded in respect of the prior Employees other than Executive Directors a cash bonus part of which may be voluntarily deferred into The Remuneration Policy permits the award of deferred Companys share plans will be determined role may be allowed to be paid out according may elect to receive up to the first 50,000 restricted shares and a long-term incentive in the form of both a remuneration in alternative forms such as share options, although based on the relevant plan rules.
to its terms, adjusted if necessary, to take or local currency equivalent of their annual restricted share award and a restricted matching share award on none have been granted in recent years, and to vary the percentage into account the appointment.
bonus delivered as 90% cash and 10% as An Executive Directors service contract may any voluntarily deferred cash bonus.
split of award between cash and share awards to meet business, restricted shares, rather than in the be terminated without notice and without any For external and internal appointments, legislative or regulatory requirements.
Cash bonus 60% of total award Companys usual proportions of 60% further payment or compensation, except for the Company may meet certain relocation The executive may voluntarily commute up to half of the cash bonus cash and 40% restricted shares.
MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY sums accrued up to the date of termination, expenses as appropriate including but not in return for the same value in a restricted bonus share award or on the occurrence of certain events such as The aggregate variable compensation pool for all employees, limited to assistance with housing, External Non-executive phantom equivalent deferred for five years.
The deferred shares are gross misconduct.
including executives, is capped, currently at 25% of earnings before immigration, taxes and travel.
Director positions eligible for restricted matching shares or phantom equivalent vesting variable compensation, interest and tax EBVCIT.
The Policy The Committee may enter into settlement Executive Directors are permitted to after five years subject to conditions see 3 below.
Service contracts and loss of permits the Remuneration Committee to vary this cap if necessary agreements with departing Directors, should serve as Non-executive Directors of other office payment policy to meet business needs.
the circumstances warrant it, and limited legal Long-term incentives under the Company Executive companies where there is no competition Service contracts normally continue until the fees, outplacement fees and retirement gifts The policy is to cap the aggregate sum available for variable Omnibus Incentive Plan Omnibus Plan with the Companys business activities and Executive Directors agreed retirement date may be provided.
compensation rather than to cap individual variable 2.
Restricted shares award 40% of total award where these duties do not interfere with the or such other date as the parties agree.
individuals ability to perform his or her duties There is no separate long-term incentive plan, rather 40% of the Incentive plan discretions The service contracts contain provisions for the Company.
Tom Shippey holds one executives annual bonus is compulsorily deferred into Company The high proportion of variable compensation deferral, with The Remuneration Committee will operate for early termination.
unpaid external appointment with a charitable shares or phantom equivalent for a period of five years and does vesting after five years and subject in part to ongoing performance the current share plans in accordance with organisation unconnected to the asset not qualify for matching.
Half of this deferred portion is subject to Notice periods are limited to 12 months by conditions, encourages a prudent approach to risk management, their respective rules and the policy set out management industry.
Other than as noted additional performance conditions on vesting.
The Policy permits either party.
Service agreements contain no in support of the Companys risk and compliance controls.
Most above, and in accordance with the Listing above, Executive Directors do not presently the Committee to set suitable performance conditions each year contractual entitlement to receive variable importantly, though, the remuneration structure is designed to Rules and relevant legislation or regulation.
hold any external appointments with any for each award type.
The performance condition for the most pay: participation in these arrangements is support and fit with the long-term strategy of the business.
The As is consistent with market practice, the non-Ashmore-related companies.
recent awards was a combination of: at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
Group operates in a growth sector which experiences market Remuneration Committee retains discretion The Executive Directors service contracts cycles and this aspect of the Remuneration Policy plays a key role 25% relative total shareholder return TSR over a number of areas relating to operating Where an outside appointment is are available for inspection at the Companys in providing flexibility in variable costs, enabling key staff retention, and administrating these plans.
These include Measured against an asset management peer group accepted in furtherance of the registered office during normal and thereby aligning the interests of clients, shareholders and but are not limited to the following: over five years.
Companys business, any fees received business hours.
25% investment outperformance are remitted to the Company.
Who participates in the plans: MALUS AND CLAWBACK If the employment of an Executive Director is Relative to the relevant benchmarks over three and five years.
The timing of the grant of an award If the appointment is not connected terminated without giving the period of notice In addition to the performance condition described above, malus 25% growth in AuM and or payment: to the Companys business, the required under the contract, the Executive and clawback can be applied to all elements of variable A compound increase in AuM over the five-year Executive Director is entitled to retain The size of an award and or a payment within Director would be entitled to claim remuneration at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, performance period.
the plan limits approved by shareholders: recompense for up to one years including to unvested share awards made in prior periods.
25% profitability The choice of and adjustment of remuneration subject to consideration of Circumstances that may trigger the application of the Committees performance measures and targets in Ashmores diluted earnings per share EPS performance the obligation to mitigate the loss.
Such discretion include a material misstatement of the Companys Approach to remuneration for new accordance with the policy set out above relative to a comparator index over the five-year recompense is expected to be limited to base results, a material failure in risk management, serious reputational Executive Director appointments and the rules of each plan including the performance period.
salary due for any unexpired notice period, damage, or the executives misconduct.
The remuneration package for an externally treatment of delisted companies for the and any amount assessed by the 3.
Restricted matching shares awarded on the voluntarily recruited new Executive Director would be PERSONAL SHAREHOLDING purpose of the TSR comparator group : Remuneration Committee as representing commuted cash bonus from 1 above set in accordance with the terms and Existing Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding the value of other contractual benefits and Discretion relating to the measurement Matching is provided on the voluntarily commuted cash bonus, maximum levels of the Companys approved equivalent to 200% of salary over the three-year period from pension which would have been received of performance in the event of a change subject to the same performance conditions on half of the matching Remuneration Policy in force at the time October 2017, and from the first five-year vesting date for newly during the period.
In the event of a change of control or reconstruction: award as that described in 2 above.
The maximum match used to of appointment.
of control of the Company, there is no Determination of a good leaver in addition date on any award made under the current policy was one-for-one: enhancement to these terms.
to any specified categories for incentive the Policy permits the matching level to be changed for future plan purposes, based on the rules of each awards but not to exceed three-for-one.
Dividends or dividend plan and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: 58 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 559 9 Directors remuneration policy continued Adjustments required in order to comply with Non-executive Directors are engaged Reward scenarios any new regulatory requirements which the under letters of appointment and do not have The Companys Policy results in the Company is compelled to adhere to: and contracts of service.
They are appointed for majority of the remuneration received by an initial three-year period, subject to annual Adjustments required in certain circumstances the Executive Directors being dependent shareholder re-election.
Their continued e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, on performance, and being deferred for engagement is subject to the requirements special dividends and on a change of control.
five years into restricted shares.
of the Companys Articles relating to the As noted earlier, the policy is not to cap Any use of the above discretions would, retirement of Directors by rotation.
The individual awards, but rather the aggregate where relevant, be explained in the Annual letters of appointment are available for pool.
As such, it is not possible to Report on Remuneration.
As appropriate, it inspection at the Companys registered demonstrate maximum remuneration might also be the subject of consultation with office during normal business hours.
In lieu of this, the minimum fixed the Companys major shareholders.
remuneration is illustrated in Figure 2, which Compliance with the Legacy arrangements provides an indication of the potential range Remuneration Code For the avoidance of doubt, this Policy of total remuneration using the highest and The Remuneration Committee regularly includes authority for the Company to honour lowest variable pay awards in a rolling fivereviews its Remuneration Policys any commitments entered into with current year period and assuming full vesting, five compliance with the principles of the or former Directors that have been disclosed years later at the grant price, of the long-term Remuneration Code of the UK financial to shareholders in previous Remuneration incentive components based on upper services regulator, as applicable to Ashmore.
Details of any payments to former quartile TSR or equivalent achievement The Remuneration Policy is designed to be Directors will be set out in the Annual Report relative to other performance conditions.
consistent with the prudent management on Remuneration as they arise.
of risk, and the sustained, long-term performance of the Company.
Figure 2 Executive Director total remuneration at different levels of performance 000 CEO Fixed Minimum Lowest pay received in five year rolling period Highest pay received in five year rolling period CFO Fixed Minimum Lowest pay received in five year rolling period Highest pay received in five year rolling period 000 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 Base salary Pension Share bonus face value using share price at grant Benets Cash bonus LTI: restricted shares and matching awards face value using share price at grant Figure 3 Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other Non-executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Board Chairman To pay an all-inclusive The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for all his The overall fees payable to Non-executive fee basic fee that takes responsibilities.
The level of the fee is reviewed Directors will remain within the limit stated account of the role and periodically by the Committee, with reference to in the Articles of Association, currently responsibilities market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies, 750,000 and a recommendation is then made to the Board The current level of fees is disclosed in the without the Chairman being present Annual Report on Remuneration Non-executive To pay an all-inclusive The Non-executive Directors are paid a single The overall fees payable to Non-executive Director fees basic fee that takes inclusive basic fee.
There are no supplements Directors will remain within the limit stated in account of the role and for Committee Chairmanships or memberships: the Articles of Association, currently 750,000 responsibilities the fee levels are reviewed periodically by the The current level of fees is disclosed in Chairman and Executive Directors the Annual Report on Remuneration 6 60 0 AAshmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 shmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration policy continued Adjustments required in order to comply with Non-executive Directors are engaged Reward scenarios This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups any new regulatory requirements which the under letters of appointment and do not have The Companys Policy results in the Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and 9.8.
Company is compelled to adhere to: and contracts of service.
They are appointed for majority of the remuneration received by an initial three-year period, subject to annual Adjustments required in certain circumstances the Executive Directors being dependent Figure 4 shareholder re-election.
Their continued e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, on performance, and being deferred for Remuneration for the year ending 30 June 2018 audited information engagement is subject to the requirements special dividends and on a change of control.
The table below sets out the remuneration received by the Directors in the year ending 30 June 2018. of the Companys Articles relating to the As noted earlier, the policy is not to cap Any use of the above discretions would, retirement of Directors by rotation.
The Executive Directors Non-executive Directors individual awards, but rather the aggregate where relevant, be explained in the Annual letters of appointment are available for Tom Dame Anne pool.
As appropriate, it Mark Coombs Shippey Clive David Jennifer Simon Peter Pringle inspection at the Companys registered 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 12 1, 5, 7, 11 2 10 11 demonstrate maximum remuneration Adamson Bennett Bingham Fraser Gibbs DCMG might also be the subject of consultation with office during normal business hours.
2018 100,000 100,000 67,500 79,998 231 42,498 150,000 60,000 Salary and fees remuneration is illustrated in Figure 2, which Compliance with the 2017 100,000 100,000 60,000 75,000 85,000 150,000 60,000 Legacy arrangements provides an indication of the potential range Remuneration Code 2018 8,293 2,491 1,295 For the avoidance of doubt, this Policy of total remuneration using the highest and Taxable benefits The Remuneration Committee regularly 2017 8,404 2,307 887 includes authority for the Company to honour lowest variable pay awards in a rolling fivereviews its Remuneration Policys any commitments entered into with current year period and assuming full vesting, five 2018 9,000 10,000 compliance with the principles of the Pensions or former Directors that have been disclosed years later at the grant price, of the long-term Remuneration Code of the UK financial 2017 9,000 10,000 to shareholders in previous Remuneration incentive components based on upper services regulator, as applicable to Ashmore.
Details of any payments to former quartile TSR or equivalent achievement Cash bonus 2017 The Remuneration Policy is designed to be 781,748 272,175 Directors will be set out in the Annual Report relative to other performance conditions.
consistent with the prudent management 2018 on Remuneration as they arise.
Voluntarily deferred of risk, and the sustained, long-term share bonus 2017 1,090,800 285,000 performance of the Company.
Benefits for both Executive Directors include membership of the Company medical scheme, and for Mark Coombs includes the Companys contribution towards transportation costs in relation to his role.
Benefits for David Bennett relate to transportation costs and the associated income tax and national insurance costs in relation to his role.
Long-term incentives vesting relates to awards with performance conditions where the performance period has ended in the relevant financial year and payments of dividends or dividend equivalents on such awards prior to their vesting date.
In respect of the year ending 30 June 2018, Mark Coombs waived any eligibility for, and any right or expectation to receive, a cash bonus of up to 443,915 2017: 283,391, to be used by the Company for the general benefit of employees.
In addition to this, in both the years ending 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2018 Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential non-AIF related variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself: the numbers in the table above exclude any waived variable remuneration.
Had he not waived these amounts, Mark Coombs total bonus in respect of the year ending 30 June 2018 would have been 1,600,000 2017: 3,200,000.
Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey may commute up to 50% of their cash bonus in favour of an equivalent amount of bonus share or phantom bonus share awards and an equivalent value in matching share or phantom matching share awards.
All share or phantom share awards will be reported in the Directors share and phantom Figure 3 share award tables in the year of grant.
Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey both chose to commute 50% of their cash bonuses pre-waiver in 2017 for an equivalent Fees policy for the Board Chairman and other Non-executive Directors amount of bonus share awards.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum 6.
From the year ending 30 June 2015 onward, additional performance conditions are applied to 50% of any restricted or matching share award.
The amounts shown in the column labelled mandatorily deferred share bonus represent the 50% of restricted and matching share awards that do not have additional performance conditions Board Chairman To pay an all-inclusive The Board Chairman is paid a single fee for all his The overall fees payable to Non-executive attached.
These amounts represent the cash value of shares awarded at grant, which will vest after five years subject to continued employment.
fee basic fee that takes responsibilities.
The level of the fee is reviewed Directors will remain within the limit stated 7.
In order to comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive both Mark Coombs and Tom Shippey received a proportion of their bonus which would account of the role and periodically by the Committee, with reference to in the Articles of Association, currently have otherwise been delivered in cash, as an additional award of restricted shares which will vest after a retention period.
In 2018, prior to any elections made to responsibilities market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies, 750,000 commute cash bonus for bonus shares and an equivalent value in matching shares, the value of this award for Mark Coombs was 48,000 2017: 108,000 and for Tom Shippey was 21,000 2017: 25,650. and a recommendation is then made to the Board The current level of fees is disclosed in the 8.
In respect of prior year deferred share awards which have been waived to charity, any dividend equivalents associated with the amounts waived are paid directly without the Chairman being present Annual Report on Remuneration to the nominated charities.
The figures shown exclude the amounts waived.
Non-executive To pay an all-inclusive The Non-executive Directors are paid a single The overall fees payable to Non-executive 9.
Dividends or dividend equivalents were paid relating to voluntarily and mandatorily deferred share or phantom share awards in the period.
Director fees basic fee that takes inclusive basic fee.
There are no supplements Directors will remain within the limit stated in 10.
Jennifer Bingham joined the Board on 29 June 2018. account of the role and for Committee Chairmanships or memberships: the Articles of Association, currently 750,000 11.
Simon Fraser stepped down from the Board on 31 December 2017. responsibilities the fee levels are reviewed periodically by the The current level of fees is disclosed in 12.
Mark Coombs receives cash in lieu of a pension contribution.
Tom Shippeys pension contribution includes an employee contribution via salary sacrifice: in 2018 this Chairman and Executive Directors the Annual Report on Remuneration was 500 2017: 500.
Total short term benefits for key management personnel, including salary and fees, taxable benefits and cash bonuses, as reported in note 29 of the financial statements is 1,758,383 in 2018 60 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 661 1 Annual report on remuneration Total bonus award for the year ending 30 June 2018 Chief Executive Officer CEO and Group Finance Director GFD performance measures As described in detail in other sections of the Annual Report, the Group, led by the CEO and GFD, has performed well this year.
The CEOs performance has been measured relative to financial 75% and non-financial 25% KPIs.
All financial KPIs assessed by the Committee have demonstrated a marked improvement over the prior period, as a substantial increase in net inflows, continued positive investment performance and continued tight control of operating costs have delivered increased profitability for the Group.
The GFDs performance has been assessed in relation to a range of operational objectives.
During the period all departments under his supervision performed well.
The development of the Groups strategy has also been positive, with continued diversification of distribution channels through the growth of the intermediary business, and the continued growth of local asset management activity in Colombia, Indonesia and Saudi Arabia.
The Groups personnel have remained highly engaged through another market cycle and with very low unplanned turnover in the period under review, in large part underpinned by the Groups distinctive remuneration philosophy, which places an emphasis on pay for performance and long dated equity incentives, thus aligning all employees with clients and external shareholders through market cycles.
Figure 5 CEO and GFD performance measures Executive Director KPI Areas considered within KPI Weighting Committee assessment CEO Business financial To achieve higher than budgeted EBIT, 75% AuM development was strong, increasing by 26% to performance to achieve higher than budgeted growth US$73.9 billion, including record net flows in AuM and to effectively manage Investment performance has been consistent through the period investment performance to deliver with 73%, 94% and 89% of AuM outperforming over one, three consistent growth relative to each and five years respectively unblended investment theme Operating costs have remained tightly controlled and under budget EBIT increased by 7% relative to the prior period CEO Non-financial Strategy development and 25% Group strategy continues to develop as planned management implementation, recruitment, staff Personnel matters have been effectively managed, with strong, performance turnover and succession planning and stable investment and management teams in place regulatory and compliance adherence Strong risk management, governance and compliance culture embedded and maintained in all aspects of the business Ashmores distinctive culture continues to support the business through market cycles, demonstrated by strong staff retention GFD Management Department performance assessed for 35% Operational improvements in financial management delivered of departments Finance, Corporate Development, recurring savings Investor Relations, Company Secretarial Systems enhancements delivered improved reporting capabilities and Facilities Active cost control delivered savings in the year Recruitment and succession planning managed effectively GFD Management of Local asset management business 30% Local asset management businesses developing as planned, with subsidiary business growth and development of strong AuM growth and improving profitability as the businesses activities outside profitability and scale, integration continue to mature the UK, including of offices and effectiveness of Appropriate risk management, governance and compliance culture joint ventures joint venture relationships embedded and actively managed across the local office network Strong, stable investment and management teams in place GFD Corporate Contribution to the development and 30% Ongoing management of operating costs development and implementation of strategic goals and Continued support to development of business strategy, contribution to increasing value for shareholders with specific focus on subsidiary business management and business strategy development GFD Investor relations Broadening the shareholder base 5% Internal and external relationships and communication remain and communication and communicating effectively with effectively managed external parties, the Board and all other relevant stakeholders The Remuneration Committee takes the results of this detailed individual appraisal process and uses its discretion to determine a final bonus award.
Alongside the results of the individual appraisal the Committee takes into consideration affordability, given that the bonus pool is capped at the Group level.
6 62 2 AAshmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 shmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Annual report on remuneration Total bonus award for the year ending 30 June 2018 For additional information, Figure 6 shows the history of financial results for the last five years.
Chief Executive Officer CEO and Group Finance Director GFD performance measures Figure 6 As described in detail in other sections of the Annual Report, the Group, led by the CEO and GFD, has performed well this year.
Five-year summary of financial results The CEOs performance has been measured relative to financial 75% and non-financial 25% KPIs.
All financial KPIs assessed by the 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Committee have demonstrated a marked improvement over the prior period, as a substantial increase in net inflows, continued positive AuM US$bn at period end 73.9 58.7 52.6 58.9 75.0 investment performance and continued tight control of operating costs have delivered increased profitability for the Group.
Operating profit m 176.5 166.8 137.9 181.0 171.3 The GFDs performance has been assessed in relation to a range of operational objectives.
Figure 7 Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2018 audited information The development of the Groups strategy has also been positive, with continued diversification of distribution channels through the growth of Share price on the intermediary business, and the continued growth of local asset management activity in Colombia, Indonesia and Saudi Arabia.
of Date date of award Face value Face value Name Type of award shares of award % of salary end date The Groups personnel have remained highly engaged through another market cycle and with very low unplanned turnover in the period under 1, 2 review, in large part underpinned by the Groups distinctive remuneration philosophy, which places an emphasis on pay for performance and Mark Coombs Restricted shares 449,542 14 September 2017 3.2353 1,454,403 1,454% 13 September 2022 long dated equity incentives, thus aligning all employees with clients and external shareholders through market cycles.
In respect of the year ended 30 June 2017, Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential non AIF related variable remuneration award in return for the Director KPI Areas considered within KPI Weighting Committee assessment Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to charity or charities nominated by himself: the numbers in the table above exclude any waived variable remuneration.
CEO Business financial To achieve higher than budgeted EBIT, 75% AuM development was strong, increasing by 26% to 2.
In addition, executives voluntarily defer their bonus into shares in order to receive an equivalent level of matching shares and are also required under the AIFMD rules to performance to achieve higher than budgeted growth US$73.9 billion, including record net flows defer a portion of their cash bonus for six months.
These awards are not subject to any performance conditions and full details can be found in Figure 10. in AuM and to effectively manage Investment performance has been consistent through the period 3.
Based on the 5 day average share price prior to the grant date.
The fair value of the awards is calculated by applying the estimated adjustment factor calculated by Aon to the investment performance to deliver with 73%, 94% and 89% of AuM outperforming over one, three share price to reflect the performance conditions attached to half of the restricted and half of the matching shares.
consistent growth relative to each and five years respectively unblended investment theme Operating costs have remained tightly controlled and under budget Long-term incentive awards made during the year ended 30 June 2018 performance conditions EBIT increased by 7% relative to the prior period Figure 7 provides details of the long-term incentive awards that were made during the year.
These represent the restricted and matching share awards, 50% of which are subject to additional performance conditions, and will vest on the fifth anniversary of the award date, to the extent CEO Non-financial Strategy development and 25% Group strategy continues to develop as planned that the performance conditions are met.
The remaining 50% are subject to continued employment.
management implementation, recruitment, staff Personnel matters have been effectively managed, with strong, performance turnover and succession planning and stable investment and management teams in place The performance conditions for the most recent awards were a combination of: regulatory and compliance adherence Strong risk management, governance and compliance culture 25% relative total shareholder return TSR, measured against an asset management peer group over five years.
embedded and maintained in all aspects of the business 25% investment outperformance, relative to the relevant benchmarks over three and five years.
Ashmores distinctive culture continues to support the business through market cycles, demonstrated by strong staff retention 25% growth in assets under management, demonstrated through a compound increase in AuM over the five-year performance period.
25% profitability, demonstrated through Ashmores diluted earnings per share EPS performance relative to a comparator index over the GFD Management Department performance assessed for 35% Operational improvements in financial management delivered five-year performance period.
of departments Finance, Corporate Development, recurring savings Investor Relations, Company Secretarial Systems enhancements delivered improved reporting capabilities The performance conditions vesting scale and TSR peer group are shown in Figures 8 and 9 respectively.
and Facilities Active cost control delivered savings in the year Performance and vesting outcome for the Chief Executives 2012 long-term incentive awards which vested Recruitment and succession planning managed effectively during the year ended 30 June 2018 GFD Management of Local asset management business 30% Local asset management businesses developing as planned, with During the period, shares awarded to Mark Coombs in 2012 reached their vesting date.
On the vesting date, all bonus shares vested, and the subsidiary business growth and development of strong AuM growth and improving profitability as the businesses TSR performance condition was applied to the vesting of restricted and matching shares, based on calculations and advice provided by Aon.
activities outside profitability and scale, integration continue to mature The Companys TSR was 35.2%, which ranked Ashmore at 12.66 relative to the TSR peer group of 15 companies: the median rank which the UK, including of offices and effectiveness of Appropriate risk management, governance and compliance culture would have resulted in 25% vesting was 8 or a TSR of 77.3%.
Therefore no restricted or matching share awards vested.
joint ventures joint venture relationships embedded and actively managed across the local office network Strong, stable investment and management teams in place Performance and vesting outcome for the Group Financial Directors 2012 long-term incentive awards which vested during the year ended 30 June 2018 GFD Corporate Contribution to the development and 30% Ongoing management of operating costs development and implementation of strategic goals and During the period, shares awarded to Tom Shippey in 2012 reached their vesting date.
On the vesting date all bonus, restricted and matching Continued support to development of business strategy, contribution to increasing value for shareholders with specific focus on subsidiary business management and shares vested.
These awards were not subject to the TSR performance condition as they were awarded prior to his appointment as an business strategy development Executive Director.
GFD Investor relations Broadening the shareholder base 5% Internal and external relationships and communication remain and communication and communicating effectively with effectively managed external parties, the Board and all other relevant stakeholders The Remuneration Committee takes the results of this detailed individual appraisal process and uses its discretion to determine a final bonus award.
62 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 663 3 Annual report on remuneration continued Figure 8 Performance conditions vesting scale Performance condition Performance % of award vesting Below median of peer group Zero Median 25% TSR Between median and upper quartile Straight-line proportionate vesting Upper quartile 100% Below 50% of assets outperforming the benchmarks Zero over three and five years 50% of assets outperforming the benchmarks over 25% three and five years Investment outperformance Between 50% and 75% of assets outperforming the Straight-line proportionate vesting benchmarks over three and five years 75% or above of assets outperforming the benchmarks 100% over three and five years Below 5% compound increase in AuM over the Zero fiveyear performance period 5% compound increase in AuM over the five-year 25% performance period Growth in assets under management Between 5% and 10% compound increase in AuM Straight-line proportionate vesting over the five-year performance period 10% or above compound increase in AuM over the 100% five-year performance period Profitability Ashmores diluted EPS Below the benchmark return Zero performance relative to a combination of At the benchmark return 25% emerging market indices representative Between the benchmark return and 10% Straight-line proportionate vesting of the markets in which Ashmore invests, outperformance determined by the Remuneration At or above 10% outperformance relative to the 100% Committee and based on the underlying benchmark return structure of the business.
Figure 9 TSR peer group Company Country of listing Company Country of listing Affiliated Managers USA Invesco USA Alliance Bernstein USA Janus Henderson Investors USA & Australia BlackRock USA Jupiter Fund Management UK CI Financial Income Fund Canada Man Group UK Eaton Vance USA Schroders UK Federated Investors USA SEI Investments USA Franklin Templeton USA T Rowe Price USA GAM Holding Switzerland Waddell and Reed USA Note: As a result of the merger of Standard Life Investments and Aberdeen Asset Management, Aberdeen Asset Management has been removed from the TSR comparator group for awards made prior to 2018.
TSR is a well-established and recognised performance measure, which aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
A comparator group of 16 companies has been selected from the global investment management sector.
The Committee reviews the peer group periodically to take account of fide-listings, new listings or other sector changes that are relevant.
6 64 4 AAshmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 shmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Figure 8 Outstanding share awards Performance conditions vesting scale The table below sets out details of Executive Directors outstanding share awards.
Performance condition Performance % of award vesting Figure 10 Below median of peer group Zero Outstanding share awards audited information Median 25% Market Number of Number of TSR Type of price on shares at Granted Vested Lapsed shares at Between median and upper quartile Straight-line proportionate vesting Omnibus date of 30 June during during during 30 June Performance Upper quartile 100% Executive award Date of award award 2017 year year year 2018 period Vesting release date Below 50% of assets outperforming the benchmarks Zero Mark over three and five years Coombs RS 18 September 2012 3.2926 328,009 328,009 5 years 17 September 2017 1 50% of assets outperforming the benchmarks over 25% RBS 18 September 2012 3.2926 246,007 246,007 5 years 17 September 2017 three and five years 1 RMS 18 September 2012 3.2926 246,007 246,007 5 years 17 September 2017 Investment outperformance Between 50% and 75% of assets outperforming the Straight-line proportionate vesting 1 RS 17 September 2013 3.8340 422,536 422,536 5 years 16 September 2018 benchmarks over three and five years 1 RBS 17 September 2013 3.8340 316,902 316,902 5 years 16 September 2018 75% or above of assets outperforming the benchmarks 100% 1 RMS 17 September 2013 3.8340 316,902 316,902 5 years 16 September 2018 over three and five years RS 22 September 2015 2.4278 494,271 494,271 5 years 21 September 2020 Below 5% compound increase in AuM over the Zero RBS 22 September 2015 2.4278 370,703 370,703 5 years 21 September 2020 fiveyear performance period RMS 22 September 2015 2.4278 370,703 370,703 5 years 21 September 2020 5% compound increase in AuM over the five-year 25% 2 performance period RS 16 September 2016 3.3955 6 months 15 March 2017 Growth in assets under management 1 Between 5% and 10% compound increase in AuM Straight-line proportionate vesting RS 16 September 2016 3.3955 161,330 161,330 5 years 15 September 2021 over the five-year performance period 1 RBS 16 September 2016 3.3955 120,999 120,999 5 years 15 September 2021 10% or above compound increase in AuM over the 100% 1 RMS 16 September 2016 3.3955 120,999 120,999 5 years 15 September 2021 five-year performance period 2 RS 14 September 2017 3.2353 16,691 16,691 6 months 13 March 2018 Profitability Ashmores diluted EPS Below the benchmark return Zero RS 14 September 2017 3.2353 49,542 449,542 5 years 13 September 2022 performance relative to a combination of At the benchmark return 25% BS 14 September 2017 3.2353 337,156 337,156 5 years 13 September 2022 emerging market indices representative Between the benchmark return and 10% Straight-line proportionate vesting of the markets in which Ashmore invests, MS 14 September 2017 3.2353 337,156 337,156 5 years 13 September 2022 outperformance determined by the Remuneration Total 3,515,368 1,140,545 262,698 574,016 3,819,199 At or above 10% outperformance relative to the 100% Committee and based on the underlying 1.
In respect of the years ending 30 June 2012 and 30 June 2013 Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of any element of his potential variable remuneration award, and in the benchmark return structure of the business.
years ending 30 June 2016 and 30 June 2017 Mark Coombs chose to waive 10% of his potential non-AIF related variable remuneration award in return for the Remuneration Committee considering and approving a contribution to a charity or charities nominated by himself.
The Number of shares at 30 June 2017, Granted during year and Number of shares at 30 June 2018 figures are shown excluding the amounts waived.
On the vesting release date, any shares waived to charity will vest to them to the Figure 9 extent that any relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
In order to comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive remuneration principles in regard to the delivery of remuneration in retained instruments, a Company Country of listing Company Country of listing proportion of Mark Coombs and Tom Shippeys cash bonuses relating to the year ending 30 June 2017 were delivered in the form of restricted shares, subject to a sixmonth retention period, rather than being delivered in cash.
These shares vested in full on the date shown and were not subject to any additional performance conditions.
Affiliated Managers USA Invesco USA Alliance Bernstein USA Janus Henderson Investors USA & Australia BlackRock USA Jupiter Fund Management UK KEY CI Financial Income Fund Canada Man Group UK RS Restricted shares RBS Restricted bonus shares RMS Restricted matching shares Eaton Vance USA Schroders UK Federated Investors USA SEI Investments USA Franklin Templeton USA T Rowe Price USA GAM Holding Switzerland Waddell and Reed USA Note: As a result of the merger of Standard Life Investments and Aberdeen Asset Management, Aberdeen Asset Management has been removed from the TSR comparator group for awards made prior to 2018.
In order to comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive remuneration principles in regard to the delivery of remuneration in retained instruments, a proportion of Mark Coombs and Tom Shippeys cash bonuses relating to the year ending 30 June 2017 were delivered in the form of restricted shares, subject to a sixmonth retention period, rather than being delivered in cash.
KEY RS Restricted shares MS Matching shares NDBS Bonus shares awarded while not a Director BS Bonus shares NDRS Restricted shares awarded while NDMS Matching shares awarded while not a Director not a Director The Companys obligations under its employee share plans can be met by newly issued shares in the Company, or shares purchased in the market by the trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
As detailed in the Business review, the EBT continues to make market purchases of shares to satisfy awards.
The overall limits on new issuance operated under the existing share plans were established on the listing of the Company in 2006.
Under these agreed limits, the number of shares which may be issued in aggregate under employee share plans of the Company over any ten-year period following the date of the Companys Admission in 2006 is limited to 15% of the Companys issued share capital.
As at 30 June 2018, the Company had 5.8% of the Companys issued share capital outstanding under employee share plans to its staff.
All of the awards made to date will be satisfied by the acquisition of shares in the market, thus none of the Companys obligations under its employee share plans have been met by newly issued shares.
Defined benefit pension entitlements None of the Directors has any entitlements under Company defined benefit pension plans.
6 66 6 AAshmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 shmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Figure 10 continued Directors shareholding and share interests Outstanding share awards audited information continued Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the table below.
The Directors Remuneration Policy, which was approved by binding Market Number of Number of shareholder vote at the 20 October 2017 AGM, introduced a formal requirement for Executive Directors to build an unrestricted, post vesting Type of price on shares at Granted Vested Lapsed shares at shareholding equivalent to 200% of salary, to be built up over the three-year period following the approval of the Policy by shareholders.
Outstanding restricted shares and matching shares awarded in 2013 and 2014 are subject to performance conditions.
Half of the restricted shares and matching shares RS 16 September 2016 3.3955 88,353 88,353 5 years 15 September 2021 awarded in 2015 and 2016 are subject to performance conditions.
Restricted and matching share awards made to Tom Shippey prior to his appointment as a Director are not subject to performance conditions.
Save as described above, there have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors between 30 June and 6 September 2018.
The Directors are permitted to hold their shares as collateral for loans with the express permission of the Board.
In order to comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive remuneration principles in regard to the delivery of remuneration in retained instruments, a Chief Executive base salary 0% proportion of Mark Coombs and Tom Shippeys cash bonuses relating to the year ending 30 June 2017 were delivered in the form of restricted shares, subject to a sixRelevant comparator employees base salary 0.5% month retention period, rather than being delivered in cash.
Chief Executive taxable benefits -1% Relevant comparator employees taxable benefits 8% Chief Executive annual bonus -50% KEY Relevant comparator employees annual bonus 2% RS Restricted shares MS Matching shares NDBS Bonus shares awarded while not a Director BS Bonus shares NDRS Restricted shares awarded while NDMS Matching shares awarded while not a Director Figure 12 compares the percentage change from 2017 to 2018 in remuneration elements for the Chief Executive with the average not a Director year-on-year change across relevant comparator employees as a whole.
Relevant employees are full-time employees of Ashmore Group who have been employed throughout the full performance year.
Figures do not include amounts of cash waived to charity or for the general benefit of employees.
The Companys obligations under its employee share plans can be met by newly issued shares in the Company, or shares purchased in Performance chart the market by the trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
As detailed in the Business review, the EBT continues to make market Figure 13 shows the Companys TSR performance with dividends reinvested against the performance of the relevant indices for the last eight purchases of shares to satisfy awards.
Each point at a financial year end is calculated using an average total shareholder return value over the month of June i. e. 1 June to The overall limits on new issuance operated under the existing share plans were established on the listing of the Company in 2006.
As the chart indicates, 100 invested in Ashmore on 30 June 2009 was worth 284 nine years later, compared with 245 for agreed limits, the number of shares which may be issued in aggregate under employee share plans of the Company over any ten-year period the same investment in the FTSE 100 index, and 357 for the same investment in the FTSE 250 index.
following the date of the Companys Admission in 2006 is limited to 15% of the Companys issued share capital.
As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 667 7 66 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Annual report on remuneration continued Performance chart continued Figure 13 Total return performance chart to 30 June 2018 400 357 350 300 284 245 250 200 150 100 50 0 30 June 09 30 June 10 30 June 11 30 June 12 30 June 13 30 June 14 30 June 15 30 June 16 30 June 17 30 June 18 Ashmore Group FTSE 250 Index FTSE 100 Index Source: FactSet Figure 14 shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the financial years shown in the TSR chart.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTI awards, which vested based on performance in those years.
As there is no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown.
No performance-related restricted and matching or phantom share equivalent awards have vested during the periods shown.
The sums shown relate to dividends or dividend equivalents paid on share or phantom share awards.
Figure 15 shows the relative movement in profits, total staff costs and dividends to shareholders, year-on-year.
Figure 15 Relative importance of spend on pay 2017 to 2018 Metric 2018 2017 % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group i. e. accounting cost 70.3 65.9 5% Average headcount 257 256 0% Distributions to shareholders dividends and or share buybacks 117.4 116.1 1% Statement on implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the year commencing 1 July 2018 The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by binding shareholder vote at the 20 October 2017 AGM.
The Policy applies to the performance years ending 30 June 2018, 2019 and 2020.
The Committee intends to continue to apply broadly the same metrics and weightings to annual variable remuneration in the year ending 30 June 2019 as have been applied in the current period.
6 68 8 AAshmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 shmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Value rebased Governance Annual report on remuneration continued Performance chart continued For long-term incentive awards granted during the year commencing 1 July 2018 half of any restricted shares, matching shares and their phantom equivalents, the Remuneration Committee intends to apply three existing performance conditions weighted equally, these being Figure 13 investment performance, assets under management and profitability.
The Remuneration Committee are satisfied that these performance Total return performance chart to 30 June 2018 measures are appropriate, robust and stretching and aligned with the interests of shareholders.
The previous weighting of 25% to the performance condition of relative TSR has been removed, as the Remuneration Committee has determined over a decade, and having taken external advice, that there remain no other listed asset managers dedicated solely to emerging markets whose share price is impacted by particular external macroeconomic factors in the same way.
Hence the Committee has decided that Ashmores TSR relative to any listed asset manager comparator peer group is not sufficiently representative of the performance of Ashmores management team.
Increasing the weighting of the three existing performance conditions applied to long-term incentive awards, consistent with the Groups KPIs, will more effectively align management with shareholders than through the use of an inappropriate relative TSR measure.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are listed in the table below.
All of these are independent Non-executive Directors, as defined under the Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of the Company Chairman who was independent on his appointment.
Remuneration Committee attendance Percentage of meetings attended out of potential maximum 1 Clive Adamson 100% Dame Anne Pringle DCMG 100% 2 Simon Fraser 100% Figure 14 shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer during each of the financial years shown in the TSR chart.
Peter Gibbs 100% The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTI awards, which vested based on performance in those years.
As there is David Bennett 100% no cap on the maximum individual bonus award, a percentage of maximum annual bonus is not shown.
Clive Adamson was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee effective 31 December 2017.
Simon Fraser stepped down from the Board effective 31 December 2017.
Chief Executive audited information The Companys CEO attends the meeting by invitation and assists the Remuneration Committee in its decision-making, except when his Performance-related Percentage of restricted personal remuneration is discussed.
No Directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to Annual restricted and matching and matching phantom 1 the Remuneration Committee.
Other executives may be invited to attend as the Remuneration Committee requests.
Year ended 30 June Salary Benefits Pension bonus phantom shares vested shares vested Total 2018 100,000 8,293 9,000 1,016,477 1,133,770 External advisers 2017 100,000 8,404 9,000 3,071,748 95,574 3,284,726 The Remuneration Committee received independent advice from Aon throughout the period from 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018, who have no 2016 100,000 8,400 9,000 1,083,458 284,932 1,485,790 other connection to the Company.
Aon abides by the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct, which requires it to provide objective and 2015 100,000 8,388 8,000 2,415,000 462,159 2,993,547 impartial advice.
Aons fees for the year ending 30 June 2018 were 20,000.
The Company participates in the McLagan Partners compensation 2014 100,000 8,934 7,000 452,386 568,320 survey from which relevant data is provided to the Remuneration Committee.
Neither of the above provides other services to the Company.
2017 AGM resolution to approve the 2017 AGM resolution to approve the Remuneration Policy for the years % of Directors Remuneration report for % of Figure 15 shows the relative movement in profits, total staff costs and dividends to shareholders, year-on-year.
Remuneration Policy ending 30 June 2018, 2019 and 2020 votes cast Remuneration Report the year ended 30 June 2017 votes cast Votes cast in favour 515,865,054 85.05% Votes cast in favour 518,697,947 85.72% Figure 15 Votes cast against 90,707,202 14.95% Votes cast against 86,426,020 14.28% Relative importance of spend on pay Total votes cast 606,572,256 100.00% Total votes cast 605,123,967 100.00% 2017 to 2018 Metric 2018 2017 % change Abstentions 1,151,359 N A Abstentions 2,509,648 N A Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group i. e. accounting cost 70.3 65.9 5% Approval Average headcount 257 256 0% This Directors Remuneration report including both the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration has been Distributions to shareholders dividends and or share buybacks 117.4 116.1 1% approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Statement on implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the year commencing 1 July 2018 The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by binding shareholder vote at the 20 October 2017 AGM.
Clive Adamson Remuneration Committee Chairman The Committee intends to continue to apply broadly the same metrics and weightings to annual variable remuneration in the year ending 30 June 2019 as have been applied in the current period.
6 September 2018 68 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 hmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 669 9
