Directors remuneration report Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear shareholders, I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the Report of the Remuneration Committee the Committee in respect of the year ended 31 March 2018.
Performance and reward in 2018 2018 has been another strong year, with revenue growth of 7% and Operating profit growth of 10%.
We have also continued to deliver good progress against our strategy.
Further details can be found on pages 20 to 21 of the Strategicreport.
Annual bonus The annual bonus for 2018 was based 75% on Operating profit and 25% on strategic targets growth in full page advert views Jill Easterbrook and penetration of managing products.
Operating profit was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 220.6m, slightly above our target of 219.0m, which resulted in a payout of 62% of maximum for this element.
Full page advert views showed a slight decline, which was below the threshold Composed of three independent Non-Executive Directors.
Managing forecourts grew by a further 20% to At least two meetings held per year.
3,000 which was just below our target of 3,100.
Total bonus for 2017 18 was therefore 50.3% of maximum, resulting in payments The Company Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, the Chief of 411,830 for the CEO and 228,706 for the CFO & COO.
Half of Financial Officer and Chief Operating Officer and other this bonus will be deferred into shares for a two-year period.
relevant individuals are invited to attend the meetings Performance Share Plan PSP no person is present during any discussion relating to their Our first PSP award following IPO was awarded in 2015 and will own remuneration.
vest in June 2018 based on performance over the three years The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The award was based 75% on Cumulative Underlying operating profit performance and 25% on Total For more information on the Committees Terms of Reference Shareholder Return TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding visit plc.
co. uk investors investment trusts.
Cumulative Underlying operating profit performance for the three years to 31 March 2018 was 603m, which was above the maximum of 550m.
TSR performance exceeded the index by 27%, which is again above the maximum target of 25%, and so overall, this award will vest in full in June 2018.
Under the terms of the PSP holding period, the Directors Three meetings were held during the year: will retain the vested shares received for at least two years from Meetings attended Percentage of the point of vesting.
total meetings held meetings attended The Committee judged that annual bonus plan payouts and the Jill Easterbrook Chairman 3 3 100% level of PSP award vesting appropriately reflected the underlying David Keens 3 3 100% performance of the Company.
Jeni Mundy 3 3 100% Remuneration review Our progress in 2018: In light of the requirement to seek shareholder approval for a new policy at the 2018 AGM, during 2017 18 the Committee undertook Reviewed our remuneration framework to ensure it remains a thorough review of our current remuneration arrangements.
aligned with our strategy in advance of submitting a revised The Committee considered a range of options for the structure Directors Remuneration Policy for approval at the 2018 AGM.
of remuneration going forward, but ultimately concluded that our Consulted with shareholders in relation to this revised current remuneration framework has been successful and framework, the most notable aspect of which is the replacement continues to be appropriate for the Executive Directors.
of TSR with Total Group revenue growth in our PSP.
Assessed the achievement of targets for the 2018 annual bonus The Committee has, however, made some modifications to the and 2015 PSP awards.
structure and assessment of performance measures for the PSP Determined the remuneration packages in respect of the to better align performance measures with our strategy as well exit of Sean Glithero and the change in role of Nathan Coe.
as to simplify and increase the transparency of our approach to Set appropriate targets for 2019 bonuses and PSP awards assessing performance and setting targets.
These modifications to be granted in 2018. are as follows: Gave consideration to the approach to equity participation across Total Group revenue growth will replace relative TSR as a the workforce and launched our second SAYE scheme in 2018. performance measure for 25% of the PSP award from 2018 Approved the 2017 18 Directors remuneration report.
Revenue growth is an important performance indicator of the business and the Committee believes that In 2019 we will: incentivising management to continue to grow revenue Continue to monitor the executive pay environment, performance through our three business lines Trade, governance developments and market practice.
Consumer services and Manufacturer and Agency Determine how pay should be implemented for 2019 20 and set will support long-term profit growth and shareholder appropriate targets for annual bonus and long-term awards.
Assess the achievement of targets for the 2019 annual bonus and 2016 PSP awards.
66 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements To ensure revenue performance is aligned with long-term value His annual bonus opportunity will be increased, subject to the creation the vesting for the revenue portion of the award will be approval of our new Remuneration Policy, to 150% of base salary subject to an underpin whereby the Operating profit measure must from 130%.
His PSP opportunity will be increased to 200% of base be at least at threshold levels of performance for any portion of the salary from 150%.
This brings his incentive package in line with the Total Group revenue element to pay out.
current award opportunities for the CEO.
To ensure sustained long-term value creation for shareholders, Note that Nathans shareholding guideline will also increase from a further underpin will apply to the two-year post-vesting holding 150% to 200% of salary, in line with the increase to the PSP award.
period, whereby the Committee has discretion to make a downward This approach creates a market competitive total package, but with adjustment if there has been a material subsequent deterioration in the increase to quantum driven primarily via the annual bonus and underlying performance which significantly departs from any PSP, which are subject to the achievement of stretching short and market deterioration.
long-term performance targets, which is best aligned to the interests The Committee reconfirmed that Operating profit remains the of our investors.
Fixed pay would continue to be positioned towards most appropriate profit measure for the remainder of the PSP.
the lower end of market practice compared to companies of a similar Although EPS is widely used by other companies for long-term size and complexity to AutoTrader.
Following this increase the incentives, the Committee believes that the method by which cash Committee believes that Nathans salary and total compensation may be returned to shareholders e. g. through share buybacks package will be appropriately positioned to reflect the size and should not affect executive compensation and therefore believes scope of his dual role and it is intended that any future salary that Operating profit is a more appropriate performance measure increases will be in line with those awarded to other employees for the PSP.
Operating profit will be assessed based on growth over the For our CEO, Trevor Mather, his salary was increased by 2% to 557,134 three-year performance period rather than Cumulative Operating with effect from 1 April 2018 in line with the general increase for other profit as used previously, aligning with the way revenue growth employees across the Group.
His maximum bonus opportunity and isassessed.
his PSP award will continue to be 150% and 200% of salary, respectively, Taking into account shareholder feedback and to increase in line with the Policy.
transparency, we will disclose Total Group revenue and Operating Annual bonus profit PSP targets at the time of award rather than with a one-year 75% of the maximum bonus opportunity will be based on Operating delay.
Targets for 2018 PSP awards are set out on page 70. profit with the remaining 25% being based on two strategic metrics based on stock and audience targets, which underpin the core health Current Proposed and position of our business.
Targets will be disclosed retrospectively in next years report.
PSP 75% based on 75% on Operating For the 2018 award, 75% will be based on Operating profit growth, Cumulative Operating profit growth requiring compound annual growth over a three-year period of 10% for profit maximum vesting.
As outlined above, the remaining 25% will be based on Total Group revenue growth, requiring 8% growth for maximum vesting.
The targets are disclosed in full on page 70.
25% based on TSR The Committee consulted with our main shareholders regarding the 25% based on Group relative to the FTSE 250 Total revenue growth proposed changes set out above and was pleased with the level of excl.
This remuneration report is in three parts.
Other elements of our policy will continue unchanged.
This Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Board changes The Directors Remuneration Policy set out on pages 68 to 73, Sean Glithero left the Board on 21 September 2017.
He received salary, which sets out our Policy for Executive Director and Non-Executive benefits and pension to this date.
No further payments were made in Director remuneration.
The Policy will be subject to a binding lieu of notice.
On his departure all his long-term incentives and shareholder vote at the AGM on 20 September 2018. deferred bonus shares lapsed.
The Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 74 to 80, which sets out how the Policy has been implemented during 2017 18 Implementation of policy for 2018 19 and how we intend to implement the Policy for 2018 19.
The Annual Salary and incentive opportunities Statement by the Chairman, together with the Annual Report on On 3 July 2017, it was announced that following Sean Glitheros Remuneration, will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM on departure, Nathan Coe would be taking on the role of Chief Financial 20 September 2018.
Officer in addition to his existing role of Chief Operating Officer.
The Committee reviewed Nathans package and agreed the following This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act changes to reflect the significant increase in the size and the scope 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and of his responsibilities given his combined CFO & COO role: Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 and the UKLAs Listing Rules.
His base salary was increased to 370,000 with effect from 1 April 2018.
This is an increase of 5.7% on his current salary and represents I hope that you will be supportive of the AGM resolutions to approve both an annual adjustment and an increment to reflect his promotion our Directors Remuneration Policy and our Annual Report on to CFO, in addition to his previous COO responsibilities.
I shall be available at the AGM to answer reference, across the Group for the 2018 19 financial year, the any specific questions that you may have.
average increase in salary was around 3.5%, reflecting both the Jill Easterbrook general market, promotions and individual rewards for performance.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 June 2018 Auto Trader Group plc 67 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Directors Remuneration Policy This Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders for approval in a binding vote at the AGM on 20 September 2018 and will be effective from this date.
Policy overview As outlined in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement, in light of the requirement to seek shareholder approval for a new Remuneration Policy, the Committee undertook a thorough review of the current remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors, considering a range of potential approaches.
The Committee concluded that the current framework remains appropriate and therefore the Policy will be re-submitted to shareholders largely unchanged from the version approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Minor changes have been made to the Policy to clarify its practical operation and to reflect prevailing market practice.
The Policy is structured so as to ensure that the main elements of remuneration are linked to Company strategy, in line with best practice and aligned with shareholders interests.
The Policy is designed to reward Executive Directors by offering competitive remuneration packages, which are prudently constructed, sufficiently stretching and linked to long-term profitability.
In promoting these objectives, the Policy aims to be simple in design, transparent and structured so as to adhere to the principles of good corporate governance and appropriate risk management.
A further aim of the Remuneration Policy is to encourage a culture of share ownership by colleagues throughout the Company, and in support of this we have both a SIP, under which an award of free shares to commemorate the Admission was granted, and a SAYE scheme.
In November 2017 we launched our second SAYE programme.
How the views of shareholders and employees are taken into account Whilst the Committee does not consult directly with employees on the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Committee does receive regular updates regarding remuneration arrangements across the Group.
These updates are taken into consideration when determining the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and in particular when considering any changes to policy and increases in the level of fixed remuneration.
The Company regularly undertakes an employee engagement survey which includes questions to understand employees views on their own remuneration and benefits, which the Committee also reviews.
The Committee is committed to a constructive dialogue with our shareholders in order to ensure that our Remuneration Policy is aligned with their views.
The Committee consulted with shareholders in advance of submitting our revised Policy to the shareholder vote and carefully considered the feedback received.
In conjunction with any additional feedback received from time to time, this will be considered as part of the Committees annual review of how we intend to implement our Remuneration Policy.
If any significant changes to our Remuneration Policy which require shareholder approval are proposed, the Committee will seek to engage with major shareholders to explain our proposals and obtain feedback.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Our Policy is designed to offer competitive, but not excessive, remuneration structured so that there is a significant weighting towards performance-based elements.
A significant proportion of our variable pay is delivered in shares with deferral and holding periods being mandatory, and with appropriate recovery and withholding provisions in place to safeguard against overpayments in the event of certain negative events occurring.
The table below provides a full summary of the Policy elements for Executive Directors.
Purpose and link Operation and performance Maximum Performance Element to strategy conditions opportunity assessment Salary To recruit and reward Salaries are normally reviewed annually There is no prescribed maximum The Committee reviews executives of high with changes effective from 1 April but salary level or salary increase: the salaries of Executive calibre.
may be reviewed at other times if however, any base salary increases Directors each year taking considered appropriate.
will normally be in line with the due account of all the factors Recognises individuals percentage increases awarded to described in how the salary experience, Salary reviews will consider: other employees of the Group.
responsibility and personal performance: performance.
However, increases may be made Group performance: outside of this policy in appropriate the nature and scope of the role: circumstances, such as: the individuals experience: and Where a Director is appointed on increases elsewhere in the Company.
a salary that is at the lower end of the market practice range, larger Periodic reviews of market practice increases may be awarded as the for example, in comparable companies executive gains experience to in terms of size and complexity will move the salary closer to a more also be undertaken.
The Committee considers the impact Where there has been a change in of any salary increase on the total the nature and scope of the role.
Where there has been a significant and sustained change in the size and complexity of the business.
Where there has been a significant change in market practice.
68 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Purpose and link Operation and performance Maximum Performance Element to strategy conditions opportunity assessment Benefits To provide competitive Executive Directors are entitled The value of benefits is not capped N A benefits to ensure to the following benefits: as it is determined by the cost to the wellbeing of the Company, which may vary.
income protection insurance: and private medical insurance.
The Committee may determine that Executive Directors should receive additional reasonable benefits if appropriate, taking into account typical market practice and practice throughout the Group.
Executive Directors may be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses and the Company may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
Where an Executive Director is required to relocate to perform their role, they may be provided with reasonable benefits as determined by the Committee in connection with this relocation on either a one-off or ongoing basis, including any benefits such as housing, travel or education allowances.
Pension To provide retirement Directors are eligible to receive Maximum contribution in line N A benefits for employer contributions to the with the contribution of other employees.
Companys pension plan which is a employees in the Group, currently defined contribution plan, a salary 5% of salary.
supplement in lieu of pension benefits or combination of the above or similar arrangement.
Annual To incentivise and The annual bonus is based Maximum of 150% of salary.
Financial measures will bonus reward the achievement predominantly on stretching financial normally represent the of annual financial and and operational objectives set at the majority of bonus, with operational objectives beginning of the year and assessed by strategic or operational which are closely linked the Committee following the year end.
non-financial targets to the corporate representing the balance Half of any bonus earned is normally strategy.
subject to deferral into shares under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP, Not more than 20% of each typically for a period of two years from part of the bonus will be the date of award.
The deferred shares payable for achieving the will vest subject to continued relevant threshold hurdle.
employment, but there are no further Measures and weightings performance targets.
may change each year to A dividend equivalent provision applies, reflect any year-on-year as described below.
Recovery and withholding provisions apply, as described below.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust targets Participation in the bonus plan, and all for any exceptional events bonus payments, are at the discretion including acquisitions or of the Committee.
disposals that may occur during the year.
Auto Trader Group plc 69 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and link Operation and performance Maximum Performance Element to strategy conditions opportunity assessment Performance To incentivise and Awards will normally be made annually Normal: maximum of 200% of salary.
The vesting of awards will be Share Plan recognise successful under the PSP, and will take the form of subject to the achievement Exceptional circumstances: PSP execution of the nil-cost options or conditional share of performance metrics maximum of 300% of salary.
Participation and individual which may be financial, share Note, PSP awards granted in June the longer term.
award levels will be determined at the price or strategic in nature.
2018 will take discretion of the Committee within To align the long-term The metrics and weightings effect under the Policy.
interests of Executive for each award will be set this Policy.
Directors with those Awards normally vest after three years out in the Annual Report on ofshareholders.
subject to the extent to which the Remuneration.
Any strategic performance conditions specified measure s will account for for the awards are satisfied, and no more than 25% of the continued service.
Recovery and withholding provisions The Committee has the apply, as described below.
discretion to adjust targets for any exceptional events Executive Directors are required to including acquisitions and retain vested shares delivered under disposals that occur during the PSP for at least two years from the the performance period.
point of vesting, subject to the terms of the holding period described below.
No more than 25% of the award vests for achieving A dividend equivalent provision applies, threshold performance.
All-employee To encourage The Company operates two Maximum permitted based on N A Share Plans Group-wide equity all-employee tax-advantaged plans, HMRC limits from time to time.
SIP & SAYE ownership across all namely a Save As You Earn SAYE and employees, and create a Share Incentive Plan SIP for the a culture of ownership.
The operation of these plans will be at the discretion of the Committee, and Executive Directors will be eligible to participate on the same basis as other employees.
Share To increase alignment Executive Directors are expected to The minimum share ownership N A ownership between executives build and maintain a holding of shares guideline is 200% of salary for guidelines and shareholders.
This is expected to be current Executive Directors.
built through retaining a minimum of 50% of the net of tax vested PSP and DABP shares, until the guideline level is met.
Notes to the Policy table Recovery and withholding provisions Recovery and withholding provisions apply to variable pay, to enable the Company to recover amounts paid under the annual bonus and PSP in the event of the following negative events occurring within three years of the payment of a cash bonus, the grant date of an award under the DABP or the vesting date of PSP awards: a material misstatement of or restatement to the audited financial statements or other data: an error in calculation leading to over-payment of bonus: or individual gross misconduct.
Should such an event be suspected, there will be a further two years in which the Committee may investigate the event.
The amount to be recovered would generally be the excess payment over the amount which would otherwise be paid, and recovery may be satisfied in a variety of ways, including through the reduction of outstanding deferred awards, reduction of the net bonus or PSP vesting and seeking a cash repayment.
Dividend equivalents Under the DABP and the PSP, the Committee may also pay the value of dividends, at the Committees discretion, on vested shares in cash or shares which may assume the reinvestment of dividends on a cumulative basis.
Discretion available under the Policy In order to ensure that the Remuneration Policy is capable of achieving its intended aims, the Committee retains certain discretions over the operation of the variable pay policy.
These include the ability to vary the operation of the plans in certain circumstances such as a change of control, rights issue, corporate restructuring event, special dividend or acquisition or disposal including the timing and determination of payouts vesting: and making appropriate adjustments to performance measures or targets as necessary to ensure that performance conditions remain appropriate.
However, it should be noted that in the event that the measures or targets are varied for outstanding awards in the light of a corporate event, the revised targets may not be materially less difficult to satisfy.
Should these discretions be used, they would be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may be subject to consultation with shareholders as appropriate.
70 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Operation of the PSP holding period Executive Directors are required to retain vested shares delivered under the PSP on a net of tax basis, where applicable for at least two years from the point of vesting.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee may at its discretion allow participants to sell, transfer, assign or dispose of some or all of the PSP shares before the end of the holding period.
Previously agreed payment The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before 17 September 2015 the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Selection of performance measures Annual bonus performance measures are selected annually to reflect the Groups key strategic initiatives for the year and include both financial and strategic or operational non-financial objectives.
A majority weighting will be placed on financial performance, ensuring that payouts are closely linked to the Groups performance and the execution of strategy.
PSP awards to be granted in 2018 19 will be subject to the achievement of Operating profit growth and Total Group revenue measures.
The Committee believes this combination of measures ensures that rewards are linked to long-term shareholder value creation.
The performance metrics used and their weighting may differ for awards to ensure they continue to support the Companys long-term growth strategy.
Differences in Remuneration Policy between Executive Directors and other employees Whilst the Policy described above applies specifically to the Companys Executive Directors, the Policy principles are designed with due regard to employees across the Group.
At risk, performance-linked pay is restricted to the most senior employees in the Company, as it is this group that is most influential in driving corporate performance.
The Committee is committed to promoting a culture of widespread share ownership across all levels of the organisation.
At senior levels this will predominantly be achieved through participation in performance-based incentive plans, whilst across the rest of the workforce it will be supported via all-employee share plans.
Illustration of application of Remuneration Policy The chart below illustrates how the composition of the Executive Directors remuneration packages varies under three different performance scenarios: threshold, on-target and maximum, both as a percentage of total remuneration opportunity and as a total value.
Chief Executive officer CFO & COO 3,000k 3,000k Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration 2,536k 2,500k 2,500k Annual variable Annual variable remuneration remuneration 2,000k 44% 2,000k 1,684k Long-term variable Long-term variable 1,561k remuneration remuneration 1,500k 1,500k 44% 36% 1,037k 33% 1,000k 1,000k 36% 27% 586k 33% 389k 27% 500k 500k 100% 37% 23% 100% 37% 23% 0k 0k Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Assumptions Minimum fixed pay base salary, benefits and pension Target fixed pay plus 50% of maximum bonus payout and 50% vesting under the PSP Maximum fixed pay plus 100% of bonus payout and 100% PSP vesting Salary levels on which other elements of the package are calculated are based on those applying on 1 April 2018.
The value of taxable benefits is as disclosed in the single figure for the year ending 31 March 2018.
No share price increase is assumed and any dividend equivalents payable are not included.
Auto Trader Group plc 71 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Remuneration Remuneration Directors remuneration report continued Service contracts and policy for payments on loss of office The service contracts for the Executive Directors are terminable by either the Company or the Executive Director on 12 months notice and make provision for early termination by way of payment of a cash sum equal to 12 months salary and pension.
The Company may continue to provide benefits until the end of the notice period or may make a payment to the value of 12 months contractual benefits.
Payment in lieu of notice can be paid either as a lump sum or in equal monthly instalments over the notice period and will normally be subject to mitigation.
The Committee will consider the particular circumstances of each leaver and retains flexibility as to at what point, and the extent to which, payments are reduced.
The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors office or employment or for any fees for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
SAYE options will become exercisable on cessation of employment to the extent permitted in accordance with the rules of the SAYE scheme, which does not provide for the exercise of discretion by the Committee.
On cessation, a payment may be made in respect of accrued but untaken holiday.
Relevant details will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration should such circumstances apply.
In summary, the contractual provisions on termination where the Company elects to make a payment in lieu of notice are as follows: Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months by either party.
Termination payments over the notice period 100% of salary and pension contribution for the relevant period.
Change of control No enhanced provisions on a change of control.
The Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
Service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Annual bonus on termination There is no automatic or contractual right to bonus payment.
At the discretion of the Committee, for certain leavers, a bonus may become payable at the normal payment date based on performance.
Such bonus would normally be pro-rated for time in employment unless the Committee determines otherwise.
At its discretion the Committee may also pay such bonus at the time of cessation of employment based on performance to that date.
Any bonus paid may be paid 100% in cash for the year of departure or preceding financial year if the bonus for that year has not yet been awarded.
Should the Committee decide to make a payment in such circumstances, the rationale would be fully disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
DABP awards on termination Any existing awards under the DABP will lapse on termination unless the termination is due to death, the sale of the employing company from the business or otherwise at the discretion of the Committee.
Where an award does not lapse it will vest on cessation or on such later date as the Committee determines, to the extent determined by the Committee.
PSP on termination Share-based awards are outside of service contracts provisions.
Normally, PSP awards will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment.
However, under the rules of the PSP, in certain prescribed circumstances namely death, sale of employing company from the business or otherwise at the discretion of the Committee, good leaver status can be applied.
In exercising its discretion as to whether an Executive Director should be treated as a good leaver, the Committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure and, in the event of this determination being made, will set out its rationale in the following Annual Report on Remuneration.
Awards will typically vest on the originally anticipated date, although the Committee has discretion to vest awards sooner and to assess performance conditions accordingly if vesting occurs before the end of the performance period.
The extent to which PSP awards will vest in good leaver circumstances will depend on: i the extent to which the performance conditions have been satisfied at the end of the performance period or such other relevant time as the Committee determines : and ii unless the Committee determines otherwise, the pro-rating of the award determined by the period of time served in employment during the vesting period.
Change of control In the event of a change of control of the Company or other relevant event, awards under the PSP, DABP and SIP and options under the SAYE scheme will vest early.
Vesting of awards under the PSP will be determined by applying any relevant performance condition and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, pro-rating the award by reference to the period of time from grant to vest as a proportion of a period of three years.
DABP award shall vest in full, and the extent to which an SAYE option can be exercised will be determined by the Committee in accordance with the rules of the SAYE scheme on the same basis as for other employees.
72 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Approach to recruitment and promotions The recruitment package for a new Executive Director would normally be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved Remuneration Policy.
Currently, this would include an annual bonus opportunity of up to 150% of salary and policy PSP award of up to 200% ofsalary other than in exceptional circumstances where up to 300% of salary may be made.
The Committee, however, retains discretion toinclude any other remuneration component or award which it feels is appropriate taking into account the specific circumstances of therecruitment, subject to the limit on variable remuneration of 350% of salary 450% of salary in exceptional circumstances which is in line with current Policy limits.
This limit does not include any payment s or award s made to buy-out remuneration forfeited on leaving a previousemployer.
The key terms and rationale for any such component would be disclosed as appropriate in that years Annual Report onRemuneration.
On recruitment, salary will be set so as to reflect the individuals experience and skills.
It may be set at a level below the normal market rate, with phased increases greater than those received by others as the Executive Director gains experience.
Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights at a previous employer as a result of appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards, in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account relevant factors which may include the form of awards, expected value and vesting timeframe of forfeited opportunities.
When determining any such buyout, the principle would be that awards would be on a like-for-like basis unless this is considered by the Committee not to be practical orappropriate.
Where an Executive Director is required to relocate from their home location to take up their role, the Committee may provide assistance with relocation either via one-off or ongoing payments or benefits.
If an internal candidate is promoted to the Board, legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
In the event of recruitment, the Committee may grant awards to a new Executive Director relying on the exemption in the Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards, to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director, without seeking prior shareholder approval or under any other appropriate Company incentive plan.
Policy on external appointments Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to take on one non-executive position with another company and to retain their fees in respect of such position.
Additional appointments may be undertaken in exceptional circumstances.
Details of outside directorships held by the Executive Directors and any fees that they received are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration Policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company, but instead have letters of appointment.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees To attract and retain a Fees are reviewed periodically and approved by the Board, There is no prescribed maximum high-calibre Chairman and with Non-Executive Directors abstaining from any discussion annual increase or fee level.
Non-Executive Directors by in relation to their fees.
Both the Chairman and the The fee levels are reviewed on a offering a market competitive Non-Executive Directors are paid annual fees and do not periodic basis, with reference to fee level.
participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements, the time commitment of the role or receive any pension provision or other benefits.
and market levels for example in The Chairman receives a single fee covering all of his duties.
companies of comparable size and complexity.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with additional fees payable for chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees and for performing the Senior Independent Director role.
Additional fees may be paid to reflect additional Board or Committee responsibilities or an increased time commitment as appropriate.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors shall be entitled to have reimbursed all expenses that they reasonably incur in the performance of their duties.
The Company may meet any tax liabilities that may arise on such expenses.
The Board may introduce benefits for the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors if it is considered appropriate to do so.
Letters of appointment All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years, subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
Appointment is terminable on six months written notice.
The appointment letters for the Non-Executive Directors provide that no compensation is payable upon termination of employment.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Approach to recruitment For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
Auto Trader Group plc 73 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Implementation of the Remuneration Policy The targets are commercially sensitive, but the Committee intends to disclose them in the next Annual Report on Remuneration provided for the year ending 31 March 2019 they are no longer considered to be commercially sensitive at The following sets out a summary of how our Remuneration Policy will that time.
be implemented for the year ended 31 March 2019.
PSP Base salary In line with the Policy, PSP awards will be made at the level of 200% The Executive Directors salaries were reviewed in early 2018 with of base salary.
Awards will be subject to the following performance the changes becoming effective from 1 April 2018.
The following table measures and targets: sets out the new salaries effective 1 April 2018 financial year 2019 compared to those which applied in financial year 2018: The performance conditions applying to the 2018 PSP awards are set out below.
Each element will be assessed independently of the other: Percentage 2019 2018 change Threshold Stretch 25% 100% Trevor Mather 557,134 546,210 2.0% Measure Weighting Basis vesting vesting Nathan Coe 370,000 350,000 5.7% Operating 75% Operating profit 6% p. a.
Equal to profit compound annual or above On 3 July 2017, it was announced that following Sean Glitheros growth rate for the 10% p. a. departure, Nathan Coe would be taking on the role of Chief Financial three years ended Officer in addition to his existing role of Chief Operating Officer.
31 March 2021 With effect from 1 April 2018 the Committee reviewed and increased Total Group 25% Total Group revenue 5% p. a.
Equal to Nathans salary as shown above and his incentive award levels to revenue compound annual or above reflect the significant increase in the size and the scope of his role.
Following these increases, the Committee believes that his salary three years ended and total compensation package are appropriately positioned.
31 March 2021 The increase for the CEO is in line with the general increase received For performance between the threshold and stretch targets, for other senior employees across the Group, and lower than the vesting will be calculated on a pro-rata basis.
There is no vesting average increase in salary across the wider employee population for performance below the threshold target.
of around 3.5% reflecting both general market, promotions and Revenue growth is a key performance indicator of the business and individual rewards for performance.
the Committee believes that incentivising management to continue to Pension and benefits grow revenue performance through our three business lines Trade, Executive Directors will continue to receive a pension contribution Consumer services and Manufacturer and Agency will support at the rate of 5% of base salary in line with pensions offered to other long-term profit growth and shareholder value creation.
To ensure employees, payable into the Company pension scheme or as a cash revenue performance is aligned with long-term value creation the alternative.
Ancillary benefits are provided in the form of private vesting for the revenue portion of the award will be subject to an medical cover, life assurance and income protection insurance.
underpin whereby the Operating profit measure must be at least at threshold levels of performance for any portion of the Total Group Annual bonus revenue element to pay out.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity will be 150% of base salary in line with the Policy.
Half of any bonus earned will be payable in shares, Continuing to drive Operating profit is a key strategic objective of the deferred for two years under the DABP.
The metrics and their business.
Though EPS is widely used by other companies, we believe weightings for the year ending 31 March 2019 are: that the method by which the Company returns cash to shareholders should not affect executive compensation and therefore for Percentage AutoTrader the Committee believes that Operating profit is a more of total appropriate performance measure.
Metric bonus To align with the approach being used to assess revenue performance, Operating profit 75% Operating profit will be assessed based on percentage growth over Strategic objectives the three-year period rather than Cumulative Operating profit as Stock average live car stock previously used for example, see the table on page 76.
Audience average full page advert views 25% The Committee set Operating profit and Total Group revenue growth Operating profit is a key performance indicator of the business and targets taking into account internal and external expectations of the Board believes continuing to deliver Operating profit performance performance and organic growth of the business.
The Committee will generate long-term value for shareholders.
For the Operating believes that these targets are appropriately stretching.
profit measure, for achievement of the threshold target, 20% of this In line with the Policy, Executive Directors will be required to hold any part of the bonus opportunity becomes payable with the maximum vested shares for a further period of two years under the terms of the becoming payable for outperforming the 2018 business plan.
The Committee believes that it is important to incentivise executives to deliver key strategic objectives to ensure that the business is well positioned to deliver profit growth and shareholder value in future.
The strategic targets selected for 2018 19 are aligned with our Group KPIs and are the key metric that underpin our core business.
The strategic objectives are equally weighted, accounting for 12.5% of the bonus each.
A financial underpin will apply to the strategic targets, such that no bonus will be payable unless a threshold level of Operating profit is exceeded.
74 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Single figure of remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2018 Audited The table below shows the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors of the Company in the year ended 31 March 2018.
Salary and Annual Long-term 3 000 fees Benefits bonus incentives Pension Total Executive Trevor Mather 546 1 412 1,644 27 2,630 1 Nathan Coe 350 1 229 705 18 1,302 2 Sean Glithero 143 7 150 Non-Executive Ed Williams 176 176 David Keens 73 73 Jill Easterbrook 64 64 Jeni Mundy 55 55 The following table shows the aggregate emoluments earned in the year ended 31 March 2017.
Salary and Annual Long-term 4 000 fees Benefits bonus incentives Pension Total Executive Trevor Mather 536 1 416 27 980 Sean Glithero 296 1 199 15 511 Non-Executive Ed Williams 173 173 David Keens 72 72 Jill Easterbrook 63 63 Jeni Mundy 54 54 1 Nathan Coe was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2017.
2 Sean Glithero stepped down from the Board on 21 September 2017.
3 100% of PSP awards granted in 2015 will vest in June 2018.
For the purpose of the single figure the vested shares have been valued based on the three-month average share price to 31March 2018 of 359.58p.
Dividend equivalents to the value of 37,386 for Trevor Mather and 16,019 for Nathan Coe have also been included.
4 There were no long-term incentives eligible to vest in respect of performance to 31 March 2017.
Additional information to support the single figure Benefits Benefits include: private healthcare, life assurance and income protection insurance.
Pension Employers pension contributions of 5% of salary were paid in respect of Executive Directors.
Annual bonus for the year ended 31 March 2018 The performance measures, targets and actual outcomes for the annual bonus for the year ended 31 March 2018 are shown in the following table: Actual Payout as a % of Performance measures Weighting Threshold Target Stretch performance maximum Financial Operating profit 75% 211m 219m 226m 220.6m 46.3% of the 75% Strategic Growth in full page advert views 12.5% 0% 2% 4% 0% 0% of the 12.5% targets New product initiatives the 12.5% 2,800 3,100 3,400 3,000 4% of the 12.5% adoption of Managing products Total 100% 50.3% of the 100% Payout for performance between threshold and stretch is calculated on a pro-rata basis.
The payout at threshold is 20% of maximum for Financial measures and 32% for the Strategic measures.
The payout at target is 50% of maximum for Financial measures and 64% for Strategic measures.
This level of performance resulted in a bonus payout of 411,830 for Trevor Mather CEO and of 228,706 for Nathan Coe CFO & COO.
Half of the bonus earned will be payable in shares, deferred for two years under the DABP in line with the Policy.
In light of the Companys performance during the year under review, the Committee was comfortable with the overall level of annual bonus payout.
Auto Trader Group plc 75 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Performance Share Plan vesting for year ended 31 March 2018 Our first PSP award following IPO was awarded in 2015 and will vest in June 2018 based on performance to 31 March 2018.
The performance conditions this award was based on, the targets and performance delivered are set out in the table below: Payout Threshold Stretch Actual as a percentage Measure Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting performance of maximum Cumulative Underlying operating 75% 510m Equal to or above 603m 75% of the 75% profit 550m TSR compared to the FTSE 250 Index 25% Equal to Index TSR Equal to Index TSR Index TSR 25% of the 25% 1 excluding investment trusts plus 25% or above plus 27% Total vesting 100% of the 100% 1 End average TSR performance is calculated based on a three-month average to 31 March 2018: start average TSR performance is the IPO price.
For performance between the threshold and stretch targets, vesting is calculated on a pro-rata basis.
Executive Directors will be required to retain vested shares delivered under this PSP for at least two years from the point of vesting, subject to the terms of the PSP holding period.
Scheme interests awarded during the year Audited Awards granted in the year under the DABP and PSP are shown in the table below.
Face maximum % award vesting Number of Multiple of value of awards at threshold Performance 4 2 Executive Director shares awarded salary at grant date % maximum period 1 DABP awards Trevor Mather 52,062 208,092 Nathan Coe 25,783 103,055 3 Sean Glithero 24,923 99,617 2 PSP awards Trevor Mather 273,309 200% 1,092,416 25% 1 April 2017 to Nathan Coe 131,348 150% 524,998 31 March 2020 3 Sean Glithero 113,228 150% 452,572 Awards are granted as nil-cost options.
1 DABP awards were granted in respect of the annual bonus for the year to 31 March 2017.
The awards will normally be eligible to vest two years from grant 16 June 2019 based on continuous employment.
2 PSP awards will normally be eligible to vest three years from grant 16 June 2020 based on performance over the three years to 31 March 2020 and continuous employment.
3 Sean Glitheros award lapsed when he left the Company on 21 September 2017.
4 Face maximum value was calculated based on the closing share price on the day before grant date 16 June 2017 of 3.997.
The performance conditions applying to the 2017 PSP awards shown in the table above are set out below.
Each element will be assessed independently.
Threshold Stretch Measure Weighting Basis 25% vesting 100% vesting Cumulative Operating profit 75% The sum of the Groups Operating profit 690m Equal to or above result over the three consecutive 750m financial years ending on 31 March 2020 TSR 25% Performance relative to the FTSE 250 Equal to Index TSR Equal to Index TSR plus 1 Index excluding investment trusts 25% or above 1 Start and end average TSR will be calculated based on the three-month average TSR to 31 March.
For performance between the threshold and stretch targets, vesting will be calculated on a pro-rata basis.
There is no vesting below threshold performance.
Executive Directors will ordinarily be required to retain their net of tax number of vested shares delivered under the PSP for at least two years from the point of vesting.
76 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors shareholding and share interests Audited The Group has adopted shareholding guidelines in order to encourage Executive Directors to maintain a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to 200% of salary.
If an Executive Director does not meet the guideline, they will be expected to retain at least half of the net shares vesting under the Companys discretionary share-based employee incentive schemes until the guideline is met.
Both Executive Directors currently hold well in excess of this limit.
Non-Executive Directors do not have shareholding guidelines.
The table below sets out the number of shares held or potentially held by Directors including their connected persons where relevant as at 31 March 2018.
Number of awards Number of awards held under the Target Percentage of held under the DABP conditional shareholding salary held in Beneficially PSP conditional on on continued guideline shares as at 1 2 Director owned shares performance employment as a % of salary 31 March 2018 Executive Directors Trevor Mather 12,000,000 995,438 153,283 200% 7, 703% Nathan Coe 2,883,252 440,831 75,911 200% 2,888% 3 Sean Glithero 2,997, 581 381,741 73,380 150% N A Non-Executive Directors Ed Williams 6,875,444 N A N A Jill Easterbrook N A N A David Keens 25,000 N A N A Jeni Mundy N A N A 1 Includes shares owned by connected persons.
Only beneficially owned shares count towards the shareholding guideline.
2 Based on the Directors salary and the mid-market price at close of business on 31 March 2018 of 350.6p.
3 Sean Glithero stepped down from the Board on 21 September 2017 and his shareholding is shown at this date.
Awards held by Sean under the PSP and DABP lapsed on the date he left the business.
of shares Shares options Shares options Options No.
2 2016 PSP awards are subject 75% to Cumulative Underlying Operating profit and 25% to relative TSR performance compared to the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts over the three-year period to 31 March 2019.
For the Cumulative Underlying operating profit portion, 25% will vest if Cumulative Underlying operating profit is 660m or greater.
100% will vest if Cumulative Underlying operating profit is 710m or above.
For performance between these points, vesting will be calculated on a pro-rata basis.
For the Relative TSR portion, 25% will vest if AutoTraders TSR performance is equal to the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
100% will vest if AutoTraders TSR performance exceeds the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts by 25% or more.
3 Performance measures for 2017 PSP awards are set out on page 76.
Remuneration on departure of Sean Glithero Audited Sean Glithero left the Board on 21 September 2017.
He received salary, benefits and pension to this date.
No further payments were made in lieu of notice.
On his departure all his long-term incentives and deferred bonus shares lapsed.
Payments to former Directors Audited There were no payments made to former Directors during the year.
Auto Trader Group plc 77 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Performance graph and CEO remuneration table The graph below illustrates the Companys TSR performance relative to the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts of which the Company is a constituent, from the start of conditional share dealing on 18 March 2015.
The graph shows the performance of a hypothetical 100 invested and its performance over that period.
Total Shareholder Return 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 18 March 2015 31 March 2016 31 March 2017 31 March 2018 Auto Trader Group plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters.
CEO remuneration The table below sets out the CEOs single figure of total remuneration together with the percentage of maximum annual bonus awarded over the same period.
2 Private company when bonus plan implemented in 2015.
3 No awards were eligible to vest in respect of long-term performance ending in 2015, 2016 or 2017.
Percentage increase in the remuneration of the CEO The table below shows the average increase in each component between the CEO and the average employee in the Company from 2017 to 2018.
The average value of benefits for employees has decreased due to a reduction in the cost of private medical insurance.
Change in remuneration levels Average Component CEO employee Salary 2% 4% Benefits 0% -15% Bonus -1% -6% Relative importance of the spend on pay The following table shows the Groups actual spend on pay for all employees compared to distributions to shareholders.
The average number of employees has also been included for context.
Revenue and Operating profit have also been disclosed as these are two key measures of Group performance.
2018 2017 m m % change Employee costs see note 5 to the consolidated financial statements 54.5 53.6 2% Average number of employees see note 6 to the consolidated financial statements 822 820 0% 1 Revenue see consolidated income statement 330.1 311.4 7% 1 Operating profit 220.6 203.1 10% Dividends paid and proposed see note 23 to the consolidated financial statements 56.1 50.7 11% 1 Days adjusted.
78 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Total Shareholder Return rebased Strategic report Governance Financial statements Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The fees were reviewed in early 2018 and were increased by 2% with effect from 1 April 2018.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees will next be reviewed in early 2019, with any increase becoming effective from 1 April 2019.
The following table sets out the new fees effective from 1 April 2018 financial year 2019 compared to those which applied in financial year 2018: Percentage 2019 2018 change Base fees Chairman 180,405 176,868 2% Non-Executive Director 55,713 54,621 2% Additional fees Senior Independent Director 9,551 9,364 2% Audit Committee Chairman 9,551 9,364 2% Remuneration Committee Chairman 9,551 9,364 2% There is no additional fee payable to the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The Company Chairman is currently Chair of the Nomination Committee.
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years, subject to annual re-appointment at the AGM.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Details of the appointment terms of the Non-Executive Directors are as follows: Start of current term Expiry of current term Ed Williams 6 March 2018 5 March 2021 David Keens 1 May 2018 30 April 2021 1 Jill Easterbrook 1 July 2015 30 June 2018 Jeni Mundy 1 March 2016 28 February 2019 1 The Board has approved the renewal of this term with effect from 1 July 2018 to expire on 30 June 2021.
Funding of equity awards Share awards may be funded by a combination of newly issued shares, treasury shares and shares purchased in the market.
Where shares are newly issued or from treasury, the Company complies with Investment Association dilution guidelines on their issue.
The current dilution usage of all share plans is c. 0.53% of shares in issue.
Where shares are purchased in the market, these will be held by a trust, in which case the voting rights relating to the shares are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
At 31 March 2018 the Trust held 932,761 shares in respect of the Share Incentive Plan.
External directorships AutoTrader recognises that its Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies.
Such non-executive duties can broaden a Directors experience and knowledge which can benefit AutoTrader.
The Company Chairman would approve any such directorships in advance to ensure that there was no conflict of interest.
Trevor Mather is a director on the board of Burns Sheehan Limited, a recruitment business, for which he does not receive any remuneration.
The Board approved the appointment and confirmed that it was satisfied that there was no conflict of interest arising.
Membership of the Committee Jill Easterbrook is the Committee Chairman, and its other members are David Keens and Jeni Mundy.
Refer to page 66 to 67 for further details of the membership of the Committee, the Terms of Reference, the meetings held and activities during the year.
Auto Trader Group plc 79 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report continued External advisors During the year the Committee undertook a review of advisors and from October 2017 appointed Deloitte following a competitive tender process.
Deloitte are founding members of the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and adhere to this Code in its dealings with the Committee.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte is objective and independent.
The Committee is comfortable that the Deloitte engagement partner and team that provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with the Company that may impair their independence.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and judged that there were appropriate safeguards against such conflicts.
Fees are charged on a time and materials basis.
During the year Deloitte was paid 62,450 for advice provided to the Committee.
Deloitte provided additional services to the Company in relation to internal audit and tax services.
Prior to this date, the Committee received advice from New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon plc.
NBS are also a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and the Committee is satisfied that the advice received by NBS in relation to remuneration matters during the year was objective and independent.
NBS did not provide any other services to the Company during the year.
Aon currently provides actuarial, valuation and administration services in relation to the defined benefit pension scheme of the Company.
The fees payable to NBS for providing advice in relation to executive remuneration over the financial year under review were 12,429, charged on a time-spent basis.
Statement of shareholder voting Shareholder voting in relation to recent AGM resolutions is as follows: Votes % of votes cast Votes % of votes cast for for against against Abstentions 2015 AGM: Remuneration policy binding 797, 281,130 98.20 14,637, 737 1.80 7, 139,212 2017 AGM: Annual Report on Remuneration advisory 809,249,426 99.12 7, 198,204 0.88 51,313 Approval This Directors remuneration report has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
Jill Easterbrook Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 June 2018 80 Auto Trader Group plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
