AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 56 Remuneration Committee Report This year has been one of unprecedented change for AVEVA, during which we have more than doubled our size.
We will be seeking shareholder approval to amend our policy to bring it into line with other companies of a similar size and complexity.
Table of contents Annual statement 57 Letter from the Remuneration Committee Chair Remuneration at a Glance 58 A t wo-page summary of the amounts paid in the last two years Directors' Remuneration Policy Part A 60 Policy table 66 Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios 67 Remuneration policy for Non-Executive Directors Implementation report Part B 68 Membership and attendance 70 Single figure of total remuneration 71 Summary of annual incentive awards made in the year 72 Performance and Retention Awards 72 Directors' share interests 74 Buy-out awards for Craig Hayman 75 CEO single figure history 76 Relative importance of spend on pay 76 Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors I am pleased to introduce the Directors' Remuneration Report at the end of a very successful and busy year at AVEVA in the run-up to and following the completion of the merger with Schneider Electric Software on 1 March.
It is the start of a transformational period for AVEVA.
Jennifer Allerton Remuneration Committee Chair Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 57 the CEO role has dramatically increased for gross misconduct or under one of Annual statement in scope following the completion of the the summary termination provisions in Dear Fellow Shareholder transaction.
The transformed AVEVA his service agreement within 3 years of Group has many more product offerings joining.
For more details, see page 74.
I am pleased to present my first Directors' across a wider range of markets, a larger Remuneration Report as Chair, following global footprint and increased revenues.
Following Craig's appointment to the my appointment last July at the 2017 We also face a significant challenge Board of AVEVA on 19 February, James AGM.
I took over from my predecessor over the next two years combining and Kidd moved to become Deputy CEO Philip Dayer, whom I would like to thank integrating the two businesses.
The and CFO, while David Ward became for his work over many years.
sections on Pensions, Benefits, Annual Deputy CFO and Company Secretary Incentive and Long-Term Incentive and stepped down from the Board.
As a summary, this Report contains the Plans remain unchanged, save for any James and David will continue to play following sections: amendments made to remove reference vital roles in the enlarged Group, and This Annual Statement to the RSP.
We have again consulted as explained in the September 2017 A new at a glance section extensively with shareholders about circular, subject to and conditional upon The amended Policy Part A these adjustments and are confident a shareholder vote both will receive a The Annual Report on Remuneration that they are in their best interests.
one-off performance and retention award, Part B with an initial value of 1,500,000 and As a result, we are proposing a new 850,000 respectively.
The awards will Introduction binding shareholder vote on this revised be paid in cash, subject to a requirement The Group has performed well overall, Policy, to be voted on at the 2018 AGM, that 50% of the net cash received is despite the inevitable distractions and it is designed to be effective for a invested in AVEVA shares.
The awards to management of performing the further three years.
As per last year's are subject to continued employment due diligence on and completing the Remuneration Report, the Policy comprises and a performance underpin, with half of combination in the year.
The Directors' Part A of this Report.
The Implementation the award value also subject to meeting Remuneration in the year was tied Report comprises Part B and contains full challenging and stretching business and to the performance of the heritage details of how the Policy was implemented integration related targets.
This half of AVEVA business, which saw excellent in 2017 18, together with an outline of our the performance award can vary from performance against our key metrics.
75% to 125% of the initial award value.
Despite receiving considerable support Board changes during the year Finally, the Board has proposed that the for AVEVA's 2017 Remuneration As announced, Craig Hayman has joined Company seeks to increase the cap on Policy during an extensive shareholder AVEVA from PTC Inc. where he was most total Non-Executive Director fees under consultation exercise, we received a recently Chief Operating Officer.
He was the Companys Articles of Association at significant number of votes against it based in the US and will now relocate to the AGM from the current level of at the AGM last July.
Craig's remuneration package has 550,000 to 700,000, recognising the decided ahead of the AGM to withdraw been structured to comply with AVEVA's enlarged Board.
Resolution 19 which proposed shareholder-approved remuneration amendments to the rules of the wellpolicy and comprises a base salary of Other Committee activities during established AVEVA Group Senior 700,000, a maximum bonus the year Employee Restricted Share Plan 2015 to opportunity of 125% of salary, an annual The Committee undertook a number of allow awards to be granted to Executive performance-related LTIP award over other activities during and relating to Directors of the Company.
Having shares worth up to a maximum of 250% 2017 18, including: analysed the feedback from shareholders of salary, a pension equal to 10% of salary, Agreement of the packages for Craig, and proxy voting agencies, we believe and standard benefits including a car James and David following their that the primary concern around the allowance and relocation benefits.
respective changes in role Remuneration Policy related to the single Setting the 2017 18 bonus targets and issue of granting Restricted Share Plan In order to secure Craigs services the determining the ultimate bonus outturn RSP awards to Executive Directors.
Company had to commit to compensate see page 71 Whilst we will watch market developments him by way of a buy-out for the loss Granting the 2017 LTIP awards, and around the use of these plans, we accept of significant outstanding equity awards Determining the vesting of the 2015 the experience from the 2017 AGM and on leaving PTC, which had a maximum LTIP awards see page 73 will not re-submit proposals for the award potential value of over 9 million.
Craig, of Restricted Shares to the 2018 AGM.
upon his appointment, received by way In conclusion of buy-out, a one-off grant of nil-cost I hope you find the contents of this Report With the combination of AVEVA options over AVEVA shares worth, at clear and are supportive of the and the Schneider Electric industrial grant, 5.5 million, subject to a vesting approaches and amendments proposed.
software business, we have reviewed the schedule and other conditions.
In Remuneration Policy that was approved structuring these buy-out awards, AVEVA As we have made changes to the Policy, by shareholders last year, to ensure that has followed the best practice principles we are publishing it in full, as per last year.
it continues to be appropriate for the of offering a total potential buy-out of less The Implementation Report contains full enlarged business.
The Remuneration value on grant than the current expected details of how the Policy was implemented Committee determined that, for the value of the awards lost, ensuring that in 2017 18, together with an outline of our most part, the current policy remains those elements subject to pre-vesting intentions for 2018 19. suitable for the Company over its next performance conditions remain subject stage of development.
In addition to the to conditions which are intended to be no Finally, immediately prior to the Policy, removal of the RSP from the Policy, we less challenging and that no element of overleaf, you will find a double spread, propose increasing the maximum salary the buy-out is realised early.
In addition, clearly outlining the 2017 18 remuneration cap from 600,000 to 900,000, in the awards will be subject to an additional arrangements.
order to have the flexibility to award pay requirement that Craig will normally rises, if appropriate, over the life of the be required to pay back any amounts Jennifer Allerton policy.
Whilst this figure is a cap and vesting net of tax should he resign within Remuneration Committee Chair does not reflect any form of aspiration, 2.5 years of joining or be dismissed AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 58 Remuneration at a Glance Key elements of the Directors' Remuneration Policy and payments made in accordance with the Policy are summarised below: Directors' Remuneration policy Key elements Applies to 2017 18 2018 19 Salary Craig Hayman 700k from Feb 2018 700k annual base James Kidd 450k 500k David Ward 300k n a Pension allowance All EDs 10% of salary Benefits All EDs Car allowance, fuel allowance and 600 of flexible benefits Applies to Paid in June 2017 Paid in June 2018 All EDs 2016 17 2017 18 Performance period All EDs 125% of salary 125% of salary Maximum opportunity Opportunity applied All EDs 125% of salary 125% of salary KPIs All EDs Discretionary Remuneration Committee Discretionary Remuneration Committee assessment against individual strategic assessment against individual strategic performance objectives performance objectives 2 Craig Hayman n a 48k 48% of maximum Payable James Kidd 63k 11% of maximum 563k 100% of maximum 1 3 David Ward 31k 11% of maximum 332k 100% of maximum Applies to 2017 award 2018 award Performance period All EDs 1 April 2017 31 March 2020 1 April 2018 - 31 March 2021 Maximum opportunity Craig Hayman 250% of salary 250% of salary James Kidd 250% of salary 250% of salary David Ward 250% of salary n a 2 Opportunity applied Craig Hayman 250% of salary 250% of salary James Kidd 150% of salary 175% of salary David Ward 150% of salary All EDs 3 year performance period, followed by a 2 year holding period.
Time horizon All EDs EPS growth 50% EPS growth 50% Criteria Relative TSR performance 25% Relative TSR performance 25% Strategic objectives 25% Strategic objectives 25% Applies to Current requirement Position at 31 March 2018 Share ownership Craig Hayman 200% of salary 0% of salary guidelines James Kidd 200% of salary 86% of salary 2016 17 2018 19 CEO pay compared to median employee pay 33:1 55:1 1 Outcome applied to pro rated salary from 8 July 2016 for David Ward 2 Outcome applied to pro rated salary from 19 February 2018 for Craig Hayman 3 Outcome applied to pro rated salary until 19 February 2018 for David Ward CEO ratios Ownership Long term incentives Annual Bonus Fixed pay Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 59 The charts below for the annual incentive scheme set out the performance achieved compared to the maximum opportunity for each of the components of the scheme, for each of the Executive Directors who served during the year.
The maximum and outcome for Craig and David have been pro rated to reflect their appointment and retirement dates from the Board respectively.
Annual incentive scheme James Kidd David Ward % of salary % of salary 0% 100% 125% 25% 50% 75% 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% 125% 150% 175% 200% 225% Maximum Maximum Outcome Outcome 0k 100k 200k 300k 400k 500k 600k 0k 100k 200k 300k 400k 500k 600k Recurring revenue Full year adjusted profit Personal objectives Recurring revenue Full year adjusted profit Personal objectives Craig Hayman Long-term incentive scheme % of salary Nil payout for any Executive Director.
0% 100% 200% 300% 400% 500% 600% 700% Maximum Outcome 0k 100k 200k 300k 400k 500k 600k Recurring revenue Full year adjusted profit Personal objectives Maximum total remuneration opportunity compared to actual remuneration received for the year ending March 2018 Craig Hayman Full year opportunity Minimum On-target Maximum Pro-rated opportunity Actual James Kidd Minimum On-target Maximum Full year opportunity Actual David Ward Minimum On-target Maximum Full year opportunity Pro-rated opportunity Actual 0.0m 0.5m 1.0m 1.5m 2.0m 2.5m 3.0m 3.5m 4.0m Fixed Bonus LTIP AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 60 Remuneration Committee Report continued Part A: the Directors Remuneration Policy This report sets out the information required by Part 4 of Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended the Regulations.
The report also satisfies the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, and describes how the Board has applied the principles and complied with the provisions relating to Directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The table below summarises the Committees future policy on the remuneration of Executive Directors which, if approved by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 11 July 2018, will replace the existing policy for which shareholder approval was obtained at the 2017 Annual General Meeting, and will become binding immediately thereafter.
The material differences between the existing and proposed new policy which has also been designed with due account taken of the UK Corporate Governance Code are explained in the statement by the Committee Chair and also in the table below.
It is currently intended that the policy will remain valid until the 2021 Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that: the Executive Directors are provided with appropriate incentives to align them with the achievement of the Companys long-term strategy and the future creation of shareholder value: enhanced performance is encouraged: and, the Executive Directors are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
Excessive risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded.
It also aims for a combination of fixed and variable payments, benefits and share-based awards that will achieve a balance in incentives to deliver short and long-term goals.
The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of remuneration of Executive Directors should be performance-related and should be delivered in shares to create alignment with shareholders interests.
Remuneration for Executive Directors is set in the context of the economic environment in which the Group operates, the outcome of the wider pay review for all Group employees as well as the financial performance of the Group.
When determining remuneration arrangements, the Committee takes into consideration relevant external considerations as well as the remuneration for employees of the Group generally.
Remuneration commitments made which were consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy in force at that time shall be honoured, even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Helps recruit and retain Base salary is normally In determining salary increases None employees reviewed annually with changes the Committee generally Reflects experience and role effective from 1 April, although considers the factors outlined salaries may be reviewed more in the operation column.
frequently or at different times Salary increases will normally of the year if the Committee be in line with the range of determines this is appropriate.
increases in the broader The Committee determines workforce salary, although base salary taking into account higher increases can be made factors including, but not in certain circumstances, for limited to: example: The individuals role, an increase in the individuals experience and performance scope of responsibilities: in achieving financial and in the case of Executive non-financial goals within Directors who are positioned his areas of responsibility.
on a lower initial salary while Salaries at other companies they gain experience in the of a similar size and role: or complexity as well as global where the Committee technology peers.
considers that salary is Remuneration of different behind appropriate market groups of employees within positioning for a company of the Company.
AVEVAs size and Total organisational salary complexity.
However, no salary increase The Committee takes a will be paid to an incumbent to phased approach to new the extent that this increases salaries where appropriate.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 61 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Pensions Provides a competitive The CEO and CFO are 10% of base salary pension None retirement benefit in a way that members of the AVEVA Group contribution and or cash is cost effective to the Personal Pension Plan a alternative.
The intention is that new appointments to the Board would also participate in the AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan or receive an equivalent cash payment.
However, if appropriate the Committee may determine that alternative arrangements for the provision of retirement benefit may apply.
When determining pension arrangements for new appointments the Board will give regard to the cost of the arrangements, market practice and the pension arrangements received elsewhere in the Group.
Benefits Help recruit and retain The benefit policy is to provide The cost of benefit provision None employees an appropriate level of benefit will depend on the cost to the Provide a competitive range of taking into account market Company of providing valued benefits practice at other companies of individual items and the Assist toward early return to similar size and complexity and individuals circumstances.
work in the event of illness or the level of benefits provided However, the addition of injury for other employees in the further benefits to those Group.
already provided excluding In line with benefits provided relocation recruitment-related for other senior employees in benefits and participation in the Group, Executive Directors any all-employee share plan currently receive a mobility will not result in the aggregate allowance or company car, a benefit provision for any fuel allowance and an annual Executive Director increasing allowance toward a range of to over 50,000. benefits.
In the event that an Executive Director was required to re-locate to undertake their role, the Committee may provide additional benefits to reflect the relevant circumstances on a one-off or ongoing basis.
Benefits are reviewed by the Committee in the context of market practice from time to time and the Committee may introduce or remove particular benefits if it is considered appropriate to do so.
If the Company were to operate an all-employee share plan in the future, Executive Directors would be entitled to participate in the plan on the same terms as other employees.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 62 Remuneration Committee Report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Annual Incentive Scheme Incentivises and rewards the The Committee determines an The maximum bonus The performance measures achievement of annual individuals maximum incentive opportunity is 125% of applied may be financial or financial and strategic business opportunity taking into account base salary.
non-financial and corporate, targets and delivery of the responsibilities of the role divisional or individual and in personal objectives and market practice at such proportions as the Deferred element encourages comparable companies.
Committee considers long-term shareholding, helps Performance targets are set by appropriate.
retention and discourages the Committee on an annual Where a sliding scale of targets excessive risk-taking basis and ordinarily disclosed is used, attaining the threshold retrospectively.
level of performance for any The Committee determines measure will not typically the level of bonus paid taking produce a pay-out of more than into account performance 20% of the maximum portion of against targets, the underlying overall annual bonus attributable performance of the business to that measure, with a sliding and Executive Directors scale to full payout for maximum performance during the year.
However, the 40% of any bonus earned is annual bonus plan remains a deferred into shares under the discretionary arrangement and 1 Deferred Share Scheme, to the Committee retains a which malus clawback standard power to apply its 2 provisions apply judgement to adjust the outcome of the annual bonus plan for any performance measure should it consider that to be appropriate e. g. if the provisional bonus outturn does not in the Committees view reflect overall shareholder expectations.
The AVEVA Group Long-Term Incentive Plan the LTIP Establishes a motivational and Awards vest based on Awards over shares worth no The Committee may set such  performance over a period more than 250% of salary may performance conditions on structure to incentivise of three years and are subject be made each year.
awards as it considers Directors to focus on the to a subsequent two-year appropriate, whether financial or creation of shareholder value holding period.
non-financial and whether aligned with the longer term Awards under the LTIP may be corporate, divisional or strategy for the Group granted in the form of individual.
conditional awards or nominal Performance periods may be cost options or phantom over such periods as the options which will be settled Committee selects at grant, in cash.
which will not normally be less Dividends and any other than, but may be longer than, income or capital distribution three years.
can accrue on shares during Where a sliding scale of targets the vesting period.
is used, attaining the threshold The Committee determines level of performance for any targets each year to ensure that measure will not typically targets are stretching and produce a vesting of more than represent value creation for 25% of the maximum portion of shareholders while remaining overall award attributable to that motivational for management.
measure, with a sliding scale to The Committee shall full payout for maximum determine the extent to which performance.
the awards will vest based on The Committee may in its performance against targets judgement adjust the vesting and taking into consideration outturn should it consider that to the wider.
performance of be appropriate e. g. if the the Group.
provisional vesting outturn does Malus clawback provisions not in the Committees view 2 apply reflect the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Policy table footnotes 1 Deferred awards will normally deliver the shares to participants in three equal tranches, one in each of the three years following the year in which an award is granted.
The Committee has discretion to determine an alternative vesting profile.
Dividends and any other income or capital distribution can accrue on deferred shares during the deferral period.
2 Awards granted under the Deferred Share Scheme and, from 2012 onwards, under the LTIP, are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Those provisions may apply at the discretion of the Committee if accounts are corrected or published that indicate the relevant performance was materially worse than in the accounts used to assess vesting.
Other elements of remuneration are not subject to malus or clawback.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 63 Stating maximum amounts for the Remuneration Policy The DRR Regulations and related investor guidance encourages companies to disclose a cap within which each element of the Directors Remuneration Policy will operate.
Where maximum amounts for elements of remuneration have been set within the Directors Remuneration Policy, these will operate simply as caps and are not indicative of any aspiration.
Travel and hospitality While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal usage of that term, it has been advised that corporate hospitality, whether paid for by the Company or another, and business travel for Directors and in exceptional circumstances their families may technically come within the applicable rules and so the Committee expressly reserves the right for the Committee to authorise such activities within its agreed policies.
Committee discretion The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including the exercise of any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the Policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may operate the LTIP, the annual bonus and the Deferred Share Scheme in accordance with their terms.
This includes: The selection of participants: The timing of grant of an award bonus opportunity: The size of an award bonus opportunity subject to the maximum limits set out in the policy table: The determination of performance against targets and resultant vesting bonus pay-outs: Discretion required when dealing with a takeover, change of control or restructuring of the group: Determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events, distributions and special dividends : and The annual review of performance measures, weightings and targets from year to year.
In addition, while performance measures and targets used in the annual bonus plan and LTIP will generally remain unaltered, if events occur which, in the Committees opinion, would make a different or amended target a fairer measure of performance, the Committee can make such amendments to the targets as it considers appropriate.
Any use of these discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Directors Remuneration Report and may, where appropriate and practicable, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
In addition, for the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors prior to the adoption of this policy.
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Remuneration arrangements throughout the Group Throughout the Group, remuneration is determined based on substantially the same principles: that remuneration arrangements should be appropriate for the role without paying more than is necessary and that pay should be structured to incentivise individuals to deliver the objectives of their role.
AVEVA employs over 4,400 employees in over 80 locations with roles ranging from administrators to technical specialists and sales staff.
The structure and level of reward therefore differs from role to role depending on skills, experience, level of seniority and market practice for the role.
AVEVAs sales employees participate in commission plans that are designed to encourage the growth objectives of the Group.
More senior employees have annual bonus plans, with the Executive Leadership Team receiving a portion of bonus in shares which is deferred for up to three years.
Senior employees within the company participate in the LTIP and a Restricted Share Plan.
Selection of performance measures The Committees guiding principle is that remuneration arrangements that operate throughout the Group should support the delivery of our long-term business strategy and therefore the creation of shareholder value.
Our key long-term strategic priority is to deliver strong but sustainable revenue and profit growth to support the delivery of this strategic priority.
The metrics used in our annual bonus arrangements and LTIP are chosen with this in mind, with the payment of bonuses and the vesting of long-term incentives subject to stretching targets established by the Committee at the beginning of each performance period.
These targets are set taking account of internal forecasts of performance over the performance period, the markets in which the Group operates, our long-term growth ambitions and the expectations of the investment community on the Groups future potential performance.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 64 Remuneration Committee Report continued Remuneration Policy for new hires When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed Executive Director, the Committee would seek to apply the following principles: The package should be market competitive to facilitate the recruitment of an individual of sufficient calibre to lead the business.
At the same time, the Committee would intend to pay no more than it believes is necessary to secure the required talent.
The structure of the on-going remuneration package would normally include the components set out in the policy table for Executive Directors.
Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay opportunities or contractual rights as a result of their appointment, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards, in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account relevant factors, which may include the form of awards, expected value and vesting timeframe of forfeited opportunities.
When determining such buy-outs the guiding principle would be that awards would generally be on a like for like basis to those forfeited unless not considered appropriate.
To facilitate awards outlined above, in the event of recruitment, the Committee may grant awards to a new Executive Director in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
This provision permits the granting of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director, without seeking prior shareholder approval.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded excluding any buy-out awards is in accordance with limits on the Companys incentive plans as set out in the policy table.
Where an Executive Director is required to relocate to take-up their role the Committee may provide reasonable assistance with relocation either via one-off or on-going payments or benefits taking into account the individuals circumstances and prevailing market practice.
In the event that an internal candidate is promoted to the Board, legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
Executive Director service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office When determining leaving arrangements for an Executive Director the Committee takes into account any contractual agreements including the provisions of any incentive arrangements, typical market practice and the performance and conduct of the individual.
The service contracts for current and non-current Executive Directors include the following terms: Name Date of Contract Date of Appointment Continuous Service Date Current Executive Directors Craig Hayman 19 February 2018 19 February 2018 19 February 2018 James Kidd 17 February 2017 1 January 2017 5 January 2004 Non-current Executive Directors David Ward 19 July 2016 8 July 2016 17 January 2011 The service agreements are available to shareholders to view on request from the Company Secretary.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 65 Notice Period The CEOs service contract can be terminated by the Company or the Executive Director on nine months notice.
The Deputy CEO and CFOs service contract can be terminated by the Company or the Executive Director on nine months notice.
The service agreements provide for a period of garden leave.
The Committee will determine the appropriate notice period for any new Director taking into account the circumstances of the individual and market practice.
Any notice period will normally be no longer than 12 months.
The Committee reserves the right to provide a longer initial notice period of up to 24 months reducing to 12 months over the first 12 months of employment if it considers this to be appropriate.
Payment in lieu In the event of termination of contract without notice, the Executive shall be entitled to a payment in respect of salary of notice for the period of notice.
Such payment will normally be made in instalments and subject to mitigation but the Committee shall have discretion to make a single payment if this is considered appropriate.
Annual Bonus The Executive Director may, at the discretion of the Committee, remain eligible to receive an annual bonus for the financial year in which they ceased employment.
Such Annual Bonus award will be determined by the Committee taking into account the circumstances for leaving, time in employment and performance.
Deferred Share Death: In the event of a participants death unvested awards shall vest.
Where awards are in the form of options they Scheme may be exercised for a period of up to 12 months from death.
Good leavers: At the discretion of the Committee, leaving by reason of injury, disability, redundancy, the Company for which the participant works leaving the Group or any other reasons determined by the Committee.
Awards shall continue in full and vest on the originally anticipated vesting dates.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that awards should vest when the participant ceases employment.
Awards in the form of options may be exercised in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
Leavers in other circumstances: Awards will normally lapse.
Long Term Good leavers: At the discretion of the Committee, leaving as a result of death, injury, disability, redundancy, Incentive Plan retirement, the Company for which the participant works leaving the Group or any other reason.
Unvested awards shall continue in existence for the remainder of the performance period.
At the end of the performance period, the awards shall normally be permitted to vest to the extent determined in accordance with the applicable performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, then reduced to reflect the period that elapsed from the start of the performance period to the date of cessation as a proportion of the performance period.
Alternatively, the Committee may determine that awards may vest early subject to performance and pro rating as described above.
Vested but unexercised options held by participants who leave employment other than due to gross misconduct may be exercised for a period following cessation of employment.
Other An Executive Director who joined the Company before January 2008 and who is made redundant, may receive, in payments addition to a payment in lieu of notice, any statutory redundancy payment and any other payment to which he is entitled, a payment under the Companys enhanced redundancy policy.
This policy applies to all employees who joined the Company before January 2008.
Under the policy, an eligible person will receive a payment calculated by reference to their length of service and weekly pay by reference to gross annual salary as follows: 7 weeks pay for service of up to 6 years: plus 1.5 weeks pay for each completed year of service over 7 years up to 20 years: plus 2 weeks pay for each completed year of service over 20 years.
Under the Companys enhanced redundancy policy, eligible participants, including Executive Directors, may also receive a payment in lieu of a 90 day redundancy consultation period.
In the event of termination of an Executive Directors employment, a payment may be made in lieu of any accrued but untaken holiday.
The Remuneration Committee would be responsible for considering the circumstances of the early termination of an Executive Directors contract and determining whether in exceptional circumstances there should be compensation payments in excess of the Companys contractual obligations.
The Company has the power to enter into settlement agreements with Directors and to pay compensation to settle potential legal claims.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, in the event of the termination of an Executive Director, the Company may make a contribution towards that individuals legal fees and fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
Any such fees will be disclosed as part of the detail of termination arrangements.
For the avoidance of doubt, the policy does not include an explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 66 Remuneration Committee Report continued Change of control In the event of a change of control or a voluntary winding-up of the Company and ultimately at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee: 1.
Unvested awards under the Deferred Share Scheme will normally vest in full at the time of change of control or winding-up.
Unvested awards granted under the 2014 LTIP rules will normally vest having regard to the extent to which performance conditions have been met and unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of the change of control or winding-up.
Employee context When setting Executive Directors' pay, the Committee considers the remuneration arrangement of other senior managers and employees in the Group more generally to ensure that Executive remuneration arrangements are appropriate in this context.
AVEVA undertakes an annual salary review in April each year and uses this opportunity to reward strong performance and ensure salaries are in line with market rates.
It manages this in a competitive environment particularly in the fast-growing economic areas.
When determining salary increases for Executive Directors the Committee considers the outcome of the wider pay review for the Group.
The Committee does not consult directly with employees regarding Executive Directors remuneration.
However, at regular intervals the Company conducts a survey of the views of employees in respect of their experience of working at AVEVA including their own reward.
Dialogue with shareholders The views of our shareholders on remuneration matters is important to the Committee and prior to making any material changes to remuneration arrangements the Committee consults with major shareholders and their representative bodies to obtain their views.
The Company remains committed to engaging with shareholders in relation to remuneration issues.
External appointments The Board believes that accepting Non-Executive appointments with other companies enhances the experience of Executive Directors and therefore they are entitled to accept appointments outside of the Company provided that Board approval is sought prior to accepting the appointment.
Whether or not the Director concerned is permitted to retain their fees is considered on a case-by-case basis.
Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios The remuneration package at AVEVA is structured so that the package rewards performance over both the short and long term to ensure that reward is aligned with shareholder value creation.
The table and charts below show hypothetical values of the remuneration package for Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios.
Note that these values do not include Craig's buy-out awards nor James's Performance and Retention Award, both of which are one-off in nature.
Awards as a % of salary Deputy CEO CEO and CFO Maximum performance Annual bonus scheme full pay-out 125% 125% Long-term incentive plan LTIP maximum vesting 250% 175% Total 375% 300% Annual bonus scheme 50% pay-out 62.5% 62.5% On-target performance Long-term incentive plan 25% vesting 62.5% 44.8% Total 125% 107.3% Minimum performance Annual bonus scheme nil pay-out 0% 0% Long-term incentive plan nil vesting 0% 0% Total 0% 0% No share price growth has been assumed.
Potential benefits under all employee share schemes and dividend or distribution equivalents have not been included.
Craig Hayman James Kidd 23% 26% 51% 29% 32% 39% Maximum performance Maximum performance 48% 26% 26% 53% 29% 18% On-target performance On-target performance 100% 100% Minimum performance Minimum performance 0.0m 1.0m 2.0m 3.0m 4.0m 0.0m 1.0m 2.0m 3.0m 4.0m Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 67 Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items Fees for the Chairman and the NonBasic fees are subject to the aggregate Non-Executive Directors do not receive Executive Directors are determined limit set in accordance with the incentive pay or share awards.
taking account of the individuals Companys Articles of Association.
Any Non-Executive Directors do not currently responsibilities, the expected time changes in this limit would be subject to receive any benefits nor pension commitment for the role and prevalent shareholder approval.
Benefits may be provided market rates.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic in the future if, in the view of the Board or, in The Board is responsible for setting fees fee for membership of the Board with the case of the Chairman, the Committee, for the Non-Executive Directors with the additional fees being paid to Nonthis was considered appropriate.
Remuneration Committee being Executive Directors who hold the position Travel and other reasonable expenses responsible for setting fees for the of Committee Chairman to take into including fees incurred in obtaining Chairman.
account the additional responsibilities professional advice in the furtherance of Fees are reviewed at appropriate and workload.
Additional fees may also their duties incurred in the course of intervals, usually on an annual basis.
be paid for other Board responsibilities or performing their duties are reimbursed to roles if this is considered appropriate.
Non-Executive Directors including any The Chairman receives an all-inclusive associated tax liability.
The Board has proposed that the Company seeks to increase the cap on total Non-Executive Director fees under the Companys Articles of Association at the AGM from the current level of 550,000 to 700,000, recognising the enlarged Board.
The NonExecutive Directors have appointment letters, the terms of which recognise that their appointments are subject to the Companys Articles of Association and their services are at the direction of the shareholders.
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors include the following terms: Expiry review date Notice period Name Date of appointment Date of contract of current contract in months Philip Aiken 1 May 2012 1 May 2018 30 April 2021 3 Jennifer Allerton 9 July 2013 1 July 2016 30 June 2019 3 Christopher Humphrey 8 July 2016 27 June 2016 7 July 2019 3 Ron Mobed 1 March 2017 1 March 2017 29 February 2020 3 Emmanuel Babeau 1 March 2018 1 March 2018 28 February 2021 3 Peter Herweck 1 March 2018 1 March 2018 28 February 2021 3 All Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and subsequent intervals of no more than three years.
There are no predetermined special provisions for Non-Executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any payments in lieu of notice.
The letters of appointment are available for shareholders to view from the Company Secretary upon request.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 68 Remuneration Committee Report continued Part B: the Implementation report The Remuneration Committee Membership and attendance The Remuneration Committee is appointed by the Board.
The current members are Chair Jennifer Allerton Chair, Ron Mobed and Emmanuel Babeau, with Christopher Humphrey stepping down from the Committee from 1 March 2018.
All the Committee Jennifer Allerton 6 6 members except for Emmanuel are regarded by the Board as independent NonCommittee members Executive Directors.
Jennifer has been a member of the Remuneration Committee since 2013 and succeeded Philip Dayer as Chair on 7 July 2017.
Committee meetings are also Ron Mobed 6 6 1 regularly attended by the CEO, Deputy CEO and CFO, and Chief Human Resources Philip Dayer 1 1 2 Officer CHRO at the invitation of the Chair, to provide company insight and advice to Christopher Humphrey 5 5 3 help the Committee consider appropriate remuneration.
No Committee member or Emmanuel Babeau 1 1 invited attendee is present during the discussion of their own remuneration.
Attending by invitation CEO The role of the Committee is set out in its terms of reference which are available on the Deputy CEO and CFO companys website at www.
The Committee's primary responsibility is to CHRO determine the remuneration package of both the Company's Executive Directors and its senior management within broad policies agreed with the Board.
1 Resigned 7 July 2017 The Principles of our Remuneration Policy 2 Resigned 1 March 2018 3 Appointed 1 March 2018 A significant part of the total reward is related to share price performance and is paid in shares that must be retained until the minimum shareholding requirements have been met.
This ensures that our Executive Directors' interests are aligned with those of other shareholders.
A considerable part of the total reward is determined by the Company's success over both the short and the long term.
Failure to achieve threshold levels of performance will result in no payout for these elements.
Advice and auditors FIT Remuneration Consultants are the appointed advisors to the Committee.
They provide independent advice on comparator information and general remuneration.
Fees are charged on a time spent basis and the fees paid during the year to FIT Remuneration Consultants in relation to the advice provided to the Committee were 107,312 2017 61,019.
FIT provide no other services to the Company and so the Committee are content that their advice is objective and independent.
The auditors have reported on certain sections of Part B and stated whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Those sections of Part B which have been subject to audit are clearly indicated.
Shareholder voting and engagement The table below shows the results of the most recent votes on the Policy July 2017 and Implementation Report July 2017.
Votes for Votes withheld Percentage Votes against Percentage Directors remuneration policy AGM 2017 26,846,776 1,667,546 56.45% 20,715,431 43.55% Directors remuneration report AGM 2017 35,968,139 734,773 74.17% 12,526,840 25.83% Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 69 Implementation of policy for the year ended March 2018 and for the forthcoming year ended March 2019 Base salary Craig Hayman joined AVEVA as CEO on 19 February 2018 with a salary of 700,000.
Ordinarily salaries are reviewed annually with increases effective from 1 April each year, but Craigs salary will not be reviewed until April 2019.
Whilst James Kidd is no longer CEO, in recognition of the fact that his new role is significantly more complex following the completion of the combination, the Committee determined that he should remain on his existing salary for the remainder of 2017 18.
From 1 April 2018, James Kidd's salary has been 500,000.
David Ward ceased to be an Executive Director and so his remuneration arrangements after 19 February 2018 fall outside of the scope of this report.
Base salary with effect from Craig Hayman Increase James Kidd Increase 1 April 2017 700,000 450,000 1 April 2018 700,000 0% 500,000 11% Benefits In 2017 18, Executive Directors were provided with a car and fuel allowance totalling 19,200, and a 600 annual allowance towards a range of flexible benefits.
There is no proposed change to either the benefits structure or quantum for 2018 19.
Craig will receive reimbursement for relocation expenses up to a maximum of 70,000.
Pension Craig Hayman, James Kidd and David Ward are members of the AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan a defined contribution scheme.
James Kidd receives a cash in lieu allowance in line with the detail in the policy table.
The Company pension contributions will remain at 10% of salary.
Annual Incentive Scheme For 2017 18, the maximum opportunity for Executive Directors under the annual incentive was 125% of base salary, requiring a stretch level of performance for full payout.
Craig received a pro-rated bonus payment for 2017 18, and will be eligible for a full year's bonus payment for 2018 19, subject to the restrictions and conditions outlined in the policy table.
The performance targets were based on 1 Group adjusted profit before tax PBT targets, with a maximum weighting of 80% of salary, 2 Recurring revenue, with a maximum weighting of 25% of salary, and 3 Key performance objectives, with a maximum of 20% of salary available.
The key individual performance objectives are agreed with the Remuneration Committee at the start of each financial year, although this element will be capped at a maximum achievement of 10% should the Group adjusted PBT target not be met.
The performance targets for 2018 19 are based on 1 Group adjusted PBT targets, with a weighting of 50% of salary, 2 Total Group revenue, with a weighting of 50% of salary, and 3 Key performance objectives, with a weighting of 25% of salary.
As before, this element will be capped at a maximum achievement of half the available amount should the Group adjusted PBT target not be met.
The Board believes that, given the annual incentive scheme rewards the achievement of the annual business plan, the targets are market sensitive and therefore should not be disclosed in advance, but ordinarily will be disclosed retrospectively.
40% of any award made under the Annual Incentive Scheme, irrespective of the amount, is payable in deferred shares as per the policy, and is subject to a three-year vesting period, but with no further performance conditions.
There is no proposed change to either the annual incentive scheme structure or quantum for 2018 19.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 70 Remuneration Committee Report continued Long-Term Incentive Plan The structure of the LTIPs issued in 2017 and intended to be issued in 2018 are as summarised below: LTIP performance element Weighting Minimum performance Mid performance Maximum performance EPS growth 50% 25% vesting for growth of 5% 80% pays out for growth of 10% 100% vesting for growth of 15% 25% vesting at median Linear vesting between min and 100% vesting if in the upper Relative TSR performance 25% performance 50th percentile max performance quartile 25th percentile Linear vesting between min and Strategic objectives 25% 25% vesting at threshold max performance 100% vesting at maximum The Committee will maintain the previous approach of a mix of TSR, EPS and strategic measures for the 2018 awards with the same weighting on each element as for the 2017 grants.
The TSR element will maintain the same median to upper quartile scale although comparison will be made against a bespoke group of 23 international software companies rather than a sub-set of the FTSE 250.
The TSR comparator group for the 2017 LTIP will not change from what was set and disclosed in the previous year's Remuneration Report.
The strategic objectives will be a sliding scale of revenue growth targets, and link directly to the Company's strategic objectives, which can be found on pages 18 and 19.
25% of this element will vest at threshold level of performance, with full vesting at maximum achievement.
The sole criterion is total revenue growth.
Due to commercial sensitivity, the Committee does not believe it to be in shareholders interests to prospectively disclose details of the revenue growth targets.
However, they will be objectively measurable and significant outperformance will be required to deliver full vesting, and the targets will be disclosed retrospectively following vesting, with vesting only occurring if the Committee is satisfied that the Company's underlying financial performance warrants such payment.
The strategic objectives disclosed in last year's Remuneration Report were for Owner Operator revenue growth and More than 3D revenue growth.
Following the combination, the Committee has determined that these two strategic measures are no longer relevant, and the achievement made in year 1 of the three year performance period should be ignored.
For the 2017 LTIPs already issued, the replacement strategic measure shall be measured over a two-year period, being years 2 and 3 of the three-year performance period.
The Committee is considering the appropriate EPS scale for this grant in light of the creation of the enlarged group but confirms that the 2018 award will not be subject to a lower scale than that applying for the 2017 grants.
The Committee will confirm the EPS range in next years report together with an indication of the strategic measures with the actual targets being disclosed at vesting consistent with current practice.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The following table sets out the single figure of total remuneration for Executive Directors for the 2017 18 and 2016 17 financial years.
Similar calculations apply for benefits, annual bonus and pension figures.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 71 Elements of single figure of remuneration for the year ended March 2018 The amounts of base salary, benefits and pension are as described on the previous two pages.
Annual incentive This reflects the total annual incentive paid and payable in July 2018 based on performance in the year ended 31 March 2018.
This includes both the cash element of the bonus and the portion deferred into shares under the deferred share scheme.
Whilst the financial targets were met in full in the year, the Committee determined that as Craig only joined the Board in February, he would be awarded only target levels of achievement, instead of the maximum amounts payable.
Craig Hayman James Kidd David Ward Thresholds Min, Budget Mid and % of Max Metric Targets Max Actual achieved Max Actual Max Actual Max Actual Group heritage AVEVA Min: 57.48m, pays out 6.25% 67.81m 100% 80% 40% 80% 80% 80% 80% adjusted PBT Mid: 60.50m, pays out 50% Max: 66.55m, pays out 100% Recurring revenue heritage Min: 166.0m, pays out 20% 184.2m 100% 25% 10% 25% 25% 25% 25% AVEVA Mid: 168.4m, pays out 40% Max: 176.9m, pays out 100% Strategic objectives see below see below 100% 20% 10% 20% 20% 20% 20% Totals as a percentage of salary 125% 60% 125% 125% 125% 125% 1 2 Bonus receivable 47,923 562,500 332,188 Granted in cash 60% 28,754 337,500 199,313 Granted in shares 40% 19,169 225,000 132,875 1 Pro rated to 1.37 months for Craig Hayman 2 Pro rated to 10.63 months for David Ward Group adjusted PBT Recurring revenue Strategic objectives 100% 100% 100% 80% 75% 75% 60% 50% 50% 40% 25% 25% 20% 0% 0% 0% 165 170 175 180 185 base base mid stretch 56 58 60 62 64 66 68 70 profit Actual Revenue Actual Objectives Actual The Executive Directors were given individual strategic objectives worth 20% of salary.
For James and David, these all related to completion of the Schneider Electric Software transaction, specifically that all work had been completed so that the transaction could be announced by September 2017, that all relevant competition filings and EGM had occurred by December 2017 and that the deal completed by May 2018.
All objectives were met and the deal completed on 1 March 2018.
The Committee therefore consider that the targets have been met in full.
Craig achieved two of his three objectives in the six weeks from date of joining, specifically that he completed a review of the organisational structure, and announced a new operating cadence and Executive Leadership Team to manage the business efficiently and consistently by 31 March 2018.
Delivering a new corporate strategy was not achieved.
Long-Term Incentive Plan This includes the LTIP awards granted under the Long-Term Incentive Plan in 2015 that were capable of vesting based on performance in the three-year period ended 31 March 2018.
These awards were subject to the delivery of EPS growth.
0% of awards vest for diluted adjusted EPS growth of less than 12% p. a. with 100% of awards vesting for diluted adjusted EPS growth of 20% p. a.
Average diluted EPS growth for the three-year performance period did not reach the minimum 12% p. a. growth needed and therefore 0% of the LTIP awards shall vest.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 72 Remuneration Committee Report continued Other information in relation to 2017 18 Scheme interests awarded in the year audited The following tables set out details of the LTIP 2014 and deferred share awards made to the Executive Directors during 2017 18: 1 Executive Director Date of grant Basis of Award Face Value of Awards Performance Period 2 Craig Hayman 6 March 2018 250% of base salary, pro-rated for service 300,000 1 April 2017 James Kidd 8 September 2017 150% of base salary 675,000 31 March 2020 David Ward 8 September 2017 150% of base salary 450,000 1 To determine the number of shares over which these awards were made, a share price was used of 1,851p for Craig's March 2018 grant, and 2,240p for James and David's September 2017 grant, being the average share price for the three days prior to the award.
2 Craig's award was rounded up to 2 complete months, and the result 291,667 rounded up to 300,000.
Deferred Share Awards 3 Executive Director Date of grant Basis of Award Face Value of Awards Performance Period Deferred element of James Kidd 3 July 2017 24,557 No performance period.
2016 17 annual incentive David Ward 3 July 2017 13,034 Awards vest in equal tranches on the date of announcement in June 2018, May 2019 and May 2020 3 This is calculated as the number of deferred shares issued in the year, multiplied by the closing share price the day before the preliminary announcement last year 22 May 2017 of 2,043p.
Performance and Retention Awards PRAs A one-off performance and retention award has been put in place for both James Kidd and David Ward subject to, and conditional upon, shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
The gross initial grant values are 1,500,000 and 850,000 respectively.
The awards are divided into two equal parts: i the retention award is subject to continued employment within the AVEVA Group, as well as the satisfaction of a performance underpin: and ii the performance award is subject to the same conditions as the retention award and in addition, further subject to satisfaction of stretching and challenging business and integration-related targets and objectives.
Subject to the extent to which these performance targets and objectives are satisfied, the portion of the performance award that shall vest will be between 75% and 125% of the initial value.
Note that the performance award is also subject to a performance underpin, and the Remuneration Committee may in its absolute discretion reduce the amount payable if they determine that, in its opinion, the amounts payable do not reflect the underlying performance of the Group or the individual during the relevant vesting period.
One third of the total award will vest and become payable from the first anniversary of the date of completion i. e. 1 March 2019 and the remaining two thirds shall vest and become payable from the second anniversary i. e. 1 March 2020, subject to continued employment and performance conditions as described above.
50% of the net cash amounts paid under the awards are required to be reinvested by the individual into acquiring ordinary shares in AVEVA Group plc, at market value, from the open market.
These shares must be held for at least two years from the date of the share purchase, save for circumstances which the Committee determines to be exceptional, or if the individual is classified as a good leaver.
The awards shall be subject to clawback, which shall be operable for a period of three years of the date of payment, if it is later determined that there has been an overpayment as a result of a misstatement of the accounts, an error or reliance upon incorrect information, assumptions or facts, or the individual's misconduct.
Shareholding guidelines and interests in shares audited Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding from vested Long-term Incentive awards.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end price, which was 1,911p at 31 March 2018.
Actual share ownership Shares owned outright Share ownership Have as a % of base salary at end of year guideline as guidelines a % of base salary been met?
2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 Craig Hayman 200% No James Kidd 200% On-target 86% 85% 20,367 17,468 David Ward 0% n a 13% 5% 2,081 555 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 73 Outstanding scheme interests audited Normal Return of Lapsed As at grants value and Exercised forfeited As at Exercise Gain on 1 April during dividend during during 31 March price exercise of 1 2017 the year equivalent the year the year 2018 p share options Craig Hayman LTIP 16,204 16,204 3.556 n a Deferred shares n a n a James Kidd LTIP 66,441 27,596 31,346 16,550 108,833 3.556 n a 1 Deferred shares 1,327 772 667 899 1,867 nil 22,232 David Ward LTIP 23,294 18,398 18,573 3,584 56,681 3.556 n a 2 3 RSP 4,205 1,566 1,401 4,370 3.556 33,442 1 Deferred shares 125 412 226 125 638 nil 3,091 1 Market value at exercise date was 2,473p 2 David Ward was granted Restricted Share Plan RSP awards in 2015 when he was part of the senior management team, prior to his Executive Director appointment 3 Market value at exercise date was 2,387p Summary of LTIP targets for all LTIPs in issue Existing AVEVA LTIPs The following table sets out a summary of the performance targets attached to outstanding long-term incentive LTI awards.
Proportion of vesting Performance measures are based on diluted adjusted EPS 2017 LTIP 2016 LTIP compound annual growth over a three year period.
25% vests for Adjusted EPS growth targets p. a. and beyond and previous diluted adjusted EPS growth of threshold, and 100% vests for diluted Threshold 25% 25% adjusted EPS growth of the maximum.
For LTIs issued in 2014, 2015 and 2016, linear interpolation applied between these points.
Midpoint 80% 62.5% For LTIs issued in 2017 and beyond, non-linear vesting will apply, as Maximum 100% 100% outlined in the table opposite.
Options granted Diluted adjusted Diluted adjusted Diluted adjusted Diluted adjusted 1 1 1 1 to Executive Period of performance EPS growth EPS growth EPS growth EPS growth Date of award Directors measurement threshold midpoint maximum achieved Achievement Target not met, 21 July 2014 49,429 2014 15 2016 17 12% 16% 20% -9.1% award did not vest Target not met, 21 July 2015 61,615 2015 16 2017 18 12% 16% 20% 6.0% award did not vest Performance period 13 July 2016 86,712 2016 17 2018 19 5% 10% 15% not yet completed 8 September 2017 45,994 2017 18 2019 20 5% 10% 15% Performance period 6 March 2018 31,063 not yet completed 1 The definition of and figures used for diluted adjusted EPS are provided in note 13 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements on page 107.
AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 74 Remuneration Committee Report continued Buy-out awards for new CEO In order to secure Craigs services the Company had to commit to compensate him by way of a buy-out for the loss of significant outstanding equity awards on leaving PTC, which had a maximum potential value of over 9 million.
In structuring these buy-out awards we have followed best practice principles: the total potential buy-out is lower than the current expected value of the awards lost those elements subject to pre-vesting performance conditions remain subject to conditions which are intended to be no less challenging no element of the buy-out is realised early.
The value of the awards at grant totalled 5.5 million.
Whilst this figure is significant in a UK context, the Remuneration Committee determined it was necessary and appropriate to make these awards.
The structure of the awards is summarised as follows: Percentage vesting at Number of Face value of threshold 1 Award Basis of Award shares awards performance Vesting dates Retention 104,862 1,945,000 n a 15 November 2018 Fair value equivalence with awards 66,238 1,229,000 n a 15 November 2019 forgone in previous employment 22,015 408,000 n a 15 November 2020 Sub total 193,115 3,582,000 Performance period AVEVA Group plc's relative TSR Performance performance over a 2 or 3 year period 40,766 756,000 25% 1 October 2015 30 September 2018 31,299 581,000 25% 1 October 2016 30 September 2018 31,299 581,000 25% 1 October 2016 30 September 2019 Sub total 103,364 1,918,000 Grand total 296,479 5,500,000 1 Shares are valued for these purposes at the date of Craig's appointment 19 February 2018.
In addition, the awards will be subject to an additional requirement that Craig would normally be required to pay back any amounts vesting net of tax if he resigned within 2.5 years of joining or be dismissed for gross misconduct or under one of the summary termination provisions in his service agreement within 3 years of joining.
Dilution The number of shares which may be allocated on exercise of any options granted under any of the Companys share option schemes including employee schemes shall not, when aggregated with the number of shares which have been allocated in the previous ten years under these schemes, exceed 5% of the ordinary share capital of the Company in issue immediately prior to that date.
Payments made to past Directors audited Richard Longdon received a salary of 31,250 per month for the period 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2017 whilst he conducted the role of President.
Following successful completion of his Presidential role, in December 2017 he was awarded a bonus equal in value to one-third of his calendar 2017 salary, or 125,000.
This payment was not performance-related.
LTIP awards previously granted shall vest as per the scheme rules, as summarised on page 65.
There was no vesting of the 2015 LTIP as the target was not met.
David Ward continued on the same terms for the remainder of the year in which he served in his capacity as a Director.
He ceased being a Director on 19 February 2018, after 10.63 months of the year.
The figures disclosed in the tables in this report are pro-rated by this ratio.
The payments made to David after this date were for 1.37 months of the year and totalled 76,900, comprising salary of 34,250, benefits of 2,261, pension contributions of 3,425 and bonus of 42,813.
No other payments were made during 2017 18.
Payments for loss of office audited No payments were made for loss of office during 2017 18.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 75 Total shareholder return v. techMARK All-Share Index 20092018 The graph below shows performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the techMARK All-Share Index.
Total shareholder return is the share price plus dividends reinvested compared against the techMARK All-Share Index, rebased to the start of the period.
Total shareholder return GBP AVEVA Group 700 FTSE techMARK 600 All-Share 500 400 300 200 100 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The Directors consider the techMARK All-Share Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index includes AVEVA Group plc.
The CEO single figure of total remuneration represents the sum of the total remuneration received by James for the first 10.63 months of the year and by Craig since his date of joining.
2 Calculated as the weighted average of James receiving 100% of maximum and Craig receiving 48% of maximum.
Change in remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of CEO audited The table below illustrates the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual incentive for the CEO and two selected sub-sets of employees including only those employees who were employed at the start of the 2016 17 financial year through to the end of the 2017 18 financial year on a heritage AVEVA basis.
The UK employee base has been chosen because this is where the Group offices of heritage AVEVA are headquartered, and employed just over one-quarter of its workforce at the date the comparison data is targeted, 1 April 2017.
Typical salary inflation in some other AVEVA locations is materially higher than the UK, which would distort the comparison.
Executive Leadership UK % change 2016 17 to 2017 18 CEO Team employees Base Salary 2% 15% 2.5% Benefits 0% 0% 0% Annual Bonus 407% 456% 242% AVEVA Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 76 Remuneration Committee Report continued Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below illustrates the year-on-year change in total remuneration for all employees in the Group compared to adjusted profit before tax and distributions to shareholders.
The Committee determined adjusted profit before tax was an appropriate measure for this chart as it is one of the Groups key performance indicators and is the primary measure for the annual incentive scheme.
Relative importance of spend on pay GBP millions 2017 18 2016 17 Employee 223.0 sta costs | 243.9 9.4% Adjusted profit 97.4 before tax 117.2 | 20.3% Dividends 17.3 1 declared 43.5 | 151% 1 Dividends declared during the year represent the sum of the interim and final dividends for the reported year.
Outside appointments The Board believes that accepting Non-Executive appointments with other companies enhances the experience of Executive Directors and therefore they are entitled to accept appointments outside of the Company provided that Board approval is sought prior to accepting the appointment.
None of Craig, James nor David held any outside appointments during the periods they acted as Directors.
Total pension entitlements The Company's defined benefit scheme is not open to new members, and none of the Executive Directors in the year are or have ever been a member.
All the Executive Directors in the year were members of the AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan, a defined contribution pension scheme.
All Directors by virtue of their level of income are subject to a cap on pension contributions of 10,000 per annum.
David was able to utilise unused carryover from previous years, whereas James has no carryover available and thus elected to receive a cash alternative, as allowed under the policy.
During 2017 18, David, in his capacity as a Director, received employer contributions of 26,575 2016 17 16,794, James received cash in lieu of contributions of 38,790 2016 17 30,300, and Craig received employer contributions of 6,885 2016 17 - nil.
Non-Executive Directors NEDs Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited As noted in the Policy Report, the fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are determined taking account of the individuals responsibilities, time devoted to the role and prevalent market rates.
The table below shows a single figure of remuneration for each of our Non-Executive Directors.
2017 18 2016 17 fees fees Philip Aiken Chairman 192,000 187,000 Philip Dayer resigned 7 July 2017 19,735 71,500 1 Jennifer Allerton 58,674 49,000 2 Christopher Humphrey appointed 8 July 2016 70,174 43,834 Ron Mobed appointed 1 March 2017 50,300 4,083 3 Emmanuel Babeau appointed 1 March 2018 3 Peter Herweck appointed 1 March 2018 1 Jennifer was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 7 July 2017, following Philip Dayer's retirement 2 Christopher was appointed Senior Independent Director on 7 July 2017, following Philip Dayer's retirement 3 Emmanuel and Peter have waived their fees for their first three-year term 1 March 2018 to 28 February 2021 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 77 Implementation of remuneration policy for NEDs in 2018 19 NEDs do not participate in any of the companys incentive arrangements nor do they receive any benefits.
Their fees are reviewed at appropriately regular intervals, usually annually, against those for companies of a similar scale and complexity to AVEVA, and were last reviewed in February 2018 when the Board and Chairman fees were increased 19% and 41% respectively to reflect the significant increase in market capitalisation, company size and time commitment expected of NEDs.
The increased fees were introduced with effect from 1 April 2018.
The Chairmans fees are set by the Committee and the Chief Executive: those for the NEDs are set by the Board as a whole.
The table below shows the annual fees payable for each of the NED roles held in the year.
2018 19 2017 18 fees fees Role Chairman 270,000 192,000 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 60,000 50,300 Vice Chairman 40,000 n a Committee Chairman fee Audit and Remuneration 11,500 11,500 Senior Independent Director 11,500 11,500 NEDs interests in shares audited The table shows the interests in AVEVA ordinary shares of Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons.
Shares Shares owned owned outright at outright at 31 March 31 March 2018 2017 Philip Aiken Chairman 2,337 1,537 Jennifer Allerton 12,000 6,000 Christopher Humphrey 4,000 3,000 Ron Mobed 3,000 Emmanuel Babeau Peter Herweck There have been no changes to Directors holdings between the year-end date and the publication of this report.
This Remuneration Committee report has been approved by the Board of Directors and is signed on its behalf by: Jennifer Allerton Remuneration Committee Chair 14 June 2018
