72 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Structure Chairmans letter When conducting our review of the Chairmans letter 72 Total compensation Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Remuneration at a glance 74 Committee the Committee was very is set to reward aware of what is considered best practice Performance against our KPIs for companies listed on the Main Market of achievement of Executive Directors single gure the London Stock Exchange.
At the same of remuneration and shareholdings short and long-term time, we need to be able to attract and retain US based executives, bearing in An overview of Executive Directors financial objectives mind that a signi cant number of our Remuneration Policy management team are based in, or were and support recruited from the US.
We compete Directors Remuneration Policy 74 delivery of the for talent against global technology companies, whose pay model is very Directors Remuneration Policy business strategy.
diff erent to typical UK practice.
Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM Ulf Claesson Recognising these challenges, we have on 23 May 2019 and, if approved, Chairman designed a reward framework for will be eff ective from that date Executive Directors which incorporates Welcome to our first Remuneration Report.
the best practice features of the typical UK This sets out the Companys Directors pay model including bonus deferral into Annual report on Remuneration Policy, how the Directors shares until the shareholding guidelines Remuneration 2018 84 have been rewarded in the period from are met, a single long-term incentive plan, Implementation of policy for 2019 9 May 2018 when they were appointed a two year post vesting holding period as Directors of the Company just prior to on the LTIP, and clawback and malus Directors remuneration for 2018 the IPO on 15 May 2018 to 31 December whilst setting reward levels, particularly Directors shareholdings 2018 and how we intend to apply our long-term incentive opportunity, at an Remuneration Policy during 2019. appropriate level for the markets in Remuneration Committee overview which we operate.
Whilst our long-term In anticipation of the Companys listing incentive opportunity may appear high on the Main Market of the London Stock in the context of a UK listed company The Directors Remuneration Report that Exchange, a thorough review of the environment, it remains substantially follows has been prepared in accordance Remuneration Policy was undertaken lower than that off ered by our US peers.
with the provisions of the 2016 UK to ensure that it was appropriate for a The Executive Directors do not currently Corporate Governance Code, the Listing listed company environment.
Following receive a pension allowance in-line Rules, the Large and Medium-sized this review, a new policy was established.
with practice for other employees.
Companies and Groups Accounts and The key terms of this Policy were set out The Committee strongly believes that Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 in the Listing Prospectus and are provided this approach is in the best interest of and the Companies Act 2006.
This report, in more detail in this document.
Our shareholders to enable us to recruit and less the Directors Remuneration Policy, Directors Remuneration Policy will be put retain the talent we need in all locations will be subject to an advisory shareholder to a binding vote of shareholders at the to drive performance and deliver vote at the 2019 AGM on 23 May 2019. forthcoming AGM on 23 May 2019. shareholder value creation.
Avast annual report 2018 73 For 2019 bonuses will continue to be Based on this performance, the amounts Board changes and remuneration based 37.5% on adjusted revenue, 37.5% which the Executive Directors received for 2019 on unlevered free cash ow and 25% as part of their annual bonuses were On 13 March 2019, we announced that on performance against strategic KPIs.
as follows: Vincent Steckler had noti ed the Board The LTIP will also continue to be based of his intention to retire in 2019 after Chief Executive Officer 50% on basic EPS undiluted and 50% on 10 successful years with the Group.
Further 200% Vincent will step down from the board details on the performance metrics and and as CEO on 30 June 2019 but will targets are set out on page 79.
Chief Financial Officer remain available to the business in an advisory capacity until 30 June 2020 150% Reward in the period under review to ensure a smooth transition process.
The business delivered a strong financial Vincent will not be entitled to a bonus and President, Consumer performance in our maiden year as a LTIP award for 2019.
Further details of publicly listed business.
Group adjusted 200% leaving arrangements for Vincent Steckler revenue increased 8.3%, excluding are set out on page 90.
Paid Bonus discontinued business and FX on a Maximum Bonus like-for-like basis, driven by double digit Vincent will be succeeded as CEO by growth in our consumer desktop business.
Ondrej Vlcek, currently President of the The strong top line performance was also Consumer Business, and Vincents 10-year Note: Percentage expressed towards re ected in our unlevered free cashow partner in driving the companys success.
performance, with 14.0% growth supported From 1 July 2019, Ondrejs salary will be by the high levels of pro tability sustained increased to $700,000 re ecting his new Long-term incentive plan LTIP awards in the business, plus excellent working role.
This salary is positioned below that were granted to the Executive Directors capital management.
His maximum annual on 19 June 2018 following the Companys bonus opportunity will remain at 200% of The annual bonus for Executive Directors listing on the London Stock Exchange base salary and his LTIP opportunity will in 2018 was based on the following Admission.
These are structured in the be increased to 500% of base salary in line performance measurements: i 37.5% form of performance share awards and will with the current LTIP opportunity for the of the annual bonus was based upon the vest subject to challenging earnings per CEO role.
Groups adjusted revenue performance share basic EPS undiluted growth and as fide ned on page 163, ii 37.5% of the Following Vincents retirement and the adjusted revenue growth targets based on annual bonus was based upon the Groups reduction in the number of Board performance to 31 December 2020 further unlevered free cash ow performance executives from three to two, Philip details are set out on page 76.
Any shares as fide ned on page 164, and iii 25% Marshall will be taking on additional vesting under the LTIP net of tax will be of the annual bonus was based upon responsibilities.
The Remuneration subject to a two-year holding period.
the Director meeting certain individual Committee therefore considered that Other matters considered by strategic KPIs.
Adjusted revenue for 2018 it was appropriate to increase his was $827m and unlevered free cash ow the Committee remuneration from 1 July 2019 to was $394m.
Performance for both of re ect the expansion in the scope and The Committee is mindful of the 2018 these measurements was ahead of target responsibility of his role.
From this date, UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 resulting in the Executive Directors being his salary will be $600,000, his annual Code.
Our remuneration arrangements awarded 50.8% of maximum in respect of incentive opportunity will be 200% of already re ect a number of the provisions the adjusted revenue component 37.5%, base salary and his LTIP will be increased of the 2018 Code.
For example, Executive and 78% of maximum in respect of the to 450% of base salary.
Directors do not receive a pension unlevered free cash ow component allowance, which is in line with other The Committee considers that these 37.5%.
The Committee reviewed employees, LTIP awards are subject to a revised packages are appropriate to individual performance carefully against two year post vesting holding period re ect the size and scope of Ondrejs the strategic KPIs set for each Executive and malus and clawback provisions and Philips roles going forward.
Director, and awarded the Executive apply.
The Committee will consider the Directors as a percentage of target 25% Companys approach to adopting the relative to the performance component: provisions of the 2018 Code in more i CEO 27%, ii CFO 29.1%, and iii detail during 2019 and we will report President Consumer 27%.
Further details on our compliance with the 2018 Code are set out on pages 86 to 87. in the 2019 annual report.
Ulf Claesson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 74 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors remuneration report Remuneration at a glance Overview of the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Base salary Bene ts Pension Annual bonus award Long term incentive plan LTIP Re ects the skills and To enable the Executive To provide an appropriate To drive eff ective delivery To drive long-term delivery experience of an individual Directors to undertake pension bene ts package of the business strategy, of the Groups objectives, and provides a competitive their roles through for the individual reward short-term to align Directors base salary compared ensuring their well-being operating performance interests with those of the with similar roles in and security and promote executive Companys shareholders similar companies share ownership and to encourage exceptional performance Read more on pages 74 -77 Remuneration policy This section of the report pages 74 This approach to remuneration, which of potential total reward for our senior to 83 sets out the remuneration cascades down through the organisation, executive team is performance-related, policy for the Directors of the Company.
is designed to: aligning pay with business success.
The remuneration policy will be subject reward achievement of short and The high performance hurdles that we set to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM long-term financial objectives and ourselves ensure that the reward received on 23 May 2019.
The policy will take eff ect support delivery of the business strategy: by the executives through the incentive from the date it is approved.
It is currently plans is closely linked to the delivery of intended that the policy will continue to provide competitive, transparent and the business strategy.
Furthermore, apply until approval is next required at fair rewards: and our remuneration policy and long-term the AGM in 2022. align the interests of employees and nature of our incentive plans promotes The Groups overall philosophy on shareholders through appropriate levels sustainable financial performance and remuneration is based on the approach of employee share ownership.
ensures appropriate safeguards are in that remuneration should be linked to place to avoid rewarding failure.
Reward levels are set to attract, retain and the performance and behaviour of engage high calibre talent to support the the individual, business results and business strategy.
A signi cant proportion shareholder outcomes.
Executive Director policy table Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Salaries are typically reviewed annually, Where a new Executive Director has been with any changes normally taking eff ect appointed to the Board at a lower than Re ects the particular skills and experience from 1 April each year.
typical market salary to allow for growth of an individual and provides a competitive in the role then larger increases may be Maximum opportunity base salary compared with similar roles in awarded to move salary positioning similar companies.
While there is no maximum salary level or closer to typical market level as the Operation maximum increase that may be off ered, Executive Director gains experience.
salary increases will normally be in line Base salary levels are determined by Where an Executive Director has with typical increases awarded to other the Committee taking into account the been promoted or has had a change employees in theGroup.
role, responsibilities, performance and in responsibilities.
experience of the individual, market data for However, increases may be above this level Where there has been a signi cant change comparable roles and pay and employment in certain circumstances such as: in market practice or where there has conditions elsewhere in the Group.
been a signi cant change in the size and or scope of the business.
Link to performance n a Avast annual report 2018 75 Executive Director policy table continued Bene ts Purpose and link to strategy professional fees incurred in providing operated by the Company on the same any taxation advice and compliance as terms as other employees.
To enable the Executive Directors to required as a consequence of a Director undertake their roles by ensuring their The Committee may introduce other bene ts receiving directors fees.
it is considered appropriate to do so, taking Where an Executive Director is required to into account the individual circumstances, Operation relocate to perform their role, appropriate onethe country of residence of a Director, the Bene ts currently include private health off or on-going expatriate relocation bene ts bene ts available to all Avast employees cover for the individual and family members, may be provided e. g. housing, schooling etc.
and the wider external market.
life insurance, mobile phones for private use, Maximum opportunity Directors can also access Avast exible bene t scheme and car allowance.
products on the same terms as off ered There is no maximum limit on the Any reasonable business related expenses to other employees.
value of the bene ts provided but including any tax thereon may be the Committee monitors the total Executive Directors may participate in any reimbursed, including any reasonable cost of the bene t provision.
all-employee share plans which may be Link to performance n a Pension Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity To provide an appropriate allowance for The Executive Directors do not currently retirement planning.
receive a pension allowance in-line with practice for other employees.
Operation If the Company were to introduce In additional to any local statutory pension arrangements or similar for other requirements, Executive Directors employees in the group then Executive may receive contributions to a fide ned Directors may be provided with a pension contribution pension scheme or equivalent or pension allowance at the same rate as and or receive a cash allowance in lieu.
Link to performance n a 76 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors remuneration report Executive Director policy table continued Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Operation The Committee retains the discretion to adjust the bonus award if it does not The annual bonus is designed to drive Where the Executive Director has met consider that it re ects underlying Company eff ective delivery of the business strategy, the required shareholding guideline performance or for any other reason if reward short-term operating performance as described in more detail on page 78, considers appropriate but may not exceed and promote executive share ownership via the bonus will normally be paid in cash.
the deferral of bonus into shares where the Where an Executive Director has not met the shareholding guideline has not been met.
Recovery and withholding provisions apply expected shareholding guideline or is not on see below.
The annual bonus scheme enables the course to meet the shareholding guideline Maximum opportunity Group to exibly control its cost base within the timeframe set out, 50% of any through performance linked reward and bonus earned will be deferred into shares Maximum bonus opportunity in respect ensures Executive Director remuneration under the Avast Deferred Bonus Plan of a financial year is: is directly linked to business performance.
The Committee shall determine each year whether the shareholding 200% of base salary guideline has been met or is on course to Target bonus opportunities are 50% of be met and therefore whether an Executive the maximum bonus opportunity.
No more Director is required to defer their bonus.
than 12.5% of the maximum bonus will be Deferred awards will ordinarily vest on payable for achieving a threshold level the second anniversary of grant.
Dividend of performance of each of the two equivalents may be payable on the financial criteria.
Link to performance The performance targets for the annual No less than 70% of the annual bonus will Remuneration unless they are considered bonus are normally set at the start of be based on financial measures.
The measures, targets and their relative The performance targets will be primarily weightings are reviewed regularly by the based on one or more challenging financial Committee to ensure continuing alignment metrics.
The Committee may also include with strategic objectives and will be individual and or strategic measures.
detailed in the relevant Annual Report on Long-term incentives the Avast Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity LTIP awards will normally vest based on performance assessed over a period not To drive long-term delivery of the Groups The maximum award in normal shorter than three years.
Awards will be objectives, to align Directors interests with circumstances is 500% of salary for subject to a two year post-vesting holding those of the Companys shareholders and the Chief Executive Offi cer and 450% requirement on a net-of-tax basis during to encourage exceptional performance.
of salary for the Chief Financial Offi cer and which time executives will not normally other directors.
Operation be able to sell their shares.
In exceptional circumstances such as The LTIP forms the primary long-term incentive The Committee retains the discretion recruitment, Awards may be granted arrangement for Executive Directors.
to adjust the final vesting level if it does over shares equal in value to a maximum not consider that it re ects underlying Under the LTIP, annual grants of performance of 750% of the relevant executives base Company performance or for any other stock units will be made to the Executive salary at the discretion of the Committee.
Awards under the LTIP will No more than 7% of the maximum normally be granted to the Executive Dividend equivalents may be payable opportunity will be payable for achieving Directors as conditional share awards on shares that vest under the Plan.
a threshold level of performance of each but may be made in other forms in of the financial criteria.
Recovery and withholding provisions accordance with the plan rules.
Link to performance The performance share awards are currently The Committee may use diff erent measures subject 50% to basic EPS undiluted growth for future awards as appropriate to re ect and 50% to adjusted revenue targets growth.
Avast annual report 2018 77 Executive Director policy table continued Employee share ownership the Avast Share Matching Plan SMP Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity The purpose of the SMP is to encourage All employees, including the Executive The maximum matching ratio is one matched and enable all eligible employees to acquire Directors and members of the Executive share to one purchased share.
However, a stake in the Company so that they can Management Team are eligible to participate the current intention is to limit the matching share in the future growth, development in the SMP.
ratio to one matched shares for every three and success of the Company, and to further purchased shares.
Participants can voluntarily invest up to align the interests of such employees $34,000 per year to acquire shares via with the interests of the shareholders of deductions from their base remuneration or the Company.
The Company will award The SMP allows the Company to match the participant a number of matching shares shares purchased by employees in linked to the number of purchased shares accordance with a matching ratio determined by the end of the holding period provided by the Remuneration Committee.
that the purchased shares have been retained during this period.
The current holding period is two years but the Committee may determine that an alternative period shall apply.
Dividend equivalents may be payable on the matched shares.
Link to performance n a Non-Executive Director policy table Non-Executive director fees Purpose and link to strategy The Chairman is paid a single consolidated Bene ts currently include, but are not limited fee.
It is not expected that any additional to, travel, accommodation and hospitality To enable the Company to attract and fees will be paid for chairing any of the provided in relation to the performance retain experienced, skilled Non-Executive Boards Committees.
of any Directors duties together with any Directors that are capable of advising and reasonable professional fees incurred in the supporting the Executive Directors with Our Non-Executive Director fees policy is to provision of taxation advice and compliance setting, monitoring and delivering the pay an annual basic fee for membership of as a consequence of a Director receiving strategic objectives.
the Board and additional fees for the Senior Directors fees.
Additional bene ts may Independent Director SID, the Chair of NED fees re ect the value of the be introduced, if considered appropriate.
each of its Committees and the members of individuals skills and experience each of its Committees to take into account An additional allowance is payable per and recognise the expected time the time commitment of these roles.
meeting where transatlantic or equivalent commitments and responsibilities.
Additional fees or other payments may be Operation Maximum opportunity paid to re ect additional responsibilities, Fees will normally be paid in cash but may roles or contribution, as appropriate.
Fee levels are reviewed on a periodic basis.
be paid in a combination of cash and shares Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals.
if this is considered appropriate.
The aggregate amount of Directors fees is limited by the Companys Articles Non-Executive Directors are not eligible The Chairmans fee is set by the of Association.
for pension scheme membership, bonus or Remuneration Committee and the Nonincentive arrangements.
They are entitled Executive Directors fees are set by the to reimbursement of reasonable business Chairman and the Executive Directors.
expenses and any tax incurred thereon.
Fees are set by reference to external data on fee levels in similar businesses, having taken account of the responsibilities of individual Directors and their expected annual time commitment.
78 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors remuneration report Share plan operation Approved payments Shareholding guidelines Awards made under the Companys The Committee reserves the right to The Group has adopted shareholding share plans are governed by the terms make any remuneration payments and or guidelines under which Executive of the plan rules and the Committee may payments for loss of offi ce including Directors are normally expected to exercise discretion in accordance with the exercising any discretions available to build and maintain a shareholding in the plan rules.
Under such rules, awards may: it in connection with such payments Company equivalent in value to 200% of notwithstanding that they are not in annual base salary.
It is normally expected a have any performance conditions line with the Policy set out above where that this guideline will be reached within applicable to them amended or the terms of the payment were agreed five years of appointment.
Shares held substituted by the Committee where i before 23 May 2019 the eff ective date on Admission, together with any shares circumstances change in such a way of the Policy or ii at a time when the acquired following Admission, count as to cause the Committee to substitute, relevant individual was not a Director towards the threshold.
If an individual vary or waive performance conditions of the Company and, in the opinion of subject to the guidelines does not meet as long as such substituted, varied the Committee, the payment was not in the guideline or is not on course to meet or waived condition is as fair and not consideration for the individual becoming this guideline, up to 50% of any bonus more diffi cult to satisfy than the original: a Director of the Company.
For these earned will normally be required to be b incorporate the right to receive an purposes payments includes the deferred into shares as a deferred bonus amount equal to the value of dividends Committee satisfying awards of variable award.
The Committee shall determine which would have been paid on the remuneration and, in relation to an award each year whether the shareholding shares under an award that vests up to over shares, the terms of the payment are guideline has been met or is on course the time the vested shares are issued agreed at the time the award is granted.
to be met and therefore whether an or transferred.
This amount may be Executive Director is required to defer Pre-IPO incentive arrangements calculated assuming that the dividends their bonus.
In addition, individuals will Prior to Admission, the Company had a have been reinvested in the Companys be expected to retain at least half of the share option plan the Existing Plan in shares on a cumulative basis: net shares vesting under the Companys place under which options over ordinary discretionary share based employee c be settled in cash at the Committees shares of Avast Holding B. V. were granted.
incentive schemes until the guideline discretion.
This provision shall be used Options under the Existing Plan were is met.
only in exceptional circumstances such adjusted on Admission to replace the as where awarding shares or settling shares in Avast Holding B. V. with shares Information supporting the policy awards in shares is not possible in in the Company.
It is not intended that Recovery and withholding provisions certain jurisdictions for regulatory or any further awards will be made under Annual bonus payments may be recovered legal reasons: and the Existing Plan following Admission, for a period of three years from the date although some awards granted under d be adjusted in the event of any variation of payment.
Recovery and withholding the Existing Plan including to Executive of the Companys share capital or any provisions apply under the Deferred Directors remain outstanding.
Time based demerger, delisting, special dividend or Bonus Plan DBP, within three years options typically become exercisable other similar event that materially may from the date on which any DBP award over a four-year period, vesting in equal aff ect the Companys share price.
Performance based options provisions apply under the LTIP at any time typically become exercisable over a prior to the third anniversary of the date four-year period subject to certain on which awards vest following the end of performance thresholds being achieved.
The circumstances Options which have not been exercised in which recovery withholding provisions will lapse on the tenth anniversary of grant.
may apply are: The Committee may amend or alter the terms of any option which has been a a material misstatement of the Groups granted.
Such amendment can be financial results: retroactive but cannot be inconsistent b an error in assessing the achievement with the terms and conditions of the Plan.
of any bonus or performance A summary of the terms of the Existing conditions: and Plan is set out in the Groups Listing Prospectus.
Details of the outstanding c discovery of serious misconduct by the awards to the Executive Directors are set participant prior to vesting.
out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 88 and will be allowed to vest subject to the terms of the Plan.
Avast annual report 2018 79 LTIP Awards Selection of Remuneration policy for other Our long-term strategic objective is to performance measures employees and how employees provide long-term sustainable growth for views are taken into account Annual bonus all of our shareholders.
To support this The Committee took into account the The annual bonus is designed to drive and our LTIP awards are currently based on Companys approach to remuneration and reward excellent short-term financial and the following performance measures: related policies for the wider workforce operational performance.
The Committee 50% on adjusted revenue growth over when determining the Policy for Executive reviews the annual bonus plan measures three years this provides an Directors.
The majority of our employees annually in order to ensure that they assessment of the growth and success are able to share in the success of the are aligned with the Groups strategy.
for the Group over the long-term and is Group through participation in an annual The Committee may alter the choice and strongly aligned to the execution of the bonus plan.
Executive Directors, other weighting of the metrics for future bonus business strategy members of the Executive Management cycles to re ect the changing needs of Team and key employees are also eligible the business.
The Committee also retains 50% on basic EPS undiluted growth for participation in a long term incentive the discretion to retrospectively amend over three years this provides an plan and all employees and Executive the measures, weightings, targets and or assessment of the pro tability of the Directors are eligible to participate in method of assessment for the in-year adjusted revenues delivered and a share matching plan.
The Committee bonus to take into account a change strongly aligns with the interests did not directly consult with employees in the business strategy, signi cant of shareholders when setting the Policy but it took into acquisition or disposal, change in The Committee believes that the account general feedback on employee accounting treatment or other exceptional combination of adjusted revenue and engagement provided to the Board.
event to ensure that the scheme is able pro t incentivise management to grow the to ful l its original purpose.
How shareholders views are value of the Group over the long-term and Annual bonuses for 2019 will be made is strongly aligned to the execution of the taken into account up of the following components: business strategy.
The choice of measures The Committee is committed to an open or their weighting may change for future and ongoing dialogue with shareholders.
37.5% of the bonus is based upon award cycles.
While the Committee has not consulted Adjusted Revenue performance directly with shareholders in relation to the this measures our ability to deliver Performance targets for both the annual Directors Remuneration Policy, the Policy top-line financial results and deliver bonus and the LTIP are set taking into has been designed to take into account our growth strategy account internal budget forecasts, external shareholder guidance.
The Committee expectations and the need to ensure that 37.5% of the bonus is based upon will consider any shareholder feedback targets remain motivational.
unlevered free cash ow performance received throughout the year and at the this measures the pro tability of the SMP matching awards are not subject to Annual General Meeting in shaping the business and our ability to convert this performance conditions as all employees application remuneration policy and when pro t into cash returns are eligible to join the scheme.
it undertakes the annual remuneration review.
It is the Committees intention 25% of the bonus is based upon on to consult with major shareholders performance against other strategic KPIs in advance of making any material this ensures a rounded assessment changes to remuneration arrangements.
of performance and incentivises management to deliver against our strategic milestones so that we continue to lay the foundation to deliver future success Revenue 37.5% Unlevered free cash ow 37.5% Other strategic KPIs 25% 80 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors remuneration report Remuneration outcomes in diff erent performance scenarios The charts below set out an illustration of the application of the Policy for 2019.
The chart for Ondrej Vlcek and Philip Marshall re ects their remuneration in their new roles from 1 July 2019.
The chart for Vincent Steckler shows his annualised salary only as there will be no LTIP award nor bonus for 2019.
The charts provide an illustration of the proportion of total remuneration made up of each component of the Policy and the value of each component.
Executive Director Scenarios Vincent Minimum 3.5% 96.5% $828,818 Steckler Target 1.8% 98.2% $828,818 CEO Maximum $828,818 1.2% 98.8% Philip Minimum 4.6% 95.4% $628,818 Marshall Target 1.1% 22.1% 22.1% 54.7% $2,713,818 CFO Maximum $4,528,818 0.6% 13.2% 26.5% 59.6% Ondrej Minimum 1.5% 98.5% $710,818 Vlcek Target 0.3% 21.0% 21.0% 57.7% $3,335,818 President Maximum $5,610,818 Consumer 0.2% 12.5% 25.0% 62.4% Benets Base Bonus LTIP Three performance scenarios have been illustrated for each Executive Director: Below-threshold performance Fixed remuneration No annual bonus pay-out No vesting under the LTIP On-target performance Fixed remuneration 50% annual bonus pay-out 55% vesting under the LTIP Maximum performance Fixed remuneration 100% annual bonus pay-out 100% vesting under the LTIP The charts have been prepared on the The charts above illustrate remuneration If the share price increases by 50%, following basis: outcomes with no share price growth.
then for the Philip Marshall the target Dividend equivalents have not been package value scenario would increase Base salary The base salary for Ondrej included.
Potential bene ts under the to $3,456,318 and the maximum package Vlcek and Philip Marshall in place at SMP have not been included.
value scenario would increase to 1 July 2019.
The base salary for Vincent $5,878,818.
If the share price decreased Steckler in place at 1 January 2019.
If the share price increases by 50% then by 50% then in the target scenario the the value of shares receivable under the Bene ts Based on the annualised total package value would decrease LTIP will increase and for the Ondrej Vlcek, equivalent of the disclosed bene ts to $1,971,318 and the maximum the target package value scenario would for 2018 scenario the total package would increase to $4,298,318 and the maximum decrease to $3,178,818.
Pension Executive Directors package value scenario would increase to currently do not participate in $7,360,818.
If the share price decreased by pension arrangements 50% then the value of share receivable under the LTIP will decrease and in the Bonus Based on the maximum target scenario the total package value of 200% of salary for the President would decrease to $2,373,318 and the Consumer once he becomes the CEO, maximum scenario the total package and CFO.
Assumes bonus is paid in cash.
LTIP Based on the maximum award of 500% of base salary for the CEO and 450% of base salary for the CFO.
Avast annual report 2018 81 The Executive Directors are entitled to Executive Directors will not ordinarily Executive Directors service receive a non-compete payment equal to be entitled to receive any bene ts or agreements and policy on 50% of their average monthly income allowances following their cessation of payments for loss of offi ce before tax for a period of 12 months employment.
However, the Committee In the event of termination, the service following termination, as compensation may in exceptional circumstances allow an contracts of the Chief Executive Offi cer, for their non-compete obligations.
The Executive Director to continue to receive Chief Financial Offi cer and President of non-compete payment will be off set by appropriate bene ts or allowances for Consumer provide for payments of base any payments of base remuneration and a limited period following cessation.
remuneration and any fees payable in fees payable on loss of offi ce, and is respect of the Executive Directors repayable on breach of any non-compete membership of the Board pursuant to the obligations.
Any payment in respect of Directors service contract over the notice notice and this non-compete provision will period.
The Committee may also pay therefore not exceed base remuneration, contractual bene ts and pension over the any fees payable in respect of the notice period.
The Company may elect to Executive Directors membership of the make a payment in lieu of notice in respect Board and contractual bene ts and of these amounts, payable monthly or as pensions over a 12 month period re ecting a lump sum.
shareholder expectations in this area.
Details of the notice periods currently included in service contracts of the Executive Directors are summarised in the table below: Name Date of Contract Notice period Vincent Steckler 1 May 2018 12 months Ondrej Vlcek 1 May 2018 6 months Philip Marshall 1 May 2018 6 months The Companys policy is that the notice The Committee may make any other Annual bonus period for Executive Directors will not payments in connection with a Directors There is no contractual right to any bonus exceed 12 months.
cessation of offi ce or employment where payment or pro rata portion thereof in the the payments are made in good faith in event of termination of engagement prior The Executive Directors service contracts discharge of an existing legal obligation to the end of the financial year to which a are available for inspection on request.
or by way of damages for breach of such bonus relates, although the Committee In the event of termination of employment an obligation, by way of settlement of may exercise its discretion to pay a bonus save in circumstances of summary any claim arising in connection with for the period of service performed.
Any dismissal, the Chief Financial Offi cer and the cessation of a Directors offi ce, or such payment will normally be based on President Consumer will also receive an employment or in respect of outplacement performance assessed after the end of the additional payment equal to six months assistance.
Any such payments may financial year and paid at the normal time.
These payments mean include but are not limited to paying the In exceptional circumstances, performance that their total payment on termination of Directors legal and or professional advice may be assessed at the time of termination employment is no more than 12 months fees in connection with his cessation of of employment and paid at that time.
base remuneration and bene ts in line offi ce or employment and any related with shareholders expectations.
82 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors remuneration report DBP SMP Treatment of awards on a change When a participant ceases to be employed If a participant ceases employment, of control or other corporate event or engaged within the Group, their all purchased shares under the SMP In the case of a corporate event, such as outstanding DBP awards will normally will be released to the participant.
a change of control or winding-up of the vest on the original date unless the Company not being an internal corporate No matched shares under the SMP will be Remuneration Committee determines reorganisation there shall not ordinarily be released to a participant who ceases to be otherwise.
The Committee may exercise automatic acceleration of outstanding LTIP employed or engaged within the Group its discretion to allow outstanding DBP awards.
However, the Committee may, in prior to the end of the end of the holding awards to vest at the time of termination its discretion, determine that some or all period, unless, in the case of a good of employment.
LTIP awards will vest at the time of the leaver the Committee determines change of control of the corporate event.
If a participant is a good In determining vesting the Committee will leaver, the Committee may determine The default treatment for any awards normally take into account: i the extent that the participant will continue to receive under the LTIP is that any outstanding to which the Committee considers that their matching shares at the end of the awards lapse on cessation of employment the performance conditions if any two-year holding period.
However, in certain are satis ed: and ii if the Committee prescribed circumstances, or at the Good Leavers under the Companys determines appropriate, the period of discretion of the Committee, good leaver share plan include participants that time between their grant and vesting.
In these circumstances a leave due to death, long-term injury, Committee has the discretion to change or participants award will ordinarily vest on disability or such other reason that remove the application of pro-rating to an such date s that they would otherwise the Board determines.
Award if this is considered appropriate.
Vesting will normally be Post-Employment Shareholdings subject to the satisfaction of the relevant Under the DBP, outstanding awards performance criteria if any and, ordinarily, The Committee believes that the will normally vest at the time of the will be pro-rated for time, with the balance leaver provisions currently in place ensure corporate event.
Under the plan the alignment of the interests of our Under the SMP, all purchased shares rules, the Committee may also permit a Executive Directors and our shareholders will be released immediately and any participants award to vest at the time of post-cessation of employment.
The entitlement to matching shares will be cessation of employment in a good Committee will review this approach forfeit, unless the Committee determines leaver situation.
during 2019 in light of evolving market that matching shares will not be forfeit, practice and shareholder sentiment.
If a participant ceases employment during and participants will receive a pro-rata the post vesting holding period they shall portion of corresponding matching shares.
retain entitlement to their shares but the The Committee may, in its discretion, holding period will normally continue to take such steps as it considers appropriate apply until the second anniversary.
which may include releasing all shares to participants early.
Avast annual report 2018 83 To facilitate any buyout awards outlined Recruitment policy Where an individual forfeits outstanding above, in the event of recruitment the variable pay opportunities or contractual When determining the remuneration Committee may grant awards to a new rights at a previous employer as a result package for a newly appointed Executive Executive Director relying on the of appointment, the Committee may off er Director, the Committee would seek to exemption in the Listing Rules which compensatory payments or awards, in apply the following principles: allows for the grant of awards, to facilitate, such form as the Committee considers in unusual circumstances, the recruitment The package should be market appropriate taking into account all of an Executive Director, without seeking competitive to facilitate the recruitment relevant factors including the form of prior shareholder approval or under any of individuals of suffi cient calibre to awards, expected value and vesting other appropriate Company incentive plan.
At the same time, timeframe of forfeited opportunities.
the Committee would intend to pay The remuneration package for a newly When determining any such buyout, no more than it believes is necessary appointed Non-Executive Director would the guiding principle would be that to secure the required talent.
normally be in line with the structure set awards would generally be on a out in the policy table for Non-Executive New Executive Directors will normally like-for-like basis unless this is Directors on page 77. receive a base salary, bene ts and considered by the Committee pension contributions in line with the not to be practical or appropriate.
Non-Executive Directors letters Policy described on page 75 and would The maximum level of variable of appointment also be eligible to join the bonus and remuneration which may be awarded share incentive plans up to the limits Non-Executive Directors all serve under excluding any buyout awards referred set out in the Policy table.
letters of appointment eff ective from to above in respect of recruitment is 9 May 2018 for periods of three years.
In addition, the Committee has discretion 950% of salary, which is in line with the The Non-Executive Directors including to include any other remuneration current maximum limit under the annual the Chairman have a notice period of one component or award which it feels bonus and LTIP.
month, although the Company may elect is appropriate taking into account Where an Executive Director is required to make a payment in lieu of notice.
the speci c circumstances of the to relocate from their home location to recruitment, subject to the limit on The terms and conditions of appointment take up their role, the Committee may variable remuneration set out below.
for Non-Executive Directors are available provide assistance with relocation The key terms and rationale for any for inspection upon request.
either via one-off or ongoing payments such component would be disclosed or bene ts.
Any on-going bene ts as appropriate in that years annual would normally be time limited.
In the event that an internal candidate is Base salary levels will be set taking into promoted to the board, legacy terms and account the executives skills, experience conditions would normally be honoured, and their current remuneration package.
including pension entitlements and any Where it is appropriate to off er a lower outstanding incentive awards.
salary initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over subsequent years subject to individual performance.
84 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration 2018 A summary of how the Directors Adjusted revenue assesses our ability to Pension and bene ts Remuneration Policy will be applied deliver top-line financial results and deliver The Executive Directors do not currently during the year ending 31 December 2019 our growth strategy.
Unlevered free cash receive any pension contribution or is set out below: ow assesses the pro tability of the allowance.
Bene ts will be provided business and our ability to convert this in line with the disclosed policy on Base salary pro t into cash returns.
Strategic KPIs page 75 of this report.
The Executive Directors salaries were ensure a rounded assessment of reviewed during 2018 and set at IPO.
performance and incentivise management Annual bonus Current salaries are as follows: to deliver against our strategic milestones The maximum annual bonus opportunities so that we continue to lay the foundation to for 2019 are as follows: Vincent Steckler $800,000 deliver future success.
Philip Marshall $525,000 Philip Marshall 150% of salary Where an Executive Director has not met Increased to 200% of Ondrej Vlcek $450,000 the shareholding guidelines as described salary from 1 July 2019 on page 78 or is not on course to meet the As noted above, Vincent Steckler will Ondrej Vlcek 200% of salary shareholding guidelines, 50% of any step down from the board and as CEO bonus earned will be required to be From 1 July 2019, Philip Marshalls annual on 30 June 2019, He will be succeeded deferred into shares under the DBP.
bonus opportunity will be increased to by Ondrej Vlcek.
Ondrejs salary will be Deferred bonus awards will vest on the 200% of base salary to re ect the increased to re ect his new role as CEO.
second anniversary of grant subject to increase in the size and the scope Following Vincents retirement and the continued employment.
of his responsibilities following reduction in the number of Board The speci c targets for the 2019 year Vincents retirement.
executives from three to two, Philip are considered commercially sensitive.
Marshall will be taking on additional 12.5% of the maximum opportunity However, the Committee intends to responsibilities.
The Remuneration will be earned for the achievement disclose these retrospectively in the 2019 Committee therefore considered of threshold performance of each Directors Remuneration Report to the that it was appropriate to increase of the two financial criteria.
extent that they do not remain his remuneration from 1 July 2019 commercially sensitive.
The annual bonus will be based on to re ect the expansion in the scope the following performance measures: and responsibility of his role.
Long-term incentive plan Salaries from 1 July 2019 will therefore 37.5% on adjusted revenue performance The Committee intends to make awards be as follows: as fide ned on page 163 under the LTIP to Ondrej Vlcek and Philip Marshall during the year.
Initial awards 37.5% on unlevered free cash ow Ondrej Vlcek $700,000 were made over 350% of their current as fide ned on page 164 Philip Marshall $600,000 base salaries on 14 March 2019.
From 25% on strategic KPIs 1 July 2019 their LTIP opportunities will Salaries will next be reviewed with eff ect be increased to 500% of base salary and from 1 April 2020.
450% of base salary respectively re ecting the increase in the size and the scope of their roles following the changes to the Board we announced on 13 March 2019.
Additional awards will be made after July 2019 to re ect their increased salaries and award opportunities on a pro-rata basis.
Vincent Steckler will not receive an LTIP award for 2019.
Avast annual report 2018 85 The vesting of any LTIP awards will be determined by reference to the Groups basic EPS undiluted growth targets and the Group adjusted revenue growth targets as follows over the three year period to 31 December 2021: Threshold Target Maximum 7% vesting 55% vesting 100% vesting Group earnings per share growth basic EPS undiluted} 50% weighting 5% p. a. growth 8.4% p. a. growth 12% p. a. growth Group adjusted revenue growth 50% weighting 5% p. a. growth 7% p. a. growth 12% p. a. growth 7% of the award will vest for threshold performance, 55% shall vest for target performance and 100% of the award shall vest for maximum performance for each of the two financial components.
There is straight-line vesting between the performance points.
Our long-term strategic objective is to provide long-term sustainable growth for all of our shareholders.
The Committee believes that the combination of adjusted revenue and pro t incentivise management to grow the value of the Group over the long-term and is strongly aligned to the execution of the business strategy.
The Committee is mindful that adjusted revenue is used as a measure in both the annual bonus and LTIP: however, it considers that, given that adjusted revenue growth is a critical part of our long-term strategy, this is appropriate.
The Committee believes that there are appropriate safeguards in place to ensure that incentives do not encourage management to deliver adjusted revenue which is not in the long-term interests of the Group.
Vested shares from awards will be subject to two-year post-vesting holding period net of tax.
Share Matching Plan Eligible participants including the Executive Directors can voluntarily invest up to $34,000 per year.
Purchased shares must be held until the end of the two-year holding period, at which time they will be released to the participant together with the related matched shares.
The current matching ratio is one matched share for every three purchased.
Fees for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee for their Board role with additional fees payable for undertaking the Senior Independent Director role, for chairing a Committee and for Committee membership.
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee.
There have been no changes to the Non-Executive Director or Chairmans fees with eff ect from 1 April 2019.
$350,000 inclusive of any fee he would otherwise Chairman fee receive as chairman or member of a committee Non-Executive Director base fee $100,000 Additional fees: Senior Independent Director $15,000 Audit and Risk Committee Chairman $15,000 Audit and Risk Committee Member $7,500 Remuneration Committee Chairman $15,000 Remuneration Committee Member $7,500 Nomination Committee Chairman $15,000 Nomination Committee Member $7,500 An additional allowance of $5,000 per meeting is payable where transatlantic travel is required.
Additional fees or other payments may be made to re ect additional responsibilities, roles and contributions.
86 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors remuneration report Remuneration received by Directors for the year ended 31 December 2018 audited Directors remuneration for the period from 9 May 2018 the date Directors were appointed prior to IPO on 15 May 2018 to 31 December 2018 was as follows: Long-Term 1, 2 3 4 5,6 Salary & Fees Bene ts Pension Annual Bonus Incentives Total Executive Vincent Steckler 2018 $512,653 $18,443 $632,627 $5,496,127 $6,659,850 Philip Marshall 2018 $336,653 $18,443 $316,524 $671,620 Ondrej Vlcek 2018 $288,653 $6,923 $355,766 $2,061,041 $2,712,383 Non-Executive John Schwarz 2018 $225,807 $15,000 $240,807 Erwin Gunst 2018 $79,032 $79,032 Pavel Baudis 2018 $82,732 $8,227 $90,959 Eduard Kucera 2018 $78,706 $8,287 $86,993 7 Lorne Somerville 2018 $55,623 $55,623 Ulf Claesson 2018 $79,032 $79,032 Warren Finegold 2018 $88,709 $88,709 8 Belinda Richards 2018 $64,869 $64,869 Sebastien Kuenne 9 resigned 9 May 2018 Phil Robertson 9 resigned 9 May 2018 Simon McManus 9 resigned 18 April 2018 Total $1,892,466 $75,323 $1,304,917 $7,557,169 $10,829,875 Annual bonus for the year ended 31 December 2018 audited The annual bonus for the year under review was based on adjusted revenue, unlevered free cash ow and strategic KPIs as follows: Performance  achieved % of maximum 12.5% payout 50% payout 100% payout Adjusted revenue 37.5% $774,345 $815,100 $937,365 $826,984 50.8 Unlevered free cash ow 37.5% $311,404 $346,005 $415,206 $393,960 78.0 25% of the bonus was based on performance against individual strategic KPIs as described on the following page.
Notes 1 Bene ts include allowance for Non Executive Directors that travel intercontinentally.
2 Bene ts for Executive Directors include life insurance, health insurance, exible bene t scheme and private mobile usage.
3 Executive Directors do not receive a pension contribution.
4 Relates to the payment of annual bonus for the year ending 31 December 2018.
The amount shown is for the period 9 May 2018 through 31 December 2018.
Further details are provided in the second table.
This bonus was paid 100% in cash as the Committee judged that all Executive Directors had met their shareholding guideline or were on progress to meet the shareholding guideline in the required time period.
5 The CEO and the President Consumer were granted an award of stock options option price of 1.360 and 0.88 prior to the IPO.
These awards vested in March 2019 based on the achievement of EBIT performance for the year ending 31 December 2018.
Awards have been valued based on the average share price for the period 1 October 2018 to 31 December 2018 of 2.786.
6 Value of shares is based on diff erence between Average share price 1 Oct-31 Dec 2018 and strike price depends on program the strike price is 0.88 or 1.36.
7 Lorne Somerville donated the fee paid to him by the Company net of national insurance and taxes to charity.
8 Belinda Richards was appointed to the Board on 7 June 2018 and remuneration shown is from this date.
9 Directors resigned on or before 9 May 2018.
None of these directors received any remuneration in connection with their role as directors of Avast plc.
Avast annual report 2018 87 Committees Executive Performance achieved assessment of pay out Vincent Steckler Succession plan created and discussed in Nomination Committee 108% of target Created IoT strategy and ensured its successful implementation Philip Marshall Successfully managed the IPO, the operations as a public company and the 117% of target management of the public investors Completed the reorganisation of the finance team to comply with all requirements of being a public company New policies around key business processes are created and implemented Ondrej Vlcek Successfully increased user and customer base 108% of target Built and tested IoT product for launch in 2019 The above performance resulted in the following payments: Executive 2018 bonus payment % of maximum Vincent Steckler $988,480 61.8 Philip Marshall $494,569 62.8 Ondrej Vlcek $555,884 61.8 The Committee also considered the underlying financial performance of the Group during 2018, taking into account performance against key financial indicators and the Executive Directors individual performance.
The Committee concluded the proposed payout outlined above is appropriate.
LTIP vesting for the year ended 31 December 2018 audited The CEO and the President Consumer were granted an award of stock options prior to the IPO in April 2017 with an exercise price of 1.360 and 0.88 per share.
The EBIT target was set at $432m.
EBIT achieved for 2018 was $431.6m resulting in 99% of the awards vesting, equivalent to 2,691,430 vested options for the CEO and 1,009,283 vested options for the President Consumer.
Total pension entitlements audited During the year under review the Executive Directors did not receive any pension contribution or pension allowance.
Long-term incentive plan awards made during the year audited On 19 June 2018, the following awards were granted to Executive Directors: Details of awards granted % of face value Share price Number that would vest Basis of award granted at date of of shares Face value of Face value of at threshold Vesting determined by 2 1 Executive Type of award maximum grant granted award 000 award $000 performance performance over Conditional 500% of salary of Three financial years to Vincent Steckler Share $800,000 2.196 1,366,120 3,000 $4,007.1 7% 31 December 2020 Conditional 350% of salary of Three financial years to Philip Marshall Share $525,000 2.196 627,960 1,379 $1,841.9 7% 31 December 2020 Conditional 350% of salary of Three financial years to Ondrej Vlcek Share $450,000 2.196 538,707 1,183 $1,580.1 7% 31 December 2020 1 Threshold applies to both financial components.
2 Exchange rate used to present the face value of the award in USD is the 2018 average rate of $1.3357.
88 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors remuneration report The performance condition for these awards is set out below: Threshold Target Maximum 7% vesting 55% vesting 100% vesting Group basic EPS undiluted growth 50% weighting 5% p. a. growth 8.4% p. a. growth 12% p. a. growth Group adjusted revenue growth 50% weighting 5% p. a. growth 7% p. a. growth 12% p. a. growth 7% of the award will vest for threshold performance for each of the two financial criteria, 55% shall vest for target performance and 100% of the award shall vest for maximum performance.
Theres a straight-line vesting between the performance points.
Directors shareholding and share interests audited Share ownership plays a key role in the alignment of our executives with the interests of shareholders.
Our Executive Directors are expected to build up and maintain a 200% of salary shareholding in the Company.
The table below sets out the number of shares held or potentially held by Executive Directors including their connected persons where relevant as at 31 December 2018.
Notes 1 Includes shares owned by connected persons.
2 Calculated based on the share price on 31 December 2018 of 284p.
Avast annual report 2018 89 The table below sets out the number of shares held or potentially held by Non-Executive Directors including their connected persons where relevant as at 31 December 2018.
Data Number of Unvested Number of Vested Bene cially % shareholding Options Awards Options Awards as 1,2 owned shares guideline achieved Award description Option Price as at 31 12 2018 at 31 12 2018 John Schwarz 2,918,330 Share Options Mar 2016 0.690 0 388,318 Share Options May 2015 0.650 0 302,371 Erwin Gunst 1,974,728 0690,689 Pavel Baudis 257,182,165 Eduard Kucera 99,793,912 Lorne Somerville Ulf Claesson 2,420,112 Share Options Apr 2015 0.650 0 51,224 Share Options Apr 2017 1.360 0 233,034 Share Options Mar 2016 0.690 0 388,318 Warren Finegold 108,132 0672,576 Belinda Richards Total 364,397,379 1,363,265 1 Includes shares owned by connected persons.
2 There has been a change in shareholding between 15 May and 31 December 2018.
Erwin Gunst exercised part of his vested options, it increased his bene cially owned shares by 233,034 on 4 July.
He exercised 233.034 options with option price 1.36GBP and share price 2.08GBP at the date of exercise.
3 The interests in shares are a result of the vested options owned by the Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, on 13 November 2015, Ulf Claesson was granted 75,000 options over ordinary shares in Jumpshot, Inc. under the companys option plan at an exercise price of US$ 0.30 each.
Mr. Claesson was granted the options in connection with his role as director of Jumpshot, Inc. a position which he still held as at the date of this report.
The options granted to him were purely time-based, vesting in equal tranches over a four year period.
Mr. Claesson has exercised all of those options which vested, resulting in him now owning 56,000 ordinary shares in Jumpshot, Inc.
The remaining tranche of unvested options are scheduled to vest on 13 November 2019.
The contractual life of the options is 10 years.
No further options have been granted to Mr. Claesson under the Jumpshot option plan since, nor is there any intention to do so again.
Payments to past directors audited There were no payments to past directors during the year.
Payments for loss of offi ce audited There were no payments to past directors during the year.
90 Avast annual report 2018 Strategic report Governance Statements Directors remuneration report Leaving arrangements for Vincent Steckler As announced on 13 March 2019, Vincent Steckler will step down from the board and as CEO on 30 June 2019.
He will be paid his salary for this period.
There will be no bonus entitlement for 2019.
Vincent will remain available to the business in an advisory capacity until 30 June 2020 to ensure a smooth transition process.
During the period he will receive a fee of $400,000 per annum to re ect the expected time commitment of the role.
Vincent will receive, in line with his employment agreement, health bene ts for a period of 24 months.
The LTIP award granted in 2018 will continue on a pro-rata basis and will remain subject to the performance targets over the normal vesting period to 31 December 2020.
Awards will continue to remain subject to a post-vesting holding period for two years until April 2023.
Awards granted prior to IPO set out on page 88 may continue to vest and will remain subject to the relevant performance conditions.
Vincent will not receive any payment in lieu of notice under his contract.
Given Vincents signi cant shareholding in the business and the interest in incentive awards following his retirement the Committee did not consider that it was necessary to apply a formal post-employment shareholding guideline.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold Non-Executive Director positions in other companies where it is considered appropriate and subject to approval by the Board.
Disclosure of any associated income is required to be made to the Board, to shareholders and in the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
For the year ended 31 December 2018, none of the Executive Directors held or received payment for any external directorship.
Performance graph The graph below illustrates the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 index excluding investment companies from the Admission Date on 15 May 2018 to 31 December 2018.
This index has been selected as it is a broad market index of which the Company is a constituent.
The graph shows performance of a hypothetical 100 invested and its performance over that period.
Avast annual report 2018 91 The total remuneration for the Chief Deloitte LLP and AON Hewitt were Membership of the Executive in 2018, since the Company appointed by the Committee.
It is the view Remuneration Committee became the holding company of the of the Committee that the organisations, The Remuneration Committee comprises Group, is shown below, along with the Deloitte LLP and AON Hewitt, that provide 3 independent Non-Executive Directors value of bonuses paid and long term remuneration advice to the Committee and is chaired by Ulf Claesson.
Each incentive awards vesting, as a percentage do not have connections with Avast that director was appointed to the Committee of the maximum opportunity.
There were 4 meetings Committee reviewed the potential for 2018 during the year.
con icts of interest and judged that there CEO total remuneration $6,659,850 were appropriate safeguards against Members and attendance in the year is such con icts.
set out in the table below.
Annual bonus % of maximum 61.8% Attendance The Committee consider that the advice 1 received from the advisors is independent, Share award % of maximum n a Ulf Claesson 4 straightforward, relevant and appropriate John Schwarz 4 Notes and that it has an appropriate level of 1 No LTIP share awards vested based on access to them and has con dence in Warren Finegold 4 performance to 31 December 2018.
options vested at 99% maximum based on In 2018, the meetings of the Committee 2018 performance.
Deloitte LLP and AON Hewitt are founding covered the following key areas: members of the Remuneration Consulting Percentage change in Group.
The Committee has been fully Remuneration considerations prior briefed on their compliance with the Chief Executive remuneration to IPO voluntary code of conduct in respect As the Company only became the Consideration of structures and of the provision of remuneration consulting holding company of the Group on the measures for 2018 annual bonus services.
Separate teams within Deloitte Admission Date, there is no disclosure LLP also provided advisory services Consideration and adoption of 2018 of remuneration relating to prior years.
in respect of share schemes, and LTIP, DBP and SMP and approval of Accordingly, this report does not set out corporate employment.
the percentage change in remuneration between 2017 and 2018.
Full disclosure The CEO, the CFO, the General Counsel The Remuneration Committee terms of of the year-on-year change will be and the CHRO have attended certain reference are available on the Companys provided in future remuneration reports.
Committee meetings and provided advice website at investors.
com investors to the Committee during the year.
These have been Relative importance on the not in attendance when matters relating updated to re ect the provisions of the spend on pay to their own compensation or contracts 2018 Code.
The following table shows the Companys are discussed.
External advisors actual spend on pay for all employees Statement of shareholder voting compared to distributions to shareholders The Remuneration Committee has access This is the first Remuneration Policy and for 2018.
As the Company only became to independent advice where it considers it Annual Remuneration Report submitted the holding company of the Group on the appropriate.
Following IPO, the Committee to shareholders.
Admission Date, there is no disclosure received advice from AON Hewitt.
The fees relating to prior years.
paid to AON Hewitt for providing advice in Approval relation to executive remuneration since Total spend on pay $m This Directors Remuneration Report, IPO was $155,000.
Fees charged were Distributions to shareholders including both the Policy and Annual on a time and expenses basis.
This advice by way of dividend and Remuneration Report has been approved primarily related to the development share buyback n a by the Board of Directors.
and roll-out of the post-Admission remuneration structures.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
In November 2018, the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP to provide independent advice to the Committee.
The fees for advice provided to the Ulf Claesson Committee during the financial year Chairman of the Remuneration Committee were $497,000.
Fees charged were Date: 9 April 2019 on a time and expenses basis.
