Remuneration Report of the Remuneration Committee Jeff Randall, Committee Chairman Committee membership Activities undertaken by the Annual Statement and attendance Committee during the year of the Remuneration Jeff Randall Chairman 7 of 7 Following an in-depth review of our Sir David Omand 7 of 7 Remuneration policy for Executive Committee Chairman Directors, which included seeking the Ian Duncan 7 of 7 views of our largest Shareholders and Dear Shareholder Anna Stewart 2 of 2 investor bodies, the Committee was Myles Lee 7 of 7 I am pleased to present the Directors pleased to put its updated policy to Victoire fide Margerie 7 of 7 Remuneration report for 2017 18.
Shareholders for their approval at the This Directors Remuneration report has Anna Stewart sadly died on 5 October 2017.
The Committee believes that three parts: this, the Chairmans Annual the updated policy simplifies executive Statement, a Policy Report and an Annual remuneration by removing the deferred Report on Remuneration.
Together, they bonus matching plan, whilst broadly present full and transparent disclosure of maintaining the fair value of total the Companys intentions as to Directors remuneration and continuing the remuneration and how our remuneration Committees policy of setting fixed arrangements operate.
Our current remuneration at or below median with Remuneration policy was approved at total remuneration remaining capable of the2017 AGM and isset out on pages delivering upper quartile reward for upper 101 to 110 below.
We are not proposing quartile performance.
The Committee was to make any changes to the policy this pleased that Shareholders approved the year and are intending next to submit our proposed policy by 96%.
policy with any changes to Shareholders for approval at the 2020 AGM.
We will, however, be seeking an advisory vote astoyour approval of this Annual Statementand the Annual Report onRemunerationat the AGM on Thursday, 19 July 2018.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 98 Strategic report Governance statement Financials In the period under review, Bill Tame He is eligible for a time pro-rated bonus for Remuneration outcomes for 2017 18 announced his decision to retire from the financial year 2018 19.
As regards his Against the background reported in the Company on 30 June 2018, outstanding share awards, the Committee the Chairmans statement earlier in this having joined the Company as Group exercised its discretion and decided that Annual Report: Finance Director in January 2001.
Bill should be treated as a good leaver.
annual bonus payments in respect of He stepped down from the Board on This means that all unvested share awards the year to 31 March 2018 ranged 31 March 2018.
The Committee remain subject to any performance from 53% to 62% of maximum see announced the arrangements of his conditions attached to them and, to the page115 for more detail : and retirement on 21 December 2017. extent the vesting periods have not been performance over the longer-term Bill will continue to be remunerated completed by the date of Bills retirement, performance period from 1 April 2015 up to his date of retirement, in the awards will be pro-rated for time to to 31 March 2018 is expected to result accordance with his contractual the date of his retirement.
All awards will in 24% vesting of the PSP awards made entitlement and the Companys vest on their normal vesting dates.
in 2015 and 20% vesting of the Remuneration policy, as approved by Finally, I am pleased to welcome two new matching awards made that year under Shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Bill was Non-Executive Directors to the Committee the DBMP.
not given a salary increase for 2018 19, and look forward to working with them.
nor did he receive a 2018 grant under the Companys 2009 Performance Share Plan.
Jeff Randall Committee Chairman Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Remuneration Glossary of terms As used in this Remuneration report CSOP means the 2009 Babcock Company Share Option Plan DBP means the 2009 Babcock Deferred Bonus Plan DBMP means the 2012 Babcock Deferred Bonus Matching Plan EBIT means Earnings Before Interest and Tax EPS means basic underlying Earnings Per Share OCF means Operating Cash Flow as determined for management purposes PSP means the 2009 Babcock Performance Share Plan PBT means underlying Profit Before Tax PBIT means underlying Profit Before Interest and Tax ROCE means Return on Capital Employed TSR means Total Shareholder Return Remuneration Committee the Committee Terms of reference for the Committee are available for inspection on the Companys website and were reviewed during the year.
Duties ofthe Committee include the review of the policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman, as well as their specific remuneration packages.
In determining the Remuneration policy, the Committee takes into account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure that members of the senior executive management of the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage strong performance and that they are rewarded fortheir individual contributions to the success of the Company in a fair andresponsiblemanner.
The composition of the Committee see page 111 and its terms of reference comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate GovernanceCode.
Compliance statement This report covers the reporting period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018 and provides details of the Committees membership, its deliberations on executive remuneration during the year under review and Remuneration policy for the Company.
This report has been prepared by the Committee according to the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies andGroups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations and other relevant requirements of the FCA Listing Rules.
In addition, the Committee has applied the principles of good corporate governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016, and has considered guidelines issued by its leading Shareholders and bodies such as the Investment Association, Institutional Shareholder Services and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association.
In accordance with Section 439 of the Act, an advisory resolution to approve this Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 19 July 2018.
This report contains both auditable andnon-auditable information.
The information subject to audit is so marked.
The Regulations require the Companys auditors to report that the Audited information in this report has been properly prepared in accordance with theRegulations.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 100 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Extract from 2018 Remuneration Report Remuneration Policy Report Our current Remuneration policy was approved at the 2017 AGM and it is intended that this policy will applyfor three years from that date, although the Committee may seek approval for a new policy at an earlier point if it is considered appropriate.
The Policy Report that follows is unchanged from that published in last years annual report save for the following minor changes: Update to page references Update to pay scenario charts Update to reference dates, as appropriate.
Key principles of the Remuneration policy Objective To provide fair remuneration arrangements that allow for enhanced rewards for delivery of superior performance by allowing for the possibility of upper quartile rewards for upper quartile performance, that align Directors and Shareholders interests and take account ofrisk.
Our policy for executives reflects a preference that we believe is shared by the majority of our Shareholders to rely more heavily on the value of variable performance-related rewards, rather thanon the fixed elements of pay.
Therationale is to incentivise and rewardsuccess.
Weighting towards long-term, performance-related pay The focus of our executive remunerationis, therefore, weighted towards performance-related pay with a significant element weighted towards long-term rather than short-term performance.
We believe that, properly structured and with suitable safeguards, variable, performance-related rewards arethe best way of linking pay to strategy, risk management and Shareholders interests.
Directors Remuneration policy Summary of the Remuneration policy for Executive Directors Policy Table Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Base salary In respect of existing Executive Directors, itisanticipated Business and Should be at a level Base salaries are that is i fair and reviewed annually, that decisions on any salary increases will be guided by the individual performance with reference to increases forthewider employee population over the term are considerations in ii capable, when taken with the gearing effect the individuals role, of this policy.
In certain circumstances including, but not setting base salary.
experience and limited to, a material increase in job size or complexity, of performance-related pay, of delivering upper performance: salary market forces, promotion or recruitment the Committee levels at relevant has discretion to make  to salary quartileactual remuneration for comparators are levels toensure they remain fair and competitive.
considered but do upperquartile Latest salaries are set out in the Annual Reporton performance.
not in themselves Remuneration on page 118. drive decision-making.
Pension To provide market Cash supplement in All the Executive Directors currently receive acash Not performancerelated.
competitive retirement lieu wholly orpartly supplement of 25% of base pay in lieu ofallpension benefits.
of pension benefits for The cash supplement payable is set having regard to market ongoing service and practice, and in the context ofthe other elements of the or membershipof the remuneration package, notably base salary.
Other than in Groups DefinedBenefit exceptional cases such as to replace existing arrangements or Defined Contribution for new recruits, the Committee does not anticipate pension scheme.
employer contributions intoa defined contribution pension scheme orcash in lieu of benefit as being at a cost to the Company that would exceed 25% of basesalary.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Fixed pay Benefits Designed to be A range of benefits are provided which may include: life Benefit values vary by Not  the insurance: medical insurance: car and fuel benefits and roleand are periodically related.
market in which allowances: home to work travel and related costs, if reviewed and set at the individual is agreedon an individual basis or if incurred at the request a level which the employed or to meet ofthe Company: accommodation benefits and related Committee considers costs effectively costs, if based away from home at the request of the appropriate in light incurred atthe Company: Board function-related costs: and, in certain of relevant market Companys request.
circumstances, cash allowances in respect of the tax practice for the role chargeon accommodation or travel to work benefit, and individual ifincurred at the request of the Company or with its circumstances.
The cost of the benefits Other benefits e. g. relocation may be offered if provided changes in considered appropriate and reasonable by accordance with market theCommittee.
conditions and will, therefore, determine the maximum amount that would be paid in the form of benefits during the period of this policy.
The Committee retains thediscretion to approve ahigher cost in certain circumstances e. g. relocation or in circumstances where factors outside theCompanys control have changed materially.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 102 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Variable pay Annual bonus To underpin delivery Performance targets are set at the start of the year and Maximum bonus Performance is of year on year financial reflect the responsibilities of the executive in relation to opportunity is determined by the performance and thedelivery of our strategy.
Committee on an progress towards annual basis by At the end of the year, the Committee determines the For achievement strategic non-financial reference to Group and extent to which these targets have been achieved.
The of threshold, up to objectives, being or sector financial Committee has the discretion to adjust the outcome 15% of maximum structured to motivate measures, e. g. EPS upordown within the limits of the plan for corporate bonus is earned: for delivery against targets growth, PBT, OCF, transactions, unforeseen events, factors outside achievement of target andachievement as well as the reasonablemanagement control, changes to business up to 55% of maximum ofstretching achievement of priorities or operational arrangements, to ensure targets bonus is earned.
represent andremain a fair measure of performance.
mindful of achievement In addition, the Committee considers health and safety The financial and oflong-term strategy performance and itmayreduce or cancel any annual personal strategic and longer-term risks bonusotherwise payable if it considers it appropriate to objectives are typically to the Company.
doso in light of thatperformance.
weighted 80% and The requirement to 20% of maximum, At least 40% of annual bonus payments for Executive defer a substantial part respectively.
Directors must be deferred into awards over Company of bonus into Company shares for three years.
Mandatory deferred bonus awards The Committee shares strengthens the retains discretion to are subject to potential forfeiture ifthe holder leaves before link to long-term the awards vest.
Malus and clawback apply to cash and vary the financial sustainable growth.
measures and their deferred bonus awards: if theaccounts used to determine the bonus level have to be materially corrected: if the weightings annually, to ensure alignment with Committee subsequently comes to a view that bonus year performance was materially worse than originally believed: the business priorities for the year.
in the event ofgross misconduct: or if the award holder leaves employment in circumstances in which the deferred bonus Measures used for the did not lapse and facts emerge which, if known at the time, 2017 18 annual bonus would have caused the deferred bonus to lapse on leaving or and proposed for caused the Committee to exercise any discretion differently.
2018 19 are included in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages115 and119.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Remuneration Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics Variable pay Performance Share Plan PSP To incentivise The Committee has the ability to grant nil-cost options Maximum annual PSP Vesting of PSP awards delivery of top quartile orconditional share awards under the PSP.
awards of up to 200% is subject to continued Shareholder returns of base pay.
employment and The award levels and performance conditions, on and earnings growth Company performance which vesting depends, are reviewed from time to time For each performance over the longer term.
over athree-year to ensurethey remain appropriate.
condition applying to performance period.
Long-term measures anaward, 16.7% of Participants will receive cash or shares equal to the value guardagainst the maximum award 2018 19 PSP awards ofany dividends that would have been paid over the short-term steps being will vestfor threshold will be based on the vesting period on awards that vest.
achievement of The Committee has the ability to exercise discretion to annual rewards atthe stretching EPS, TSR override the PSP outcome in circumstances where strict expense of future andROCE targets.
application of the performance conditions would performance.
The Committee producearesult inconsistent with the Companys willreview the remuneration principles.
performance measures, An additional two-year holding period will apply their weightings, and to Executive Directors vested shares before they performance targets are released.
annually to ensure continued alignment Malus and clawback apply to PSP awards: if there is a with Company strategy.
misstatement of the Groups financial results for any period: if the Committee subsequently comes to a view Details of measures and that performance was materially worse than originally targets used for specific believed: in the event of gross misconduct: or if the award PSP grants are included holder leaves employment in circumstances in which in the Annual Report on the award did not lapse and facts emerge which, if known Remuneration on pages at the time, would have caused the award to lapse on 120 to 122. leaving or caused the Committee to exercise any discretion differently.
All-employee plans Babcock Employee SharePlan To encourage Open to all UK tax resident employees of participating Participants can Not performanceemployee ownership Group companies.
Executive Directors are eligible purchase shares up related.
to the prevailing HMRC limit at the The plan is an HMRC approved share incentive plan that time employees are allows an employee to purchase shares through the plan invited toparticipate.
trustees out of pre-tax salary which, if held for periods of time approved by HMRC currently three to five years, are The Company taxed on a favourablebasis.
currently offers to match purchases The Company can match purchased shares with an award made through the plan of free shares.
Matching shares are forfeited if employees at the rate of one free leave within three years of their award otherthan for matching share for every goodleaver reasons.
The matching rate is reviewed periodically, and any future offer will be bound by the prevailing HMRC limit.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 104 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Approach to recruitment remuneration Recruitment policy In the case of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Pay element Policy on recruitment Maximum Salary Based on size and nature of responsibilities of the proposed role: the candidates N A experience: implications for total remuneration positioning vs. market pay levels for comparable roles: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
Pension Membership of pension scheme or salary supplement on a similar basis to other N A executives, as described in the policy table.
Benefits Provision of benefits on a similar basis to other executives, as described in the N A policy table.
Annual bonus As described in the policy table, and may be pro-rated for proportion of year served.
150% of salary Performance Share Plan New appointees may be granted awards under the PSP on similar terms to 200% of salary other executives.
All-employee plans New appointees may be granted awards under all-employee plans on similar terms As per Policy Table to other executives.
Other In determining appropriate remuneration for new Executive Directors, the Committee N A will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and where the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Company and its Shareholders.
The Committee mayalso make an award in respect of a new appointment to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to these awards, time to vesting andthe likelihood of those conditions being met.
The fair value of the compensatory award would not be greater than the awards being replaced.
In order to facilitate like for like compensatory awards on recruitment, the Committee may avail itself of Listing Rule 9.4.
Other recruitment events Internal promotion When appointing a new Executive Director by way of promotion froman internal role, N A the Committee will be consistent with the policyfor external hires detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments, outstanding incentive awards and or pension arrangements prior to their promotion to Executive Director, theCompany may honour those arrangements: however, where appropriate, these would be expected to transition over time tothearrangements stated above.
Non-Executive Director When recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee or Boardwill structure N A pay in line with the existing policy, namely a basefee in line with the current fee schedule, with additional fees forfulfilling the role of Senior Independent Director and Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Remuneration Payments from existing awards and commitments Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award or other commitment made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration policy detailed in this report.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting The measures used under annual bonus plans are selected annually to reflect the Groups main strategic objectives for the year and reflect both financial and non-financial priorities.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, taking into account the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference points, including the Groups strategic and operating plan.
The Committee considers at length the appropriate financial conditions and non-financial objectives to attach to annual bonus awards and the financial targets to attach to share awards to ensure they continue to be: i relevant to the Groups strategic objectives and aligned with Shareholders interests, mindful of risk management: and ii fair by being suitably stretching whilst realistic.
The Committee believes that TSR, EPS and ROCE continue to be effective measures of long-term performance for the Company, providing a good balance between Shareholder value creation and line of sight for executives.
The TSR performance measure is tested by reference to the Companys relative long-term share price performance against suitable peers.
The Committee believes that the use of relative TSR provides strong alignment with Shareholders interests by incentivising management for the delivery of above-market returns.
The TSR calculation would normally use a 12-month average for opening and closing share prices adjusted for dividends paid during the period.
The Company feels that this is the most appropriate period because a 12-month average ensures both that short-term market volatility is excluded and that for each company a 12-month period will capture the impact of the announcement of results and payment of dividends.
A shorter period would not capture all these events and would not necessarily put allcompanies on an equal footing.
The use of an EPS growth performance measure, in the opinion of the Committee, focuses management on continued strong financial performance and is heavily dependent on the Companys success in achieving its strategic goals.
The Committee believes that ROCE reinforces the focus on returns for Shareholders and encourages capital discipline.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to make adjustments to the calculation of short and long-term performance outcomes incircumstances where application of the formula would produce a result inconsistent with the Companys remuneration principles.
Such circumstances may include: changes in accounting standards and certain major corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends, corporate restructurings, acquisitions anddisposals.
The Committee reviews the performance conditions for share awards prior to the start of each cycle to ensure they remain appropriate.
No material reduction in long-term incentive targets for future awards would be made without prior consultation with our major Shareholders.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 106 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Differences between Executive Director and general employee remuneration The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of senior executives below the Board is consistent with that for the Executive Directors.
Senior executives generally participate in the same long-term incentives as the Executive Directors with similar performance measures applied.
The Remuneration policy for our Executive Directors is considered with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group in mind.
The remuneration arrangements for other employees reflect local market practice and seniority of each role.
As a result, the levels and structure of remuneration for different groups of employees will differ from the policy for executives as set out above but with the common intention that remuneration arrangements for all groups might reasonably be considered to be fair having regard to such factors.
Balance of remuneration for Executive Directors The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, On-target and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on the Companys Remuneration policy and implementation in 2018 19, as outlined in the Chairmans statement and later in the Annual Report on Remuneration, applied to base salaries as at 1April2018.
Note that the projected values exclude the impact of any share price movements.
For this reason, were the PSP shares to vest in full, actual total remuneration may exceed the value shown in the chart below.
These are the only elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages which are not atrisk.
The On-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus a pay-outof 55% of the annual bonus and threshold vesting of 16.7% of the maximum award under the PSP.
The Maximum scenario reflects fixedremuneration, plus full pay-out of allincentives.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Remuneration Shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors The Committee sets shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
The current guideline is to build and maintain, over time, a personal and or spousal holding of shares in the Company equivalent in value to at least twice the Executive Directors annual base salary three times for the CEO.
The guidelines also state that an Executive Director is expected to retain at least half of any shares acquired on the exercise of a share award that remain after the sale of sufficient shares to cover tax and national insurance triggered by the exercise and associated dealing costs until the guideline level is achieved and thereafter maintained.
The Executive Directors compliance with these guidelines is shown in the table on page 126.
Details of Directors service contracts and exit payments and treatment of awards on a change of control The following summarises the key terms excluding remuneration of the Directors service contracts or terms of appointment: Executive Directors Name Date of service contract Notice period Archie Bethel 1 April 2016 12 months from Company, Chief Executive 12months from Director Franco Martinelli 1 August 2014 12 months from Company, Group Finance Director 12months from Director Bill Tame 1 October 2001 amended by letters 12 months from Company, Chief Executive, Global Growth and Operations dated 5 May 2004 and 3 April 2006 6months from Director John Davies 20 December 2012 12 months from Company, Chief Executive, Land 12months from Director Bill Tame gave notice of his retirement in accordance with his service contract.
He stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2018 and will retire from the Company on 30 June 2018.
The latest service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will also be availableat the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Companys policy is that Executive Directors service contracts should be capable of being terminated by the Company on not more than 12 months notice.
The Executive Directors service contracts entitle the Company to terminate their employment without notice by making a payment of salary and benefits in lieu of notice.
In these circumstances, since 2012, new Executive Directors contracts those for Archie Bethel, John Davies and Franco Martinelli allow the Company to choose to make the payment in lieu by monthly instalments and mitigation applies such that the Committee may decide to reduce or discontinue further instalments.
For contracts made before 2012 forBill Tame only such a payment would be byway of a lump sum payment on termination.
If the Company terminates an Executive Directors service contract, itwill have regard to all the circumstances including the scope formitigation and the Companys  the amount of compensation, if any, payable to him inconnection with that termination.
The contract for Bill Tame contains provisions which provide that, within 90 days of the occurrence of a change of control of the Company, he may terminate his employment forthwith.
If heexercises this right, he is entitled, for a12-month period, to be paid on a monthly basis his base salary plus 40% compared to a maximum entitlement under the annual bonus plan of 150% in lieu of bonus and all other contractual entitlements.
From this payment there is to be deducted any amount that he receives by way of income, if it exceeds 10% of his Babcock salary, from other sources that he wouldnot have been able to earn hadhecontinued in employment withtheCompany.
The contract for Bill Tame also provides that, if the Company terminates his appointment within 12 months of a change of control, he would be entitled to a termination payment equal to 100% of annual salary plus 40% in lieu of bonus and all other benefits, subject to anyadditional entitlement as outlined below.
No other Executive Director has these arrangements in their service contract.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 108 Strategic report Governance statement Financials In addition to the contractual provisions regarding payment on termination set out above, the Companys incentive plans contain provisions for termination of employment, where the Committee has the discretion to determine the level of award vesting.
2 Component Treatment on a change of control Treatment for a good leaver Treatment for other leavers Annual bonus Will be paid a time pro-rated Will be paid a time pro-rated No annual bonus entitlement, unless proportion, subject to performance proportion, subject to performance the Committee exercises discretion during the year, generally paid during the year, generally paid at to treat otherwise.
immediately, withCommittee the year end, with Committee 1 discretion to treat otherwise.
Deferred bonus awards Awards may be exercised in Entitled to retain a time pro-rated Outstanding awards are forfeited fullonthe change of control, proportion which will generally unless the Committee exercises its withCommittee discretion to vest at the normal vesting date, discretion to treat otherwise.
with Committee discretion to treat otherwise.
PSP Awards generally vest immediately Entitled to retain a time pro-rated Outstanding awards are forfeited, and, for performance-related proportion, which remains subject unless the Committee exercises awards, willbe pro-rated for time to performance conditions tested at discretion to treat otherwise.
and remain subject to performance the normal vesting date.
In very conditions, with Committee exceptional circumstances, the discretion to treat otherwise.
Committee has discretion to allow immediate vesting but time pro-rating will always apply.
Treatment of bonus on a change of control for Bill Tame is also subject of the provisions outlined on page 108 above.
An individual would generally be considered a good leaver if they leave the Groups employment by reason of injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy or retirement ineach case evidenced to the Committees satisfaction.
The treatment of share awards held by Directors who leave on other grounds is entirely at the discretion ofthe Committee and in deciding whether and the extent to which it would be appropriate to exercise that discretion the Committee will have regard to all thecircumstances.
External appointments of Executive Directors The Executive Directors may accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Chairman, provided that such appointments do not prejudice the individuals ability to fulfil their duties at the Group.
Any fees for outside appointments are retained by the Director.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Anticipated expiry of present term of appointment Name Date of appointment as a Director Date of current appointment letters subject to annual re-election Mike Turner Chairman 1 June 2008 22 February 2017 AGM 2020 Sir David Omand 1 April 2009 17 May 2018 AGM 2021 Ian Duncan 10 November 2010 25 January 2016 AGM 2019 Anna Stewart 1 November 2012 26 March 2015 Jeff Randall 1 April 2014 22 February 2017 AGM 2020 Myles Lee 1 April 2015 17 May 2018 AGM 2021 Victoire fide Margerie 1 February 2016 3 December 2015 AGM 2019 Lucy Dimes 1 April 2018 5 March 2018 AGM 2021 Kjersti Wiklund 1 April 2018 5 March 2018 AGM 2021 Anna Stewart sadly died on 5 October 2017.
The latest written terms of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The expected time commitment of Non-Executive Directors is set out in their current written terms of appointment.
The Groups Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment as detailed in the table above, normally for no more than three-year terms at a time: however, in all cases appointments are terminable at will at any time by the Company or the Director.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by the Company in general meeting in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment are shown in the table.
The appointment and re-appointment and the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors are matters reserved for the Nominations Committee and Executive Directors, respectively.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Remuneration The Non-Executive Directors fees have been set at a level to reflect the amount of time and level of involvement required in order to carry out their duties as members of the Board and its Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the Companys performance-related incentive plans and do not receive any pension contributions.
Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Function Operation Opportunity Performance measures To attract and Fee levels are reviewed against market Non-Executive Director fee increases are None practice from time to time by the Chairman applied in line withthe outcome of the retain high-calibre Non-Executive and the Executive Directors inthe case periodicfee review.
Directors with ofNon-Executive Director fees and by the Any increases to the Non-Executive Director commercial and Committee in respect of fees payable to the fee will typically be in line with general other experience Chairman, with any adjustments normally movements in market levels of Non-Executive relevant to the being made on 1April in the review year.
Company Additional feesare payable for acting as In the event that there is a material Chairman of the Audit and Risk, and misalignment with the market or a change Remuneration Committees.
in the complexity, responsibility or time Non-Executive Directors do not participate commitment required to fulfil a Non-Executive in any incentive schemes, nordo they Director role, the Board has discretion to receive any pension or benefits other make an appropriate adjustment to the than the cost of nominal travel and fee level.
Fee levels are reviewed by reference to FTSE listed companies of similar size and complexity.
Time commitment, level of involvement required and responsibility are taken into account when reviewing fee levels.
This may result in higher fee levels for overseas Directors.
Fees for the year ending 31 March 2018 and those for the year ending 31March 2019 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page124.
Consideration of employee views When reviewing Executive Director pay the Committee is aware of the proposals for review of remuneration of all employees.
TheCommittee receives regular updates on salary increases, bonus and share awards made to employees throughout the Group.
Thesematters are considered when conducting the annual review of executive remuneration.
The Company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with employee representative bodies as part of its employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
The Company now formally presents a summary of its policy for remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors to the Babcock Employee Forum, which is attended by representatives from acrossthebusiness operations, and will consider any feedback from that Forum.
Consideration of Shareholder views When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account views of leading Shareholders and best practice guidelines issued by institutional Shareholder bodies.
The Committee is always open to feedback from Shareholders on Remuneration policy and arrangements and commits to undergoing consultation with leading Shareholders in advance of any significant changes to Remuneration policy.
The Committee will continue to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate.
Further details of the votes received on the 2017 Directors Remuneration policy report and the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration are provided onpage 112.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 110 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Annual Report on Remuneration The Committee The members of the Committee are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee and, in accordance with provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee is made up of the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The membership of the Committee currently and during the year to 31 March 2018 with each member serving throughout the year with the exception of Anna Stewart, who sadly died on 5 October 2017 as well as attendance at Committee meetings in the year is shown below.
The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
Committee attendance Member Number of meetings attended Number of meetings possible year to 31 March 2018 Jeff Randall 7 of 7 Sir David Omand 7 of 7 Ian Duncan 7 of 7 Anna Stewart 2 of 2 Myles Lee 7 of 7 Victoire fide Margerie 7 of 7 The Group Chairman and the Chief Executive normally attend meetings by invitation, as does the Group Finance Director on occasion, but they are not present when their own remuneration is being decided.
The Company Secretary attends meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
The Group Director of Organisation and Development also attends meetings.
Advisors Mercer|Kepler which is part ofthe MMC group of companies was appointed by the Committee in late 2008, following a selection process, including interviewing a number of candidate firms, to provide it with objective and independent analysis, information and advice on all aspects ofexecutive remuneration and market practice, within the context of the objectives and policy set by the Committee.
Mercer|Kepler reports directly to the Committee Chairman.
A representative from Mercer|Kepler typically attends Committee meetings.
Mercer|Kepler also provides participant communications, performance reporting, and Non-Executive Directors fee benchmarking services to theCompany.
Mercer|Kepler is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for consultants to remuneration committees of UK listed companies, details of which can be found at www.
Mercer|Kepler adheres tothis Code of Conduct.
The fees paid toMercer|Kepler in respect of work for the Committee carried out in the year under review totalled 75,595 on the basis of time and materials, excluding expenses andVAT.
The Committee reviews Mercer|Keplers involvement each year and considers any other relationships that Mercer|Keplers parent company has with the Company that may limit its independence.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by Mercer|Kepler is objective and independent and that any services provided by its parent to the Company do not impair its independence.
How often it meets In total there were seven meetings in the year to 31 March 2018.
The Committee plans to meet at least six times in the year to 31March2019.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Remuneration Matters considered The Committee considered a number of matters during the year to 31 March 2018, including: agreeing Executive Director salaries for the year under review consulting our largest Shareholders and investor bodies on proposed changes to Remuneration policy reviewing the Committees terms of reference considering trends in executive remuneration, remuneration governance and investor views making share awards under the Companys share plans reviewing the performance measures and targets to be applied under the Companys share plans finalising performance targets and non-financial objectives for the 2018 19 annual bonus plan agreeing the level of vesting of PSP and DBMP awards granted in 2014 considering performance against the measures to be applied for the 2017 18 annual bonuses agreeing the level of 2017 18 annual bonuses reviewing share ownership guidelines for senior executives agreeing pay reviews for other senior executives for the year to 31 March 2019 reviewing the Directors Remuneration report approving the procedure for the authorisation of Chairman and CEO expenses reviewing the continued appointmentof the Committees independent advisors.
Summary of Shareholder voting at the 2017 AGM The following table shows the results of the binding Shareholder vote on the 2017 Remuneration policy and the advisory Shareholder vote on the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2017 AGM: 2017 Remuneration policy 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration Total number Total number Votes cast of votes % of votes cast of votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 368,814,605 96.5% 379,124,151 99.5% Against 13,528,165 3.5% 1,796,792 0.5% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 382,342,770 100.0% 380,920,943 100.0% Votes withheld 4,341,748 5,763,575 Total votes cast including withheld votes 386,684,518 386,684,518 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 112 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the years ending 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017. a Archie Bethel Franco Martinelli Bill Tame John Davies 000 000 000 000 17 18 16 17 17 18 16 17 17 18 16 17 17 18 16 17 Fixed remuneration 1.
On 1 September 2016, he was appointed as Chief Executive on a salary of 750,000.
The figures have been calculated as follows: 1.
Salary: basic salary amount paid in the year.
Benefits in kind and cash: the value of benefits and salary supplements other than those in lieu of pensions including medical insurance, home to work travel expenses incurred at the request of the Company,  benefits, car and fuel benefits and costs in connection with accommodation.
Archie Bethel in 17 18 received 225,728 16 17: 173,806 in connection with his accommodation costs in London, at the Companys request, to enable him to lead the business effectively.
John Davies received a similar allowance in 17 18 of 20,789 16 17: 62,200.
Pension: for all Executive Directors the numbers above represent for each year the value of the cash supplement of 25% of salary paid to each of them.
Annual bonus cash or voluntarily deferred bonus : this is the part of total annual bonus earned for performance during the year see page 115 that is not required to be mandatorily deferred into a basic award of shares under the DBMP see page 116 and that is to be satisfied in cash.
DBMP deferred annual bonus: this is the mandatorily deferred element of the annual bonus earned for performance during the year, which will vest after three years.
DBMP matching awards : for 17 18, represents the market value of the 2015 awards that vest on performance to 31 March 2018: based on vesting as to 20% of the total award see page 118 and an average share price in the three months to 31 March 2018 of 679.6p.
Note: the difference between the DBMP figures shown for 2016 17 in the table above and the equivalent numbers disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration reflects trueing up for the actual share price on subsequent actual vesting of 890.5p on 12 June 2017.
PSP: for 17 18, represents the market value of the 2015 awards that vest on performance to 31 March 2018: based on vesting as to 23.9% of the total award see page 117 and an average share price in the three months to 31 March 2018 of 679.6p.
Note: the difference between the PSP figures shown for 2016 17 in the table above and the equivalent numbers disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration reflects the actual share price on subsequent actual vesting of 890.5p on 12 June 2017 for all awards except Franco Martinellis PSP award granted on 29 January 2015 that vested on 29 January 2018 when the share price was 731.4p.
Dividends: the total value of dividends accruing on long-term incentive awards other than on mandatory and voluntary deferral of bonus awards under the DBMP vesting on performance to 31 March 2018 for 17 18 and 31 March 2017 for 16 17, payable in cash on exercise of the award.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Remuneration Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31 March 2018 and the prior year: Base fee 000 Additional fees 000 Total 000 17 18 16 17 17 18 16 17 17 18 16 17 Mike Turner 330 310 0 330 310 Sir David Omand 71 69 0 71 69 Ian Duncan 60 58 15 15 75 73 Jeff Randall 60 58 15 15 75 73 2 Anna Stewart 35 58 0 35 58 Myles Lee 64 62 0 64 62 Victoire fide Margerie 64 62 0 64 62 1.
Relating to Chairmanship of the Audit and Risk Committee Ian Duncan, and Remuneration Committee Jeff Randall.
Anna Stewart sadly died on 5 October 2017.
Pensions None of the Executive Directors participated in a Group pension scheme or otherwise received pension benefits from the Group for service during the year to 31 March 2018.
They instead received a cash supplement equal to 25% of their base salary in lieu of pension benefits.
There are no additional early retirement benefits.
Supplements paid in lieu of pension do not count for pension, share award or bonus purposes.
Babcock International Group Pension Scheme the Scheme audited Bill Tame was an active member of the senior executive tier of the Scheme until 30 September 2011.
Archie Bethel was an active member of the executive tier of the Scheme until 31 March 2012.
Franco Martinelli was an active member of the executive tier of the Scheme until 31 March 2015.
Whilst still members of the Scheme, Bill Tame accrued benefits at the rate of one-thirtieth, and for Archie Bethel and Franco Martinelli the rate of accrual was one-forty-fifth, of pensionable salary for each year of service, with a cash supplement on earnings over the applicable scheme earnings cap.
Archie Bethel transferred his benefits out of the Scheme during the year on the standard terms offered under the Scheme.
Until 31 March 2016, John Davies was a member of the VT Upper Section Ex-Short Brotherssection of the Scheme and accrued benefits on earnings up to the scheme earnings cap at the rate of one-sixtieth of pensionable salary for each year of service.
Pension entitlements under the Scheme defined benefit for the year to 31 March 2018 are set out in the following table: 2 Accrued pension at 31 March 2018 Normal retirement date 1 Director pa Bill Tame 54,768 60 John Davies 59,594 65 Franco Martinelli 62,573 65 1.
None of the Executive Directors were active members of the scheme during the year.
Date from which payment can be drawn with no actuarial reduction.
Note: The figures in the above table make no allowance for the cost of death in service benefits under the Scheme, or for any benefits in respect of earnings in excess of the earnings cap.
In calculating the above figures no account has been taken of any retained benefits that the Director may have from previous employments.
Directors also benefit from life assurance cover of four times base salary.
The cost of providing that life assurance cover was: 2017 18 2016 17 Director 000 000 Archie Bethel 5 5 Bill Tame 3 3 John Davies 3 3 Franco Martinelli 3 3 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 114 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Annual bonus 2017 18 Annual bonus audited For our Executive Directors annual bonus plans in 2017 18, as in previous years, a mix of financial and non-financial measures was used.
The non-financial measures were principally based on the key themes that the Committee considers to be of material importance to the continued success of the Company.
Objectives for the 2017 18 bonus were set by the Committee at the beginning of the year.
The table below sets out the annual bonus plan in place for the Executive Directors and the outturn under them in 2017 18.
The figures in the table below for actual outturn exclude the effect of changes in exchange rates.
Actual Archie Franco Bill John Bonus element Threshold Target Maximum outturn Bethel Martinelli Tame Davies 1 EPS performance 81.0p 83.1p 85.6p 82.8p Maximum potential 60% 60% 60% 60% Stretching targets, with % of salary a sliding scale between Outturn 26.3% 26.3% 26.3% 26.3% threshold and maximum % of salary Achieving budgeted 95% Budget 105% Maximum potential 30% 30% 15% Group cash flow of budget 213.7m of budget % of salary Outturn 30% 30% 15% % of salary Achieving budgeted 97% Budget 103% Maximum potential 30% 30% 15% 15% 2 Group PBT of budget 516.5m of budget % of salary Outturn 11.1% 11.1% 5.6% 5.6% % of salary 3 Achieving budgeted 95% Budget 105% Maximum potential 15% 15% sector cash flow of budget of budget % of salary Outturn 15% 15% % of salary 3 Achieving budgeted 97% Budget 103% Maximum potential 15% 15% 2 sector PBIT of budget of budget % of salary Outturn 0% 0% % of salary 4 Non-financial objectives Maximum potential 30% 30% 30% 30% % of salary Outturn 24.5% 25.2% 19% 23.4% % of salary Global Growth & Maximum potential 15% 5 Operations % of salary Outturn 10.7% % of salary Total Maximum potential 150% 150% 150% 150% % of salary Outturn 92.0% 92.7% 76.6% 85.3% % of salary 1.
Threshold vesting is 10% of maximum for each financial bonus element except for EPS performance, where 8% of maximum vests at threshold.
In line with our policy, overall vesting at threshold is no more than 15% when all measures are taken into account.
Before amortisation of acquired intangibles.
The treatment of exceptional items is at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee considers that the sector budgets remain commercially sensitive given the strategic nature of some of our customers or their activities, and they would also be of assistance to competitors, and will not be published.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Remuneration 4.
Non-financial objectives were set around the strategic and risk management Themes, which for the year were Growth, Technology, Resources, Reputation and Processes.
At the end of the bonus year, the Committee reviewed progress against the Themes overall having regard to all relevant circumstances and made an assessment as to performance on non-financial measures and what the appropriate bonus payment was for that.
In making its assessment in respect of the award under the non-financial measures, the Committee considered the following issues in respect of each Theme: Growth: As described in the Strategic report, the Group continued to grow profit, earnings per share and dividend payments at an acceptable return on capital.
Each of the sectors have won important new contracts during the period, both in the UK and internationally.
In addition, the opportunities for further growth are evidenced by the increase in value of the bid pipeline.
Technology: In the year, a position of Group MD, Technology, has been created.
The Group MD, Technology, sits on the Group Executive Committee and is responsible for developing the Groups technology strategy.
As a first step, the Group MD, Technology, has established a cross sector Technology capability in order to develop and support each sectors increased application of technology.
The Group believes that the innovative application of technology is a differentiator for its business.
For example, Aviation further developed the mission and communications capability on UK National Police Air Service aircraft.
These improvements created a best in class and helped the sector to win contracts with the Dutch Police and Western Power Generation.
Resources: From 1 April 2017, the Group was realigned into its current four sectors.
This realignment has allowed each sector to focus better on the possible opportunities, as evidenced by the increase in value of the pipeline, while realising operational efficiencies.
At the same time, each sector has continued to look to improve the diversity of its workforce.
Marine has established Diversity & Inclusion Leadership Groups at all its main sites.
Aviation has increased the number of female candidates in its talent programme from 14% to 21% since last year.
Reputation: Each sector has delivered a good year of operational performance to customers.
The Group has leveraged its reputation in order to expand its offering internationally, for example, the new contract to deliver training to the French Air Force.
Processes: During the year, the Group has improved its IT infrastructure with the further introduction of IT platforms for employee management and procurement across most of its UK businesses.
In addition, the Group has also continued with the roll out of the Group Enterprise Resource Planning platform, which is now operational in its UK defence and nuclear businesses.
This platformwill allow for the adoption of a common systems approach and will increase the effectiveness of the Groups operations.
For Bill Tame in his role as Chief Executive, Global Growth & Operations, the Committee determined that a proportion of his annual bonus should be based on growth in the International order book and International revenue.
Annual bonus deferral into shares audited To ensure that a substantial part of the Directors annual bonus is exposed to the longer-term impact of decision-making and further to align their interests with Shareholders, 40% of any annual bonus earned by Executive Directors and other senior executives must be deferred into Company shares by means of an award of nil-cost options.
Mandatorily deferred annual bonus awards Basic Awards are subject to potential forfeiture if the holder leaves before the awards vest other than by reason of death, disability, redundancy, retirement or the company or business in which they are employed ceasing to be part of the Group.
Long-term incentive schemes PSP PSP awards made in 2017 18 audited % receivable End of Face value for threshold performance 1 2 Director Basis Number of shares Face value % of salary performance period As per the policy.
Based for Directors on three-day average share price of 891.67p at time of grant.
Expressed as a percentage of salary at the date of the award 14 June 2017.
In the form of nil-cost options.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 116 Strategic report Governance statement Financials The performance targets that were attached to these awards split equally between TSR performance relative to the peer group, EPS growth and ROCE are illustrated in the charts below: ROCE element EPS element TSR element 33% of award 33% of award 33% of award 100% 100% 100% 75% 75% 75% 50% 50% 50% 25% 25% 25% 16.7% 16.7% 16.7% 0% 0% 0% 12% 14.5% 4% 11% Median Median 9% Babcocks three-year average Babcocks three-year annualised Babcocks three-year TSR out performance ROCE % p. a. EPS growth % p. a. of FTSE 350 Median % p. a.
Note: TSR comparators are the companies that comprise the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services companies.
Threshold vesting 16.7% of this element for the EPS element was set at growth of 4% per annum and maximum vesting at growth of 11% per annum.
We believe that growth of 11% would represent exceptional performance.
For the comparative TSR element, threshold vesting 16.7% of this element would be for performance in line with the median of the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services companies and maximum vesting would be for 9% pa outperformance of the median, representing upper quartile performance.
For the ROCE element, the target for maximum vesting of these awards was set at 14.5% and for threshold vesting at 12%.
Deferred Bonus Plan awards made in 2017 18 audited % receivable for Face value threshold End of performance 1 2 Director Basis Number of shares Face value % of salary performance period As per the policy.
Archie Bethel 29,185 260,233 34% n a n a No additional Franco Martinelli 18,387 163,951 38% n a n a performance Bill Tame 12,519 111,628 26% n a n a conditions required John Davies for vesting.
Expressed as a percentage of salary at the date of award 14 June 2017.
2015 PSP awards vesting audited Awards granted in 2015 under the PSP were subject to three-year TSR and EPS targets outlined on page 120.
Performance against these measures, and resulting vesting, is as follows: % weighting on % of each each element element vesting Outcome of three-year TSR to 31 March 2018 14% pa below median TSR for the FTSE 350 50% 0% excluding investment trusts and financial services Outcome of three-year adjusted basic underlying 6.6% pa historical EPS numbers were restated to 50% 47.8% EPS growth to 31 March 2018 ensure they were on the same accounting basis 2015 PSP awards expected to vest to Executive Directors in June 2018: 23.9% Director Award Number expected to vest Archie Bethel PSP 2015 11,118 Franco Martinelli PSP 2015 11,118 Bill Tame PSP 2015 12,474 John Davies PSP 2015 10,622 Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 117 % of EPS element % of ROCE element % of TRS element Remuneration 2015 DBMP awards vesting audited Awards granted in 2015 under the DBMP were subject to the three-year TSR, EPS and average ROCE targets outlined on page 120.
The maximum match is 2 for 1 on any shares held under the plan: 0.25 matching shares would be released for each such share at threshold vesting.
Performance against these measures, and resulting vesting, is as follows: % weighting Match on on each element each element Outcome of three-year TSR 14% pa below median TSR for the FTSE 350 33% 0x to 31 March 2018 excluding investment trusts and financial services Outcome of three-year adjusted basic 6.6% pa historical EPS numbers were restated to 33% 0.90x underlying EPS growth to 31 March 2018 ensure they were on the same accounting basis Outcome of three-year average ROCE 12.1% 33% 0.31x Match expected on 2015 DBMP awards for Executive Directors on vesting in June 2018: 0.40x Director Award Number expected to vest Archie Bethel DBMP 2015 9,256 Franco Martinelli DBMP 2015 4,016 Bill Tame DBMP 2015 6,428 John Davies DBMP 2015 7,660 Sourcing of shares Shares needed to satisfy share awards for Directors are either fresh issue shares issued to the Groups employee share trusts to meet share awards or shares purchased in the market by the trusts using funds advanced by the Company.
The source selection is finalised on or before vesting, the choice being based on what the Board considers is in the best interests of the Company at the time, and what is permissible within available headroom and dilution limits.
Executive Directors remuneration for 2018 19 The Committee has set the remuneration for Executive Directors for 2018 19 in line with the Groups policy, as approved by Shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Base salary Executive Directors base salaries are reviewed each year with any changes usually taking effect from 1 April.
The Remuneration policy ispitched to deliver fixed remuneration at or below median and total remuneration capable of delivering upper quartile performance.
Theincrease in Executive Directors salaries for 2018 19 was in line with increases for the wider UK workforce see below.
Salary reflects that he receives car and fuel benefits.
Internal relativity As noted in our Remuneration policy, when reviewing Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee takes note of proposals for pay in the wider Group.
Each business within the Group determines its own pay structures and remuneration in light of its own position and the employment market in which it operates.
The overall average salary increase for employees in the UK generally for the year to 31 March 2019 is expected to be 2% although, in certain specific cases, individuals may receive above this amount dependent on business and personal performance and local market conditions.
The salary increase for the Executive Directors has been set at 2%.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 118 Strategic report Governance statement Financials 2018 19 Annual bonus Executive Directors annual bonus plans for 2018 19 are unchanged from the structure adopted in 2017 18 as set out on page 115.
Measures are based 40% on EPS, 20% on PBT, 20% on OCF and 20% on non-financial objectives.
For John Davies, a portion of the PBT and OCF element will be based on performance of his area of the business.
The Committee intends to disclose the Group financial performance targets for 2018 19 and non-financial objectives retrospectively in next years Annual Report on Remuneration, subject to these no longer being considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive.
As disclosed last year, non-financial objectives will fall under the categories of: Growth: continue delivery of value-creating growth Technology: improve our technical offering, build barriers to entry and drive cross-sector synergies Resources: develop robust resourcing plans to meet the future growth plans of the business Reputation: deliver value to our customers, enhance our reputation and sustain operational performance Processes: continually improve our systems, technologies and processes to maximise business opportunities.
The weighting of the elements of bonus is kept under review.
For all Executive Directors, 40% of any earned bonus will continue to be deferred into shares for three years.
PSP awards for 2018 19 The Committee intends to grant awards in 2018 19 under the PSP of 200% of salary for all Executive Directors, with the performance measures and targets as follows: EPS growth targets for 2018 awards in nominal terms of 4% pa to 11% pa over three years: TSR targets between median and median 9% relative to the peer group: ROCE targets based on the average return over the performance period will vest from 12% to 14%.
Summary of the structure of Executive Directors remuneration Based on the Committees policy, the principal elements of the remuneration arrangements other than pension benefits or supplements in lieu of pension benefits for Executive Directors in the year to 31 March 2019 and for the year to 31March 2019 are summarised in the table below.
Bill Tame stepped down from the Board on 31 March 2018 Bill Tame As announced on 21 December 2017, Bill Tame will retire from Babcock on 30 June 2018.
Bill will continue to be remunerated up to his date of leaving, in accordance with his contractual entitlements and the Companys Directors Remuneration policy, as approved by Shareholders on 13 July 2017.
Bill will not be eligible for a salary increase for 2018 19, nor will he receive a 2018 grant under the Companys PSP, although he will be eligible for a time pro-rated bonus for the financial year 2018 19.
Details of the remuneration payable to Bill in respect of the year ending 31 March 2018 will be disclosed in next years Directors Remuneration report.
The Committee has exercised its discretion and determined that Bill will be treated as a good leaver.
Outstanding share awards that he currently holds will, accordingly, be treated consistently with the terms of the Companys Directors Remuneration policy, as follows: The 2015 PSP grant over 52,193 shares will vest on the normal vesting date in accordance with the PSP rules, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions attached to them.
A cash sum equivalent to the dividends that accrue on the shares that vest will also be paid.
The 2015 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan DBMP basic grant over 16,070 shares and basic matching grant over 32,140 shares will vest on the normal vesting date, in accordance with the DBMP rules.
The extent to which the basic matching grant shall vest will be determined by the extent to which the performance conditions attached to the grant have been met over the performance period.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Remuneration The vesting periods for the above awards will have been completed by Bills date of retirement and, therefore, the performance-based awards will not be pro-rated for time.
Outstanding Deferred Bonus Plan DBP grants made in 2016 over 12,498 shares and 2017 over 12,519 shares shall vest on their normal vesting dates, in accordance with the DBP rules.
To the extent that Bill receives a bonus for the financial year 2017 18 and for 2018 19, 40% of any such bonus will be deferred into the DBP.
Bill will also retain an interest in the PSP grants made in 2016 over 84,238 shares and 2017 over 96,112 shares.
These interests will be pro-rated for time to the date of leaving, and will vest to the extent the performance conditions attaching to the awards are met on their normal vesting date, in accordance with the PSP rules.
A cash sum equivalent to the dividends that accrue on any shares that vest will also be paid.
The two-year post-vesting holding period will apply to any shares that vest under the 2017 PSP grant.
As stated above, Bill will not receive a 2018 PSP grant.
No payments fall to be made to Bill by way of compensation for loss of office.
Outstanding share awards summaries: grants made up to and during 2017 The following tables on pages 120 to 122 summarise the performance targets if applicable and other information about the plans relevant to currently outstanding share awards held by Executive Directors i. e. those awards yet to vest and those that vested during the year to 31March 2018 the awards made in 2014 under the PSP, the CSOP and the DBMP.
Scheme Performance Share Plan nil price options and Company Share Option Plan market price options 2014-2017 Performance For the 2014 awards: 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2017 vested in June 2017 as to 26.5% period For the 2015 awards: 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2018 expected to vest in June 2018 as to 23.9% For the 2016 awards: 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2019 For the 2017 awards: 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2020 General performance Proportion of total award that target EPS growth test Comparative TSR test ROCE test can vest under each measure Maximum Compound annual Outperformance of the 2016 awards: ROCE of more 50% on EPS and TSR for growth: 2014 awards: 11% median TSR performance than 15%, 2017 awards: 2014 and 2015 awards or more in excess of RPI for the peer group taken ROCE of more than 14.5% 33% on EPS, TSR and ROCE asa whole by 9% or more 2015, 2016 and 2017 for 2016 and 2017 awards awards: 11% or more Threshold Compound annual TSR performance equivalent 2016 and 2017 awards: 8.3% on EPS and TSR for growth in: to the median for the peer ROCE of 12% 2014 and 2015 awards group as a whole 2014 awards: 4% or more 5.6% on EPS, TSR and ROCE in excess of RPI for 2016 and 2017 awards 2015, 2016 and 2017 awards: 4% or more Intermediate growth Intermediate ranking Intermediate ROCE Straight-line basis between between the above points between the above points between the above points 8.3% and 50% on EPS and TSR for 2014 and 2015 awards: and between 5.6% and 33% on EPS, TSR and ROCE for 2016 and 2017 awards Compound annual Performance less than ROCE of less than threshold 0% growth below threshold equivalent to median for the whole peer group TSR comparator For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
This group group was chosen after careful review due to the fact that Babcocks closest peers straddle multiple sectors, not just support services, and the broader group makes the calibration more robust.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 120 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Performance Share Plan nil price options and Company Share Option Plan market price options 2014-2017 continued Other information The awards are not subject to re-testing.
The TSR element will vest only to the extent the Committee is satisfied thatthe recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company over the performanceperiod.
EPS is adjusted to exclude acquired intangible amortisation, but, unless the Committee decides otherwise in respect of any item, is after exceptional items.
ROCE is underlying EBIT after amortisation of acquired intangibles but before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Average Capital Employed over the Performance Period where Capital Employed is calculated as Total Shareholders Equity plus Net Debt or minus Net Funds, as stated in the Companys consolidated audited accounts for the relevant Financial Year: and Average Capital Employed will be calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for each year of the applicable Performance Period.
ROCE targets set at the start of each cycle represent challenging returns in relation to the capital structure at that time, including the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the period prior to grant.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the ROCE outcome for significant changes to the capital structure made during the performance period e. g. acquisitions and disposals to ensure a fair outcome for participants andShareholders.
The awards carry the right to receive on vesting a payment equal to the value of any dividends in the period between grant and vesting but this right applies only to the shares that actually vest under the award.
Exercise periods commence not less than three years from actual or nominal award grant date.
CSOP and PSP awards are linked so that in aggregate the holder cannot receive more gross value from them than astandalone PSP award of shares equal to the relevant award multiple of the Directors base salary.
Scheme Deferred Bonus Matching Plan nil price options 2014-2016 matching awards Performance period For the 2014 awards: 1 April 2014 to 31 March 2017 vested in June 2017 as to 17.0% For the 2015 awards: 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2018 expected to vest in June 2018 as to 20.0% For the 2016 awards: 1 April 2016 to 31 March 2019 Match that can vest General performance target EPS growth test Comparative TSR test ROCE test under each measure Maximum Compound annual Outperformance of the ROCE of more than 17% 0.33x maximum growth: median TSR performance 2014 : 15% 2015 and for the peer group taken 2016 2014 awards: 11% or as a whole by 9% or more more in excess of RPI 2015 and 2016 awards: 11% or more Threshold Compound annual TSR performance ROCE of 15% 2014 : 0.042x maximum growth: equivalent to the median 12% 2015 and 2016 for the peer group as 2014 awards: 4% or a whole more in excess of RPI 2015 and 2016 awards: 4% or more Intermediate growth Intermediate ranking Intermediate ROCE Straight-line basis between between the above points between the above points between the above points 0.042x and 0.33x maximum Compound annual growth Performance less than ROCE of less than 0x below threshold equivalent to median for threshold the whole peer group Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 121 Remuneration Deferred Bonus Matching Plan nil price options 2014-2016 matching awards continued TSR comparator group For the TSR element the peer group is the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and financial services.
This group was chosen after careful review due to the fact that the Companys closest peers straddle multiple sectors, not just support services, and the broader group makes the calibration more robust.
Other information No further DBMP awards will be made following approval last year of our new 2017 Remuneration policy.
Outstanding matching awards are not subject to re-testing.
The TSR element will vest only to the extent the Committee is satisfied that the recorded TSR is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company over the performance period.
EPS is adjusted to exclude acquired intangible amortisation, but, unless the Committee decides otherwise in respectof any item, is after exceptional items.
For the 2015 and 2016 awards, ROCE is underlying EBIT after amortisation of acquired intangibles but before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and theGroups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Average Capital Employed over the Performance Period where Capital Employed is calculated as Total Shareholders Equity plus Net Debt or minus Net Funds, as stated in the Companys consolidated audited accounts for the relevant Financial Year: and Average Capital Employed will becalculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for each year of the applicable Performance Period.
For 2014 awards, the test is based on Average Capital Employed in the 2016 17 Financial Year, with EBIT for the Babcock businesses excluding Avincis now called Mission Critical Services being calculated after amortisation of acquired intangibles and EBIT for the Avincis business being calculated before amortisation of acquired intangibles in each case before exceptional items and including IFRIC 12 investment income and the Groups share of the EBIT of JVs, as a percentage of Capital Employed calculated as the average of the opening and closing value of Capital Employed for that year.
In addition, for the 2014 awards, the Committee has to be satisfied that ROCE for 2014 15 and 2015 16 was satisfactory, and that the recorded ROCE performance is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the Company.
The Committee has discretion to adjust the ROCE outcome for significant changes to the capital structure made during the performance period e. g. acquisitions and disposals to ensure a fair outcome for participants and Shareholders.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 122 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Linkage of remuneration to strategic objectives, risk management and alignment with Shareholder interests The Committee links the remuneration of executives to the long-term interests of Shareholders and key strategic and risk management objectives by the performance criteria it uses in the annual bonus and long-term incentive plans.
Examples include the following: Strategic objective SO Risk R Annual bonus scheme metric Long-term incentive metric SO R: Delivering superior and Financial measures focused on annual delivery of Incentivising delivery of top quartile sustainable value for our Shareholders, sustainable earnings and or profits with stretch Shareholder returns and earnings growth whilst balancing risk and reward.
targets, whilst maintaining strict control of cash.
Long-term measures and deferral of significant part of annual bonus to guard against short-term steps being taken to maximise annual rewards at the expense of future performance.
Setting challenging budgets and stretch targets, as well as non-financial measures specifically aimed at: laying the foundations for sustainable growth in specific existing and new geographical business markets winning key bids and rebids fostering strategically important partnering arrangements.
SO: Developing and maintaining Specific non-financial objectives for: leading market positions in the UK progressing plans for entry into or expansion and selected overseas markets.
intargeted domestic and overseas markets securing key business development milestones.
SO: Building and maintaining Non-financial objectives linked to: customerfocused, long-term customer satisfaction relationships with strategically continuing improvement of management processes important customers.
R: Loss of meeting and planning for existing and future business reputation, poor contract customer expectations on capability and compliance, performance.
for example, in the field of security andinformation assurance.
SO R: Ensuring the Group will Non-financial objectives linked to recruitment and Retentive nature of the long-term plans.
continue to retain and attract the development, resource and succession planning, suitably qualified and experienced and fostering diversity and employee engagement.
people it needs to deliver its growth Retentive nature of the requirement for deferral and strategic plans, maintain and into shares of 40% of annual bonuses earned by develop its technical and senior executives.
SO R: Maintenance of an Overriding health, safety and environmental excellenthealth, safety and performance criterion in annual bonus plans.
Exit payments made in year audited No exit payments were made to Executive Directors during the year under review.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 123 Remuneration Payments to past Directors audited Details of the treatment of awards for Peter Rogers retired 31 August 2016 and Kevin Thomas retired 31 March 2016 were included in last years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Peter Rogers retired from the Company on 31 August 2016.
During the year under review, 26.5% and 17.0% of his retained interest in the 2014 PSP and 2014 DBMP matching awards, totalling 42,684 shares, vested at the normal time and in line with other participants on 12 June 2017.
In addition to the vesting of these shares, Mr Rogers was paid a cash sum of 30,861, representing the total value of dividends accruing on his 2014 PSP and DBMP matching awards.
Kevin Thomas retired from the Company on 31 March 2016, having previously served as an Executive Director until stepping down on 31December 2015.
During the year under review, 26.5% and 17.0% of his retained interest in the 2014 PSP and 2014 DBMP matching awards, totalling 19,072 shares, vested at the normal time and in line with other participants on 12 June 2017.
Mr Thomas was also paid a cash sum of 13,789, representing the total value of dividends accruing on his 2014 PSP and DBMP matching awards.
In addition, Kevin Thomas acted as Chairman on two joint ventures for Cavendish Nuclear and was paid 120,000 in the year.
Kevin Thomas stepped down from both joint ventures on 31 March 2018.
Non-Executive Directors fees including the Chairman The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive fixed fees.
These fees are reviewed against market practice.
From this year the review will take place annually by the Chairman and the Executive Directors in the case of the Non-Executive Director fees and by the Committee in respect of the fees payable to the Chairman.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees were reviewed and set as of 1 April 2017.
Prior to this, they were last increased in April 2015.
Year to Year to % change since last review Annual rate of fees 31 March 2019 31 March 2018 % p. a.
Chairman 330,000 330,000 0% Senior Independent Director inclusive of basic fee 71,000 71,000 0% 1 Basic Non-Executive Directors fee UK based Directors 60,000 60,000 0% 2 Chairmanship of Audit and Risk Committee 15,000 15,000 0% 2 Chairmanship of Remuneration Committee 15,000 15,000 0% 1.
Fees for non-UK based Directors will be set having regard to the extra time commitment involved in attending meetings.
For Myles Lee, appointed 1 April 2015 and based in Ireland, and for Victoire fide Margerie, appointed 1 February 2016 and based in France, the fee has been set at 64,200 for the year to 31 March 2019 unchanged from that for the year to 31 March 2018.
Committee chairmanship fees are paid in addition to the basic applicable Non-Executive Directors fee.
No additional fees are paid for membership of Committees.
Percentage change in Chief Executive remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration as disclosed in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 113 from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for other employees.
The analysis is based on UK employees as they are operating in the same geography and macro-economic background as the Chief Executive.
% change 2016 17 to 2017 18 1 ChiefExecutive Other employees 2 Base salary 7% 2.2% 3 Taxable benefits 92% 0.8% Single-year variable 6 % 35 % 1.
The percentage change for the Chief Executive has been determined with reference to the aggregate 2016 17 remuneration for Archie Bethel and Peter Rogers for the period they were undertaking the role of Chief Executive.
Increase reflects the restructuring of remuneration for 2016 17.
As disclosed in last years report, following the removal of the DBMP, Archie Bethel was appointed as Chief Executive on a salary of 750,000 pa which was higher than his predecessors salary.
Increase reflects additional costs 279,473 in 2017 18 in connection with Archie Bethels accommodation in London, at the Companys request, to enable him to lead the business effectively.
Note that Peter Rogers did not receive this benefit.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2017 18 2016 17 % change Distribution to Shareholders 144m 133m 8.3% Employee remuneration 1,588m 1,547m 2.7% Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 124 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Performance graphs The following graph shows the TSR for the Company compared to the FTSE 100 Index and FTSE 350 Support Services Index, assuming 100 was invested on 1 April 2009 investment in the Company was worth 217 on 31 March 2018.
The Board considers that these indices currently represent the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes as they provide a view of performance against the broad equity market and sector index of which the Company is a constituent.
The table below details the CEOs single figure remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same period.
Includes remuneration received whilst undertaking the role of Chief Operating Officer until August 2016.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 125 Value of 100 invested on 1 April 2009 Remuneration Directors share ownership Directors interests in shares audited The interests of the Directors and or their spouses in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 March 2018 and Directors interests in shares and options under the Companys long-term incentives are set out in the sections below: At 31 March 2017 At 31 March 2018 Shares held Shares held Options held Current Owned Owned Vested but Unvested and Unvested and shareoutrightby outright by subject to subject to subject to holding Director or Directoror holding Vested but performance continued S holding req.
1 1 2 2 Director spouse spouse period not exercised conditions employment % salary salary met?
Beneficially held shares of Director and or spouse.
Current shareholdings for comparison with the shareholding requirements for Executive Directors is calculated based on salary as at 31 March 2018 and by reference to shares owned outright by Director or spouse, options vested but subject to holding periods, options vested but not exercised and options unvested but subject only to continued employment, valued assuming exercise of options on 31 March 2018 at the closing price on that date of 668.8p and calculated post-tax.
There have been no changes to the continuing Directors or their spouses shareholdings between 31 March 2018 and 22 May 2018.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 126 Strategic report Governance statement Financials Directors share-based awards and options audited The tables below shows the various share awards held by Directors under the Companys various share plans.
The Companys mid-market share price at close of business on 29 March 2018 was 668.8p.
The highest and lowest mid-market share prices in the year ended 31 March 2018 were 969.5p and 626.2p, respectively.
For other notes to the table see page 129.
Notes applicable to all tables on pages 127 to 129.
PSP 2009 Performance Share Plan: CSOP 2009 Company Share Option Plan: DBMP 2012 Deferred Bonus Matching Plan: DBP 2012 Deferred Bonus Plan.
Further details about these plans and, where applicable, performance conditions attaching to the awards listed are to be found on pages 120 to 122.
The PSP and DBMP awards are structured as nil priced options.
DBMP basic awards represent the amount of the annual bonus mandatorily deferred and DBMP voluntary deferral awards represent the amount voluntarily deferred by the Director, in each case converted into shares at their value at the award date.
Subject to the rules of the plan concerned, including as to meeting performance targets for PSP, CSOP and DBMP matching awards.
Where this date is less than 10 years from the date of award, the Committee may extend the expiry date on one or more occasions, but not beyond the tenth anniversary of the award.
Awards shown in the table for Franco Martinelli for June 2014 were made prior to his appointment as a Director, which took effect on 1 August 2014.
General notes: 1. Dividend equivalent cash an amount representing dividends earned of 72.30p per vested share had accrued on the PSP 2014 awards and on the DBMP 2014 awards 78.9p for Franco Martinellis PSP award made in January 2015, in each case for the period between grant and vesting.
It is payable by the Company to the award holder on exercise of the award concerned.
Closing share price on the last dealing date before vesting was 882.5p 9 June 2017 for PSP 2014 and DBMP 2014 awards.
Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 129 Remuneration Summary of share-based awards and options vested during the year During the year to 31 March 2018 the following awards vested: Exercise price Market value of Market value of payable for vested shares on vested shares on vested shares Director Award Number vesting Vesting date award vesting date if any Archie PSP 2014 10,940 12 Jun 2017 133,869 97,421 Bethel DBMP 2014 basic award 12,705 12 Jun 2017 155,467 113,138 DBMP 2014 basic matching award 4,294 12 Jun 2017 52,544 38,238 DBMP 2014 voluntary deferral award 10,215 12 Jun 2017 124,998 90,965 DBMP 2014 voluntary deferral matching award 3,452 12 Jun 2017 42,241 30,740 Franco PSP 2014 7,178 12 Jun 2017 87,835 63,920 Martinelli PSP 2014 3,761 29 Jan 2018 38,174 27,508 DBMP 2014 basic award 5,966 12 Jun 2017 73,004 53,127 DBMP 2014 basic matching award 2,016 12 Jun 2017 24,669 17,952 John PSP 2014 10,453 12 Jun 2017 127,910 93,084 Davies DBMP 2014 basic award 12,139 12 Jun 2017 148,541 108,098 DBMP 2014 basic matching award 4,102 12 Jun 2017 50,195 36,528 DBMP 2014 voluntary deferral award 8,172 12 Jun 2017 99,998 72,772 DBMP 2014 voluntary deferral matching award 2,762 12 Jun 2017 33,798 24,596 Bill Tame PSP 2014 12,581 12 Jun 2017 153,950 112,034 DBMP 2014 basic award 17,649 12 Jun 2017 215,966 157,164 DBMP 2014 basic matching award 5,965 12 Jun 2017 72,992 53,118 Other interests None of the Directors had an interest in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking of the Company or in any significant contracts of the Group.
External appointments of Executive Directors in 2017 18 The table below details the fee received by Bill Tame during the year, in respect of his other directorship, which is retained by him.
Name of Director Company Fees received 000 Bill Tame Southern Water 250 This Remuneration report was approved by the Board on 22 May 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Jeff Randall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Babcock International Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2018 130
