Remuneration Committee report Dear Shareholders, Where feasible, we are adopting in our 2018AnnualReport many aspects of the 2018 was a year of intense activity on Paula Rosput Reynolds Coderequirements ahead of the mandated thepartof the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the schedule, including: Although we do not plan to renew our Policyuntil the spring of 2020, the volume a new section setting out more information Remuneration Committee ofinitiatives and regulations being introduced in relation to our wider workforce: has stimulated much discussion as to how building on our previous Chief Executive bestto engender a healthy environment of payratio disclosure which has been well incentives while addressing broader societal received by stakeholders, and reflecting concerns.
More immediately though, the publication of the regulations, we are Committee has been deeply engaged with additionally disclosing the Chief Executive theChief Executive on implementing a robust pay ratio on the new required basis: performance management approach and describing how the Committee has using our reward structure to create stronger addressed the factors of clarity, simplicity, alignment with the execution of our strategy.
risk, predictability, proportionality and As you will be aware, the Group operates alignment to culture: and within a challenging and rapidly changing recognition of the Committees expanded political, economic, defence and security remit with its Term of Reference having environment around the world.
You will read, Members been updated accordingly.
within the contents of this report, how the Acknowledging the relevant provisions of Committee has supported ambitious operating Paula Rosput Reynolds thenew Code as well as broader expectations goals and sustained financial performance.
In of investors, the Committee intends to make Chairman other words, whilst the environment is difficult, necessary changes to our existing Policy on it is our expectation that management will Elizabeth Corley minimum shareholding requirements to ensure notrelent in its efforts to deliver underlying an appropriate post-cessation holding policy business performance.
Our Chief Executive Nick Rose isin place.
This policy will be finalised and ismaking changes in the organisation and implemented as part of our broader executive redefining expectations.
Whilst change does remuneration policy proposals to be submitted not happen overnight, the Committee is using for approval at the Companys Annual General its tools to reinforce these efforts.
The Committee In addition to our focus on the internal additionally recognises the requirements and workings of BAE Systems, the Committee has expectations in relation to executive director followed closely the emergence of the new pension provision and will review this as part UK Corporate Governance Code the Code ofour remuneration policy to be approved requirements.
Prior to the issuance of the atthe 2020 AGM.
requirements, wehad already begun an With respect to our customary remuneration analysis of wider workforce remuneration, activities, all changes we are making for 2019 pension provision, and constructive ways to are within the current approved Policy: you engage with our employees around the world.
willsee them summarised immediately below Broadly, the Board believes that employee and detailed more fully within the contents engagement is part of a modern business ofthis report.
culture and hence it is not merely a remuneration exercise.
Summary of key decisions for 2018 Salary of the Chief Executive is increased by 2.5% from 1 January 2019.
Salary of the Group Finance Director is increased by 2.5% from 1 January 2019.
Salary of the President and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. isincreased by2.5% from 1January2019.
Approval of remuneration packages fornewly appointed Executive Committee members.
Long-term incentive awards of Performance Shares granted in spring 2018, subject tothesame performance conditions as applied in 2017, and Restricted Shares to USexecutive director only.
For 2019, in respect of the annual short-term bonus programme metrics, revised weighting of the financial measures agreed which account for 75% of the annual incentive opportunity, and the remainder continuing to be subject to personal objectivesand safety measures.
BAE Systems 92 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Context to the Committees decisions 2019 remuneration As disclosed in our report, the Group achieved The Committee remains responsible for the To confirm, for 2019 no revisions are a record order intake in 2018 of 28.3bn, full spectrum of senior executive employment proposedto our executive remuneration reflecting, among other achievements, the matters: recruiting, promoting and retaining framework that would constitute a change aircraft award in Qatar and the maritime the best top-level leaders, setting the tothe Policy.
In line with our commitment to award in Australia.
However, an anticipated incentives under which these leaders continued transparency, we have contacted aircraft purchase by the Kingdom of Saudi operate, and monitoring the results they our major shareholders on the following Arabia, which was included in the 2018 order produce and the manner in which they modest changes for 2019: intake component of the financial goals, was produce them.
Our overall remuneration not finalised within the year.
In March 2018, taking account of the need of our leadership framework has a number of specific goals.
aMemorandum of Intent was signed by the team to continue to steer the Company Itisdesigned to motivate our key talent to UK government with the Kingdom to aim through a period of significant change and achieve the Companys strategic objectives, tofinalise discussions for the purchase by the theskills, experience and performance of todeliver on customer commitments, to lead Kingdom of 48 Typhoon aircraft, but given eachexecutive, the Committee believes it and inspire employees, and to drive value for theprevailing geopolitical environment, the isappropriate to adjust the salaries of the our shareholders.
It is also designed to be Committee agreed that it was not reasonable executive directors by 2.5% from 1 January competitive in the various markets in which to hold the executives responsible for the 2019.
This increase is in line with the we operate and compete for talent.
delay in achieving that order, or, in the broaderworkforce: and alternative, for booking replacement orders Our short-term programme metrics are tied for 2019, the split of financial and nonofcomparable magnitude.
Therefore, the toGroup performance, business segment financial performance measures within Committee used its discretion with respect performance and individual goals, including theannual incentive remains at 75% 25% tothe order intake measure and agreed that the leadership behaviours that underpin respectively.
The 25% non-financial element the record intake of 28.3bn was on-target.
BAE Systems Total Performance culture.
will continue to be based 20% on personal Working with our Chief Executive, we have performance objectives that provide clear The Committee used its judgement in considerably expanded the individual goals lineof sight to our strategic objectives, with evaluating non-financial performance, ofour leaders to tie objectives more explicitly 5% relating to safety, diversity and inclusion including the executives commitment to to strategy and to enhance accountability.
Recognising the significant focus safety, diversity and inclusion, as well as Ourlong-term incentive programme measures ondelivering earnings growth in 2019, the overallleadership contributions.
A discussion absolute performance of the Group and following weighting of financial measures, of that evaluation and the bonuses earned performance relative to peers.
which account for 75% of the total annual bythe executive directors are reported on incentive, will apply: pages 107 and 108.
In addition to developing the overall Group remuneration framework, the Committee The Performance Shares and Share Options underlying Group Order assesses the level of challenge within our granted in 2016 under our long-term EPS EBITA debt intake Total annual and long-term incentive plan targets.
incentives will partially vestin early 2019 2019 % % % % Annually, in November, the full Board reviews aswillthe Restricted Shares granted to our Allocation 45 22.5 7.5 75 and adopts the Integrated Business Plan.
The details of the Weighting 60 30 10 100 Thereafter, the Committee reviews the vesting outcomes and amounts awarded specificbusiness targets metrics for the arealso described in the following report.
In setting 2019 financial targets, the Committee oneand three-year periods and examines Asdescribed above, after the close of has reduced the relative importance of order theunderlying assumptions, including the 2018, the Committee thoroughly reviewed intake and cash targets relative to earnings degree of stretch contained within them.
annual and three-year performance, and ascompared to past years.
This change After setting one and three-year targets, relative to the remuneration outcomes, principally recognises the importance that theCommittee periodically reviews progress issatisfied that the Policy operated as shareholders attach to greater earnings towards the attainment of the objectives.
However, it also reflects the fact After the close of each year, the Committee that2018 was a record year of order intake undertakes a thorough review of annual Concluding comments and that 2019 is a year for greater emphasis andthree-year performance.
Separately, the The backdrop of the Groups business and the on the execution of the order book rather Committee regularly considers the overall changes in leadership approach made for a than building a larger backlog.
The Committee construct of the remuneration package to challenging year at BAE Systems.
Nevertheless, remains mindful of the importance of cash to ensure that potential pay outcomes are the leadership team kept its focus on delivering the health of the Group and to our dividendappropriate and reasonable against different solid financial results and made material paying capability, and we believe that our performance scenarios.
As we have enhanced improvements in key areas such as our UK discretion in evaluating the outcome can the individual goals, it provides the challenge Maritime business, the widening scope of our serveas the appropriate balance to ensuring and opportunity to exercise greater judgement US Inc. business, and the significant increase that overall bonus outturn is reasonable.
in evaluating the performance, contributions inour order book internationally.
We believe and potential of our executives.
the rewards conferred in the performance Incentive outturn cycle just concluded are commensurate with After the close of 2018, the Committee the progress the Group has made.
Further, metand reviewed performance under the thegoals and incentives we have approved for short-term annual incentive for all of the the upcoming period are, we believe, consistent executive directors and Executive Committee with achieving an ambitious future plan.
Financial results were achieved at orabove target: non-financial achievements On behalf of the Board varied for the executive directors and Executive Committee members.
Paula Rosput Reynolds Chairman of the Remuneration Committee BAE Systems Annual Report 2018 93 Remuneration Committee report continued The Remuneration Committees year January May November Committee Committee Committee London, UK Farnborough, UK New Milton, UK Agreed 2018 objectives for executive Reviewed feedback from shareholder Approved the approach to the directors and Executive Committee consultation on 2018 remuneration review.
remuneration report including early Considered detailed analysis of the factors adoption of the new requirements.
Approved remuneration package for new influencing the structure of long-term orexisting Executive Committee members.
incentive design, including an analysis Reviewed level of executive directors oftheapplication of such arrangements andExecutive Committee members Reward framework deep dive session on atExecutive Committee level and below.
shareholdings relative to their Minimum payand benefits received by the workforce Shareholding Requirement.
Approved changes to Companys employee share plans to assist in complying with the Reviewed dilution levels and share usage requirements of the EUs General Data under Employee Share Plans.
Approved operation of Group All-Employee Committee Free Share Plans.
London, UK Considered high-level remuneration market September practice findings.
Determined 2017 bonuses against Committee performance for executive directors Received presentation on the UK Gender San Diego, US andExecutive Committee members Pay Report for 2018. forpayment in March 2018.
Received an update on the 2018 UK AGM Reviewed Remuneration Committee terms season and recent corporate governance Approved 2017 Group All-Employee of reference.
Agreed the approach to 2019 and 2020 Determined vesting outcome for December incentive design and key considerations for 2015Long-Term Incentive awards.
the route map towards the renewal of the Committee Approved 2018 Long-Term Incentive Companys remuneration policy in 2020. awardsand associated performance London, UK Approved remuneration package for new targetsfor executive directors and Considered the recent updates to orexisting Executive Committee members.
Received update on performance conditions Approved 25% weighting on non-financial Reviewed and set salaries and bonus for Long-Term Incentive awards.
opportunity levels for executive directors Received remuneration analysis for Reviewed feedback from shareholder and Executive Committee members.
Agreed the approach, structure and targets Approved 2017 Annual remuneration for the 2019 annual incentive plan.
Considered the approach to setting the Reviewed Remuneration Committee terms 2019 strategic objectives applicable to of reference.
Appointed  PwC Approved remuneration package for new as independent adviser to the Committee.
Reviewed and evaluated the proposed 2019annual and three-year targets.
Remuneration Committee timeline January February May September November December Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee BAE Systems 94 Annual Report 2018
