GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT The Committee is formally constituted and Annual bonus provision will remain at 80% operates on written Terms of Reference of salary for the Chief Executive Officer which are available at www.
and 125% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer and targets will continue to The Committee considered the following measure Adjusted EBITDA, Revenue and items during the period: Free Cash Flow excluding development projects.
Additionally, a new strategic Finalising the Remuneration Policy in employee engagement target will be advance of the 2018 AGM added, measured through employee Agreeing Executive Director base salary turnover.
This brings the bonus criteria levels from 1 January 2018 inline with the broader workforce.
Agreeing performance against the Nochanges will be made to the deferral, targets and payout for the 2017 annual whereby one-third of any bonus earned bonus awards will be deferred for three years with Setting the performance targets for vesting conditional upon continued the2018 annual bonus employment.
Any deferral for the Chief Agreeing the award levels and Executive Officer will continue to be in CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW performance targets for the 2018 cash given his current shareholding, LTIPawards whereas any deferral for the Chief As the Chair of the The impact of the new UK Corporate Financial Officer will be in shares Remuneration Committee, Governance Code and a number of LTIP awards will be granted in 2019 at changes to the disclosure requirements I am pleased to present, 150% of salary for the Chief Financial in respect of the 2020 Directors Officer the Chief Executive Officer does onbehalf of the Board, the Remuneration Report not receive LTIP awards.
Targets will Directors Remuneration continue to measure EPS and relative REMUNERATION IN 2018 Report for the year ended TSR and a two-year post-vesting holding By way of context and as stated in the period will continue to apply to awards 29December 2018.
In line frontpart of the Annual Report, Bakkavor granted to Executive Directors with the UK reporting performed in line with the Boards regulations, this report is expectations and delivered a robust SHAREHOLDER FEEDBACK performance in light of challenging split into three sections: Our three-year Remuneration Policy was marketconditions, particularly in the UK.
well received by shareholders at the 2018 This Annual Statement summarising the AGM, and the Committee was pleased to In respect of remuneration paid for 2018: work of the Committee and our approach note the very high levels of shareholder to remuneration No base salary increase was awarded from support for both the advisory vote on our 1 January 2018 Agust Gudmundssons The Directors Remuneration Policy, Directors Remuneration Report and the salary was 750,000 while Peter Gates which details Bakkavors Remuneration binding vote on the Remuneration Policy.
salary was 467,000 Policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2018 AGM As a result of the threshold EBITDA CONCLUSION target not being achieved for 2018, The Annual Report on Remuneration, The Committee recognises the importance noannual bonus was awarded to the which sets out the remuneration of maintaining a close relationship with Executive Directors for the year just ended arrangements and incentive outcomes shareholders in facilitating the work of the for the year under review and how the No LTIP awards vested during the Committee in operating the Remuneration Committee intends to implement the year the first such awards held by Policy.
Therefore, if you have any comments Remuneration Policy in 2019 anExecutive Director will vest in 2020 or feedback on this report or our policy more generally, then please let me know through As the Remuneration Policy was approved APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
by shareholders last year, there will only POLICY FOR2019 beone remuneration-related vote at the I look forward to receiving your support at The Remuneration Committee intends 2019 AGM, being the advisory vote on the the 2019 AGM.
tooperate the Remuneration Policy for Directors Remuneration Report excluding Executive Directors for 2019 on a similar the Policy i. e. the Annual Statement and basis to 2018 as follows: Annual Report on Remuneration.
Executive Director basic salaries THE COMMITTEE wereincreased from 1 January 2019 DENIS HENNEQUIN The Committee is Chaired by Denis thenormal salary review date by 2.5%, Chair, Remuneration Committee Hennequin and its members are Sue in line with the budgeted general salaried Clarkand Todd Krasnow.
It met four times workforce increase 5 April 2019 during2018.
70 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report AT A GLANCE SUMMARY WHAT OUR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EARNED DURING 2018 The following table provides a summary of total remuneration for 2018.
Further details are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 83.
Pension Total 000 Base salary Benefits Bonus LTIP entitlements Other remuneration Executive Directors Agust Gudmundsson 2018 750 1 113 864 2017 750 1 170 113 29 1,063 Peter Gates 2018 467 12 93 572 2017 467 12 138 93 200 910 2018 annual bonus Metrics Weighting % outcome Group adjusted EBITDA pre bonus provision 50% 0% Revenue 25% 0% Free Cash Flow excluding development projects 25% 0% Total % of max 100% 0% No annual bonus is payable for 2018.
LTIP awards vesting No LTIP awards vested or will vest in respect of performance to 29 December 2018.
HOW OUR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS WILL BE PAID DURING 2019 A summary of how the Committee intends to operate the Remuneration Policy for 2019 is as follows: Component Agust Gudmundsson Peter Gates Base salary 768,750 478,675 2.5% increase from 1 January 2019 Pension % of salary 15% 20% Annual bonus max % of salary 80% 125% 1 LTIP award % of salary n a 150% Shareholding guidelines % of salary 200% 200% 1.
The CEO does not participate in the LTIP.
com 71 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY KEY CONSIDERATIONS Employment conditions WHEN DETERMINING THE The Committee is regularly updated This part of the Directors throughout the year on pay and REMUNERATION POLICY Remuneration Report sets conditions applying to Group employees, The Remuneration Committee designed including any significant changes to out the Remuneration Policy thePolicy with the following aims in mind.
the Policy for the Group The Policy should: Whilst the Committee does not currently and has been prepared Attract, retain and motivate high-calibre consult directly with employees regarding inaccordance with The Senior Management and focus them on its policy for Directors, it has considered the delivery of the Groups strategic and Largeand Medium-sized thenew provisions in the UK Corporate business objectives Governance Code in 2018.
As a result, it has Companies and Groups Be competitive against appropriate formalised a number of existing, and will Accounts and Reports market benchmarks with the scope beintroducing a number of new, initiatives toearn above-market rewards for Amendment Regulations to ensure thatthe employee voice is heard strongperformance in theboardroom.
2013 and the UK Listing Be simple and understandable, both The Policy for Executive Directors, which is Authoritys Listing Rules.
internally and externally set out over the following pages, supports ThePolicy was developed Achieve consistency of approach across the business needs of the Company, the Senior Management population to taking into account the ensuring it promotes long-term success theextent appropriate whilst enabling it to attract, retain and principles of the UK Take due account of good governance motivate senior executives of a high calibre.
Corporate Governance and promote the long-term success The Committee is satisfied that the Policy ofthe Group.
Codeand the voting supports the Companys strategy of growinglong-term shareholder value and guidelines ofmajor UK In seeking to achieve the above objectives, appropriately balances fixed and variable the Committee is mindful of the views of a institutional investor bodies.
With a high proportion of broad range of stakeholders in the business reward delivered in the form of equity The following Policy was approved by and accordingly takes account of a number forexecutives other than the current shareholders in a binding vote at the 2018 of factors when setting remuneration, ChiefExecutive Officer, this ensures that AGM 23 May 2018.
It is intended that the including market conditions, pay and executives have a strong alignment with Policy will operate for three years from benefits in relevant comparator shareholders through the Companys thedate of approval.
The Policy that was organisations, terms and conditions share price.
approved, with minor updates where ofemployment across the Group, the appropriate e. g. remuneration scenario Groups risk appetite, the expectations charts and Non-executive Director terms ofinstitutional shareholders and feedback ofengagement, is set out below.
from shareholders and other stakeholders.
Shareholder views The Board is committed to open dialogue with shareholders and intends to engage directly with them and their representative bodies when considering any significant changes to our remuneration arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee will consider shareholder feedback received following each AGM, as well as any additional feedback and guidance received from time to time.
This feedback will be considered by the Committee as it develops the Companys remuneration framework and practices going forward.
Assisted by its independent adviser, the Remuneration Committee also actively monitors developments in the expectations of institutional investors andtheir representative bodies.
72 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE The table below sets out, for each element of pay, a summary of how remuneration is structured since listing and how it supports the Companys strategy.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary To recruit and retain Salaries are normally reviewed Whilst there is no prescribed Executive Directors executives of the annually and changes are generally formulaic maximum, any increases performance is a factor highest calibre who are effective from the start of the will take into account prevailing considered when capable of delivering financial year.
market and economic conditions determiningsalaries.
the Groups strategic andthe approach to employee The annual salary review of Executive No recovery or withholding objectives, reflecting paythroughout the organisation.
Directors takes a number of factors provisions apply.
each individuals into consideration, including: Base salary increases are awarded experience and role atthe discretion of the Committee: within the Group.
Business performance however, salary increases will Salary increases awarded to the Base salary is normally be no greater than the overall employee population designedto provide general increase awarded to the Skills and experience of the anappropriate level of wider workforce, in percentage of individual over time fixed income to avoid salary terms.
an over-reliance on Scope of the individuals Percentage increases beyond those responsibilities variable pay elements granted to the wider workforce may that could encourage Changes in the size and complexity be awarded in certain circumstances excessive risk-taking.
of the Group such as when there is a change in the Market competitiveness assessed individuals role or responsibility or by periodic benchmarking where there has been a fundamental The underlying rate of inflation.
change in the scale or nature of theCompany.
In addition, a higher increase maybemade where an individual hadbeen appointed to a new role atbelow-market salary while gainingexperience.
Subsequent demonstration of strong performance may result in a salary increase that is higher than for the wider workforce.
com 73 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Benefits Benefits in kind The Company aims to offer The value of each benefit is not Not performance-related.
offered to Executive benefitsthat are in line with predetermined and is typically No recovery or withholding Directors are provided .
basedupon the cost to the Group.
provisions apply other than if to assist with retention The main benefits currently relocation costs are provided.
providedinclude: A proportion of any relocation Family private medical insurance costs may be recovered wherea Director leaves the Life assurance employment of the Group Income protection within a specified time period Health screening after appointment or date Company car car allowance ofrelocation.
Under certain circumstances theGroup may offer relocation allowances or assistance.
Expatriatebenefits may be offeredwhere required.
Travel and any reasonable businessrelated expenses including tax thereon may be reimbursed on agross-of-tax basis.
Executive Directors may become eligible for other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
Pensions The Group aims to Directors are eligible to receive Up to 15% of base salary per annum Not performance-related.
provide a contribution employer contributions to the contribution for the current Chief No recovery or withholding towards life in Companys pension plan which Executive Officer and 20% of base provisions apply.
isa defined contribution plan or a salary per annum contribution for salary supplement in lieu of pension the current Chief Financial Officer.
benefits, or a mixture of both.
A maximum 15% of salary contribution applies to new Directors.
74 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Short-Term Incentive Plan STIP or annual bonus The annual bonus Bonuses are determined based on The maximum annual bonus Performance measures are scheme rewards measures and targets that are agreed opportunity is 150% of salary determined by the Committee theachievement of by the Committee at the start of each forExecutive Directors.
each year and may vary to stretching objectives financial year.
ensure that they promote The current Chief Executive Officers that support the theCompanys long-term Two-thirds of the annual bonus will bonus opportunity is lower, at 80% Groups corporate business strategy and be payable in cash, typically in March of his base salary.
goals and delivery of shareholder value.
following the end of the financial year.
The normal maximum for the current The majority of the annual Up to one-third of the bonus is Chief Financial Officer is 125% of Delivery of a proportion bonus outcome will be based compulsorily deferred in shares salary although this may be increased on financial measures.
This in deferred bonus or cash in the case of the current in line with the maximum 150% of shares provides a may be a single measure, Chief Executive Officer for three salary limit.
such as profit, or a mix of retention element years under the Deferred Annual andalignment measures as determined Bonus Plan.
At the discretion of the Committee, Personal objectives and or participants may also be entitled to strategic KPIs may also receive the value of dividends paid bechosen.
between grant and vesting on vested shares.
The payment may be in Where a sliding scale of cashor shares and may assume targets applies, up to 20% of dividend reinvestment.
that element may be payable for threshold performance.
The bonus measures are reviewed annually and the Committee has the discretion to vary the mix of measures or to introduce new measures taking into account the strategic focus of the Company at the time.
The Committee may alter the bonus outcome if it considers that the pay-out is inconsistent with the Companys overall performance taking account of any factors it considers relevant.
This will help ensure that the pay-out reflects overall Company performance during the period.
The Committee will consult with leading investors if appropriate before any exercise of its discretion to increase the bonus outcome.
Bonus payments, including deferred bonus awards, aresubject to recovery and withholding provisions see Recovery and withholding in the Notes to the policy table on page 78 for further detail.
com 75 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The LTIP is designed Awards will typically be granted The individual plan limit is 200% Performance is normally to incentivise the annually to Executive Directors in ofbase salary in any financial year.
measured over no less successful execution theform of nil or nominal cost options thanthree financial years.
The award policy for the current ofbusiness strategy that vest according to performance Awards will be subject to Chief Financial Officer is set at over the longer conditions normally measured over 150% of base salary, although the theachievement of stretching termand provide three financial years.
targets designed to incentivise Committee has the discretion to long-term retention.
Awards are subject to an additional make an award of up to 200% of performance in support of theGroups strategy and Facilitates share post-vesting holding period which base salary.
ownership to provide requires awards to be retained for a business objectives.
further alignment period of two years from the end of LTIP awards will normally withshareholders.
the vesting period, except for shares besubject to relative TSR sold to pay personal tax upon andearnings per share vesting exercise.
However, the At the discretion of the Committee, Committee has the flexibility participants may also be entitled to tovary the mix of measures receive the value of dividends paid orto introduce new measures between grant and vesting or, if for future awards taking into applicable, between grant and the account business priorities earlier to occur of the expiry of any atthe time of grant.
holding period and the exercise For TSR and financial ofanaward on vested shares.
measures, no more than Thepayment may be in cash 25%of each element may vest orshares and may assume for threshold performance.
The Committee may alter The current Chief Executive Officer thevesting outcome if it will not participate in the LTIP.
considers that the level of vesting is inconsistent with the Companys overall performance taking account of any factors itconsiders relevant.
This willhelp ensure that vesting reflects overall Company performance during the period.
The Committee would seek to consult with leading investors if appropriate before any exercise of its discretion to increase the vesting outcome.
Awards are subject to recoveryand withholding provisions see Recovery andwithholding in the Notesto the policy table onpage 78 for further detail.
76 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics All-employee share schemes Encourage employee The Company may, from time to time, The schemes are subject to the Not performance-related.
share ownership operate tax-approved share plans such limits set by HMRC from time No recovery or withholding and therefore as the HMRC-approved Save As You Earn totime.
increase alignment Option Plan and Share Incentive Plan with shareholders.
forwhich Executive Directors could beeligible.
Share ownership guidelines Encourage Executive Executive Directors are required to retain Executive Directors are required to Not performance-related.
Directors to build at least half of any share awards vesting build and retain a shareholding in a meaningful as shares after the sale of any shares to Bakkavor equivalent to at least shareholding in settle tax due until they have reached 200% of their base salary.
theGroup so as to therequired level of holding.
furtheralign their Only shares owned outright by the interests with those Executive Director or a connected person of shareholders.
Shares or share options which are subject to a performance condition are not included.
Deferred shares and options which are vested butunexercised are also not included.
Chairman and Non-executive Directors fees To attract Non-executive Non-executive Directors may receive When reviewing fee levels, Not performance-related.
Directors who have feespaid monthly in cash, which consist accountis taken of market No recovery or withholding abroad range of ofan annual basic fee and they may movements in the fees of provisions apply.
receive additional fees for Non-executive Directors, Board .
Committee responsibilities and To provide the Group with ongoing time commitments.
access to independent The Chairmans fee is reviewed judgement on issues of annuallyby the Committee Actual fee levels are disclosed in strategy, performance, without theChairman present.
the Annual Remuneration Report resources and standards for the relevant financial year.
Fee levels for the Non-executive Directors of conduct.
are determined by the Company Chairman and Executive Directors.
In exceptional circumstances, if there is a temporary yet material increase in the time commitments for Nonexecutive Directors, the Board may payextra fees to recognise that additionalworkload.
Non-executives ordinarily do not participate in any pension, bonus or share incentive plans.
Travel, accommodation and other business-related expenses incurred in carrying out a Non-executive role will be paid by the Company including, if relevant, any gross-up for tax.
As was disclosed in the prospectus prepared on Admission, Lydur Gudmundsson is currently employed to provide consulting services to the Group for an annual fee.
He receives medical cover for the benefit of his family in the UK.
com 77 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED measures are fully aligned with the strategic business performance and provides NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE imperatives prevailing at the time they alignment between the interests of Recovery and withholding areset.
Awards under the Annual Bonus Plan, Inparticular, long-term incentives are The targets for the bonus scheme for the theDeferred Annual Bonus Plan and the provided only to the most senior executives forthcoming year will be set out in general Long-Term Incentive Plan are subject to as they are reserved for those considered terms, subject to limitations with regards recovery and withholding provisions which tohave the greatest potential to influence tocommercial sensitivity.
The full details permit the Committee, in its discretion, to overall levels of performance.
ofthe targets will be disclosed in the reduce the size of any future bonus or share Directors Remuneration Report when they award granted to the employee, to reduce COMMITTEE DISCRETION IN are in the public domain, usually following the size of any granted but unvested share OPERATION OF VARIABLE the end of the relevant financial year.
award held by the employee, or to require PAYSCHEMES the employee to make a cash payment to The choice of the performance conditions The Committee operates under the the Company.
The circumstances in which applicable to the LTIP awards will be powersit has been delegated by the Board.
the Company may apply the recovery and aligned with the Companys objective In addition, it complies with rules that are withholding provisions are the discovery of a ofdelivering superior levels of long-term either subject to shareholder approval material misstatement of financial results, value to shareholders.
The Committee has Long-Term Incentive Plan and Deferred a miscalculation or error in assessing any retained flexibility on the measures which Share Bonus Plan or to approval by the condition including any performance will be used for future award cycles to Board annual performance bonus scheme.
condition applying to the award, or in the ensure that the measures are fully aligned These rules provide the Committee with event of serious misconduct committed by with the strategy prevailing at the time the certain discretions which serve to ensure the employee.
Notwithstanding this, that the implementation of the Remuneration the Committee would, if appropriate, In respect of cash bonus payments under Policy is fair, both to the individual Director seekto consult with major shareholders the Annual Bonus Plan, the recovery and and to shareholders.
The Committee also inadvance of any material change to withholding provisions apply for one year has discretion to set components of thechoice or weighting of the LTIP from the date of payment of the bonus remuneration within a range, from time to performance measures.
or, if later, the date of publication of the time.
The extent of such discretion is set Companys financial results for the year outin the relevant rules, the maximum The Committee will review the calibration of following the relevant year over which the opportunity or the performance metrics targets applicable to the annual bonus and bonus was earned.
section of the policy table above.
To ensure the LTIP annually to ensure they remain the efficient administration of the variable appropriate and sufficiently challenging, In respect of share awards under the incentive plans outlined above, the taking into account the Companys strategic Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and the Committee will apply certain objectives and the interests of shareholders.
Long-Term Incentive Plan, the recovery .
andwithholding provisions apply up until Differences in Remuneration Policy the third anniversary of the date on which These include the following: between Executive Directors and the relevant award vests, although the Selecting the participants in the plans on other employees Committee may extend this period for a an annual basis further two years if there is an ongoing The overall approach to reward for Determining the timing of grants of investigation into the circumstances of any employees across the workforce is awards and or payments event that, if determined to have occurred, akeyreference point when setting the Determining the quantum of awards would permit the Committee to operate remuneration of the Executive Directors.
and or payments within the limits set therecovery and withholding provisions.
When reviewing the salaries of the Executive outin the policy table Directors, the Committee pays close Performance conditions attention to pay and employment conditions Determining the choice and adjustment The choice of performance metrics across the wider workforce and in normal of performance measures and targets for circumstances the increase for Executive each incentive plan in accordance with applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committees belief that any Directors will be no higher than the average the policy set out above and the rules increase for the general workforce.
ofeach plan incentive compensation should be appropriately challenging and tied to Determining the extent of vesting based The key difference between the remuneration boththe delivery of key financial targets on the assessment of performance and of Executive Directors and that of our other andindividual and or strategic performance discretion relating to measurement of employees is that, overall, at senior levels, measures intended to ensure that Executive performance in certain events such as remuneration is increasingly long term and Directors are incentivised to deliver across achange of control or reconstruction at risk, with an emphasis on performancea range of objectives for which they are Whether malus and clawback shall be related pay linked to business performance accountable.
The Committee has retained applied to any award in the relevant and share-based remuneration.
This some flexibility on the specific measures circumstances and, if so, the extent ensures that remuneration at senior levels which will be used to ensure that any towhich it shall be applied will increase or decrease in line with 78 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report Making the appropriate adjustments or divestment, the Committee will have commitments agreed prior to the listing of required in certain circumstances, for theability to adjust appropriately the the Company in November 2017 that have instance for changes in capital structure measures and or targets and alter either been disclosed to shareholders in the weightings, provided that the revised prospectus or formed part of the pre-IPO Determining good leaver status for conditions are not materially less challenging Remuneration Policy.
The Committee incentive plan purposes and applying than the original conditions.
Any use of the mayalso approve payments outside this theappropriate treatment above discretion would, where relevant, Remuneration Policy in order to satisfy Undertaking the annual review of be explained in the Annual Report on legacy arrangements made to an employee weighting of performance measures Remuneration and may, as appropriate, prior to and not in contemplation of andsetting targets for the annual bonus be the subject of consultation with the promotion to the Board.
plan and other incentive schemes, Companys major shareholders.
whereapplicable, from year to year.
All historic awards that were granted in connection with or prior to listing but which If an event occurs which results in the LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS remain outstanding, remain eligible to vest Annual Bonus Plan or LTIP performance For the avoidance of doubt, the Committee based on their original award terms.
conditions and or targets being deemed no may approve payments to satisfy longer appropriate e. g. material acquisition REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The charts below show an estimate of the 2019 remuneration package for each Executive Director under three assumed performance scenarios.
These scenarios are based upon the Remuneration Policy set out above.
55% 31% 26% 100% Maximum Maximum Target Maximum Minimum Target Minimum Maximum with share with share price growth price growth Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer The scenarios used in the graphs above are defined as follows: Maximum Below Target Target Maximum with share price growth Base salary As at 1 January 2019 As at 1 January 2019 As at 1 January 2019 As at 1 January 2019 Benefits Estimated value for 2019 Estimated value for 2019 Estimated value for 2019 Estimated value for 2019 Pension CEO: 15% of salary CEO: 15% of salary CEO: 15% of salary CEO: 15% of salary CFO: 20% of salary CFO: 20% of salary CFO: 20% of salary CFO: 20% of salary Bonus 0% of Maximum 50% of Maximum 100% of Maximum As per Maximum CEO: 80% of salary CFO: 125% of salary LTIP CFO only 0% of Maximum 25% of Maximum 100% of Maximum As per Maximum albeit a CFO: 150% of salary 50% share price increase over 3 years is assumed www.
com 79 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED OTHER REMUNERATION POLICIES Remuneration for new appointments Where it is necessary to appoint or replace an Executive Director, the Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of a new Executive Director is to take account of the calibre, expertise and responsibilities of the individual, his or her remuneration package in their prior role and market rates.
Remuneration will be in line with our policy and the Committee will not pay more than is necessary to facilitate recruitment.
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director will be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
Further details are provided below: Salary The Committee will set a base salary appropriate to the calibre, experience and responsibilities of the new appointee.
In arriving at a salary, the Committee may take into account, amongst other things, the market ratefor the role and internal relativities.
The Committee has the flexibility to set the salary of a new Executive Director at a lower level initially, with aseries of planned increases implemented over the following few years to bring the salary to the desired positioning, subject to individual performance.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to set the salary of a new Executive Director at aratehigher than the market level to reflect the criticality of the role and the experience and performance of theindividual.
Benefits Benefits will be consistent with the principles of the policy set out on page 74.
The Company may award certain additional benefits and other allowances including, but not limited to, those to assist with relocation support, temporary living and transportation expenses, educational costs for children and tax equalisation to allow flexibility in employing an overseas national.
Pension benefits A maximum pension contribution of 15% of salary may be payable for external appointments.
For an internal appointment, his or her existing pension arrangements may continue to operate.
Any new Executive Director based outside the UK will be eligible to participate in pension or pension allowance, insurance and other benefit programmes in line with local practice.
Annual bonus The maximum bonus opportunity is 150% of base salary.
Long-Term The maximum opportunity is 200% of base salary which may be used on recruitment and on an ongoing basis, Incentive Plan if appropriate.
Replacement In addition to the above, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements in order to awards buyout remuneration relinquished on leaving a former employer.
In the event that such a buyout is necessary to secure the services of an Executive Director then the structure of any award or payment will mirror, as far as is possible, the arrangements in place at the incoming Executive Directors previous employer.
Any share awards made in this regard may have no performance conditions, or different performance conditions, or a shorter vesting period compared with the Companys existing plans, as appropriate.
Shareholders will be informed of any buyout arrangements at the time of the Executive Directors appointment.
Notice periods Notice periods shall be up to 12 months.
Depending on the timing and responsibilities of the appointment, it may be necessary to set different annual bonus LTIP performance measures and targets as applicable to other Executive Directors.
The terms of appointment for a Non-executive Director would be in accordance with the Remuneration Policy for Non-executive Directors as set out in the policy table.
Termination and loss-of-office payments The Groups policy on remuneration for Executive Directors who leave the Group is consistent with general market practice and is set out on page 81.
The Committee will exercise its discretion when determining amounts that should be paid to leavers, taking into account the facts and circumstances of each case.
80 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report It is the Companys policy that the period of notice for Executive Directors will not normally exceed 12 months and, accordingly, the employment contracts of the Executive Directors are terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
In the event of an Executive Directors departure, a payment in lieu of notice may be payable.
The Company may pay the value of the Executive Directors base salary together with accrued holiday entitlement.
The Company is unequivocally against rewards for failure: the circumstances of any departure, including the individuals performance, would be taken into account in every case.
Statutory redundancy payments may be made, as appropriate.
Service agreements may be terminated without notice and without payment in lieu of notice in certain circumstances, such as gross misconduct.
The Company may require the Executive Director to work during their notice period or may choose to place the individual on garden leave: for example, to ensure the protection of the Companys and shareholders interests where the Executive Director has access to commercially sensitive information.
Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, the Company may at its absolute discretion reimburse for reasonable professional fees relating to the termination of employment and, where an Executive Director has been required to relocate, to pay reasonable repatriation costs, including possible tax exposure costs.
Ordinarily, Executive Directors have no entitlement to a bonus payment in the event that they cease to be employed by the Group or are under notice of termination of employment at the date that their bonus would otherwise be paid.
However, they may be considered for abonus payment by the Committee in good leaver circumstances i. e. death, injury, disability, retirement, their employing company or thebusiness for which they work being sold out of the Group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Anysuch bonus payment would ordinarily be subject to a pro-rata reduction based on the period worked in the relevant year, and there would be no requirement for any portion of such bonus payment to be deferred into an award over shares under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
In the event of an Executive Directors departure, any outstanding share awards will be treated in accordance with the plan rules as follows: Deferred Annual As a general rule, a DABP award will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment or ceasing to be a Bonus Plan DABP Director within the Group where relevant.
In the event of a participants death, injury, disability, retirement, their employing company or the business for which they work being sold out of the Group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, awards will not be forfeited but will instead normally vest in full on the original vesting date or on thedate of cessation if the Remuneration Committee so determines to such extent which may include the full extent of the award as the Remuneration Committee determines appropriate.
In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may allow the awards to vest on cessation of the participants employment.
Long-Term As a general rule, an LTIP award will lapse upon a participant ceasing to hold employment or ceasing to be a Incentive Plan Director within the Group where relevant.
However, if the participant ceases to be an employee or a Director within the Group because of their death, injury, disability, retirement, their employing company or the business for which they work being sold out of theGroup or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, then their award will vest on the date when it would have vested if they had not so ceased.
The extent to which an award will vest in these situations will depend upon two factors: The extent to which the performance conditions if any have been satisfied at that time The pro-rating of the award by reference to the period of time served in employment during the normal vesting period, although the Remuneration Committee can decide to reduce or eliminate the pro-rating ofanaward if it regards it as appropriate to do so in the particular circumstances.
Alternatively, if a participant ceases to be an employee or Director in the Group for one of the good leaver reasons specified above or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, theRemuneration Committee can decide that their award will vest on cessation, subject to: The performance conditions measured at that time Pro-rating by reference to the time of cessation as described above.
Such treatment shall also apply in the case of death.
com 81 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS In accordance with long-established policy, all Executive Directors have rolling service agreements which may be terminated in accordance with the terms of these agreements.
Directors service agreements are kept for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Name Date of joining Bakkavor Date of service contract Notice period Agust Gudmundsson 1 August 1986 18 December 2011, 12 months either party founder as amended by a variation letter dated 2 October 2017 Peter Gates 9 November 2010 2 October 2017 12 months either party POLICY ON EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS The Board believes that it may be beneficial to the Group for executives to hold Non-executive Directorships outside the Group.
Any such appointments are subject to approval by the Board and the Director may retain any fees received at the discretion of the Board.
Neither Executive Director currently holds any external Non-executive Directorships.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF ENGAGEMENT Each of the Non-executive Directors is engaged under a market standard Non-executive Director appointment letter, which states that the appointment will continue for a renewable three-year term provided that the appointment must not continue for more than nine years in total.
In any event, each appointment is terminable by either party on one months written notice.
All Non-executive Directors are subject toannual re-election at each AGM.
The dates of appointment of each of the Non-executive Directors serving at the date of this report are summarised in the table below.
Non-executive Director Date of joining Bakkavor Date of contract or date of appointment Simon Burke Chairman 1 December 2016 20 October 2017 Sue Clark 20 October 2017 20 October 2017 Patrick Cook 12 July 2018 12 July 2018 Lydur Gudmundsson 1 August 1986 founder 20 October 2017 Denis Hennequin 20 October 2016 20 October 2017 Todd Krasnow 22 January 2016 20 October 2017 Jane Lodge 3 April 2018 3 April 2018 The Chairman, in consultation with the Executive Directors, is responsible for proposing changes to the Non-executive Directors fees.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for proposing changes to the Chairmans fees.
In proposing such fees, account is also taken of the time commitments of the Groups Non-executive Directors.
The decision on fee changes is taken by the Board as a whole.
Individual Non-executive Directors do not take part in discussions in relation to their own remuneration.
82 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and Rule 9.8.
The Annual Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to a single advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 23 May 2019.
REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE THE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP Chair Denis Hennequin Members Sue Clark, Todd Krasnow The biographies of the Committee members are set out on pages 50 to 51.
Members of management including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group HR Director and the Head of Reward are invited to attend meetings where appropriate.
The Group HR Director is the secretary to the Committee.
Attendees are not involved in any decisions and are not present for any discussions regarding their own remuneration.
The Company Chairman may attend meetings but is not present when his own remuneration arrangements are being decided.
MEETING ATTENDANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 DECEMBER 2018 The Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance Denis Hennequin Committee Chair 4 out of 4 Sue Clark 4 out of 4 Todd Krasnow 4 out of 4 Independent advisers The Committee takes account of information from both internal and independent sources, including FIT Remuneration LLP FIT whichacts as the Committees adviser.
FIT, which replaced Aon New Bridge Street as adviser during the year as a result of a tender process, advised the Committee on all aspects of senior executive remuneration, including remuneration trends and corporate governance best practice.
FIT is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct, which sets out guidelines toensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence.
The Committee reviews the performance and independence of its advisers on an annual basis.
Bakkavor incurred fees of 18,000 exc.
VAT from FIT during 2018, relating to Remuneration Committee advice, while fees of 56,900 exc.
VAT were incurred from New Bridge Street NBS during 2018 prior to FIT taking over.
Both FIT and NBS billed on a time and materials basis.
Neither FIT nor NBS provided any other services to Bakkavor during 2018. www.
com 83 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION YEAR ENDED 29 DECEMBER 2018 AUDITED The total remuneration of the individual Directors who served during the financial year is shown below.
Total remuneration is the sum of emoluments plus Company pension contributions for the 2018 financial year.
In addition to base salary, Agust Gudmundsson was eligible for Director fees, pension and life assurance in Iceland in 2017 and the value of this is shown in the Other column for 2017 these arrangements ceased as of 30 December 2017.
For Executive Directors, taxable benefits comprise car allowance CFO only and private medical cover.
Lydur Gudmundsson is also entitled to medical coverage in the UK for the benefit of his family.
Prior to Admission, according to an arrangement entered into on 16 March 2017, the Chief Financial Officer received a retention bonus of 200,000 in January 2018 subject to continued employment see Other column for 2017.
This type of arrangement does not form part of the current Remuneration Policy and will not be repeated.
Peter Gates was appointed to the Board on 20 October 2017 but was the Group CFO for the whole of 2017.
Simon Burke joined the Group in December 2016 and became a Non-executive Director in February 2017 and his fee was set at 70,000.
On 20 October 2017, Simon Burke was appointed Chairman and his fee was increased to 200,000 p. a.
Lydur Gudmundssons fee was 40,000 until 19 October 2017 and then was increased to 70,000 p. a. with effect from 20 October 2017.
In addition, given his unique expertise and insight into the Companys business as a founder of the Bakkavor Group, pursuant to an agreement between Lydur Gudmundsson and Bakkavor Iberica S. L. and a service agreement between Bakkavor Iberica S. L. and Bakkavor Holdings Limited, Lydur Gudmundsson will continue to be employed to provide consulting services to the Group for a fee of 230,000 per annum.
The exchange rate used to convert to GBP for the above table is 1:1.13.
Lydur was eligible forDirector fees, pension and life assurance in Iceland in 2017, disclosed in the Other column these arrangements ceased as of 30 December 2017.
Pursuant to a pre-existing commitment with Bakkavor Holdings Limited, on 9 October 2017, Todd Krasnow was granted a cash bonus award in the amount of500,000 payable immediately prior to Admission in recognition of his past services as a Non-executive Director of the Group since January 2016.
Robert Berlin received no fee for his services and left his post on 11 July 2018.
Denis Hennequin joined the Group in November 2016 and became a Non-executive Director in February 2017.
Sue Clark joined the Board on 20 October 2017.
Jane Lodge joined the Board on 3 April 2018 and her fee is 70,000 p. a.
Patrick Cook joined the Board on 12 July 2018, replacing Robert Berlin, and receives no fee for his services.
84 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report 2018 ANNUAL BONUS AUDITED In 2018, employees were eligible for an annual bonus, whereby performance objectives were established at the beginning of the financial period by reference to suitably challenging corporate goals over the 12-month period.
In 2018, the annual bonus targets and performancerelated outcomes were as follows: Threshold Maximum Actual Metrics Weighting 0% 100% performance % outcome Group adjusted EBITDA pre bonus provision 50% 160m 170m 154m 0% Revenue 25% 1,858m 1,970m 1,855m 0% Free Cash Flow excluding development projects 25% 60m 70m 55m 0% Total % of max 0% In addition to the targets above, a minimum adjusted EBITDA of 156 million was required before any bonus was payable.
This minimum target was notmet.
The resulting annual bonus awards were as follows: Maximum bonus Bonus award Normal deferral potential % of the Bonus award Total bonus Amount Amount to be currency where % of salary maximum % of salary award paid in cash deferred relevant Agust Gudmundsson 80% 0% 0% 0 0 0 Cash Peter Gates 125% 0% 0% 0 0 0 Shares LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Awards with performance periods ending in the year audited There were no long-term incentive awards capable of vesting in relation to the performance period ending in 2018.
Awards granted in 2018 audited The following awards, structured as nil cost options, were made under the LTIP in 2018 the Chief Executive Officer does not participate inthe LTIP : Basis of award Face value of Number of shares Date of grant % of salary awards at grant under award Date of vesting 1 Peter Gates 9 April 2018 150% 700,500 399,372 9 April 2021 1.
Based on the five-day average share price of 1.754 to 8 April 2018.
These awards vest in 2021 subject to performance relating to i Adjusted Earnings per Share targets as to 50% of the award, and ii Relative Total Shareholder Return targets as to the remaining 50% of the award.
The details of these targets are shown in the tables below: Adjusted EPS for 2020 50% of award Portion of award vesting Below 16.5 pence 0% 16.5 pence 25% 16.5 pence to 18.6 pence Pro-rata on straight-line basis between 25% and 100% 18.6 pence 100% 2 Relative TSR from January 2018 to December 2020 50% of award Portion of award vesting Below median 0% Median 25% Between median and upper quartile Pro-rata on straight-line basis between 25% and 100% Upper quartile 100% 2.
TSR is measured from January 2018 to December 2020 against the following companies: Associated British Foods, A. G Barr, Booker Group, Britvic, Coca-Cola HBC, Compass Group, Cranswick, Dairy Crest Group, Devro, Diageo, Dominos Pizza Group, DP Eurasia, EI Group, Fullers, Greencore Group, Greene King, Greggs, Hilton Food Group, JD Wetherspoon, J Sainsbury, Marstons, McColls Retail, Mitchells & Butlers, Morrisons, Ocado Group, Premier Foods, PureCircle, Restaurant Group, SSP Group, Stock Spirits Group, Tate & Lyle, Tesco, Unilever and Whitbread.
com 85 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 120 Total Shareholder Return TSR The chart on the right shows the Companys TSR 110 performancecompared with that of the FTSE 250 Index 100 excluding investment trusts over the period from the date 90 ofthe Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange 80 to29 December 2018.
The FTSE 250 Index is considered by theBoard to be the most appropriate broad equity index 70 comparator for Bakkavor.
60 15 Nov 30 Dec 29 Dec TSR is defined as the return on investment obtained from 2017 2017 2018 holding a companys shares over a period.
It includes dividends paid, the change in the capital value of the shares and any Bakkavor Group FTSE 250 excl.
Investment Trusts other payments made to or by shareholders within the period.
Source : Datastream Thomson Reuters Outstanding LTIP awards Details of all outstanding share awards made to the Chief Financial Officer the Chief Executive Officer does not participate in the LTIP are set out below: Interest at Awards Awards Awards Interest at Date of December granted in lapsed in vested in December vesting exercise Award type Ex price Grant date 2017 the year the year the year 2018 period Pre-IPO LTIP 0.764 3 July 2017 1,222,515 1,222,515 See Note 1 Peter Gates LTIP 0 9 April 2018 399,372 399,372 See Note 2 1.
Pre-IPO LTIP awards will vest following the publication of the Companys audited financial results for the 2019 financial year, subject to continued service and the satisfaction of the two conditions as set out below: 50% vests in April 2020 provided a liquidity event i. e. IPO or company sale has occurred since the date of grant.
Provided that condition 1 above has been met, a further 25% vests in April 2020 if EBITDA for financial year 2019 is at least 175 million and a further 25% vests ona sliding scale for EBITDA of between 175 million and 190 million.
See LTIPs granted in 2018 section above.
Payments to former Directors and for loss of office audited No payments were made to former Directors of the Company or in relation to loss of office during the year.
External directorships None of the Executive Directors currently hold Non-executive Directorships at any other companies outside the Bakkavor Group.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED The share interests of each Director as at 29 December 2018 together with interests held by his or her connected persons are set out inthe table below.
As a direct link between executive remuneration and the interests of shareholders, the Committee has implemented shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and key senior employees.
The guidelines require that Executive Directors build up and maintain an interest in the Ordinary shares of the Company that is 200% of their annual base salary, and retain half of any vested deferred bonus and Long-Term Incentive Plan awards net of any taxes due until this guideline is met.
Shareholdings for Directors who have held office during the period ended 29 December 2018 are set out as a percentage of salary or fees inthe table below.
During the period from 29 December 2018 to the publication of this report, there have been no changes in the Directors share interests.
None of the Directors hold any loans against their shares or otherwise use their shares as collateral.
86 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report Value rebased Beneficially owned shares Value of owned shares 200% of salary shareholding Unvested shares with 29 December 2018 as a % of salary guideline met?
performance conditions Executive Directors 1 Agust Gudmundsson 145,333,130 25,617% Yes Peter Gates nil 0% No 1,621,887 Non-executive Directors Simon Burke Chairman 50,000 n a Robert Berlin nil n a Sue Clark nil n a Patrick Cook nil n a Lydur Gudmundsson 145,333,130 n a Denis Hennequin nil n a Todd Krasnow nil n a Jane Lodge nil n a 1.
Calculation based on share price of 1.322 as at 29 December 2018.
ALIGNING PAY WITH PERFORMANCE The total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer in 2018 and 2017 is shown in the table below, along with the value of bonuses paid, and Long-Term Incentive Plan vesting, as a percentage of the maximum opportunity.
2018 2017 Total remuneration 000 864,000 1,063,000 Actual bonus % of the maximum 0% 34% 2 2 LTIP vesting % of the maximum n a n a 2.
No LTIP awards were eligible to vest over the period.
The Chief Executive Officer does not participate in any share award schemes.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION The table below shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year ended 30 December 2017 andthe year ended 29 December 2018 for the Chief Executive Officer compared to the average earnings of all of the Groups other UK employees.
The Committee chose the Groups UK employees for pay comparison with the Chief Executive Officer as the most meaningful comparator group.
CEO Company average Salary 0% 2.32% Benefits 0% n a Annual bonus -100% n a The majority of employees do not receive benefits or annual bonus and so there is no meaningful data.
An alternative comparator group isthe salaried employees for whom the percentage changes for salary, benefits and bonus were 2.32%, 0% and -100% respectively.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table shows the Companys actual spend on pay for all Group employees relative to dividends: 2017 2018 % increase Staff costs 460.4m 485.1m 5.4% 3 Dividends 0 11.6 n a 3.
Interim dividend paid on 5 October 2018.
STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2019 ANNUAL BASE SALARY Base salaries for the Executive Directors, effective 1 January 2019, are set out below.
Base salary 2018 Base salary 2019 % increase Agust Gudmundsson 750,000 768,750 2.5% Peter Gates 467,000 478,675 2.5% Salary increases for the CEO and CFO are aligned to the budgeted salary increase for the salaried employees in 2019.
Neither the CEO nor CFO received a salary increase in the previous year.
com 87 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BENEFITS AND PENSION No changes are proposed to the provision of pension and benefits for 2019.
Executive Directors will continue to receive benefits that include family private medical insurance, life assurance, income protection, health screening and company car car allowances.
The Executive Directors will continue to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension equal to 15% per annum for the Chief Executive Officer and 20% ofbase salary per annum for the Chief Financial Officer, in line with the policy.
BONUS The 2019 annual bonus maximum, as a percentage of base salary, is as follows: Agust Gudmundsson 80% of salary Peter Gates 125% of salary For 2019, the annual bonus for the Executive Directors will comprise four elements, as set out below, which are all key performance indicators of the business.
Adjusted EBITDA 40% Revenue 20% Free Cash Flow excl.
development projects 20% Employee engagement measured through staff turnover 20% It is not possible to disclose specific targets in advance as this would give a clear indication of the Groups business objectives, which are commercially sensitive.
However, full details of the targets and performance against them will be disclosed in next years Annual Report.
Awards for financial measures will be subject to an underlying performance override, enabling them to be scaled back to reflect the Groups underlying performance as well as malus and clawback.
In line with the Remuneration Policy, one-third of any bonus earned will be deferred for three years, conditional upon continued employment.
Deferral for the Chief Executive Officer will be in cash given his current shareholding, whereas the Chief Financial Officers deferral will be in shares.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The Committee intends to grant awards of nil cost options under the Long-Term Incentive Plan to the Chief Financial Officer, in line with the policy set out in this report.
Reflecting his founder status and his current shareholding, the current Chief Executive Officer does not participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The awards granted to the Chief Financial Officer will have a face value of 150% of salary, withthe exact number of shares to be granted to be determined with reference to the prevailing share price around the date of grant.
Vesting of the 2019 awards will be contingent on the following performance measures each measure applies to 50% of an award : Adjusted Earnings per Share EPS : Percentage of vesting of relevant portion of award Adjusted EPS In 2021 0% Less than 16.5 pence 25% 16.5 pence 100% Equal to or more than 18.6 pence While the EPS target range is the same as that set for the 2018 LTIP awards, the target range is considered to be appropriate given that the 2018 LTIP awards are currently outside of the target range and in light of the current economic climate and prevailing analysts forecasts.
Relative TSR ranking against a bespoke Total Shareholder Return TSR : group of companies for the period Percentage of vesting of relevant portion of award 30 December 2018 to 1 January 2022 0% Below median 25% Median 100% Upper quartile Vesting on a straight-line basis The Remuneration Committee considered carefully an appropriate peer group for these awards.
It was felt that a pan-sector group such as the FTSE 250 was not appropriate given the different types of companies in the index and that a group formed of pure UK food producers was too small.
Therefore, consistent with the 2018 awards, a hybrid group has been chosen which includes food producers, beverage companies, food and drug retailers, and a selection of restaurants and bar companies.
88 Bakkavor Group plc 2018 Annual Report The 2019 TSR comparator group comprises: Associated Cranswick E. I.
Group JD Wetherspoon Ocado Group Tate & Lyle British Foods A. G. Barr Dairy Crest Fuller, J Sainsburys Premier Foods Tesco Group Smith & Turner Booker Group Devro Greencore Marstons PureCircle Unilever Group Britvic Diageo Greene King McColls Restaurant Whitbread Retail Group Group Coca-Cola Dominos Greggs Mitchells SSP Group HBC AG Pizza Group & Butlers Compass DP Eurasia Hilton Morrison Wm Stock Spirits Group Food Group Supermarkets Group Awards are subject to a two-year holding period following the three-year performance period as well as malus and clawback.
In addition, before an award vests the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is satisfactory.
The Committee believes that having a performance override is an important feature of the plan as it mitigates the risk of unwarranted vesting outcomes.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES FOR 2019 Non-executive and Chairman fees for 2019 remain unchanged since Admission, and are as follows: Fee Chairman 200,000 Base Non-executive Director fee 70,000 Notes: Todd Krasnows annual fee is 100,000 p. a. Patrick Cook does not receive any fees for his role as Non-executive Director.
Given his unique expertise and insight into the Companys business as a founder of the Bakkavor Group, pursuant to an agreement between Lydur Gudmundsson and Bakkavor Iberica S. L. and a service agreement between Bakkavor Iberica S. L. and Bakkavor Holdings Limited, Lydur Gudmundsson is employed to provide consulting services to the Group for a fee of 230,000 per annum.
No additional fee is payable to any Non-executive Directors for additional responsibilities such as serving on a Committee of the Board.
Each Non-executive Director is also entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses, including transatlantic travel expenses.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING The Company is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
Where there are substantial votes against resolutions in relation to Directors remuneration, the Company seeks to understand the reasons for any such vote and will report any actions in response to it.
The following table sets out actual voting at the AGM on 23 May 2018 in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 December 2017 and the Remuneration Policy: Remuneration Policy Remuneration Report Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast For 525,675,523 99.73 526,151,177 99.68 Against 1,428,523 0.27 1,707,033 0.32 Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 527,104,046 527,858,210 Total votes withheld 754,164 0 Total votes cast including withheld votes 527,858,210 527,858,210 On behalf of the Board DENIS HENNEQUIN Chair, Remuneration Committee 5 April 2019 www.
