Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information They have grown the number of colleague-led Working Families network our  mental health peer support groups both winning network for parents and carers within the UK and in the US.
In July, they Our Working Families Network offers a Veterans born prior to 1946 launched a new global interactive version of supportive network for Barclays colleagues 2018 0.02% the Workplace Adjustment Passport to create who are parents, parents-to-be or carers, 2017 0.02% an even simpler way for colleagues to record and to help with the challenges of balancing their adjustments and make for easier family, life and work.
The network which Baby Boomers 19461964 conversations as they move through their has more than 4,600 members runs regular careers at Barclays.
Through the Your View speaker events, webinars and seminars 2018 8% survey 6% of respondents disclosed a for colleagues, as well as providing useful 2017 10% disability or mental health condition and the information on working family-related topics.
number of colleagues registering as allies The network also gets involved in helping Generation X 19651978 through our Reach Purple Champions shape inclusive family-friendly policies.
In Asia 2018 28% initiative doubled during 2018 with over Pacific, the representatives from the Working 1,600 colleagues registering.
2017 30% Families Network collaborated with the Win network, Spectrum, the LGBT networks and Multigenerational Generation Y 19791994 Our Multigenerational agenda aims to enable HeForShe supporters towards an enhancement of erstwhile paternity leave.
To reflect our Barclays to be an employer of choice across 2018 57% generations and life stages by providing tools inclusive approach, the leave has evolved to 2017 56% a gender-neutral non-primary caregiver leave and programmes that enable our colleagues to balance their work lives with their personal entitlement.
It has been tripled to six weeks Generation Z born after 1994 paid leave for colleagues in all Barclays entities commitments, while providing them with 2018 6% career development opportunities at each in China, Hong Kong, Japan and Singapore and India.
2017 4% We are proud to have joined the Equality The network was recognised as Best Family and Human Rights Commissions Working Network in the Working Families Best Practice During International Womens Day 2018 we Forward campaign which aims to make Awards 2018 UK winning the Cityparents published a white paper on Dynamic Working workplaces the best they can be for pregnant Best Family Network this year.
In the US, weve where we shared what we have learnt over women and new parents.
been recognised by Working Mother Media three years of our campaign execution.
The in their Diversity Best Practices Inclusion Index Both the 2017 and 2018 multigenerational paper is aimed at helping other organisations as a top employer and as one of the Best figures have been reported on the basis of who are looking to embark on a similar Companies for Women in India.
Barclays was revised definitions of the multigenerational journey of cultural transformation.
The also named as a Top 10 employers for Working groupings, in order to better align our campaign was recognised externally at the Families by the UKs work-life balance charity reporting to both internal and external UK Working Families Best Practice Awards Working Families.
The placings are based on categorisations of generations within 2018 where Barclays won the award for the the highly competitive Working Families the workplace.
benchmarking survey, which examines all Dynamic Working helping shape the agile aspects of workplace agility flexibility and Bridge: a new multigenerational network how employers support the work-life balance culture for a technology-led workplace In 2018, we launched Bridge a We are committed to creating an inclusive of all their staff.
environment and supporting our colleagues The network offers two forums the already Multicultural in managing their work and non-work successful Emerge for colleagues who are During 2018, we celebrated The Embracing Us priorities through our pioneering campaign early in their career either with Barclays or campaign for the second year challenging Dynamic Working.
This flagship campaign of in financial services, and the Midlife forum global stereotypes and mind-sets in relation to the Multigenerational agenda helps colleagues for our more experienced colleagues.
Both nationality, faith, ethnicity, race and language.
to integrate their professional and personal forums offer development and collaboration The campaign saw positive colleague lives, whether they are millennials, midlifers, opportunities to their members.
participation during World Culture Day dads, mums, colleagues with disabilities or celebrations in May.
In 2018, 63% of respondents reported through multiple communications channels, as working dynamically through Your View, events, leadership forums and the launch of our colleague engagement survey.
Leading the Barclays Culture Wizard, an online learning the efforts are 2,100 colleagues who have platform designed to enhance your global signed up as Dynamic Working champions.
mind-set through courses, videos, articles, Champions support in organising local quizzes, self-assessments and more.
A number activities including Dynamic Working clinics of Barclays colleagues were also featured on where managers have an opportunity to learn the EMpower 2018 Ethnic Minorities Leaders more about how to ensure Dynamic Working List published in the Financial Times.
can work for them and for their teams.
Since the launch of the campaign in 2015, more than 4,500 leaders have attended a Dynamic Working clinic.
In 2018, we held 55 clinics with more than 550 enrolments across the clinics.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 97 Governance: People People Permanent employees by region Multicultural 2018 2017 2016 % UK United Kingdom 49,900 48,700 46,400 Continental Europe and Middle East 3,200 3,600 4,700 2018 18 Americas 10,600 10,400 9,700 2017 18 Asia Pacific 19,800 17,200 15,700 Africa 42,800 Total 83,500 79,900 119,300 % US 2018 46 2017 44 Examples of Group-wide actions that are Cultural change Over the last three years we have focused key to unlocking colleague engagement and % Global embedding the desired culture include the on developing and embedding a Culture 2018 40 measurement framework, and in 2018 continued focus on our Dynamic Working 2017 36 with the launch of our new Purpose, have campaign.
An area of continued opportunity continued to evolve the framework so that is embedding the value of Excellence, by it generates useful insights for senior enabling our colleagues through enhanced management to take action on to drive technology and collaboration tools.
The We are proud to be a signatory for the new cultural change.
ongoing investment in our technology is Race at Work Charter announced by the UK having an impact with colleague responses Prime Minister in October 2018.
The Charter, This year, the Culture Dashboard has to the question My business has been developed jointly by the Government and remained anchored in our Values: with successful in eliminating obstacles to Business in the Community BITC, sets consistency in metrics maintained as far as efficiency 59% favourable, up 23% points out a number of principles and actions that is practical whilst also addressing business on 2016 which is a sign that progress is businesses are asked to publicly commit to, feedback regarding the flexibility to include being made, albeit there is still more to do.
helping to tackle ethnic disparities in the business specific metrics.
This Charter builds on the work to the Board Reputation Committee, Group of the 2017 McGregor-Smith Review, Race Executive Committee and Business Unit and Note: The Your View comparisons are shown in the workplace.
By being one of the first Functional Executive Committees stimulating as 2018 v 2016 because 2016 was the last organisations to sign up to the charter, we discussion and debate.
During 2017 we ran are demonstrating our commitment to taking Colleague engagement is a useful data point quarterly surveys surveying 25% of our practical steps to ensure our workplace is contained in the Culture Dashboard and population each quarter.
tackling barriers that ethnic minorities one measure of how we are embedding may face.
This year, we have seen The chart above shows the percentage of the engagement of colleagues improve under-represented populations that make up by 4% points since 2016 to 79% in 2018, our global and regional populations.
Underunderscoring the continued efforts to make represented populations include Asian, Mixed, Barclays a great place to work.
Other key Black, Hispanic Latino, Native Hawaiian or highlights which also demonstrate the Other Pacific Islander and Native American continued embedding of the Values of colleagues.
To improve the accuracy of Respect and Stewardship include Barclays reporting on under-represented populations, is focused on achieving good customer and colleagues with an undisclosed ethnicity client outcomes 92% favourable, up 9% 22% of our global population have been points on 2016 : I can be myself at work excluded from all calculations, both for 2018 91% favourable and I would recommend and retrospectively for 2017.
Barclays as a good place to work 83% favourable, up 7% points on 2016.
Barclays workforce strategy has driven the year-on-year increase in our permanent headcount, primarily within the Technology function, where there has been a continued focus on both reducing third party staff and bringing intellectual property in-house through permanent employment.
In addition, in some parts of the firm we have placed additional focus on hiring specific skill sets externally across our strategic hubs, in line with our location strategy.
98 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee Our focus is on aligning pay with performance, while ensuring we continue to attract and retain the employees critical to delivering our strategy.
Our Fair Pay Agenda is a key lens the Committee applies when considering the appropriateness of pay outcomes.
Contents Remuneration Committee members Page Chairman Annual statement 99 Crawford Gillies At a glance Group performance and pay for 2018 102 Members Remuneration policy for all employees 104 Tim Breedon Directors remuneration policy 109 Mary Francis Dambisa Moyo Annual report on Directors remuneration 112 Dear Fellow Shareholders 2018 has also seen the Remuneration Group Limited BAGL, and the conclusion As Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committees of two of our major subsidiary of a number of significant legacy litigation Committee, I am pleased to introduce the entities Barclays Bank UK PLC and Barclays and conduct matters.
Bank PLC become fully operational.
The The Committee shares the disappointment Committee has valued the additional oversight I have been a member of the Committee since that this positive performance has not yet that both Committees bring, and the positive May 2014 and Chairman since April 2015. translated into share price performance, as interactions that have taken place with the Through this period, I have observed an macroeconomic factors continue to weigh Barclays PLC Committee.
increased focus in our discussions on many heavily on investor sentiment.
In determining I would like to thank you for your strong of the important themes encapsulated within the appropriate pay outcomes for 2018, we Barclays Fair Pay Agenda.
While each of the support of the implementation of the have taken a balanced view of performance, remuneration policy at the last Annual concepts has evolved at Barclays over many reflecting both the significant progress made years, the way that they are strategically General Meeting AGM, at which it received during the year and the foundations laid for almost 96% of shareholder votes in favour.
incorporated within the overall agenda and further and sustainable future improvements.
the prominence that this takes in the collective I have set out below a summary of our 2018 It is important for the Committee to recognise performance, the key decisions made on these positive steps in performance, ensuring thinking of the Committee has certainly changed.
It has become an increasingly remuneration and the areas of focus for 2019. that Barclays continues to be able to attract and retain the talent needed to deliver our important lens through which we consider the Performance and pay appropriateness of pay outcomes throughout strategy and returns to our shareholders.
2018 has been a year of positive strategic and the Group.
As a Committee we are proud financial performance for the Group.
Strong The Committee has approved a Group of the ongoing work in this area, and in progress towards our external financial targets incentive pool of 1,649m, up 9% from 2017, particular of the Fair Pay Report that we a a has been made, with profit before tax PBT against a PBT increase of 20%.
This pool publish this year to highlight some of the up 953m 20% from 2017 to 5,701m.
change is the first increase in our incentive achievements to date, while importantly b Group return on tangible equity RoTE is pool since 2013.
Since 2010, our incentive setting out our areas of focus for the future.
8.5%, up 2.9% points on prior year and on pool is down 53%.
This trend means that As well as fair pay, the Committee continues track to achieve our targets for 2019 and in some areas of the Bank, pay is now to focus on rewarding sustainable performance 2020.
Our Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 positioned behind our peers when adjusted as one of the key elements of our remuneration ratio is 13.2%, at the end-state target range for performance.
A small part of the increase philosophy.
Rewarding sustainable performance of c. 13%.
in the incentive pool is intended to ensure that means looking at performance through we continue to align pay with performance It has also been another year of successful multiple lenses throughout the business, to and retain high performing talent in key execution against our strategy.
This included ensure that we align how our staff are paid business areas.
the stand-up of the UK ring-fenced bank, full with a holistic view of their performance.
regulatory deconsolidation of Barclays Africa Notes a Excluding litigation and conduct.
The prior year excludes litigation and conduct, Deferred Tax Asset remeasurement and the loss on the sale of 33.7% of BAGLs issued share capital and the impairment of Barclays holding in BAGL.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 99 Governance: Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee b The increase also reflects some strategic initiatives such as increasing pension despite 20% year on year PBT growth.
hiring into key areas as well as an increase contributions to our most junior populations The Committees deliberations on his 2018 in permanent staff headcount, as we reduce in the UK, to be followed by a review in other personal performance have taken account outsourcing and third party arrangements locations during 2019. of financial delivery, in particular ensuring in favour of building internal capability in that the Group is on track to deliver against We also make sure that employees are line with our technology strategy to deliver our 2019 and 2020 financial targets.
The appropriately represented in remuneration ongoing cost efficiencies and retain Committee has also taken account of the decision-making.
We listen to our employees intellectual property for the Group.
successful completion of the Structural as we do with other stakeholders through Reform programme, with the UK ring-fenced The Committee reviews key compensation a number of different channels, both formally bank fully operational and Barclays UK and informally.
Many of my fellow Committee ratios as part of its decision making on the adequately capitalised.
The significant work pool, for example the Group compensation members at both the Group and subsidiary required to ensure that the Group is prepared a levels have spent time with staff and listened to net income ratio, which continues to for Brexit has also been recognised, as improve, down year on year from 38.0% to their views and perspectives around Barclays Bank Ireland is on track to be how they are paid.
The ratio of Group staff costs to operational in its expanded form from a income also reduced from 40.6% in 2017 structured piece of employee engagement on 29 March 2019.
The Committee has also remuneration within Barclays UK is included to 40.2%, demonstrating the effectiveness noted the significant progress in strategic of the insourcing strategy in reducing overall in the Fair Pay Report.
It included conducting non-financial performance across the Group, a pulse survey of over 2,000 employees, as staff costs.
in particular against our Citizenship agenda well as 25 focus groups held across multiple The total incentive pool incorporates and Colleague metrics as well as improvements sites and business areas.
The key themes appropriate adjustments for risk and conduct in key Customer and Client measures.
that emerged resonated with the Group matters, reflecting the ongoing seriousness remuneration philosophy, including a desire As previously announced, malus has with which the Committee views these issues.
for greater simplicity and transparency.
Work been applied to Jes Staleys 2016 variable is ongoing to respond to this feedback, which Fair pay compensation, reducing the awarded value We continue to be committed to fair pay, will be communicated to our colleagues in by 500,000.
Barclays UK during 2019. ensuring that all our employees are Based on Tushar Morzarias performance appropriately and fairly rewarded for their The Committee reviews pay proposals for against the performance measures set at contribution.
The 2018 Fair Pay Report sets appropriateness across both businesses and the beginning of the year, the Committee out our progress against each of the five corporate grade structures, with pay for approved a 2018 bonus of 729,000 49.3% themes of Barclays Fair Pay Agenda as executive Directors thereby set in the context of maximum of which 45% will be deferred.
referenced in last years Remuneration report.
of business performance and pay for all Similar to the annual bonus outcome for Jes Our Gender Pay Gap reporting is included employees.
Additionally, we disclose our Staley, this is slightly down on 2017 as a result within equal opportunities to progress, given CEO pay ratios once again, following on of very stretching financial targets in the the underlying drivers of the pay gaps relate from our first disclosure last year.
Ahead of annual bonus plan.
The Committee has taken to the distribution of male and female staff requirements from the UK Government, this account of the instrumental role Tushar within the organisation.
year we also include the UK employee upper Morzaria has played in delivering the 2018 quartile and lower quartile reference points.
financial outcomes, continuing to make The Committee notes that the disclosed improvements in cost management, as well Gender Pay Gaps, while down slightly, are A high level summary of our Fair Pay Report as applying greater control and management is included on page 107.
Our full Fair Pay broadly consistent with the 2017 outcomes.
of the allocation and deployment of capital Through 2018, Barclays approaches have Report can be found on home.
The Committee has also annualreport.
been assessed against the Evidence-based noted his key role in the execution of the actions list as published by the UK Key remuneration decisions for Structural Reform programme.
Tushar Government Equalities Office and the executive Directors Morzaria has exemplified our Values and Behavioural Insights Team, which has been In line with the current Directors Remuneration delivered favourable engagement scores very informative.
While in many areas our Policy DRP approved by shareholders at within the Finance function.
Additionally, existing approaches are aligned with those the 2017 AGM, the Committee considered he continues to demonstrate effective listed as effective actions, there is scope for the executive Directors performance against management of key stakeholders, receiving further improvement.
The Fair Pay Report the financial and strategic non-financial excellent feedback from the Board, regulators sets out areas of focus to increase the rate performance measures which had been set to and shareholders.
Separately, The Committee decided to make an award Additionally, as well as supporting the performance against their personal objectives under the 2019-2021 Long Term Incentive Governments consultation on Ethnicity Pay was assessed on an individual basis.
Plan LTIP cycle to Jes Staley and Tushar Gap reporting, we have decided to include Based on Jes Staleys performance against the Morzaria with a face value at grant of 120% our Ethnicity Pay Gap for the first time, ahead performance measures set at the beginning of their respective Total fixed pay.
This reflects of any mandatory reporting requirements.
of the year, the Committee approved a 2018 their strong performance in 2018, as well as This is intended to foster further positive bonus of 1,061,000 48.3% of maximum the importance that they are retained during conversations in this space, as the Gender Pay of which 62% will be deferred.
This incentive the coming years to continue to deliver Gap reporting has done across our industry outcome is slightly down from 2017, despite our strategy.
and more broadly in society.
the strong strategic progress and significant The Committee reflected on the improvement in financial performance over Some of the other highlights noted by the appropriateness of making a full LTIP Committee through 2018 have included the the year.
This is because of the very stretching award for the 2019-2021 cycle, given the financial targets in the annual bonus plan set ongoing work in ensuring that we treat our decline in share price over the last year lowest paid employees fairly through by the Committee, which paid below target Notes a Basis aligned with disclosure in the Results Announcement.
100 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information and considering key institutional investor The Committee has reviewed the updated UK guidance.
It concluded that this would be Corporate Governance Code, and is pleased appropriate, as macroeconomic uncertainties that Barclays remuneration policies align to its have played a key part in the share price requirements in many areas, including vesting reductions, reflected across our industry.
periods for deferred shares, the ability to apply Additionally, the LTIP award has stretching malus and clawback to awards made and performance conditions attached and given post-employment shareholding requirements.
the long vesting periods up to eight years, While the Committee has for many years shares will be released from this and other reviewed remuneration policies and outcomes LTIP awards across different economic cycles for the broader workforce, this has now been at different share prices.
Importantly, the formalised within its Terms of Reference and Committee also retains complete discretion to will continue to be considered throughout reduce the number of vested shares should it 2019 when making decisions for both the appear that the executive Directors will benefit executive Directors, other senior employees in a way not aligned with performance.
The and the wider workforce.
Committee determined the outcomes of In finalising our plans ahead of the departure the 2018 annual bonus and the LTIP award of the UK from the EU, the Committee will alongside each other, ensuring that the continue to work on the remuneration aspects outcomes are appropriately balanced.
This associated with the operationalisation of was based on a full assessment of performance Barclays Bank Ireland in its expanded form.
across all of the relevant factors.
Finally, the Committee continues to focus on The performance measures for the LTIP have our Fair Pay Agenda as thinking and best been reviewed and continue to align with our practice in this important area evolves.
RoTE and cost: income ratio have been retained as the Remuneration report We have provided an At a glance summary key financial metrics, with the weightings remaining unchanged at 50% and 20% of 2018 performance and pay on the next page.
The annual report on Directors respectively.
The RoTE measure remains subject to a CET1 ratio underpin.
In line with UK regulations, we are seeking Both executive Directors Fixed Pay will be shareholder approval at the 2019 AGM for the unchanged for 2019 at 2,350,000 for Jes Remuneration report.
Further details can be Staley and 1,650,000 for Tushar Morzaria: found in the 2019 AGM Notice of Meeting.
aligned with the DRP approved at the 2017 AGM.
Looking ahead As a Committee, we will be reviewing the DRP to ensure that future arrangements are aligned with our strategy and meet any Crawford Gillies Chairman, Board Remuneration Committee new regulatory requirements.
This will be developed over the coming months and we 20 February 2019 will engage constructively with shareholders and regulators ahead of the 2020 AGM, where we will be seeking shareholder approval.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 101 Governance: Remuneration report At a glance Group performance and pay for 2018 Group performance and pay Significant strategic progress was made in 2018 including: strong progress towards 2019 and 2020 financial targets successful stand-up of the UK ring-fenced bank full regulatory deconsolidation of BAGL year of strong strategic performance, including improvements in: Customer & Client measures such as Net Promoter Scores Colleague measures such as improved engagement scores Citizenship measures including exceeding carbon emissions target a b pool increase of 9% aligns with stronger financial performance PBT up 20% and RoTE up 2.9%pts and significant strategic execution incentive pool has been materially repositioned since 2010 2018 incentive pool outcome is down 53% on 2010.
Group profit before tax excluding Group incentive pool litigation and conduct 20% 9% 2018 5,701m 2018 1,649m 2017 4,748m 2017 1,506m Group RoTE excluding Cost:income ratio excluding b litigation and conduct and other material items litigation and conduct 2.9%pts -2%pts 2018 8.5% 2018 66% 2017 5.6% 2017 68% c c Group compensation to net income ratio Group staff costs to income ratio -1.4%pts -0.4%pts Corporate and Investment Bank CIB front-office ratio also down 1.1%pts 2018: 25.0%, 2017: 26.1% 2018 36.6% 2018 40.2% 2017 38.0% 2017 40.6% a Excluding litigation and conduct.
c Basis aligned with disclosure in the Results Announcement.
In future the ratio will be disclosed as Group compensation to total income to fully align with the disclosure in the Results Announcement.
In this transitional year, both figures are provided: the Group compensation to total income ratio for 2018 is 34.1%, up slightly from 33.8% in 2017.
The slight increase is due to insourcing, as seen in the reduced ratio of Group staff costs to income shown above.
CIB front-office to total income ratio is broadly flat at 25.6%.
102 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Executive Directors: performance outcomes Annual bonus 2016-2018 Long Term Incentive Plan Jes Staley Tushar Morzaria Tushar Morzaria a 1,061k 48.3% 729k 49.3% 851k 39% of maximum of maximum of maximum 0% 50% 100%0% 50% 100% 0% 50% 100% a By reference to Q4 2018 average share price Performance measures % weighting Financial 60% Financial 70% Profit before tax excluding material items 40% RoTE excluding material items 25% 0% 50% 100%0% 50% 100% Cost:income ratio excluding material items 20% CET1 ratio 25% 0% 50% 100%0% 50% 100% Strategic non-financial 20% Cost:income ratio excluding material items 20% 0% 50% 100%0% 50% 100% Personal objectives 20% Jes Staley Risk scorecard 15% 0% 50% 100%0% 50% 100% Tushar Morzaria Balanced scorecard 15% 0% 50% 100%0% 50% 100% Fixed Pay Pension and benefits Annual bonus LTIP Executive Directors: remuneration outcomes Jes Staley Tushar Morzaria a 2017 3.87m 2017 3.59m a, b 2018 3.86m 2018 3.48m Max 8.29m Max 5.60m a Jes Staley was not a participant in the 2015-2017 or 2016-2018 LTIP cycles: the LTIP figures for 2017 and 2018 are therefore zero for him.
b This outcome does not reflect the malus applied to Jes Staleys 2016 variable compensation, which is required to be included in the 2018 single total figure table.
Executive Directors: share ownership Jes Staley Date of appointment: 1 December 2015 Tushar Morzaria Date of appointment: 15 October 2013 Requirement 5,492k Requirement 3,700k Actual 7,729k Actual 4,525k Shareholding requirement policy: minimum of 200% of Total fixed pay i. e. Fixed Pay plus Pension within five years from date of appointment shareholding requirement for two years post termination of 100% of Total fixed pay or pro rata thereof introduced from 2017. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 103 Governance: Remuneration report Remuneration policy for all employees This section sets out Barclays remuneration policy for all employees, explaining the philosophy underlying the structure of remuneration packages, and how this links remuneration to the achievement of sustained high performance and long-term value creation.
Remuneration philosophy In October 2015, the Committee formally adopted a revised, simplified remuneration philosophy which articulates Barclays overarching remuneration approach and is set out below.
Barclays remuneration philosophy Attract and retain talent needed to deliver Barclays strategy Long-term success depends on the talent of our employees.
This means attracting and retaining an appropriate range of talent to deliver against our strategy, and paying the right amount for that talent Align pay with investor interests Ensure employees interests are aligned with those of investors equity and debt holders, both in structure and the appropriate balance of returns Reward sustainable performance Sustainable performance means making a positive contribution to stakeholders, in both the short and longer term, playing a valuable role in society Support Barclays Values and culture Results must be achieved in a manner consistent with our Values.
Our Values and culture should drive the way that business is conducted Align with risk appetite, risk exposure and conduct expectations Designed to reward employees for achieving results in line with the Banks risk appetite and conduct expectations Be clear, transparent and as simple as possible All employees and stakeholders should understand how we reward our employees.
Remuneration structures should be as simple as possible so that everyone can understand how they work and the behaviours they reward Performance and remuneration Barclays remuneration philosophy links remuneration to achieving sustained high performance and creating long-term value.
Our remuneration philosophy applies to all employees globally across Barclays and aims to reinforce our belief that effective performance management is critical to enabling the delivery of our business strategy in line with our Values.
Employees who adhere to the Barclays Values and contribute to Barclays success are rewarded accordingly.
This is achieved by basing performance assessment on clear standards of delivery and behaviour, and starts with employees aligning their objectives what they will deliver to business and team goals in order to support the delivery of the business strategy and good client customer outcomes.
Behavioural expectations how people will achieve their objectives are set in the context of our Values.
Performance is assessed against both financial and non-financial criteria.
Other factors are also taken into consideration within the overall performance assessment, including core job responsibilities, behaviours towards risk and control, colleague and stakeholder feedback as well as input from the Risk and Compliance functions, where appropriate.
Through our approach to performance, the equal importance of both what an individual has delivered as well as how the individual has achieved this is emphasised, encouraging balanced consideration of each dimension.
Both of these elements are assessed and rated independently of each other.
There is no requirement to have an overall rating which allows for more robust and reflective conversations between managers and team members on the individual components of performance.
A key part of the performance philosophy promotes ongoing quality dialogue throughout the year.
This helps manage performance messages effectively and allows for more timely recognition as well as appropriate coaching, feedback and support where needed.
By linking individual performance assessment to Barclays strategy and our Values and, in turn, to remuneration decisions, a clear alignment between what we are striving to achieve, how we go about this, and ultimately, how we recognise this in individual financial terms is achieved.
104 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Risk, conduct and remuneration Another key feature of our remuneration philosophy is the alignment of remuneration with our risk appetite and with the conduct expectations of Barclays, our regulators and stakeholders.
The Committee takes risk and conduct events very seriously and ensures that there are appropriate adjustments to individual remuneration and, where necessary, the incentive pool.
The Remuneration Review Panel, which reports to the Committee, supports the Committee in this process.
The Panel is chaired by the Group HR Director and includes the Group Heads of Risk, Compliance, Legal and Internal Audit as well as the CEOs of Barclays UK and Barclays International.
It sets the policy and processes for assessing compensation adjustments for risk and conduct events.
We have robust processes for considering risk and conduct as part of individual performance management processes with outcomes reflected in individual remuneration decisions.
Line managers have primary accountability for ensuring that risk and conduct issues are considered when assessing performance and making remuneration decisions.
In addition, there is a secondary review by the control functions for individuals involved in significant failures of risk management, conduct issues, regulatory actions or other major incidents which impact either the Group or business to ensure these issues are also considered.
When considering individual responsibility, a variety of factors are taken into account such as whether an individual was directly responsible or whether the individual, by virtue of seniority, could be deemed indirectly responsible, including staff who drive the Groups culture and set its strategy.
Actions which may be taken where risk management and conduct falls below required standards include: Adjustment Current year annual bonuses are adjusted downwards where individuals are found to be responsible either directly or indirectly in a risk or misconduct event.
Malus Deferred unvested bonuses from prior years are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of deferred bonuses including to nil at its discretion.
Events which may lead the Committee to do this include, but are not limited to, employee misconduct or a material failure of risk management.
Clawback Clawback applies to any variable remuneration awarded to a Material Risk Taker MRT on or after 1 January 2015 in respect of years for which they are a MRT.
Barclays may apply clawback if, at any time during the seven-year period from the date on which variable remuneration is awarded to a MRT: i there is reasonable evidence of employee misbehaviour or material error, and or ii the firm or the business unit suffers a material failure of risk management, taking account of the individuals proximity to and responsibility for that incident.
Clawback may be extended to 10 years for PRA Senior Managers where there are outstanding internal or regulatory investigations at the end of the seven-year clawback period.
In addition to reductions to individuals bonuses, the Committee considers and makes collective adjustments to the incentive pool for specific risk and conduct events.
For 2018, the impact of these collective adjustments, resulting from both the direct financial impact on performance and the additional adjustments applied by the Committee, is a reduction of c. 290m.
We have also adjusted the incentive pool to take account of an assessment of a wide range of future risks including conduct, non-financial factors that can support the delivery of a strong risk management, control and conduct culture and other factors including reputation, impact on customers, markets and other stakeholders.
The Committee was supported in its consideration of this adjustment by the Board Risk Committee and the Board Reputation Committee.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 105 Governance: Remuneration report Remuneration policy for all employees Remuneration structure The remuneration structure for employees is closely aligned with that for executive Directors, set out in detail in the DRP which can be found on pages 108 to 120 of the 2016 Annual Report.
The primary exception being that the executive Directors participate in the Barclays LTIP and receive part of their Fixed Pay in Barclays PLC shares.
Employees receive salary, pension and other benefits and are eligible to be considered for an annual bonus.
Employees in some customer-facing businesses participate in formulaic incentive plans, including plans which have good customer outcomes as the primary performance measure.
The plans also recognise how results have been achieved in line with Barclays Values.
Some senior employees also receive Role Based Pay RBP.
Remuneration of MRTs is subject to the 2:1 maximum ratio of variable to fixed remuneration.
A total of 1,590 2017: 1,642 or 1,570 excluding BAGL individuals were MRTs in 2018.
Capital requirements regulation CRR quantitative disclosures on MRTs are set out on pages 203 to 211 of Barclays PLC 2018 Pillar 3 Report.
The remuneration of employees engaged in control functions is determined independently from the business they support and within the parameters of the incentive pool allocated to them by the Committee.
Remuneration for control function employees is less weighted towards variable remuneration as compared to front-office employees and variable remuneration is typically limited to one times fixed remuneration.
This leads to less volatility in overall control function remuneration as compared to front-office outcomes.
Fixed remuneration Salary Salaries reflect individuals skills and experience and are reviewed annually.
They are increased where justified by role change, increased responsibility or a change in the appropriate market rate.
Salaries may also be increased in line with local statutory requirements and in line with union and works council commitments.
Role Based A small number of senior employees receive a class of fixed pay called RBP to recognise the seniority, breadth and depth Pay RBP of their role.
Pension and The provision of a competitive package of benefits is important to attracting and retaining the talented staff needed to deliver benefits Barclays strategy.
Employees have access to a range of country-specific company-funded benefits, including pension schemes, healthcare, life assurance and Barclays share plans as well as other voluntary employee funded benefits.
The cost of providing these benefits is defined and controlled.
Variable remuneration Annual bonus Annual bonuses incentivise and reward the achievement of Group, business and individual objectives, and reward employees for demonstrating individual behaviours in line with Barclays Values.
The ability to recognise performance through variable remuneration enables the Group to control its cost base flexibly and to react to events and market circumstances.
Bonuses remain a key feature of remuneration practice in the highly competitive and mobile market for talent in the financial services sector.
The Committee is careful to control the proportion of variable to fixed remuneration paid to individuals and also to ensure an appropriate amount is deferred to future years.
The typical deferral structures are: For MRTs: For non-MRTs: Incentive award Amount deferred Incentive award Amount deferred 500,000 40% of total award Up to 65,000 0% 500,000 to 1,000,000 60% of total award 65,000 Graduated level of deferral 1,000,000 60% up to 1,000,000 100% above 1,000,000 Deferred bonuses are generally delivered in equal portions as deferred cash and deferred shares subject to the rules of the deferred cash and share plans as amended from time to time and continued service.
Deferred bonuses are subject to either a 3, 5 or 7-year deferral period in line with regulatory requirements.
Where dividend equivalents cannot be delivered on deferred bonus shares, the number of deferred bonus shares awarded will be calculated using a share price discounted to reflect the absence of dividend equivalents during the vesting period.
Share plans Alignment of senior employees with shareholders is achieved through deferral of incentive pay.
We also encourage wider employee shareholding through the all-employee share plans.
98% of the global employee population is eligible to participate up from 86% in 2017.
106 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Fair Pay Agenda The principles and policies that govern our approach to pay have evolved over many years.
Through five broad themes, our Fair Pay Agenda brings that approach together in one place: to explain clearly how we think about pay, and how it sits alongside the other support we provide to help our people succeed both in and outside of work.
We are committed to ensuring that pay is not only fair, but simple and transparent to all of our stakeholders.
We have published a standalone Fair Pay Report for the first time this year.
The following sets out some highlights.
We encourage you to read the full Fair Pay Report, which can be found on home.
1 Fair pay for the lowest paid Pay for our lowest paid employees is sufficient, simple and transparent 2 5 Equal opportunities Performance-linked pay to progress Pay for all employees Everyone has the and executives is linked opportunity to progress to sustainable business through the organisation performance Fair pay and earn more 3 4 Equal Pay Listening to employees Pay decisions must not take Employees are appropriately into account gender, age, represented in remuneration ethnicity, sexual orientation decision making or any other protected characteristic 1 Fair Pay for the lowest paid Pay for our lowest-paid employees is sufficient, simple and transparent, appropriately rewarding all of our people for their work.
It is important to us that all of our employees feel fulfilled and can bring the best version of themselves to work, which means that they must be paid in a way that supports a decent quality of living.
Barclays was the first major financial services institution to become an accredited UK living wage employer in 2013, with all UK employees and those who provide services at our sites being paid at least the current National Living Wage and London Living Wage in London, as set by the Living Wage Foundation.
For our lower-paid employees, more of their remuneration is delivered in fixed pay, which means that their total compensation is less volatile and less at risk.
In difficult years, where budgets are most constrained, pay increases are focused on more junior populations.
Bonuses are a smaller part of the overall package for lower-paid employees but are available for people that really deliver for our customers and clients.
To begin to extend our living wage commitment beyond the UK, we will use the Fight for $15 as a reference point in the US.
We have plans for enhanced pension arrangements for our most junior employees in the UK, and are reviewing the pay structures for our branch and contact centre staff.
2 Equal opportunities to progress We believe that diverse organisations perform better, and that diverse perspectives across the leadership of our organisation lead to better decisions.
We are an equal opportunities employer.
This means that we hire diverse people from all backgrounds, and that all of our employees have the same opportunity to progress.
We have a number of initiatives in place to support employees in reaching their full potential, and in balancing their life commitments and their work commitments.
These are described in more detail in the People section on pages 93 to 98 and are intended to support all of our employees.
As part of our review of our progress in our Gender Pay Gap disclosure, we have tested our initiatives against best practice for closing Gender Pay Gaps as set out by the Government Equalities Office and the Behavioural Insights Team, and are pleased that a number of initiatives in place should be effective over the long term.
This assessment can be reviewed in our Fair Pay Report.
We still have more to do, and continue to develop our Diversity and Inclusion programmes and initiatives as part of our key agendas on gender, multicultural, LGBT, disability & mental health and multigenerational.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 107 Governance: Remuneration report Remuneration policy for all employees 3 Equal pay We take specific steps to ensure that employees are paid equally for doing the same job, which means ensuring they are rewarded fairly, with regard to their specific role, responsibilities and the other factors that appropriately affect pay.
We have formalised this commitment to Equal Pay for the first time in our Fair Pay Report.
Our Equal Pay Commitment sets out the steps we take, including: being explicit with those who make pay decisions through clear guidance and training, that those decisions must reflect the individuals role and contribution requiring that pay decisions must not, directly or indirectly, take into account an individuals gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation, marital status, pregnancy, maternity, shared parental, paternity or parental leave, veteran status, disability or any other protected characteristic subjecting our annual pay review to a rigorous check and challenge process internally working closely with Unite in the UK to evaluate the fairness of performance management and pay distribution concerning the unionrecognised population communicating more with our staff and other stakeholders about pay, and increasing the transparency of our Fair Pay Agenda continuing to look for opportunities to simplify our pay structures where appropriate.
We continue to develop our processes to manage Equal Pay, and to review pay outcomes for all of our employees.
4 Listening to employees We make sure that employees are appropriately represented in remuneration decision-making.
It is important to us that there is engagement between employees and the Board on a broad range of issues, including remuneration.
This helps the Board to ensure that Barclays is run for the benefit of all stakeholders.
Management listens to employees through a wide range of different channels, and reports its views to the Board.
This includes through senior management dialogue with the Remuneration Committee and through the year-end performance and pay review processes.
In addition, several of our jurisdictions are covered by unions or works councils, with approximately 83% of the UK workforce being represented by Unite, our recognised trade union in the UK.
We also report employee views to the Board through the annual employee opinion survey and a dedicated culture dashboard.
Additionally, the Board receives the CEOs monthly Barclays PLC report which covers engagement and diversity.
5 Performance-linked pay We ensure that both executive pay and employee pay are linked to sustainable business performance.
This means making a positive contribution to stakeholders, in both the short and longer term.
To do this, we review performance through financial and non-financial lenses, and assess individual performance both on what is achieved and how it is achieved.
In line with our commitment to fair pay for the lowest paid, we ensure that employees at the most junior levels are not significantly exposed to fluctuations in business performance.
This helps to plan and manage income more effectively.
Our Fair Pay Report includes illustrations of our approaches to pay for individuals at different levels of the organisation.
It shows that as employees progress through the organisation and become more senior, a greater proportion of their remuneration is linked to individual and business performance, and is therefore at risk.
Pay at the most senior levels is most heavily weighted towards performance-related incentives.
A significant proportion of remuneration for senior employees is also delivered in deferred shares, ensuring longer-term alignment with Company performance.
The shares are deferred over 3, 5 or 7 years depending on level of pay and seniority.
108 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy This section sets out a summary of the Barclays forward-looking DRP and is provided for information only.
The DRP was approved at the 2017 AGM held on 10 May 2017 and applies for three years from that date.
The full DRP can be found on pages 108 to 120 of the 2016 Annual Report or at home.
Remuneration policy summary executive Directors Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2019 Fixed Pay Fixed Pay is determined with reference to market practice and historical No change from 2018.
To reward skills and market data on which the Committee receives independent advice, Jes Staley: 2,350,000. experience appropriate for and reflects the individuals experience and role.
Tushar Morzaria: 1,650,000. the breadth and depth of Total compensation is benchmarked against comparable roles in banks.
the role and to provide the These amounts are fixed and will 50% of Fixed Pay is delivered in cash paid monthly, and 50% is basis for a competitive not change during the policy delivered in shares.
The shares are delivered quarterly and are subject remuneration package period for these individuals.
to a holding period with restrictions lifting over five years 20% each year.
As the executive Directors beneficially own the shares, they will be entitled to any dividends paid on those shares.
There are no performance measures.
Malus and clawback provisions do not apply to Fixed Pay.
Pension Executive Directors receive an annual cash allowance in lieu No change from 2018.
To enable executive of participation in a pension arrangement.
Jes Staley: 396,000 Directors to build long-term Equivalent to 17% of Fixed Pay.
For new hires, the pension allowance is limited to 10% of Fixed Pay.
retirement savings Tushar Morzaria: 200,000 Equivalent to 12% of Fixed Pay.
These amounts are fixed and will not change during the policy period for these individuals.
Benefits Executive Directors benefits provision includes, but is not restricted to, No change from 2018.
To provide a competitive private medical cover, annual health check, life and ill health income and cost effective benefits protection, car cash allowance, and use of a Company vehicle and package appropriate to the driver when required for business purposes.
role and location In addition to the above, if an executive Director were to relocate, additional support would be provided for a defined and limited period of time in line with Barclays general employee mobility policy.
Barclays will pay the tax on relocation costs but will not tax equalise and will also not pay tax on any other employment income.
Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 80% of Total fixed pay.
Details of performance measures To reward delivery of shortFor these purposes Total fixed pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.
are set out on pages 120 to 121. term financial targets set The performance measures include financial and non-financial Shares issued are subject to each year, the individual measures, including risk related measures and other personal a holding period of one year performance of the executive objectives.
Financial measures will be at least 60% of the bonus after vesting.
Directors in achieving those opportunity.
The Committee has discretion to vary the measures and targets, and their contribution As dividend equivalents are not their respective weighting within each category.
to delivering Barclays permissible under regulations, the strategic objectives Annual bonuses are delivered as a combination of cash and shares, number of shares to be awarded a proportion of which may be deferred and or subject to a holding will be calculated using a share Delivery in part in shares period.
Deferral proportions and vesting profiles will be structured so price discounted to reflect the with a holding period that, in combination with any LTIP award, the proportion of variable absence of dividend equivalents increases alignment with pay that is deferred is no less than that required by regulations.
Deferred bonuses encourage longer Dividend equivalents are payable on vested deferred bonus shares.
term focus and retention If dividend equivalents are not permissible during the vesting period under regulations, the number of shares to be awarded will be determined using a share price discounted by reference to the expected dividend yield.
A notional discount may be applied to deferred bonuses for the purposes of calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent permitted by regulations.
Awards are subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback for a period of seven years 10 years in specific circumstances from the date of award.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 109 Governance: Remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2019 Annual bonus Non-deferred cash components of any bonus are paid following continued the performance year to which they relate, normally in March.
Non-deferred share bonuses are also awarded normally in March and are subject to a holding period after the payment of tax in line with regulations.
Deferred share bonuses are structured so that no deferred shares vest faster than permitted by regulations.
Any shares that vest are subject to an additional holding period after payment of tax in line with regulations.
Long Term Incentive Plan The maximum annual LTIP award is 120% of Total fixed pay.
For these Details of performance measures and targets for awards to be LTIP award purposes Total fixed pay is Fixed Pay plus Pension.
To reward execution of made in 2019 in respect of 2018 Forward-looking performance measures will be based on financial are set out on page 119.
Barclays strategy over a performance and other long-term strategic measures.
Financial multi-year period measures will be at least 70% of the total opportunity.
Straight-line For awards to be made in respect Long-term performance vesting applies between threshold and maximum for the financial of 2019, the measures and targets measurement, deferral and measures with no more than 25% vesting at threshold performance.
will be determined at the end of holding periods encourage 2019 for the performance period LTIP awards are structured so that when combined with the annual a long-term view and align commencing on 1 January 2020. bonus the proportion of variable pay that is deferred is no less than executive Directors interests that required by regulations.
On vesting, the award is subject with those of shareholders.
to a holding period of one year.
Malus and clawback The Committee has discretion to vary the measures year on year provisions discourage and their respective weighting within each category.
The Committee As dividend equivalents are not excessive risk-taking and also has discretion to amend targets, measures and the number of permissible under regulations, the inappropriate behaviours awards in exceptional circumstances and to reduce the vesting of any number of shares to be awarded award, including to nil, if it deems that the outcome is not consistent will be calculated using a share with performance.
price discounted to reflect the absence of dividend equivalents Dividend equivalents are payable on vested deferred shares.
If dividend during the vesting period.
equivalents are not permissible during the vesting period under the regulations, the number of shares to be awarded will be determined using a share price discounted by reference to the expected dividend yield.
A notional discount may be applied to LTIP awards for the purposes of calculating the 2:1 cap to the extent permitted by regulations.
No LTIP award vests before the third anniversary of grant and an award vests no faster than permitted by regulations currently in five equal tranches with the first tranche vesting on or around the third anniversary of grant and the last tranche vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of the grant date.
Shareholding requirement Executive Directors must build up a shareholding of 200% of Total fixed No change from 2018.
To further enhance the pay i. e. Fixed Pay plus Pension within five years from the date of Equivalent to 457% of Salary for alignment of shareholders appointment as executive Director.
the Group Chief Executive under and executive Directors Executive Directors must also continue to hold a shareholding of 100% the previous DRP.
interests in long-term value of Total fixed pay or pro rata thereof for two years post-termination.
creation 110 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration policy summary non-executive Directors a Element and purpose Operation Implementation in 2019 Fees The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
Reflect individual responsibilities The Chairman has a minimum time commitment equivalent to at least and membership of Board 80% of a full-time role.
The other non-executive Directors receive Committees and are set to a basic Board fee, with additional fees payable where individuals serve attract non-executive Directors as a member or Chairman of a Committee of the Board.
who have relevant skills and Fees are reviewed each year by the Board as a whole.
Other than in experience to oversee the exceptional circumstances, fees will not increase by more than 20% implementation of our strategy above the current fee levels during this policy period basic fees last Fees are set at a level which increased in 2011. reflects the role, responsibilities 30,000 Chairman: 100,000 after tax and national insurance and time commitment which are contributions per annum of each non-executive Directors basic fee expected from the Chairman and is used to purchase Barclays shares which are retained on the non-executive Directors non-executive Directors behalf until they retire from the Board.
Some non-executive Directors may also receive fees as directors of subsidiary companies of Barclays PLC.
Benefits The Chairman is provided with private medical cover subject to the No change from 2018. terms of the Barclays scheme rules from time to time, and is provided with the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes.
Benefits which are minor in nature and do not exceed a cost of 500 may be provided to non-executive Directors in specific circumstances.
Expenses The Chairman and non-executive Directors are reimbursed for any No change from 2018. reasonable and appropriate expenses incurred for business reasons.
Any tax that arises on these reimbursed expenses is paid by Barclays.
Note a Nigel Higgins joins the Board as a non-executive Director on 1 March 2019 and will assume the role of Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the Barclays AGM on 2 May 2019.
Nigel Higgins will be appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-election by shareholders.
Prior to expiry of the initial term Nigel Higgins may be invited to serve a further three-year term.
In accordance with the Directors remuneration policy, Nigel Higgins will be paid an annual fee of 80,000 for so long as he is a non-executive Director, and an all-inclusive annual fee of 800,000 the same rate as the current Chairman with effect from his assuming the Chairman role and will be provided with private medical cover and the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes.
While he is Chairman, Nigel Higgins will be required to use 100,000 per annum of his fee after tax and national insurance contributions to purchase Barclays shares.
Nigel Higgins will be expected to commit up to four days a week to the role and it will be his principal working commitment.
Nigel Higgins notice period shall be six months from the Company and six months from the Chairman.
Service contracts and letters of appointment All executive Directors have a service contract whereas all non-executive Directors have a letter of appointment.
Copies of the service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The effective dates of the current Directors appointments disclosed in their service contracts or letters of appointment are shown in the table below.
As stated in the letters of appointment, non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
On expiry of the initial term and subject to the needs of the Board, non-executive Directors may be invited to serve a further three years.
Non-executive Directors appointed beyond six years will be at the discretion of the Board Nominations Committee.
All Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Effective date of appointment Chairman John McFarlane 1 January 2015 non-executive Director, 24 April 2015 Chairman Executive Directors Jes Staley 1 December 2015 Tushar Morzaria 15 October 2013 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley 18 September 2013 1 November 2012 Tim Breedon Sir Ian Cheshire 3 April 2017 25 July 2018 Mary Anne Citrino Mary Francis 1 October 2016 1 May 2014 Crawford Gillies Sir Gerry Grimstone 1 January 2016 Reuben Jeffery III 16 July 2009 Matthew Lester 1 September 2017 Dambisa Moyo 1 May 2010 Diane Schueneman 25 June 2015 Mike Turner 1 January 2018 Note a With effect from 1 April 2018, the Company issued all non-executive Directors with updated letters of appointment to address the change in corporate structure post-Structural Reform.
Where non-executive Directors have other appointments to Barclays subsidiaries additional letters of appointment have been issued as appropriate.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 111 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration This section explains how our Directors remuneration policy was implemented during 2018.
Executive Directors Executive Directors: Single total figure for 2018 remuneration audited The following table shows a single total figure for 2018 remuneration in respect of qualifying service for each executive Director together with comparative figures for 2017.
b The LTIP amount includes a reduction of c. 200k attributable to 17% share price depreciation between date of grant and vesting date: no discretion applied.
c LTIP and dividend equivalent figures for 2017 have been adjusted to reflect the share price on the date of vesting 211p rather than the Q4 2017 average price.
d As previously announced, malus was applied to Jes Staleys 2016 variable compensation.
Additional information in respect of each element of pay for the executive Directors audited Fixed Pay Fixed Pay is delivered 50% in cash and 50% in shares subject to a five-year holding period lifting pro-rata.
Pension Executive Directors are paid cash in lieu of pension contributions.
The cash allowance in 2018 was 396,000 for Jes Staley and 200,000 for Tushar Morzaria.
No other benefits were received by the executive Directors from any Barclays pension plan.
Taxable benefits Taxable benefits include private medical cover, life and ill health income protection, tax advice, relocation, car allowance, the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes and other benefits that are considered minor in nature.
Annual bonus Annual bonuses are typically awarded in Q1 following the financial year to which they relate.
The Committee considered the executive Directors performance against the financial 60% weighting and strategic non-financial 20% weighting performance measures which had been set to reflect company priorities for 2018.
Performance against their individual personal objectives 20% weighting was assessed on an individual basis.
Financial 60% weighting The approach taken to assessing financial performance against each of the financial measures was based on a straight-line outcome between 20% for threshold performance and 100% applicable to each measure for achievement of maximum performance.
The PBT measure is also subject to a CET1 underpin.
The CET1 ratio reached a temporary low point in Q1 of 12.7%, driven primarily by the settlement of a historical litigation and conduct case.
As the CET1 recovered to 13.0% in Q2, the Committee determined to pay out the PBT measure fully in line with the formulaic outcome.
The formulaic outcome against the financial measures set at the beginning of the year gave a total of 14.8% out of 60% being payable attributable to those measures.
A summary of the assessment is provided in the following table.
Threshold Maximum 2018 2018 Financial performance measure Weighting 20% 100% Actual Outcome a Profit before tax excluding material items with CET1 ratio underpin 40% 5.00bn 6.50bn 5.32bn 14.8% a Cost: income ratio excluding material items 20% 66.5% 62.0% 68.2% 0% Total Financial 60% 14.8% Note a Material items consist of charges for PPI and settlement with regard to residential mortgage-backed securities RMBS.
Strategic 20% weighting Progress in relation to each of the strategic measures, organised around three main categories, was assessed by the Committee.
The Committee used the following scale in relation to each measure: 0% to 1% firmly below performance expectations, 1.5% to 3% slightly below performance expectations, 3.5% to 5.5% meeting or slightly exceeding performance expectations, and 6% to 7% clearly above performance expectations.
Based on this approach to assessing performance against the 2018 Performance Measurement Framework milestones, the Committee agreed a 16.5% outcome out of a maximum of 20%.
The assessment is provided in the following table.
112 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Category and key outcomes Measure Performance Outcome Customer and Net Promoter The NPS across our brands provide a view of how willing customers are to recommend 5% Client: Scores NPS our products and services to others.
Barclays UK relationship NPS has increased to 17 2017: 14.
Building trust with Barclaycard UK relationship NPS stayed flat over the year closing at 9 at year-end customers and 2017: 9. clients so they The Relationship NPS of the US Consumer Bank increased further to 38 2017: 36 are happy to supported by our customer centric culture and improvements in our products and recommend us digital experience.
a Successfully Client rankings Our Markets franchise delivered strong performance as it increased market share in innovating and and market each asset class, delivered five consecutive quarters of outperformance vs peers, and developing products shares maintained its 4th place ranking in Global Fixed Income market share Greenwich.
and services that Banking maintained its 6th rank by fee share in our UK and US home market and meet their needs retained top 3 position in the UK Dealogic.
95% of largest UK corporate clients considered service to be good, very good or Offering suitable excellent, up from 88% in 2017 Charterhouse.
products and Complaints Total Barclays UK complaint volumes including PPI down 1% from 2017.
Underlying services in an performance UK complaint volumes reduced by 9% year-on-year excluding PPI.
However, PPI accessible way, complaints were up 2%.
ensuring excellent Lending We provided new lending of 2.8bn to SMEs in the UK, 3% more than last year, despite customer and client volumes overall volumes 6% down as we continued to exert high levels of discipline in capital experience provided to allocation to strengthen long-term sustainability.
customers and We also completed over 110,000 mortgage applications worth c23bn up 1.5% from clients 2017.
Digital Over 10.8m customers and clients in the UK were using our digital services on a regular engagement basis, 6% more than in 2017, with Barclays Mobile Banking user base up from 5.5m to nearly 6.2m.
69% of US Consumer Bank customers now digitally active, up from 66% in 2017.
Barclays Mobile Banking is the most used mobile banking app in UK eBenchmarkers.
It was also the first core app from a major UK high street bank to enable account aggregation through Open Banking technology.
Conduct Conduct Risk has been effectively managed using Key Indicators reported to the Board indicators Reputation Committee as part of the Conduct Dashboard.
Further information is provided in the Risk Review section.
Colleague: Diversity and In our Your View employee opinion survey, 91% of our employees agreed that we 5.5% Inclusion provide the right environment to bring their whole selves to work.
A diverse and statistics We were also proud to be recognised through a number of external awards in 2018 inclusive workforce including, The Times Top 50 Employers for Women, Stonewall Top Global Employer in which employees for LGBT employees, Working Families UK Best for Embedded flexibility for Dynamic of all backgrounds Working, UK Top 10 employer for Working Families, Department of Work and Pensions are treated equally Disability Confident Leader, Business in the Community Best Employer for Race.
and have the Our gender diversity, particularly at senior leadership levels within the organisation, opportunity to be remains a focus: the percentage of female Directors and Managing Directors has successful and improved to 24% 23% in 2017, but there is still progress to be made.
We increased our achieve their activities on the development of our senior female leadership population and expanded potential our Encore!
Programme to attract more female returners.
Employee Sustainable engagement scores increased to 79%, up 4 points from 2016 last all Engaged and sustainable colleague survey.
enabled colleagues engagement Our scores around Energise and Engage were also up 5 and 4 points to 83% and 88% survey scores respectively, both above Financial Services Companies norms, and our Enable score was A positive conduct up 5% to 65%.
and values-based Conduct and Encouragingly, our Values results have improved since Q4 2017.
We saw a notable culture Culture increase on the question, Is it safe to speak up at Barclays, which went from 77% measures to 86%.
A similar increase is noted on the question Barclays is focused on achieving good customer and client outcomes 92% favourable, 2016: 83%.
Note a All Markets ranks and shares: Coalition, FY18 Preliminary Competitor Analysis based on the Coalition Index and Barclays internal business structure.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 113 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Category and key outcomes Measure Performance Outcome Citizenship: Delivery against Target exceeded on our annual internal milestones for the focus area of Access 6% our Shared to financing.
Making decisions Growth Access to digital and financial empowerment also exceeded target.
and doing business Ambition Target exceeded on our annual internal milestones for the focus area of Access in a way that to employment.
provides our Volumes for selected social and environmental segments: facilitated 27.3bn in social clients, customers, and environmental financing.
We expanded our green product portfolio, including the shareholders, launch of the first Green Mortgage for retail customers by a mainstream UK institution.
colleagues and We helped support around 260,000 people with access to financial and digital the communities empowerment in 2018 2017: 205,000. which we serve We helped improve the skills of over 2.4m people in 2018 2017: 2.1m, driven by a range with access to a of employability partnerships around the world.
prosperous future Proactively We exceeded target on carbon emissions: reduced emissions by 38% against the 2015 managing baseline target 30%.
Proactively environmental We released statements on our approach to Ramsar Wetlands and World Heritage Sites, managing the and societal as well as a comprehensive statement on energy and climate which strengthened and environmental and impacts replaced our previous coal statement.
societal impacts On-time payment to our suppliers was 82%, falling short of our target of 85%.
of our business Performance was in part impacted by a change in systems during the year.
Colleague We celebrate our colleague engagement and participation through our annual engagement in Citizenship Awards.
2018 was the 21st anniversary of the Awards, which saw almost citizenship 1,500 employees nominated.
activities 87% of colleagues who responded to the annual Your View employee survey are proud of Barclays contribution to the community and society, above the global Financial Services Companies norm.
External Our performance was broadly stable across a set of ratings.
Institutional Shareholder benchmarks Services ISS released new environmental and social quality scores to assess corporate and surveys disclosures.
On a 1-10 scale 1 highest, Barclays was rated 1 for social reporting and 2 for environmental reporting.
The FTSE4Good ESG rating remained flat at 4.3 5.
Barclays was rated as Ain the 2018 Carbon Disclosure Project climate disclosure survey, up from B in 2017.
16.5% out of 20% Further details on the Performance Measurement Framework can be found on pages 18 to 27.
Individual outcomes including assessment of personal objectives Individual performance against each of the executive Directors personal objectives 20% weighting overall was assessed by the Committee objectives as set out on page 109 of the 2017 Annual Report.
The below summarises their performance against the shared personal objectives.
Shared objectives for Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria Outcomes Deliver on 2018 financial goals such that Financial goals delivered and on track to achieve external returns targets in 2019 and 2020. we remain on track to achieve our Strong financial improvements in PBT and RoTE and maintenance of CET1 in end-state range.
returns targets 2018 RoTE close to 2019 target of greater than 9%.
Seek opportunities for further cost 2018 cost target of 13.9bn achieved.
savings and optimise the capital Capital allocation optimised and deployed to key strategic areas.
allocation within the Group Complete the Structural Reform Structural Reform programme largely completed, including the stand-up of the ring-fenced bank programme successfully, ensuring the in the UK.
This was completed in April and is recognised as one of the biggest technological shifts UK ring-fenced bank is fully operational carried out in financial services, requiring a huge coordinated effort from teams across the Bank.
Finalise the implementation plan for an The Group is operationally prepared for the UK to leave the EU, with an extended licence for effective Brexit outcome Barclays Bank Ireland in place and the entity prepared to be fully operational by the end of March 2019.
Continue to drive strategic initiatives to The Committee noted the strategic initiatives to improve returns to shareholders, both within the enhance growth in shareholder value in businesses and also through our state-of-the-art operating platform, Barclays Execution Services.
the medium term In 2018, based on strong capital position, the restoration of the dividend to 6.5p, and the redemption of the expensive preference shares dating from the financial crisis, saw us deploy around 1.8bn of capital.
While this represents progress, we acknowledge that it is not yet sufficient.
Manage risk and control effectively and Significant improvements in the control environment resulting from the wide-ranging Barclays make continued progress in resolving Improved Controls Enhancement Programme BICEP work.
outstanding conduct matters Major outstanding legacy conduct matters resolved, including reaching a reasonable settlement with the US Department of Justice in relation to RMBS, and having the UK SFO charges relating to the 2008 fundraising against the bank dismissed.
114 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information In addition to the shared personal objectives described above, the below summarises Jes Staleys performance against the objectives specific to him.
Jes Staleys objectives Outcomes Continue to strengthen the Banks Significant progress to strengthen controls in relation to cyber readiness, operations and financial cyber readiness, operational and reporting, including through the BICEP work.
financial controls Cybersecurity enhanced with a second joint operation centre opened in Whippany, New Jersey to enhance our ability to monitor and address incidents on a global basis.
Both operational issues and risk events have reduced significantly during 2018.
Further improve customer and client Jes Staley has been instrumental in upgrading key talent that has led to strong performance in a satisfaction, with a particular focus on the Markets business which has increased market share in each asset class and delivered five reducing the number of overall complaints consecutive quarters of outperformance vs peers.
Banking maintained its 6th rank in UK and US and remained top 3 in UK.
Similarly, within customer satisfaction, Barclays UK NPS increased to 17 from 14 in 2017.
Jes Staley has driven a focus on customer outcomes across the bank with his senior executive teams, reducing the number of overall complaints in Barclays UK including PPI 1% from 2017, while underlying UK complaint volumes reduced by 9% year-on-year excluding PPI PPI complaints were up 2%.
As part of the ongoing succession While the percentage of females in senior leadership positions is increasing slowly, Jes Staley has planning for Group and Business Unit personally taken accountability for trying to redress the historic gender imbalance at our most Functional Executive Committees, senior levels.
continue the focus on improving the In 2018, key initiatives included the work of the Global Gender Task Force, responsible for the percentage of women in senior Womens Managing Director Forum, as well as the extension of the ex-officio role a rotating position leader positions on senior management committees providing opportunities for talented individuals to contribute from the Group Executive Committee down through the organisation.
Jes Staley also personally launched a set of 2019 specific initiatives which are aiming to make the biggest difference most quickly to the proportion of women in senior leadership positions.
Recognising his very strong performance against both his individual and shared personal objectives during 2018, the Committee judged that 17% of a maximum of 20% attributable to personal objectives was appropriate.
The below summarises Tushar Morzarias performance against the objectives specific to him.
Tushar Morzarias objectives Outcomes Demonstrate effective management of Feedback from the Board, regulators and investors continues to show that Tushar Morzaria external relationships and reputation is extremely well respected internally and externally, and that the management of external relationships and reputation of the Group remains strong.
Continue to strengthen team performance The performance of the Finance function has continued to strengthen, with a diverse and especially following the creation of the experienced management team in place and good sustainable engagement scores.
Group Service Company, talent base and employee engagement in Group Finance, Tax and Treasury The Committee also recognised Tushar Morzarias very strong performance against both his individual and shared personal objectives during 2018, and judged that 18% out of a maximum of 20% attributable to personal objectives was appropriate.
i Jes Staley A summary of the assessment for Jes Staley is provided in the following table.
Performance measure Weighting 2018 Outcome Financial See table on page 112 60% 14.8% Strategic See table on pages 113 to 114 20% 16.5% Personal objectives Judgemental assessment 20% 17.0% Total 100% 48.3% Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 48.3% In aggregate, the performance assessment for Jes Staley resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 48.3% of maximum bonus opportunity being achieved.
The Committee considered the outcome and noted that a 2018 annual bonus of 1,061,000 of which 62% is deferred under the Share Value Plan is slightly down against his 2017 annual bonus outcome, and therefore is not reflective of the improved performance observed.
The Committee reflected on the disconnect between the positive financial and strategic performance across the Group and the relatively low outcomes against the financial measures given the extremely stretching financial targets in the annual bonus plan.
Based on a balanced assessment across all of the relevant factors, including recognising share price performance while not solely attributable to the executive Directors, the Committee decided that the outcome would remain at 1,061,000. ii Tushar Morzaria A summary of the assessment for Tushar Morzaria is provided in the following table.
Performance measure Weighting 2018 Outcome Financial See table on page 112 60% 14.8% Strategic See table on pages 113 to 114 20% 16.5% Personal objectives Judgemental assessment 20% 18.0% Total 100% 49.3% Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 49.3% Note a All Markets ranks and shares: Coalition, FY18 Preliminary Competitor Analysis based on the Coalition Index and Barclays internal business structure.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 115 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration In aggregate, the performance assessment for Tushar Morzaria resulted in an overall formulaic outcome of 49.3% of maximum bonus opportunity being achieved.
The Committee considered the outcome and again noted that a 2018 annual bonus of 729,000 of which 45% is deferred under the Share Value Plan was slightly down against his 2017 annual bonus outcome despite stronger Group performance financial and nonfinancial.
Similar to the assessment for Jes Staley, it decided that the outcome would remain at 729,000.
In line with the DRP, and due to the regulations prohibiting dividend equivalents being paid on unvested deferred share awards, the number of shares awarded to each executive Director under the Share Value Plan will be calculated using a share price at the date of award, discounted to reflect the absence of dividend equivalents during the vesting period.
The valuation will be aligned to IFRS 2, with the market expectations of dividends during the deferral period being assessed by an independent adviser.
These shares will vest in two equal tranches on the first and second anniversary subject to the rules of the Share Value Plan as amended from time to time.
All shares whether deferred or not are subject to a further one-year holding period from the point of release.
2018 bonuses are subject to clawback provisions and, additionally, unvested deferred 2018 bonuses are subject to malus provisions which enable the Committee to reduce the vesting level of deferred bonuses including to nil.
LTIP The LTIP amount included in Tushar Morzarias 2018 single total figure is the value of the amount scheduled to be released in relation to the LTIP award granted in 2016 in respect of the performance period 2016-2018 by reference to Q4 2018 average share price.
As Jes Staley was not a participant in this cycle, the LTIP figure in the single figure table is zero for him.
Release is dependent on, among other things, performance over the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018 with straight-line vesting applied between the threshold and maximum points.
The performance achieved against the performance targets is as follows: % of award Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Actual vesting Average return 25% 6.25% of award vests for RoTE of 7.5% RoTE of 10.0% 5.6% 0% on tangible equity CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest.
RoTE excluding The threshold will be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and a material items regulatory requirements 11.3% in 2018.
CET1 ratio as at 25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio of CET1 ratio of 12.7% 13.2% 25% 31 December 2018 11.6% Cost: income ratio 20% 5% of award vests for average cost: Average cost: income ratio of 58% 70% 0% excluding material income ratio of 66% a items Risk Scorecard 15% Performance against the Risk Scorecard is assessed by the Committee, with input 10% from the Group Risk function, Board Risk Committee and Board Reputation Committee as appropriate, to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%.
Since its introduction in 2016, the Risk Scorecard has been aligned by the Committee to the annual incentive risk alignment framework reviewed with the regulators.
Following this alignment, the current framework measures performance against three broad categories Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and Conduct using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics.
Balanced Scorecard 15% Performance against the Balanced Scorecard is assessed by the Committee to 4% determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%.
Each of the 5Cs in the Balanced Scorecard has equal weighting.
Assessment was made against the Balanced Scorecard targets established at the beginning of the performance period.
Total 39% Final outcome approved by the Remuneration Committee 39% Note a Material items include PPI, gain on disposal of Barclays share of Visa Europe Limited and own credit in 2016: PPI, losses relating to the sell down of BAGL and a one-off net charge due to the remeasurement of US deferred tax assets in 2017: PPI and settlement with regard to RMBS in 2018.
A summary of the Committees assessment against the Risk Scorecard performance measure over the three year performance period is provided below.
Category Weighting Performance Outcome Capital & Liquidity 5% Stress test results showed improvement over the period.
Although Barclays did not meet its 4% CET1 systemic reference points in 2016, no revised capital plans were required in light of the steps already taken.
In 2017, the Bank of England recognised that the increases in CET1 capital and in Tier 1 leverage ratios over the year were sufficient for Barclays to meet the systemic reference points in the test.
Group CET1% grew from 11.4% to 13.2% over the period, and remained comfortably above the regulatory minimum throughout.
Our liquidity risk appetite measure and the Liquidity Coverage Ratio remained above targets.
Controls 5% 3% The Control Environment is monitored by senior management and the Board via various reports, dashboards and deep dives.
Summary ratings are also used to track improvement and remediation plans.
These summary ratings improved over the period, notably following the completion of the BICEP.
This programme facilitated the resolution of the most material control issues, and implemented a system of tracking and reporting risk events and controls issues against a new Controls Maturity Model.
116 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Category Weighting Performance Outcome Conduct 5% The Conduct category focuses on internal forward-looking tools: 3% the Conduct dashboard showed a downward trend in conduct issues and complaints alongside an upward trend in confidence with respect to speaking up about potential conduct risks and issues, although a need for continued focus remains the occurrence of conduct breaches among senior leaders is referenced, in particular as a leading cultural indicator reflecting tone from the top.
The number of occurrences remained negligible throughout the year.
Total 15% 10% A summary of the Committees assessment against the Balanced Scorecard performance measures over the three year performance period is provided below.
Category Weighting Performance Outcome Customer and Client 3% While positive progress has been made, with Barclays UK relationship NPS up to 17 2017: 0% 14: 2016: 10, the very ambitious target of ranking 1st against peers has not been achieved.
Similarly, Client Franchise Rank performance was at 5th and 6th over the period, below the plan target of top 3.
Colleague 3% Good progress has been made in colleague engagement, increasing from 75% in 2016 to 78% 1% in 2017 and to 79% in 2018.
However this fell below the very stretching plan target of 87%-91%.
Continued improvement of 1% per year in the percentage of women in senior leadership roles to 24% at the end of 2018.
This falls below the plan target of 26% calibrated including the BAGL business.
Had BAGL continued to have been included, the outcome would have been c2% higher and the target would have been achieved.
Citizenship 3% The plan targets were exceeded on four measures access to financing, financial and digital 2% empowerment, access to employment and carbon emissions reduction.
Barclays Way training was on-track.
On-time payment to our suppliers exceeded targets for the first 2 years, but fell short in 2018 in part due to a change in systems which impacted performance during the year.
Conduct 3% Conduct Reputation, as measured by the YouGov survey, remained at 5.2-5.4 over the period 0% and below our plan target of 6.5.
Company 3% RoE and RoTE targets established to deliver greater than cost of equity in 2018.
While there 1% has been positive trajectory towards the 2019 and 2020 external commitments, the time frame was ambitious and returns are not yet at that level.
Cost:income ratio plan target of below 60%.
This has improved but there is still further progress required to achieve a ratio below 60%.
Significant strengthening in the CET1 ratio over the period, with the ratio now within our end-state target range of c. 13% and exceeding 100-150 basis points above the regulatory minimum.
Total 15% 4% The LTIP award is also subject to a discretionary underpin whereby the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group.
The Committee was satisfied that this underpin was met, and accordingly determined that the award should be considered for release at 39% of the maximum number of shares under the total award.
The shares are scheduled to be released in March 2019.
After release, the shares are subject to an additional two-year holding period.
i LTIP awards granted during 2017 The performance measures for the awards made under the 2017-2019 LTIP cycle are as follows: Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Average return 25% 6.25% of award vests for RoTE excluding material RoTE excluding material items of 9.5% on tangible equity items of 7.5% RoTE excluding CET1 ratio must remain at or above an acceptable level for any of this element to vest.
The threshold will material items be reviewed and set annually based on market conditions and regulatory requirements 11.7% on 31 December 2019.
CET1 ratio as at 25% 6.25% of award vests for CET1 ratio 100 basis CET1 ratio 200 basis points above the MDR hurdle 31 December 2019 points above the mandatory distribution restrictions MDR hurdle currently 11.7% Cost: income ratio 20% 5% of award vests for average cost: Average cost: income ratio of 58% excluding material income ratio of 63% items Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk alignment framework reviewed with the regulators.
The current framework measures performance against three broad categories Capital and Liquidity, Control Environment and Conduct using a combination of quantitative and qualitative metrics.
The framework may be updated from time to time in line with the Groups risk strategy.
Specific targets within each of the categories are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
Retrospective disclosure will be made in the 2019 Remuneration report.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 117 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Strategic non-financial 15% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Performance Measurement Framework, with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category.
Performance against the strategic non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 15%.
The measures are organised around three main categories: Customer and Client, Colleague and Citizenship.
Each of the three main categories has equal weighting.
Measures will likely include, but will not be limited to, the following: Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the Corporate and Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics including women in senior leadership, Employee sustainable engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities and external benchmarks and surveys.
Straight-line vesting applies between the threshold and maximum points in respect of the financial measures.
The award is subject to a discretionary underpin by which the Committee must be satisfied with the underlying financial health of the Group.
ii LTIP awards granted during 2018 An award was made to Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria on 8 March 2018 under the 2018-2020 LTIP at a share price of 1.7775, which has been discounted to reflect the absence of dividend equivalents during the vesting period, in accordance with our DRP.
This is the price used to calculate the face value below.
% of Number of Face value Performance Total fixed pay shares at grant period Jes Staley 120% 1,853,891 3,295,200 2018-2020 Tushar Morzaria 120% 1,248,980 2,220,000 2018-2020 The performance measures for the 2018-2020 LTIP awards are as follows: Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Average return on 50% 10% of award vests for RoTE of 7.75% RoTE of 10.25% tangible equity based on an assumed CET1 ratio of c. 13% RoTE excluding Vesting of this element will depend on CET1 levels during the performance period: material items if CET1 goes below the MDR hurdle currently 11.7% in any year of the period, no part of the RoTE element will vest if CET1 goes below the MDR hurdle 150bps but remains above the hurdle during the period, the Committee will exercise its discretion to determine what portion of the RoTE element should vest, based on the causes of the CET1 reduction.
Average cost: income 20% 4% of award vests for average cost: income Average cost: income ratio of 58% ratio excluding ratio of 62.5% material items Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk alignment framework reviewed with the regulators.
Retrospective disclosure will be made in the 2020 Remuneration report, subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.
Strategic non- 15% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Performance Measurement Framework, financial with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category.
Measures will likely include, but will not be limited to, the following: Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, client rankings and market shares for the CIB, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics including women in senior leadership, Employee sustainable engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities and external benchmarks and surveys.
118 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information LTIP awards to be granted during 2019 The Committee decided to make an award under the 2019-2021 LTIP cycle to Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria based on their performance in 2018 with a face value at grant of 120% of their respective Total fixed pay at 31 December 2018.
The 2019-2021 LTIP award will be subject to the following forward-looking performance measures.
Performance measure Weighting Threshold Maximum vesting Average return on tangible 50% 10% of award vests for RoTE of 8.5% RoTE of 10.5% equity RoTE ex litigation based on an assumed CET1 ratio of c. 13% and conduct and other Vesting of this element will depend on CET1 levels during the performance period: material items if CET1 goes below the MDR hurdle currently 11.7% in any year of the performance period, no part of the RoTE element will vest if CET1 goes below the end-state target c. 13% but remains above the hurdle during the year, the Committee will exercise its discretion to determine what portion of the RoTE element should vest, based on the causes of the CET1 reduction.
2021 Cost: income ratio ex 20% 4% of award vests for cost: income ratio of 60% Cost: income ratio of 58.5% litigation and conduct and other material items Risk Scorecard 15% The Risk Scorecard captures a range of risks and is aligned with the annual incentive risk alignment framework shared with the regulators.
Retrospective disclosure will be made in the 2021 Remuneration report, subject to commercial sensitivity no longer remaining.
Strategic non-financial 15% The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Performance Measurement Framework, with a detailed retrospective narrative on progress throughout the period against each category.
Measures will likely include, but not be limited to, the following: Customer and Client: NPS for consumer businesses, Client rankings and market shares for the Corporate and Investment Bank, complaints performance and volume of lending provided to customers and clients Colleague: Diversity and Inclusion statistics including women in senior leadership, Employee sustainable engagement survey scores and conduct and culture measures Citizenship: Delivery against our Shared Growth Ambition, Colleague engagement in Citizenship activities and external benchmarks and surveys.
Matters for which the Committee has exercised discretion As previously announced, malus was applied to Jes Staleys 2016 variable compensation, reducing the awarded value by 500,000. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 119 Performance period Preliminary Performance period performance period Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2019 The following chart provides an illustrative indication of how 2019 remuneration will be delivered to the executive Directors.
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 Implementation in 2019 Fixed No change from 2018 Cash Pay Jes Staley 2,350,000 Tushar Morzaria 1,650,000 Shares Released in equal tranches over 5 years Pension Cash in No change from 2018 lieu of Jes Staley 396,000 pension Tushar Morzaria 200,000 Annual 80% of Total fixed pay Cash bonus Holding Shares period Holding Shares period Holding Shares period LTIP Holding 120% of Total fixed pay Shares period Holding Shares period Holding Shares period Holding Shares period Holding Shares period This assumes an LTIP award made in 2020 in line with the current Policy.
2019 Annual bonus performance measures Performance measures with appropriately stretching targets have been selected to cover a range of financial and non-financial goals that support the key strategic objectives of the Company.
The performance measures and weightings are shown below.
Financial Profit before tax excluding litigation and conduct and other material items 50% weighting.
60% weighting Payout of this element will depend on the CET1 ratio during the performance year: if CET1 goes below the MDR hurdle currently 11.7% during the performance year, no part of the PBT element A performance target will pay out range has been set for if CET1 goes below the end-state target c. 13% but remains above the hurdle during the year, the Committee each financial measure will exercise its discretion to determine what portion of the PBT element should pay out, based on the causes of the CET1 reduction.
Cost: income ratio excluding litigation and conduct and other material items 10% weighting.
Strategic non-financial The evaluation will focus on key performance measures from the Performance Measurement Framework, with 20% weighting a detailed retrospective narrative on progress during the year against each category.
Performance against the strategic non-financial measures will be assessed by the Committee to determine the percentage of the award that may vest between 0% and 20%.
120 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Personal The executive Directors have the following joint personal objectives for 2019: 20% weighting continue to deliver improving shareholder returns, whilst retaining the focus on delivering the 2019 and 2020 external targets and specifically profitability of the CIB.
identify opportunities for further cost efficiencies, enabling reinvestment into strategic priorities leverage the new Barclays Execution Services platform to drive our technology agenda across both trading entities to improve customer and client experience and enhance value respond to emerging Brexit decisions, managing risks appropriately for the Group, while continuing to support our customers and clients in the UK.
In addition, individual personal objectives for 2019 are as follows: Jes Staley oversee the effective management of the risk and controls agenda, including cyber risks further improve customer and client satisfaction, with continued focus on complaint reduction develop further a high performing culture in line with our Values, continuing to focus on employee engagement: the talent pipeline for Group, Business and Functional Executive Committees with a particular emphasis on improving the percentage of women in senior leadership roles effectively manage relationships with key external stakeholders and society more broadly.
Tushar Morzaria demonstrate effective management of external relationships, particularly regulators and investors oversee the effective management of the risk and controls agenda in Group Finance, Tax and Treasury progress finance transformation programme and drive benefits across Group Finance, Tax and Treasury continue to develop talent base, employee engagement and gender diversity in Group Finance, Tax and Treasury.
Illustrative scenarios for executive Directors remuneration The charts below show the potential value of the current executive Directors 2019 total remuneration in three main scenarios: Minimum i. e. Fixed Pay, Pension and benefits, Mid-point i. e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and 50% of the maximum variable pay that may be awarded and Maximum i. e. Fixed Pay, Pension, benefits and the maximum variable pay that may be awarded.
For the purposes of these charts, the value of benefits is based on an estimated annual value for 2019 regular contractual benefits.
Additional ad hoc benefits may arise, for example, overseas relocation of executive Directors, but will always be provided in line with the DRP.
A significant proportion of the potential remuneration of the executive Directors is variable and is therefore performance related.
It is also subject to deferral, additional holding periods, malus and clawback.
Ahead of the new reporting requirements, we have provided an indication of the maximum remuneration receivable, assuming share price appreciation of 50% on the LTIP.
Total remuneration opportunity: Total remuneration opportunity: Group Chief Executive m Group Finance Director m Minimum Total 2.80 Minimum Total 1.90 42% 42% 16% 43% 43% 14% Mid-point Total 5.55 Mid-point Total 3.75 21% 21% 8% 20% 30% 22% 22% 6% 20% 30% Maximum Total 8.29 Maximum Total 5.60 14% 14% 5% 27% 40% 15% 15% 4% 26% 40% Maximum with share price increase Total 9.94 Maximum with share price increase Total 6.71 12% 12% 4% 22% 33% 17% 12% 12% 4% 22% 33% 17% 0 2 4 6 8 10 0 2 4 6 8 10 Fixed cash Fixed shares Pension and benefits Fixed cash Fixed shares Pension and benefits Bonus LTIP Illustrative share price increase Bonus LTIP Illustrative share price increase Performance graph and table The performance graph below illustrates the performance of Barclays over the financial years from 2009 to 2018 in terms of total shareholder return compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 index.
The index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 121 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration The table below provides pay ratios of the Group Chief Executives total remuneration as disclosed in the single total remuneration figure table to the remuneration of UK employees.
The ratio varies from year to year primarily due to variations in the CEO total remuneration figures, e. g. where there are changes in CEO, or variations in LTIP payouts in some years, the Group Chief Executive may not be a participant in a vesting LTIP.
The ratio of CEO remuneration for each reference point LQ, median and UQ has decreased from 2016 the first full year of service for the current CEO to 2018, primarily due to lower bonus outcomes for the CEO.
The CEO was not a participant in any LTIP that vested during this period.
Over the same period, the figure for the LQ UK employee has risen 10%.
It should be noted that these ratios may increase in 2019, as this will be the first year an LTIP, in which the CEO is a participant reaches the end of its performance period and may therefore result in a vesting outcome for the CEO.
a a Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 John John Bob Bob Antony Antony Antony Antony John Jes Jes Jes Jes b c c d e Group Chief Executive Varley Varley Diamond Diamond Jenkins Jenkins Jenkins Jenkins McFarlane Staley Staley Staley Staley Single total remuneration f g i figure CEO 2,050 4,567 11,070 1,892 529 1,602 5,467 3,399 305 277 4,233 3,873 3,362 Annual bonus award as a % of max 0% 100% 80% 0% 0% 0% 57% 48% N A N A 60% 48.5% 48.3% Long-term incentive plan h h h h h h h h vesting as a % of max 50% 16% N A 0% N A N A 30% 39% N A N A N A N A N A UK employee LQ 106 x 232 x 552 x 118 x 77 x 254 x 183 x 195 x 173 x 141 x UK employee median 75 x 165 x 391 x 84 x 54 x 175 x 126 x 137 x 119 x 96 x UK employee UQ 40 x 87 x 206 x 44 x 28 x 92 x 66 x 70 x 61 x 51 x Notes a Where there was more than one Group Chief Executive in a year, the pay ratio references the sum of the Group Chief Executive single total figures for that year.
b Bob Diamond left the Board on 3 July 2012. c Antony Jenkins became Group Chief Executive on 30 August 2012 and left the Board on 16 July 2015. d John McFarlane was Executive Chairman from 17 July 2015 to 30 November 2015.
His fees, which remained unchanged, have been pro-rated for his time in the position.
He was not eligible to receive a bonus or LTIP.
e Jes Staley became Group Chief Executive on 1 December 2015. f This figure includes 5,745k tax equalisation as set out in the 2011 Remuneration report.
Bob Diamond was tax equalised on tax above the UK rate where that could not be offset by a double tax treaty.
g Antony Jenkins 2014 pay is higher than in earlier years since he declined a bonus in 2012 and 2013 and did not have LTIP vesting in those years.
h Not a participant in a long-term incentive award which vested in the period.
i As required, the single total remuneration figure includes an adjustment made to Jes Staleys 2016 variable compensation in 2018.
2018 outcome excluding the malus adjustment is 3,862k and the ratios would be LQ: 162x, Median: 110x, UQ: 58x Percentage change in Group Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group Chief Executives salary, benefits and bonus between 2017 and 2018 compared with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for UK based employees.
We have chosen UK based employees as the comparator group as it is the most representative for pay structure comparisons.
Fixed Pay Benefits Annual bonus Group Chief Executive 0% -11% 0% a Average based on UK employees 2% 0% 10% Note a Certain populations were excluded to enable a meaningful like for like comparison.
Total remuneration of the employees in the Barclays Group The table below shows the number of employees in the Barclays Group as at 31 December 2017 and 2018 in bands by reference to total remuneration.
Total remuneration comprises salary, RBP, other allowances, bonus and the value at award of LTIP awards.
Of those employees earning above 1m in total remuneration for 2018 in the table above, 56% are based in the US, 36% in the UK and 8% in the rest of the world.
122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Relative importance of spend on pay A year on year comparison of Group compensation costs and distributions to shareholders are shown below.
Group compensation costs m Dividends to shareholders m 0 2,500 5,000 7,500 0 200 400 600 800 2018 7,346 2018 768 2017 7,123 2017 509 Total incentive awards granted current year Barclays Group Year ended Year ended 31.12.18 31.12.17 m m % Change Incentive awards granted Bonus pool 1,582 1,432 10 Commissions and other incentives 67 74 Total incentive awards granted 1,649 1,506 9 Reconciliation of incentive awards granted to income statement charge: Less: deferred bonuses granted but not charged in current year 359 302 19 Add: current year charges for deferred bonuses from previous years 299 457 35 Other 33 29 Income statement charge for performance costs 1,556 1,690 8 Proportion of bonus pool that is deferred 33% 31% Chairman and non-executive Directors Remuneration for non-executive Directors reflects their responsibilities, time commitment and the level of fees paid to non-executive Directors of comparable major UK companies.
Non-executive Directors are reimbursed expenses that are incurred for business reasons.
The Chairman is provided with private medical cover and the use of a Company vehicle and driver when required for business purposes.
Chairman and non-executive Directors: Single total figure for 2018 fees audited Fees Benefits Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman John McFarlane 800 800 1 2 801 802 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley 215 215 215 215 Tim Breedon 225 225 225 225 a Sir Ian Cheshire 480 360 480 360 b Mary Anne Citrino 39 39 c Mary Francis 154 135 154 135 d Crawford Gillies 222 195 222 195 e Sir Gerry Grimstone 498 375 498 375 Reuben Jeffery III 120 120 120 120 f Matthew Lester 135 45 135 45 Dambisa Moyo 135 135 135 135 g Diane Schueneman 337 308 337 308 h Mike Turner 105 105 i Diane fide Saint Victor 38 38 j Steve Thieke 87 87 Total 3,465 3,038 1 2 3,466 3,040 Notes a Sir Ian Cheshires 2018 figure includes fees of 400,000 for his role as Chairman of Barclays Bank UK PLC.
b Mary Anne Citrino joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 25 July 2018.
Her fees are therefore pro-rated for the period of her appointment.
c Mary Francis succeeded Sir Gerry Grimstone as Chair of the Board Reputation Committee with effect from 1 April 2018. d Crawford Gillies was appointed Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 April 2018 and the 2018 figures includes the pro-rated amount for the period of his appointment.
e Sir Gerry Grimstone was appointed Chairman of Barclays Bank PLC with effect from 1 April 2018 and subsequently stepped down as Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Board Reputation Committee.
The 2018 figure reflects this and also includes fees of 400,000 for his role as Chairman of Barclays Bank PLC Board and his previous appointment as Chairman of the BI Divisional Board for the period 1 January-31 March 2018. f Matthew Lester joined the Board a non-executive Director with effect from 1 September 2017. g Diane Schueneman was appointed Chair of Barclays Services Limited the Group Service Company with effect from 1 September 2017 and is a member of the Barclays US LLC the US Intermediate Holding Company Board.
The 2018 figure includes fees of 70,000 for her role on the Barclays Services Limited Board and $177k 132k for her role on the Barclays US LLC Board.
h Mike Turner joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2018. i Diane fide Saint Victor retired from the Board with effect from 10 May 2017. j Steve Thieke retired from the Board with effect from 10 May 2017. home.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 123 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Chairman and non-executive Directors: Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2019 2019 fees, subject to annual review in line with policy, for the Chairman and non-executive Directors are shown below.
1 January 2019 1 January 2018 000 000 a Chairman 800 800 b Deputy Chairman 250 250 Board member 80 80 Additional responsibilities c Senior Independent Director 36 30 Chairman of Board Audit, Remuneration or Risk Committee 70 70 Chairman of Board Reputation Committee 50 50 Membership of Board Audit or Board Remuneration Committee 30 30 Membership of Board Reputation or Board Risk Committee 25 25 Membership of Board Nominations Committee 15 15 Notes a The Chairman does not receive any other additional responsibilities fees in addition to the Chairman fees.
b Following the appointment of Sir Gerry Grimstone as Chairman of Barclays Bank PLC with effect from 1 April 2018, it was deemed not necessary to fill the position of Deputy Chairman.
However, the position remains available should Barclays consider it necessary and beneficial to the Company to appoint a Deputy Chairman in the future.
c The Board approved an increase to the Senior Independent Director fees effective 1 April 2018.
The increase in fees was approved in line with the DRP and took account of comparable market data and the Senior Independent Director role being performed independently of the Deputy Chairman role.
Payments to former Directors Former Group Finance Director: Chris Lucas In 2018, Chris Lucas continued to be eligible to receive life assurance cover, private medical cover and payments under the Executive Income Protection Plan EIPP.
Full details of his eligibility under the EIPP were disclosed in the 2013 Directors Remuneration report page 115 of the 2013 Annual Report.
Chris Lucas did not receive any other payment or benefit in 2018.
Directors shareholdings and share interests Executive Directors shareholdings and share interests audited The chart below shows the value of Barclays shares held beneficially by Jes Staley and Tushar Morzaria as at 19 February 2019 that count towards the shareholding requirement of, as a minimum, Barclays shares worth 200% of Total fixed pay i. e. Fixed Pay plus Pension.
The current executive Directors have five years from their respective date of appointment to meet this requirement.
At close of business on 19 February 2019, the market value of Barclays ordinary shares was 1.59.
Jes Staley 000 Tushar Morzaria 000 Requirement 5,492 Requirement 3,700 Actual 7,729 Actual 4,525 Interests in Barclays PLC shares audited The table below shows shares owned beneficially by all the Directors and shares over which executive Directors hold awards which are subject to either deferral terms and or performance measures.
The shares shown below that are subject to performance measures are the maximum number of shares that may be released.
b Mary Anne Citrino joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 25 July 2018. c Mike Turner joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 January 2018.
124 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
barclays annualreport Strategic report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays Board Remuneration Committee The Board Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing Barclays remuneration as described in more detail below.
Terms of Reference The role of the Committee is to: set the overarching principles and parameters of remuneration policy across the Group consider and approve the remuneration arrangements of i the Chairman, ii the executive Directors, iii members of the Barclays Group Executive Committee and any other senior executives specified by the Committee from time to time, and iv all other Group employees whose total annual compensation exceeds an amount determined by the Committee from time to time currently 2m exercise oversight for remuneration issues.
The Committee considers the overarching objectives, principles and parameters of remuneration policy across the Group to ensure it is adopting a coherent approach in respect of all employees.
In discharging this responsibility the Committee seeks to ensure that the policy is transparent, avoids complexity and assesses, among other things, the impact of pay arrangements in supporting the Groups culture, values and strategy and on all elements of risk management.
The Committee also approves incentive pools for each of the Group, Barclays Bank PLC, Barclays Bank UK PLC and operations and functions, periodically reviews at least annually all material matters of retirement benefit design and governance, and ensures that the remuneration policy promotes the alignment of the long-term interests of shareholders and employees.
The Committee and its members work as necessary with other Board Committees, and is authorised to select and appoint its own advisers as required.
The Terms of Reference can be found at home.
barclays corporategovernance Chairman and members The Chairman and members of the Committee are as follows: Crawford Gillies, Committee member since 1 May 2014 and Chairman since 24 April 2015 Tim Breedon, Committee member since 1 December 2012 Mary Francis, Committee member since 1 November 2016 Dambisa Moyo, Committee member since 1 September 2015.
All current members are considered independent by the Board.
Remuneration Committee attendance in 2018 Meetings attended eligible to attend Crawford Gillies 5 5 Tim Breedon 5 5 Mary Francis 5 5 a Dambisa Moyo 4 5 Note a Dambisa Moyo was unable to attend one meeting due to a conflicting commitment, but her views and comments were made available to, and considered by the Committee.
The performance of the Committee is reviewed each year as part of the Board Effectiveness Review.
The results of the review were positive and concluded that the Committee is composed of the right level of experience and skills.
Full details of the Board Effectiveness Review can be found on page 71.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee  PwC was appointed as the independent adviser to the Committee in October 2017.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided by PwC to the Committee is independent and objective.
PwC is a signatory to the voluntary UK Code of Conduct for executive remuneration consultants.
PwC was paid 85,500 excluding VAT for their advice to the Committee in 2018 relating to the executive Directors either exclusively or along with other employees within the Committees Terms of Reference.
In addition to advising the Committee, PwC provided unrelated consulting advice to the Group in respect of strategic advice on business, operational models and cost, corporate taxation, climate-related financial disclosures, data strategy, technology consulting and internal audit.
Throughout 2018, Willis Towers Watson WTW continued to provide the Committee with market data on compensation when considering incentive levels and remuneration packages.
WTW were paid 65,000 excluding VAT in fees for their services.
In addition to the services provided to the Committee, WTW also provides pensions advice, advice on health and benefits provision, assistance and technology support for employee surveys for the Group and pensions advice and administration services to the Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
In the course of its deliberations, the Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Human Resources Director and the Group Reward and Performance Director.
The Group Finance Director and the Chief Risk Officer provide regular updates on Group and business financial performance and risk profile respectively.
No Barclays employee or Director participates in discussions with, or decisions of, the Committee relating to his or her own remuneration.
No other advisers provided services to the Committee in the year.
barclays annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 125 Governance: Remuneration report Annual report on Directors remuneration Remuneration Committee activity in 2018 The following provides a summary of the Committees activity during 2018 and at the January and February 2019 meetings at which 2018 remuneration decisions were finalised.
a Meeting Fixed and variable pay issues Governance, risk and other matters January 2018 2017 incentive funding proposals, including risk adjustments Non-executive Directors fees for subsidiary boards 2017 bonus proposals for senior executives February 2018 Approved final 2017 incentive funding, including risk adjustments Approved 2017 Reward communications approach Approved proposals for executive Directors and senior executives Review of Committee effectiveness 2017 bonuses and 2018-2020 LTIP awards for executive Directors Group fixed pay budgets for 2018 Approved executive Directors and senior executives 2018 Fixed Pay Approved executive Directors annual bonus performance measures for 2018 July 2018 2018 ex-ante risk adjustment methodology Barclays Fair Pay Agenda 2018 incentive funding framework Update on the establishment of subsidiary Remuneration Committees October 2018 2018 incentive funding projections, including risk adjustments Barclays Fair Pay Agenda Annual review of Group Chairmans remuneration Update on Barclays UK remuneration approach December 2018 Initial consideration on executive Directors and senior executives Annual review of Committee activity, Terms of 2018 bonuses and 2019 Fixed Pay Reference and Control Framework 2019 bonus approach for executive Directors Non-executive Directors fees for subsidiary boards 2019-2021 LTIP performance measures 2018 incentive funding proposals, including risk adjustments Update on Barclays UK remuneration approach January 2019 2018 incentive funding proposals, including risk adjustments 2018 bonus proposals for senior executives February 2019 Approved final 2018 incentive funding, including risk adjustments Review of Board Remuneration Committee Effectiveness Approved proposals for executive Directors and senior executives 2018 bonuses and 2019-2021 LTIP awards for executive Directors Approved 2018 Reward communications approach Group fixed pay budgets for 2019 Approved 2019 executive Directors annual bonus performance measures Note a The Committee is also provided with updates at each scheduled meeting on: regulatory and stakeholder matters, Finance and Risk, Remuneration Review Panel meetings, operation of the Committees Control Framework on hiring, retention and termination, headcount and employee attrition, and extant LTIP performance.
There were also two additional Remuneration Committee meetings during the course of 2018.
The Committee met on 10 May 2018 to consider the application of malus to Jes Staleys 2016 variable compensation.
On 26 October 2018 the Committee met in respect of remuneration arrangements for the Group Chairman-designate.
Statement of shareholder voting at Annual General Meeting The table below shows the voting result in respect of our remuneration report at the AGM held on 1 May 2018 and the last policy vote at the AGM on 10 May 2017: For Against % of votes cast % of votes cast Withheld Number Number Number Advisory vote on the 2017 remuneration report 95.96% 4.04% 12,059,206,433 507,845,058 104,289,376 Binding vote on the Directors remuneration policy 97.91% 2.09% 12,062,616,141 257,416,828 51,369,054 At the AGM held on 24 April 2014, shareholders of Barclays PLC voted 96.02% 10,364,453,159 votes for the resolution in respect of a fixed to variable remuneration ratio of 1:2 for Remuneration Code Staff now known as MRTs.
On 14 December 2017, the Board of Barclays PLC as shareholder of Barclays Bank PLC approved the resolution that Barclays Bank PLC and any of its current and future subsidiaries be authorised to apply a ratio of the fixed to variable components of total remuneration of their MRTs that exceeds 1:1, provided the ratio does not exceed 1:2.
On 15 November 2018, the Board of Barclays PLC as shareholder of Barclays Bank UK PLC approved an equivalent resolution in relation to MRTs within Barclays Bank UK PLC and any of its subsidiaries.
126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2018 home.
