89 Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to Gender pay gap disclosure FY18 Performance and reward present our Remuneration Report for In March 2018 we published our Gender Pay The Company has produced another the financial year ended 30 June 2018.
The Group has a mean gender year of good results.
As explained in Our Remuneration Report comprises of pay gap of 1.3%, and our median gap is 1.6%, the Remuneration Policy, when setting three parts: this Annual Statement, the which is low when compared to the gender the targets for our performance related Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report pay gap across the UK of 17.4%.
Our mean remuneration, we take into account the steps on Remuneration.
bonus gap stands at 39.7% and our median the Group needs to take in order to achieve bonus gap at -6.2%.
Further details can be the strategy set by the Board.
This year, Remuneration Policy found on page 39 of this Annual Report and the strong leadership of our Executive and Accounts and the full disclosure is on our Senior Management Team has resulted in Shareholders approved the Remuneration Policy at the last AGM with over 98% of website at www.
the business meeting, and in some cases exceeding, the financial and non-financial the votes in favour.
This year we further We are cognisant of the BEIS reviewed our Remuneration Policy as part performance targets set for both short term recommendations on gender pay and long term incentives see pages 102 and of our annual processes taking into account reporting published in August 2018. remuneration best practice.
Accordingly, in recognition of this and We are currently evaluating the impact of taking into account the extent to which the that our Remuneration Policy remains fit the recommendations on our approach to for purpose, continues to be in line with Executive Directors have met their personal collating the data and on the drafting of our objectives Page 103, the Remuneration shareholder expectations and current best disclosure for 2019.
Our Remuneration Policy practice and only pays Executive Directors Committee agreed that the financial performance of the Company fully supports is proving effective in for performance.
We therefore propose Shareholder engagement no changes for FY19.
Our intention is that an annual bonus payment in the range aligning Executive Directors of 138% to 146% for Executive Directors.
this Policy will remain in place until 2020.
In July 2018, we provided an update on interests with those of We are, however, mindful that the New Code Executive Directors remuneration outcomes Details of individual payouts and the amounts to be deferred into shares can be found on may affect our Remuneration Policy and for FY18 and proposed remuneration for FY19 shareholders whilst taking our remuneration practices.
During FY19, to our major shareholders and institutional page 102 and 103. into account remuneration we will review the requirements of the New voting agencies.
No areas of concern were In addition, the LTPP award granted in Code in detail, and in conjunction with our raised.
Details of remuneration for our practices across the October 2015 was tested after the year end remuneration and legal advisers, will make Executive Directors is summarised within and 76.4% of the award granted to David business.
It remains robust, amendments to our Policy and practices as this statement.
Thomas and Steven Boyes and 100% of the deemed necessary.
fit for purpose and ensures award granted to Jessica White vested.
Employee engagement The difference is explained more fully in that Executive Directors are Pay ratios Note 1 of Table 20 on page 104.
The net We are mindful of the requirement of the only paid for performance shares after the payment of any tax and NI The Remuneration Committee considers New Code for engagement with the wider due on release will be subject to a further workforce on various matters including various pay ratios and finds them to be a that drives long term two-year holding period.
Full details of the useful tool when determining Executive Executive Directors remuneration.
achievements against each of the bonus and To facilitate this, we established an Employee Directors remuneration.
They help the LTPP targets can be found on pages 102 Remuneration Committee ensure that Forum during the year.
Further details on Richard Akers to 105. the Employee Forum can be found on page Executive Directors pay remains aligned Remuneration Committee Chairman with that of the wider workforce.
The Remuneration Committee and the Board look forward to working with this the Remuneration Committee welcomes the introduction of the CEO pay ratio and is forum which is expected to play an important role in the business going forward.
working with its advisers to calculate the ratio and the accompanying disclosure.
A full disclosure on the CEO pay ratio will be included in next years Remuneration Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 90 Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continued FY19 Executive Directors remuneration Conclusion Our remuneration strategy Details of the remuneration for each of the The Remuneration Committee believes Executive Directors for FY19 are set out on that the Remuneration Policy approved Our most important asset is our people.
To ensure that there is no reward for pages 99 to 100.
Salary increases are in by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and our Our remuneration strategy therefore seeks failure and that termination payments line with the wider workforce and pension current remuneration practices continue to to ensure that we appropriately reward our if any are limited to those that the contributions, annual bonus opportunity and drive appropriate behaviours by management employees for performance against the Executive Director or member of Senior LTPP award levels remain unchanged from and follow best practice guidelines.
Groups key objectives whilst delivering Management is legally entitled to.
The metrics for They align the Executive Directors with sustainable shareholder value.
To ensure that in exercising its discretion, the annual bonus and the LTPP will also shareholders through: the performance the Committee robustly applies the good Aims of our Remuneration Policy: remain the same as FY18.
targets set: the requirement to retain a and bad leaver provisions as defined in specific level of shareholding in the Company: To promote the long term success of the the rules of each of the share schemes the deferral of any annual bonus received FY19 Chairman and Non-Executive Company and be fully aligned with the operated by the Group.
over 100% salary into shares and the two performance and strategic objectives Directors fees year net of tax holding requirement following of the Group in order to enhance In developing its policy, the Committee The Remuneration Committee excluding the vesting of any LTPP award.
has regard to: Chairman agreed to increase the Chairmans We therefore hope that you will continue to To attract, retain, motivate and fee in line with the Executive Directors and the Companys business strategy, support the Annual Report on Remuneration competitively reward Executive Directors the wider workforce.
In addition, a committee ensuring that targets support the presented at the AGM in October 2018. and Senior Management with the requisite of the Board comprising the Chairman and achievement of business strategy and On behalf of the Board, I would like to experience, skills and ability to support the Executive Directors, agreed to increase key KPIs: thank you for your continued support of our the achievement of the Groups key the fees of the Non-Executive Directors the performance, roles and remuneration framework and I look forward strategic objectives in any financial year.
as well as for the Chairs of each of the to seeing many of you at the AGM.
responsibilities of each Executive Director Committees and the Senior Independent To take account of pay and employment or member of Senior Management: Director.
The revised fee levels reflect market conditions of employees across the benchmarks for companies of a comparable arrangements which apply across the Group whilst reflecting the interests Richard Akers wider workforce, including average base size and complexity.
Details of the fees and expectations of shareholders and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee proposed for each of the Non-Executive salary increases: other stakeholders.
Directors for the financial year ending 4 September 2018 information and surveys from internal and To reward the delivery of profit, the 30 June 2019 are set out on page 100. independent sources: and maintenance of an appropriate capital structure and the continued improvement the economic environment and financial Remuneration Consultants of return on capital employed by the performance of the Group.
During the year, the Remuneration business whilst ensuring that Executive For full details of our Directors Committee tendered the remuneration Directors and Senior Management adopt Remuneration Policy see pages 80-89 consultants position.
Consequently, PwC a level of risk which is in line with the risk ofthe Annual Report and Accounts 2017. took over from Aon as remuneration advisors profile of the business as approved by to the Remuneration Committee, with effect the Board.
Details of the tender process and the fees paid to both Aon and PwC can be found on page 97.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 91 Remuneration report Overview for FY18 The summary below outlines the remuneration package for Executive Directors throughout the year under review, together with the targets set for variable remuneration, our performance against such targets and the resulting remuneration outcomes.
Full details can be found in the Annual report on remuneration on pages 97 to 111.
Executive Directors remuneration package for the year ended 30 June 2018 Fixed element c. 27% of total reward assuming maximum performance Salary Pension Benefits Performance-related element c. 73% of total reward assuming maximum performance Annual incentive Long term incentive Annual Bonus Bonus in excess of 100% Long Term Performance Plan max 200% of salary max 150% of salary of salary deferred into shares Link to strategy: Link to strategy: The measures support the Groups strategy to grow volumes and deliver margin improvements.
The measures support the Groups strategy to deliver margin improvements and return excess cash to shareholders.
FY18 Performance metrics: FY18 Performance metrics for both Annual incentive and Long term incentive: Earnings per Share EPS 20% to support the increase of earnings Financial 112.5% of salary Non-financial strategic personal 37.5% of salary Return on capital employed ROCE 40% to optimise the efficiency and profitability of investments Profit before tax 82.5% support profitability Quality and Service 22.5% to create a quality product in a safe environment Total Shareholder Return TSR 40% to align the interests of Directors with those of shareholders Land 15% drive the ownership of optimum amount of land to support business activities Personal Objectives 15% to incentivise the Two-year continued holding period commencing at the end of performance period achievement of role specific targets Operating Margin 15% To enhance the operating margin of the business Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Total remuneration FY18 Total remuneration FY18 Total remuneration FY18 000 000 000 Salary, pension and benefits 922 Salary, pension and benefits 750 Salary, pension and benefits 480 583 Annual incentive 992 Annual incentive 828 Annual incentive Long term incentive 897 Long term incentive 710 Long term incentive 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 92 Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy Summary The Companys current Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy, was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM on 15 November 2017 with 98.8% of the votes cast being in favour.
The Policy took formal effect from that date, replacing the previous policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
We are proposing no changes to the Policy for FY19 and intend for the policy to remain in place for three years from the date of adoption.
Should the Remuneration Committee believe that any changes are required, any proposed revisions will be discussed with shareholders and their views sought in advance of the AGM at which approval for the revised policy will be sought.
Future policy table The full version of the Policy can be found on pages 80 to 89 of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts which is available on our website http: www.
A summary statement of the Policy is shown below.
A description of how the Company implemented the Policy in FY18 can be found on pages 97 to 111 and details of how the Policy will be applied for FY19 are set out on pages 99 to 100.
Element of pay How operated in practice Additional information Base salary Salaries are paid monthly in arrears.
The aim is to provide a competitive salary relative to comparable Normally reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months with any increases usually To help promote the long term success of the Company, companies in terms of size and complexity.
to attract and retain high-calibre Executive Directors to See page 99 for Executive Directors salaries with effect from 1 July 2018. deliver the Groups strategy and to reflect the roles and responsibilities of each of the Executive Directors.
Element of pay How operated in practice Other information Benefits taxable Benefits normally include: The Committee does have the discretion to offer other benefits, it deems To support the health and well being of Executive appropriate, to secure the appointment of a new Executive Director and to ensure company car: Directors whilst they undertake their roles.
that the benefits package for existing Executive Directors remains competitive in private medical insurance: the market.
some telephone costs: and contributions towards obtaining independent financial advice.
Other benefits offered to the wider workforce will also be offered to Executive Directors on the same basis.
Pension In accordance with legislation, Executive Directors are enrolled into a workplace pension.
The Committee retains the discretion to honour the pension contribution for those To assist Executive Directors plan for retirement.
individuals who are internally promoted to the position of Executive Director.
If Executive Directors choose to opt-out of the workplace pension they can elect to either: The defined benefit section of the Groups pension scheme closed to new entrants participate in the Companys money purchase pension plan: or in 2001 and future accrual of defined benefits for current members ceased to be receive a salary supplement.
Steven Boyes remains a member of this part of the scheme.
Executive Directors are also eligible to an insured lump sum of up to five times pensionable salary Details of the pension salary supplements for each of the Executive Directors are ondeath in service.
Element of pay How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Annual bonus Executive Directors are eligible to earn a discretionary annual bonus.
The bonus is not pensionable.
When setting bonus targets, the Committee considers the effect of corporate To motivate and reward Executive Directors for the performance on environmental, social and governance risks and sustainability The level of bonus awarded to each Executive Director is dependent on the achievement of a number achievement of demanding financial and non-financial issues generally to ensure that remuneration structures do not inadvertently ofGroup and individual performance targets.
objectives and key strategic measures over the motivate irresponsible behaviour.
Bonuses up to 100% of base salary are paid in cash.
Any bonus earned in excess of this up to a The performance targets set are stretching whilst having regard to the nature and maximum of 50% of base salary is compulsorily deferred into shares under the Deferred Bonus risk profile of the Company and the interests of its shareholders.
Performance against FY18 targets is shown on page 102.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 93 Element of pay How operated in practice Additional information Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Any annual bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary is deferred into shares and held in this plan for a No performance conditions apply to the vesting of awards other than continued To encourage long term focus and to further align period of three years and is subject to a continued employment condition.
interests with those of shareholders and discourage Deferred shares will normally accrue dividend equivalents during the deferral period.
equivalents may be paid in cash or shares on the vesting of the award.
Malus and Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct and or material misstatement orerror of financial results.
For full details see page 94.
Long Term Performance Plan LTPP Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys LTPP.
LTPP awards are usually granted following the final results announcement in To motivate and reward Executive Directors and September of each year.
LTPP awards can be equal to a maximum of 200% of base salary and are for a period of three years Senior Management for the delivery of the long term with a two-year continued holding period attached to the end of the performance period.
The Committee sets performance targets for each award and ensures that the performance of the Group.
targets, while stretching, are: realistic and attainable: for the long term benefit of the Malus and Clawback may apply in the event of material misconduct and or material misstatement To facilitate share ownership by Executive Directors to Group: and do not encourage inappropriate business risks.
Overall, the Committee orerror of financial results.
For full details see page 94. align their interests with those of our shareholders.
must be satisfied that the underlying financial and non-financial performance of the Following approval at the 2017 AGM, LTPP Awards granted on or after 15 November 2018 will attract Group over the performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by dividend equivalents which may be paid in cash or shares on the vesting of the award.
If the Committee is not of this view, then it is empowered to reduce the level of vesting potentially to nil.
Performance so far against the targets for the awards made in 2015, 2016 and 2017 can be found on page 104 and 105.
Details of the awards due to be granted in 2018 are set out on page 100.
Savings Related Share Option Scheme Sharesave Under the standard terms of the Sharesave, employees must have completed the requisite length of The five-year Sharesave granted in 2013 and the three-year Sharesave granted in To promote long term share ownership amongst all service as at the invitation date to be eligible to participate in the Sharesave.
2015 matured on 1 June 2018 and 1 July 2018 respectively.
employees of the Group in a tax-efficient way, linking Employees can elect to save between a minimum of 5 and the maximum monthly savings limit as During the year, Steven Boyes exercised his options following the vesting of his 2014 employee benefits to the performance of the Group and approved by the Committee and the Board within the limits prescribed by legislation and HMRC, sharesave scheme in accordance with the rules and elected to retain his shares.
foraperiod of three or five years.
In addition, he exercised his options under the 2015 sharesave in July 2018 and also retained these shares.
At the end of the savings period the employee has six months in which to exercise their option.
Options granted to Executive Directors under the Sharesave Scheme can be found in Table 26 pages 106 to 108.
Non-Executive Directors fees including the Chairman The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors fees are reviewed annually and are normally set The Remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is set by the Board on the To attract and retain high quality and experienced Nonby reference to the level of fees paid to Chairmen and Non-Executive Directors serving on boards of recommendation of a Committee comprising of the Chairman and the Executive Executive Directors including the Chairman.
similarly-sized, UK-listed companies, taking into account the size, responsibility and time commitment Directors.
The Board sets the remuneration of the Chairman.
Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors participate in any The Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors fees are paid in cash, monthly in arrears.
performance-related schemes e. g. annual bonus or incentive schemes nor do they receive any pension or private medical insurance or taxable benefits other than the No additional fees are payable for membership of Board Committees however, additional fees are paid potential to receive gifts at the end of a long-standing term of appointment.
to the Chairmen of the Audit, the Remuneration and the Safety, Health and Environment Committees and the Senior Independent Director.
Expenses incurred by the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors in the performance of their duties for the Company including taxable travel and Additional fees may be paid where, in exceptional circumstances, the normal time commitment accommodation benefits in connection with travelling to a permanent workplace issignificantly exceeded.
may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 94 Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy Summary continued Guidelines on Responsible determining the quantum of awards and Clawback can be invoked if: Recruitment of Executive Directors or payments within the limits set out in InvestmentDisclosure a t he Company has to restate its Financial The Committee will determine the the policy table on pages 80-85 of the 2017 Statements due to prior period errors remuneration for any new Executive Directors In line with the Investment Associations Annual Report and Accounts : as defined by International Accounting in accordance with the Policy then in force Guidelines on Responsible Investment determining the application of dividend Standard 8 and such errors resulted in and will take into consideration salary and Disclosure the Committee is satisfied that the equivalents, whether they be issued in that Award vesting to a greater degree benefits, pension, annual bonus and LTPP incentive structure and targets for Executive shares or cash and retaining the ability to than would have been the case had that awards and buyout of existing entitlements.
Directors do not raise any environmental, adjust the amount paid: error not occurred: More details can be found on pages 86 and social, or governance risks by inadvertently 87 of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, motivating irresponsible or reckless determining the extent of vesting based on b the Committee forms the view that a copy of which can be found on our website behaviour.
More generally, when it considers the assessment of performance: in assessing the extent to which any www.
appropriate, the Committee will also consider Performance Condition and or any making the appropriate adjustments the sustainability strategy of the Group and other condition imposed on the Award required in certain circumstances e. g. Executive Directors policy on payment assess that the strategy and its performance was satisfied such assessment was change of control, rights issues, corporate management is adequately supported by based on a material error and that such on loss of office restructuring events, and special the remuneration structure and targets.
error resulted in that Award vesting to dividends : and There are no specific provisions for The Committee considers that no element amaterially greater degree than would compensation on early termination except of the remuneration package will encourage determining good leaver status for have been the case had that error not for payment in lieu of holidays accrued but inappropriate risk taking within the Company.
incentive plan purposes and applying the been made: or untaken or loss of office due to a change of appropriate treatment.
c t he relevant individual ceases to be a ownership of the Company.
Further details of Remuneration Committee discretion If an event occurs which results in the annual director or employee of a member of the full policy, including where the Company bonus plan or LTPP performance conditions the Group as a result of their summary The areas of the Policy over which the reserves the right to make additional and or targets being deemed no longer Committee has discretion are included in dismissal because of their gross payments, the application of mitigation appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or misconduct which has caused loss the policy table set out on pages 80 to 85 against contractual obligations, and how the divestment the Committee will have the of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
ordamage to a member of the Group.
Remuneration Committee takes into account ability, in limited circumstances, to adjust However, we have summarised the key the rules of the annual bonus and LTPP In such circumstances, the Committee may appropriately the measures and or targets, discretions below: schemes can be found on pages 87 and 88 determine that the bonus and or share award to alter the weighting of the measures, of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts amendment of salary or the award of higher will be retrospectively recalculated.
If bonus and to reduce any annual bonus or LTPP which is available from our website monies have been paid, the participant will increases in exceptional circumstances: awards potentially to nil in the event that www.
be required to reimburse the Company for vary benefits offered to secure the underlying financial and non-financial an amount up to the total amount of the performance of the Group does not warrant new appointments: net bonus paid, less any bonus that the the level of vesting.
honour pension contributions for Committee determines would have been paid internal promotions: regardless of the event in question.
If share Malus and Clawback awards have been granted, the number of whether or not to make a bonus award Both the annual bonus including any awards or options granted will be reduced and whether payment should be made to accordingly.
If the award has vested and deferred bonus and the LTPP are subject anyone who has handed in their notice to to the malus and clawback Malus and shares have been issued to the participant, leave the business: the participant will be required to repay the Clawback provisions contained in the plan what performance conditions should be rules for a period of two years following value of the relevant number of shares based attached to annual bonus and LTPP awards on the Companys closing share price as at vesting.
Malus and Clawback is applicable in and the weighting of each to be applied: respect of any annual bonus paid or deferred the date the shares were issued.
and to any share awards granted under the determining the timing of grants of awards LTPP, subject in the case of HMRC approved and or payments: options, to such approval.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 95 Differences between Executive In general, these differences arise from the Executive Directors service contracts development of remuneration arrangements Directors and employees Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are included in Table 10 and their that are market competitive for the various remuneration emoluments are shown in Table 15 on page 101.
The Companys policy is for all Executive categories of individuals.
They also reflect the Directors including new appointments service contracts to be for a rolling 12-month period The following differences exist between the greater emphasis placed on performancewhich can be terminated by 12 months notice given by either the Company or by the Executive related pay for Executive Directors.
Companys Policy for the remuneration of Director at any time.
The service contracts normally entitle Executive Directors to the Executive Directors as set out in the Policy provision of a company car, annual medical screening, permanent health insurance, private table on pages 80 to 85 of the 2017 Annual Executive Directors medical insurance, some telephone costs, contributions to the cost of obtaining independent Report and Accounts and its approach to shareholding requirements financial and tax advice and payment of legal fees on cessation of employment.
The Committee thepayment of employees generally: regularly reviews contractual terms for Executive Directors to ensure that they continue to To further align the interests of Executive a lower level of maximum annual bonus reflect best practice.
Directors to those of shareholders, opportunity may apply to employees other Executive Directors are required to build All Executive Directors appointments and subsequent re-appointments are subject to election than the Executive Directors.
All employees, and retain a shareholding equivalent to and annual re-election by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
including Executive Directors, are subject 200% of base salary FY17: 200% in the to similar performance targets, however Table 10 Executive Directors service contracts Companys shares within five years of the weightings against the various targets the shareholding requirement coming Executive Director Service contract date Date of appointment Notice period may vary: into force or the Executive Director being David Thomas 16 January 2013 21 July 2009 12 months appointed to the Board, whichever is the Executive Directors may earn an annual later.
The share price used for the purposes bonus in excess of 100% of salary.
Steven Boyes 21 February 2013 1 July 2001 12 months of determining the value of the shares is Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base Jessica White 21 June 2017 22 June 2017 12 months that prevailing on 30 June of the given year.
salary is deferred into shares for a period of The Committee reserves the right to amend three years: Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection by any person at the the percentage holding required by the Chief Executive Directors may opt to receive Companys registered office during normal office hours and on the Companys website at Executive and the other Executive Directors a cash supplement in lieu of being autowww.
depending on market conditions and best enrolled or contributing to the defined practice guidance.
contribution section of the Barratt Group Non-Executive directorships Details of the Executive Directors Pension and Life Assurance Scheme.
The cash supplement or employers shareholdings can be found in Table 25 Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to accept one Non-Executive onpage 105. contribution rate for existing Executives directorship outside the Company and retain any fees received from such a position.
does not exceed 25% of base salary.
For all Board approval will not be given for any Non-Executive position where such appointment other employees, the maximum rate of would lead to a material conflict of interest or would have an effect on the Directors ability to employers contribution varies between perform their duties to the Company.
Any new Executive Directors will be at the same rate as Senior Management from time to time: and Executive Directors are able to participate in the LTPP.
A number of select employees at Senior Management level may be invited to participate in the LTPP at the Committees discretion.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 96 Remuneration report Directors Remuneration Policy Summary continued Chairman and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Gifts to Directors on The Company does not directly consult with employees when setting Executive leavingemployment The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors are appointed under terms set out Directors remuneration, however given in a letter of appointment.
They do not have service contracts and their appointments can be The Committee reserves the discretion to that the Company operates the Sharesave terminated by the Board without compensation for loss of office and by giving the appropriate approve gifts to long serving Directors who in which all employees can participate and length of notice as prescribed in their respective letters of appointment.
are retiring or who are good leavers e. g. become shareholders in the Company, they those leaving office for any reason other than The notice period applicable, from either party, for the Chairman is three months and for each can comment on the Groups Remuneration dismissal or misconduct.
The value of the of the other Non-Executive Directors is one month.
Under governance policies approved by Policy in the same way as all of our other gift for any one Director shall be limited to the Board, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term and usually serve shareholders.
In addition, the Company a maximum of 5,000 excluding any tax or a second three-year term subject to performance review and re-election by shareholders.
provides a number of forums through which VAT liability.
Where a tax or VAT liability is Beyond this a further term of up to three years may be served subject to rigorous review by employees can ask questions on such incurred on such a gift, the Committee has theChairman and the Nomination Committee and re-election by shareholders.
Details of matters should they so wish.
the discretion to approve the payment of such Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment can be found in Table 11. liability on behalf of the Director in addition to Statement of consideration Table 11 Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment as at 30 June 2018 the maximum limit.
ofshareholder views Date elected Date first appointed Date last re-appointed On leaving the business, Tessa Bamford Non-Executive Director re-elected at AGM to the Board to the Board Each year we normally update our major received a gift from the Company in shareholders upon the Committees John Allan 15 November 2017 1 August 2014 1 August 2017 recognition of her contribution to the Board.
application of the Policy and our Details can be found in the footnote 2 to Richard Akers 15 November 2017 2 April 2012 1 April 2018 performance, following the release of Table 16. the July trading update and in advance of Nina Bibby 15 November 2017 3 December 2012 3 December 2015 the publication of our Annual Report and Legacy arrangements Jock Lennox 15 November 2017 1 July 2016 N A Accounts.
The Committee takes into account 1 For the avoidance of doubt, in approving the shareholder feedback received from this Sharon White N A 1 January 2018 N A Policy, authority is given to the Company exercise and any additional feedback received 2 Tessa Bamford 15 November 2017 1 July 2009 1 July 2015 to honour any previously disclosed during any meetings from time to time, commitments entered into with current or as part of the Companys annual review 1 Sharon White joined the Board on 1 January 2018 and will be recommended for election at the 2018 AGM.
former Directors including, but not limited to, of the Policy.
In addition, the Committee 2 Tessa Bamford stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2018. payment of pensions or the vesting exercise will seek to engage directly with major The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any of past share awards.
shareholders and their representative person at the Companys registered office during normal office hours or are available on the bodies should any material changes be Companys website: www.
Details of the votes Statement of consideration of pay and cast for and against the resolution to approve employment conditions elsewhere last years Remuneration report and any across the Group matters discussed with shareholders during the year are detailed throughout this The level for all employees salaries Remuneration report.
is determined with reference to the rate of inflation, salaries for similar positions throughout the industry and general themes and trends in respect ofremunerating employees.
When reviewing the pay and employment conditions of Executive Directors, including increase in base salary, the Committee takes into consideration the pay and employment conditions of all employees across the Group.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 97 Remuneration Committee Annual report on remuneration In this section, we describe how the Policy will be applied in FY19 and how it has been Advice advisers implemented throughout FY18 together with the resulting payments to Directors.
The Annual In carrying out its principal responsibilities, the Committee has the authority to obtain the report on remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2018 AGM.
advice of external independent remuneration consultants and is solely responsible for their appointment, retention and termination.
In line with best practice, the Committee assesses Membership and attendance at Committee meetings from time to time, whether the appointment remains appropriate or if it should be put out to tender.
The Committee decided, given the length of tenure of the existing consultants, Membership of the Committee and attendance at each of its scheduled meetings during the year is set out in Table 12. to retender the appointment.
Three firms were invited to tender and attend a meeting with the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, the HR Director and the Company Secretary.
Table 12 Remuneration Committee membership and attendance to 30 June 2018 Consequently, based on their presentation, the scope of work and fee levels proposed,  were appointed as the new advisers to the Remuneration Committee Member Role Number of meetings attended with effect from 1 January 2018.
Richard Akers Chairman 4 4 During the year the Committee has taken advice from its independent advisers on general John Allan Member 4 4 remuneration policy and practice, implementation of its decisions and remuneration benchmarking.
The Chairman of the Committee also sought advice from the appointed Nina Bibby Member 4 4 consultants independent of management on various matters to be discussed at Committee Jock Lennox Member 4 4 meetings.
The fees payable to the remuneration advisers are based on an annual fixed fee for 1 Sharon White Member 2 2 a specified service with anything outside this scope being charged on a time and disbursement basis.
The fees paid to the remuneration advisers are shown below: 2 Tessa Bamford Member 4 4 Fees paid Fees paid 1 Sharon White joined the Board on 1 January 2018.
Year ended 30 June 2017 Year ended 30 June 2018 2 Tessa Bamford stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2018.
Remuneration consultants Tenure Note: X Number of meetings attended whilst a Director.
 LLP PwC 1 January 2018 N A 28,500 X Number of meetings whilst a Director.
to 30 June 2018 The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
New Bridge Street Aon, 1 July 2017 72,830 50,689 to 31 December 2017 Both Aon and PwC are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Groups Code of Conduct and have no connection to the Company other than those outlined below.
As part of the annual review and re-appointment process the Remuneration Committee satisfies itself thatthe advice it receives remains independent and that the advisers were both objective andindependent during the year.
PwC also provide taxation, consultancy and internal audit services to the Group.
Aon plc also provided broking services to the Company in respect of private medical insurance, death in service benefits, group income protection and insurance services.
In addition to advice from the appointed Remuneration Consultants, the Committee also receives input into its decision making from the Chief Executive David Thomas, the Company Secretary Tina Bains and the Group Human Resources Director Rob Tansey, none of whom were present at any time when their own remuneration was being considered.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 98 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Remuneration Committee activity FY18 Main activities undertaken during FY18 The Remuneration Committees role is to determine and agree the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and Senior Management and to monitor and report on it.
It follows an annual work programme which was fully completed during the year.
The Remuneration Committees responsibilities as delegated by the Board are formally set out in its written terms of reference which are available from www.
Executive Directors and Senior Governance Management remuneration Considered and approved the Remuneration report for FY17.
Reviewed annual performance of the Executive Directors.
Reviewed the Remuneration Policy against best practice to determine Reviewed fixed and variable remuneration and the relative balance for ifany changes were necessary.
Executive Directors and Senior Management.
Considered remuneration disclosure requirements and disclosures Considered and approved FY19 salary increases for Executive Directors forthe Remuneration report for FY18.
Reviewed and approved its annual agenda and terms of reference.
Reviewed and approved the gender pay gap disclosure for issue on the Companys website.
Committee effectiveness The Remuneration Committee Long term incentives Reviewed and made progress against all matters arising from the FY17 annual evaluation.
Received updates on the potential levels of vesting of outstanding Undertook an internal evaluation of its own performance and devised an LTPP awards.
action plan to address the issues arising from it page 68.
Considered and finalised performance metrics and targets, participants Assessed the effectiveness of the Committees remuneration consultants and level of awards for the FY18 LTPP.
Reviewed the potential structure including participants, level of award and targets of the FY19 LTPP.
Annual bonus Shareholder consultation Reviewed forecast bonus outcomes for FY18 page 102.
Updated and consulted with shareholders on the implementation of the Reviewed and approved proposals for the FY19 annual bonus scheme.
Remuneration Policy and on remuneration outcomes for FY17, indicative Considered and approved bonus targets for FY19 page 99. outcomes for FY18 and the proposed remuneration for FY19.
Considered feedback received from the consultation process in finalising the policy and targets proposed for FY18.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 99 Statement of implementation of the Policy for FY19 Annual bonus Executive Directors remuneration for FY19 will be based on the Groups Remuneration Policy Executive Directors and Senior Management will participate in the Groups annual bonus as approved by shareholders in 2017 and set out on pages 80 to 89 in the 2017 Annual Report scheme in accordance with the Policy.
The Company is of the view that the individual annual and Accounts.
bonus performance targets are commercially sensitive in terms of the Group Strategy therefore these targets will not be disclosed in this report.
We will as always disclose the annual bonus targets and performance against them in next years Remuneration Report.
Base salary The performance measures, their reasons for selection and the maximum bonus payment The Committee reviewed the salaries of the Executive Directors in April 2018 and the salary against each of them expressed as a percentage of salary for FY19 will be: of the Chief Executive in June 2018.
In reviewing these salaries, the Committee had regard to: the performance of the Executive Directors during the year: the pay and employment Weighting % of conditions elsewhere in the business: the increase awarded to other employees throughout Performance measure Reason for selecting salary maximum the organisation on average 3.3% : and the multiplier effect of an increase in base salary on Financial: the package as a whole.
On this basis the Committee agreed to increase the salaries of each of the Executive Directors by 3%, in line with the average increase given to other employees Profit before tax Rewards outperformance against stretching targets 82.5 across the organisation.
The salaries of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 July 2018 andis a key measure of our performance.
will therefore be: Non-financial: Table 13 Executive Directors salary increases Quality and service with a health Ensures a focus on quality and service to our customers 22.5 andsafetyunderpin without compromising the safety of our people.
Salary with effect Salary with effect from 1 July 2017 from 1 July 2018 1 Executive Director 000 000 Personal and strategic objectives Focus individuals on specific factors required to meet 45.0 the long and short term strategy of the business whilst David Thomas 3% increase 717 739 aligning their interests with those of shareholders.
Steven Boyes 3% increase 568 585 2 Total bonus achievable as a % of salary 150.0 Jessica White 3% increase 400 412 1 E xecutive Directors will have one personal objective each as well as two strategic objectives which will be based on trading outlets and delivering margin improvement.
Following these increases each of the salaries of the Executive Directors remain within the 2 A ny bonus earned in aggregate in excess of 100% will continue to be deferred into shares and held in the DBP.
Dividend equivalents will range for the housebuilding sector and the wider population of similar sized companies.
accrue against any shares deferred into the DBP.
Profitability remains a key measure for the Group, however, in order to drive sustainable value Pension this must be achieved through an appropriate capital structure and in line with the risk profile of the business.
In order to ensure that the annual bonus performance measures remain In FY17 the Committee agreed that any new Executive Director would be given a pension appropriate, they have been reviewed against those used in FY18 and the Groups strategy.
equivalent to that of Managing Directors, currently 15% of salary.
The Committee considered Following this review, it was concluded that no changes to the performance measures or pension levels across the Group and in the wider industry and concluded that the 15% cap structure were necessary for FY19.
on new executive directors remains appropriate.
During FY19, Jessica White will continue to receive a cash salary supplement of 15% of salary and David Thomas and Steven Boyes both The Remuneration Committee will continue to have an overriding discretion in respect of any appointed prior to the cap being in place will both receive a cash salary supplement of 25% bonus payment in accordance with its Remuneration Policy.
In addition, any bonus awarded for of salary.
FY19 will be subject to Malus and Clawback.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 100 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued LTPP Non-Executive Directors fees The level of the LTPP award to be granted to Executive Directors during FY19 will be in line The Board reviewed the fees for the Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman and with that set out in the Policy.
The Remuneration Committee is cognisant that such an award concluded that in order to ensure that the base fee level remains competitive in the market, should be subject to performance targets, which are stretching and challenging whilst they should be increased by 3% to 324,450 per annum for the Chairman and 61,800 per aligned with the short and long term performance of the Group and TSR.
Accordingly, the annum for each of the Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 July 2018.
The additional Remuneration Committee has agreed that the extent to which the LTPP award to be granted fees for the Chairmen of the Committees and the Senior Independent Director were also in 2018 the 2018 19 LTPP will vest, will be dependent on three independent performance increased as illustrated in Table 14 to reflect market benchmarks for companies of a conditions: TSR, EPS and Underlying ROCE, which will be measured as follows: comparable size and complexity.
Accordingly, the annual fees payable to the Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 July 2018 are as follows: Below Weighting Threshold Threshold Maximum Table 14 Non-Executive Directors fees Performance condition Reason selected oftotal award 0%vesting 25%vesting 100%vesting Fee as at Fee as at TSR against a 50 50- To ensure that the comparator 20% Below Median Upper 1 July 2018 1 July 2017 Role 000 000 comparator group.
group remains current and median quartile relevant whilst factoring in Chairman 3% increase 325 315 the continued movement in the Companys market Non-Executive Director base fee 3% increase 62 60 capitalisation.
Chairman of Audit Committee 20% increase 12 10 TSR against a To ensure rewards are linked to 20% Below index Index Index 1 housebuilderindex.
average of average of average 8% Chairman of Remuneration Committee 20% increase 12 10 peer group peer group per annum Chairman of Safety, Health and Environmental Committee 20% increase 6 5 Absolute EPS for the To ensure efficient and effective 20% below 75 pence 84 pence Senior Independent Director 60% increase 8 5 financial year ending management of our business 75pence 30June 2021. and align interests with those ofshareholders.
Underlying ROCE for To ensure efficient and effective 40% below 19% 19% 22% thefinancial year ending management of our business 2 30June 2021. and align interests with those ofshareholders.
1 T he housebuilder index will comprise: Bellway, Berkeley Group, Bovis Homes Group, Countryside Properties, Crest Nicholson, Galliford Try, Persimmon, Redrow and Taylor Wimpey.
2 S ee the Glossary on page 181 for the definition of Underlying ROCE.
Vesting will be on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum.
In addition, all LTPP awards are subject to an overriding Committee discretion, whereby the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group, over the performance period, warrants the level of vesting as determined by applying the above targets.
If the Committee is not of this view, it has the authority to reduce possibly to nil the level of vesting as it deems appropriate.
The 2018 19 LTPP will also be subject to Malus and Clawback provisions and a two-year holding period will apply from the end of the performance period, on any shares vesting net of shares sold to satisfy tax and national insurance liabilities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 101 Directors remuneration outcomes for the year ended 30 June 2018 Single figure of remuneration The total remuneration for each of the Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2018 is as set out in Tables 15 and 16 below: Table 15 Executive Directors single figure of remuneration Audited 1 2 Salary Benefits taxable Annual Bonus LTPP Pension Benefits Sharesave Scheme 2018 Total 2017 Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 3 4 5 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 David Thomas 717 696 26 17 992 1,019 897 1,696 179 174 - 2,811 3,602 7 Steven Boyes 568 551 40 63 828 806 710 1,696 142 138 6 2,294 3,254 6 Jessica White 400 11 20 0 583 14 67 61 60 0 6 1,136 86 8 8 8 8 8 Total 1,685 1,509 86 92 2,403 1,839 1,674 3,453 381 375 12 6,241 7,268 1 B enefits taxable include the provision of a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, some telephone costs and contributions towards obtaining independent financial advice.
2 I ncludes amounts deferred for David Thomas, Steven Boyes and Jessica White see Table 19 on page 103.
3 P erformance conditions for the LTPP were tested after 30 June 2018.
76.4% of the award granted to David Thomas and Steven Boyes and 100% of the award granted to Jessica White is due to vest in October 2018 see note 1 of Table 20 on page 104 for further details.
The market price of the shares has been calculated based on an average market value over the three months to 30 June 2018 5.53 per share.
4 I n accordance with regulatory requirements, the values in this column have been re-calculated using a share price of 6.95 per share being the market value of the shares on the vesting date, 20 October 2017, as opposed to the market price of 5.84 per share calculated based on an average market value over the three months to 30 June 2017 as disclosed in last years Remuneration report.
5 T he Sharesave Scheme granted in April 2014 and matured on 1 July 2017, was subject to no performance measures other than a continued employment condition and completion of a savings contract.
The value is calculated using a share price of 5.64 per share being the midmarket close price of a share on the date of maturity.
6 J essica White was appointed to the Board on 22 June 2017 and her salary, bonus and pension entitlement for 2016 17 reflects the time served on the Board.
Jessica Whites benefits including car allowance and pension supplement for the period 22 June 2017 to 30 June 2017 were 430 and 489 respectively.
7 T he benefits taxable for Steven Boyes in 2017 includes a cash payment of 30,406 including tax and national insurance contributions for the re-imbursement of the cost of a holiday that had to be cancelled to deal with urgent Company business.
8 The 2016 17 totals include the remuneration for Neil Cooper as follows: salary 251,000, benefits 12,000 and pension 63,000.
Sharon Whites fees are paid directly to Ofcom on a monthly basis.
2 Tessa Bamford stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2018.
Benefits taxable relates to the value of a gift 1,059 and the tax payable thereon 1,132, presented to Tessa by the Board to reflect the significant contribution she made during her period of service.
3 B enefits taxable include expenses incurred in attending the Companys main corporate office and for 2017 18 are 372 for John Allan, 769 for Richard Akers and 74 for Jock Lennox.
4 B enefits taxable include expenses incurred in attending the Companys main corporate office and for 2016 17 are 242 for John Allan, 651 for Richard Akers, 98 for Tessa Bamford and 145 for Mark Rolfe.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 102 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Annual bonus For the year under review, Executive Directors had the potential to earn an annual bonus of up to 150% of base salary, 135% of which is based on the attainment of Group performance targets and 15% on personal objectives, both of which are linked directly to the Groups strategy.
Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary is deferred into shares for a period of three years.
All targets, Group and personal, were agreed towards the beginning of the financial year and no Remuneration Committee discretion has been exercised in relation to the bonus outcome.
The Group performance targets and performance against them for FY18 were as follows: Table 17 Annual bonus Audited Potential bonus weighting Actual performance Bonus achieved Bonus target Strategic objective Targets % of salary Achievement % of salary Profit before tax Support profitability Threshold: 750.0m 16.50% 835.5m 82.5% Target: 780.0m 41.25% Maximum: 830.0m 82.50% 1,2 Quality and service To create a quality product that customers recommend Divisions to achieve SHE Audit of 94% and customer service recommend score of 90%.
22.5% 22 27 divisions 18.3% inasafe way for our employees and stakeholders Target assessed by number of divisions meeting both targets.
Strategic objective Land Drive the ownership of optimum amount of land to A minimum of 4.3 years of which 3.3 years is owned and 1.0 year is conditional 4.8 years 15% bank owned andcontrolled supportbusiness activities Threshold 3.0% Target 7.5% Maximum 15.0% Strategic objective Margin To deliver an improvement in Regional Trading Margin to Threshold: 24.3% 3% 25.8% 15% improvement support the profitability of the business Target: 24.6% 7.5% Maximum: 25.0% 15% 3 Personal objectives To focus individuals to achieving the Groups See Table 18 3.0% See Table 18 See Table 18 strategicobjectives 7.5% 15.0% 1 I n the case of a material breach of SHE policy or procedures, the SHE Committee retains discretion to recommend the withholding of all or part of the bonus depending on the nature of the breach.
2 Q uality and service metric is pro-rated based on the number of divisions achieving the required standard.
3 T he Executive Directors personal objectives are disclosed on page 103.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 103 Executive Directors personal objectives The FY18 personal objectives for Executive Directors were set to focus on the achievement of the Groups strategic objective relating to improving margin whilst maintaining the Groups focus on disciplined volume growth and high standards of quality and customer service.
All of the Executive Directors have a common personal target, whilst also having one set specifically for their job role.
The individual objectives and the performance against each is as follows: Table 18 Executive Directors personal objectives Audited Potential bonus weighting Bonus achieved Executive Director Personal objectives Assessment % of salary % of salary David Thomas, Steven Building Excellence: The Building Excellence programme has progressed with a detailed review of all benefits 7.5% 7.5% Boyes and Jessica White i to deliver the Groups Building Excellence margin improvement programme with associated with the programme being completed during the year.
Land acquisitions have efficiency benefits: been closely monitored and we have seen an improvement in our acquisition margin due to ii t o demonstrate land acquisition margin improvement by region: the increase in our hurdle rates, as set out in our new medium term targets, facilitated by the iii to establish and quantify the margin improvement by category and monitor roll-out of our new housetypes.
The Building Excellence Steering Group continues to monitor delivery: and cost benefit analysis on key projects and is in the process of introducing benefit realisation iv to annually review functional plans which drive our efficiency, margin and delivery.
plans to ensure that benefits are delivered.
The review of functional plans, although still ongoing, is nearing completion.
David Thomas Completion Volumes The importance of balancing the number of completions throughout the year has been 7.5% 0% To reduce the proportion of completions that occur in December and June.
Whilst divisions endeavoured to smooth out the delivery profile, the bad weather during March and April, delayed completions and impeded the achievement of this objective.
Steven Boyes Modern Methods of Construction MMC trials have been evaluated and MMC technologies are now being delivered on 7.5% 7.5% To evaluate the MMC trials, establish lessons learned, strengths and weaknesses and appropriate sites.
Targets for MMC use and a plan to deliver those targets in FY19 are propose an MMC production plan for FY19.
Jessica White Risk Committee The Terms of Reference of the Risk Committee and its membership has been revised with 7.5% 7.5% In conjunction with the Chief Executive and the Audit Committee Chair, to redefine the CFO as Chair.
A new process around the Groups risk register has been implemented to the aims and objectives of the Group Risk Committee and to take over as Chair and to ensure that both top down and bottom up reviews are included.
establish a more robust process around the identification and assessment of risk and mitigations against them, throughout the business.
Table 19 Executive Directors deferred bonus FY18 Deferred Bonus FY17 Deferred Bonus Annual bonus for 2017 18 % of salary % of salary % of salary Amount deferred Number of % of salary Amount deferred Number of 1 2 1 2, 3 000 payable in cash deferred 000 shares deferred 000 shares 4 David Thomas 992 138.3 100 38.3 275 TBC 46.3 322 53,502 4 Steven Boyes 828 145.8 100 45.8 260 TBC 46.3 255 42,342 4 Jessica White 583 145.8 100 45.8 183 TBC 46.3 5 758 1 T he Executive Directors earned between 138.3% and 145.8% of base salary for FY18 and 146.3% of base salary for FY17.
The bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary will be deferred into shares.
2 Shares are held in the DBP for a period of three years commencing from the date of the award and subject to a continued employment condition.
3 T he number of shares were calculated at a share price of 6.025 being the average of the closing middle-market quotations, as derived from the daily official list of the Stock Exchange, for the first five dealing days following the date of the final results announcement of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2017.
4 T he number of shares will be determined based on the share price calculated by averaging the closing middle-market quotations, as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, for the first five dealing days following the date on which the Group announces its FY18 annual results.
The actual number of shares awarded in respect of the FY18 Deferred Bonus was not therefore available as at the date of this report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 104 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Long Term Performance Plans LTPP granted during the year the 2017 18 LTPP Audited On 24 November 2017, the following 2017 18 LTPP awards were granted to Executive Directors: Vesting of 2015 16 LTPP included in 2018 19 single figure of remuneration Audited The 2015 16 LTPP award granted on 19 October 2015 was based on performance to the year Table 22 ended 30 June 2018 and will vest on 19 October 2018.
The performance conditions for this Share price Number of % of face value award and the resulting vesting levels are as follows: at date shares over Face value that would vest Vesting 1 Executive Type of Basis of ofgrant which award of award at threshold determined by Director award awardgranted pence was granted 000 performance performance over Table 20 David Thomas Conditional 200% of salary 633.8 226,307 1,434 25 Three financial Portion of Portion of award 717,170 years to award vesting award vesting 1 Metric Performance condition Threshold Maximum Actual for DT and SB for JW 30June2020 Steven Boyes Conditional 200% of salary 633.8 179,103 1,135 25 EPS Absolute EPS growth for the financial 58p 66p Basic EPS 33.3% 50% award 567,580 year ended 30 June 2018.
1 C alculated as the average of the closing prices, as derived from the London Stock Exchange daily official list, for each of the dealing TSR TSR against the 50 companies Median Upper quartile Rank of 9.8% N A days in the period of three months ending with the 23 November 2017. above and below the Company in ranking of ranking of 46.6 TSR the FTSE index.
25% of this element 48.0 TSR 24.5 TSR of 15.6% The 2017 18 LTPP for Executive Directors is subject to three performance conditions, 40% TSR vests for median performance of 11.7% of 52.1% half of which is measured against a 50 50- comparator group and the other half against a and 100% of this element vests housebuilder index, 20% EPS and 40% ROCE.
The levels of vesting against TSR are measured for upper quartile performance or above.
TSRmeasured over three over a three-year period commencing 1 July 2017, and against EPS and ROCE for the financial financial years with a three-month year ending 30 June 2020.
On completion of the performance period, assuming that shares average atthe start and end of vest, they will be subject to a further two-year holding period.
The following tables show the targets set on grant of the respective LTPP award together with Total level of award vesting 76.4% 100% performance to date.
1 I n line with other participants below Board and Executive Committee level, on 19 October 2015 Jessica White was awarded an incentive Table 23 2016 17 Award performance against targets award under the LTPP, the performance of which was based on two performance conditions EPS and ROCE.
The performance period and the targets were the same as those set for the Board and Executive Committee level except there was no TSR vesting condition.
The table below shows the potential level of vesting if performance was measured over 2 T he actual EPS of 66.5 pence has been re-based using the corporation tax rate applicable at the date on which the 2015 16 LTPP targets a two-year period to the 30 June 2018: were set, as the subsequent reduction to the rate of corporation tax was not performance related.
The actual EPS has also been re-based using the same number of shares in issue as used in the 2015 16 LTPP targets.
The re-based EPS used for the purpose of Level of vesting had determining vesting, which is directly comparable to the 2015 16 LTPP targets, was 67.0 pence.
Below Threshold Threshold Maximum Performance as the award vested as Performance target 0% vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting at 30 June 2018 at 30 June 2018 The Committee considered the underlying financial performance of the Group and was 1 TSR Below median Median Upper quartile 0% 0% satisfied that given the continued improvement in the Groups financial results, the above level of vesting of the 2015 16 LTPP was justified.
Accordingly, the gross number of shares to EPS 58 pence 58 pence 70 pence 67.0 pence 27.1% be released to each of the Executive Directors are as follows: ROCE 25% 25% 28% 29.6% 33.3% Table 21 Total 60.4% 2 Number of Number of Number of Estimated value 1 Executive Director shares at grant shares to vest shares to lapse Total 000 1 T he comparator group for TSR is each of the members ranking 50 above and 50 below the Company in the FTSE Index.
David Thomas 212,244 162,154 50,090 162,154 897 Steven Boyes 167,974 128,332 39,642 128,332 710 Jessica White 12,166 12,166 0 12,166 67 1 The relevant number of shares will be released to each participant as soon as is practicable in October 2018, following the vesting date.
2 T he estimated value of the vested shares is based on the average share price during the three months to 30 June 2018 5.53 per share.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 105 The interests of the Directors serving during the financial year and their connected persons Table 24 2017 18 Award performance against targets in the ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are shown Outlined below is the potential level of vesting for the 2017 18 LTPP, had the performance in Table 25.
On 30 July 2018 the Company was notified that Steven Boyes exercised his option period been for one year to 30 June 2018: over 2,013 shares each under the SAYE scheme.
John Allan and Richard Akers have both purchased an additional 10,000 shares and their holdings at 4 September 2018 were 66,705 Level of vesting had Below Threshold Threshold Maximum Performance as the award vested as and 60,000 shares respectively.
No other notification has been received of any change in Performance target 0 % vesting 25% vesting 100% vesting at 30 June 2018 at 30 June 2018 the interests shown during the period 30 June 2018 to 4 September 2018 inclusive, with the 1 TSR FTSE Below median Median Upper quartile Below median 0% exception of the shares to be deferred in respect of the bonus earned in excess of 100% of base salary by Executive Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2018, the details of which 2 TSR Housebuilder Below unweighted Unweighted Unweighted index Below unweighted 0% can be found on page 103. index average index average average 8% index average To be classified as a good leaver from the Company, the Chief Executive and other Executive EPS 66 pence 66 pence 74 pence 67.0 pence 6.9% Directors, will be required to commit to retaining a total shareholding of 100% and 75% 3 Underlying ROCE 19% 19% 22% 21.7% 37.0% respectively of the value of their final salary in the Companys shares for two years following their leaving date.
Total 43.9% Table 25 Directors interests in shares as at 30 June 2018 Audited 1 T he comparator group for TSR FTSE is each of the members ranking 50 above and 50 below the Company in the FTSE Index.
Outstanding 2 The housebuilder Index comprises: Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Bovis Homes Group, Countryside Properties, Crest Nicholson, Galliford Try, Persimmon, Redrow and Taylor Wimpey.
share awards Owned Owned Total Total under all Shareholding Shareholding Shareholding Shareholding 3 P lease see the Glossary on page 181 for the definition of Underlying ROCE.
Beneficially Beneficially employee share as a % of requirement as a % of requirement owned as at owned as at plans as at salary as at met salary as at met 1 2 2 30 June 2017 30 June 2018 30 June 2018 30 June 2018 Y N 30 June 2018 Y N Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Audited David Thomas 1,459,096 1,218,493 883,545 875% Y 930% Y For the financial year ended 30 June 2018 Executive Directors were required to hold shares in the Company equivalent in value to 200% of salary.
The Chief Executive must hold a Steven Boyes 1,005,868 667,843 705,088 606% Y 664% Y minimum of 67% 50% for other Executive Directors as an Owned Shareholding.
The Chief 3 Jessica White 35,408 42,602 162,207 55% Y 55% N Executive and other Executive Directors are expected to meet this requirement no later than the fifth anniversary of joining the Board, with progress being made towards its achievement John Allan 34,205 56,705 N A N A N A N A throughout the period.
Participants who have not built up the required level of shareholding by Richard Akers 50,000 50,000 N A N A N A N A the end of the defined period, will not be eligible for inclusion in future share-based incentive schemes.
In addition, they will not be allowed to sell any of the net of tax shares released from Nina Bibby 8,500 8,500 N A N A N A N A incentive schemes until they reach the levels specified, unless exceptional circumstances exist Jock Lennox 10,000 10,000 N A N A N A N A in the opinion of the Committee.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust the length of time 4 in which the required amount of shareholding needs to be accrued in order to adjust for events Sharon White N A N A N A N A out of the individuals control.
5 Tessa Bamford 36,121 38,633 N A N A N A N A At 30 June 2018, both David Thomas and Steven Boyes have met the shareholding requirement.
Jessica White has until 21 June 2022 to meet the shareholding requirement.
1 D etails of the interest held in specific employee share plans can be found in the tables on pages 106 to 108.
2 C alculated in accordance with the Groups Remuneration Policy.
3 J essica White was appointed to the Board on 22 June 2017 and has five years from this date to meet the shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary.
4 S haron White was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
5 T essa Bamford stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2018.
2 T he ESOS is divided into two sub-schemes, one of which is approved under the Income Tax Earnings and Pensions Act 2003 and the other of which is not.
The exercise price is calculated differently for each sub-scheme in accordance with the rules of the ESOS.
Executive Directors have until 9 December 2019 to exercise their options under the ESOS.
No share options remain to Executive Directors under the ESOS.
3 1 00% of this award vested on 20 October 2017.
The relevant number of shares were released to each participant thereafter following the settlement of any tax and national insurance liabilities due on the shares.
4 T his award was tested after 30 June 2018 and 76.4% of the award will vest in October 2018 see page 104 for further details.
These awards will be released to the participants as soon as possible following the vesting date.
The awards for David Thomas and Steven Boyes are subject to a two-year holding period commencing 1 July 2018.
5 A ward based on an allocation of ordinary shares equivalent in value to a maximum of 200% of base salary.
40% of the award is subject to a TSR performance condition 20% against the members ranking 50 above and 50 below in the FTSE 250 Index and 20% against a housebuilder index, 20% is based on the achievement of an EPS target for the financial year ending 30 June 2018 and the remaining 40% is based on the achievement of a ROCE target for the financial year ending 30 June 2018.
There is no re-testing of performance conditions.
See page 104 for an update on performance to date against the targets.
6 1 00% of this award vested on 20 October 2017.
7 T his award was subject to two performance conditions EPS 50% and ROCE 50% for the financial year ended 30 June 2018.
The performance conditions were tested after 30 June 2018 and 100% of the award will vest in October 2018.
8 A ward based on an allocation of ordinary shares equivalent in value to 50% of base salary.
50% of the award is subject to the achievement of an EPS target for the financial year ending 30 June 2019 and the other 50% is based on the achievement of a ROCE target for the financial year ending 30 June 2019.
9 S haresave options are awarded based on the share price at invitation of the scheme and the total savings amount forecast at the end of the scheme.
Market value per share on the date of grant for all sharesave awards was 30 April 2014 3.70, 29 April 2015 5.12, 27 April 2016 5.46, 27 April 2017 5.88, 20 April 2018 5.60, the option price represented approximately 15% discount on the share price at the time of invitation.
10 Face value of conditional awards for FY18 are disclosed on page 104.
Face value of conditional awards for previous years were disclosed in the Remuneration Report when the awards were made.
11 The 2015 3 year Sharesave matured on 1 July 2018.
Steven Boyes exercised his options on 30 July 2018 and purchased and retained all the shares under option at an exercise price of 4.47 per share.
All conditional awards and share options are subject to an overriding Committee discretion, in that the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period warrants the level of vesting as determined by applying the relevant targets.
If the Committee is not of this view, it has the authority to reduce the level of vesting, including to nil, as it deems appropriate.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 109 Dilution Executive Directors pension Until 30 June 2009, Steven Boyes was an No excess retirement benefits have been active member of the defined benefit section paid to or are receivable by current and or arrangements On maturity or vesting of any of its share of the Scheme.
This entitlement was based on past Directors in respect of their qualifying incentive schemes the Company satisfies The Companys pension policy for Executive a 1 60 accrual rate and a normal retirement services during the financial year and there the awards through: a new issue of shares: Directors is that on joining the Group they will age of 65.
This benefit became deferred on are no arrangements in place that guarantee market purchases: or the EBT.
During the be auto-enrolled unless they choose to opt- 30 June 2009 and it will be revalued over pensions with limited or no abatement on financial year ended 30 June 2018, the out.
Upon opting-out, the Executive Director the period from that date to retirement in severance or early retirement.
Company continued to satisfy all outstanding may choose to receive a cash supplement line with the Scheme Rules.
Steven Boyes Executive options and awards under the which does not count for incentive purposes accrued pension as at 30 June 2018 was Payments to former Directors Audited LTPP, 2009 10 ESOS, the DBP and the and or participate in the Companys defined 59,963 per annum.
Steven Boyes may take Sharesave through a new issue of shares, No payments were made to any former contribution money purchase pension plan.
early retirement from age 55, subject to him subject to the dilution limits described below.
Directors during the year ended 30 June Each of the Executive Directors have opted meeting certain legislative restrictions, but 2018 30 June 2017: nil other than the to receive a cash supplement in lieu of The Company regularly monitors the number the accrued pension will be reduced to take arrangements for Neil Cooper fully disclosed pension.
For FY18, David Thomas and Steven of shares issued under its schemes and the account of its early repayment.
on page 103 of the 2017 Annual Report and Boyes received an amount equal to 25% of impact on dilution limits.
The Company is Since 1 July 2009, Steven Boyes has been Accounts except otherwise disclosed in this base salary in line with market practice.
satisfied that as at 30 June 2018 its usage of entitled to receive a cash supplement which Remuneration report.
Jessica White received an amount equal shares is compliant with the relevant dilution is currently equal to 25% of his base salary to 15% base salary in line with the Policy limits set by the Investment Association per annum.
Payments for loss of office Audited for new Executive Directors.
Only the base in respect of all share plans 10% of the salary element of a Directors remuneration The previous full actuarial valuation of the Companys issued share capital in any rolling No payments were made in respect of loss is pensionable.
ten-year period and discretionary share Scheme as at 30 November 2013 showed of office during the year ended 30 June 2018 a deficit of 34.8m calculated on the basis plans 5% of the Companys issued share 30 June 2017: nil except as otherwise capital in any rolling ten-year period.
In the Defined benefit section of the Schemes technical provisions.
disclosed in this Remuneration report.
In March 2017, the Board were advised event that the outstanding options under Steven Boyes was a deferred member of each of the schemes to be satisfied through that the triennial valuation undertaken the defined benefit section of the Barratt as at 30 November 2016 had indicated a new issue of shares were to vest and had Group Pension and Life Assurance Scheme been exercised on 30 June 2018, the resulting a 69.2m deficit.
In order to address the the Scheme during the year ended deficit, the Board agreed to increase issue of new shares would represent 1.5% 30 June 2018. of the Companys issued share capital as at its annual contribution from 9.5m to The Scheme was closed to new entrants 14.5m for a period of three years from that date.
Thereafter contributions of exercised its consent under the rules of 10.0m per annum will be made until the the Scheme and agreed to cease offering Scheme is fully funded.
The valuation for future accrual of defined benefits for current the Financial Statements was updated as members.
Members of the Scheme became at 30 June 2018 by a qualified independent eligible to join the defined contribution money actuary and a surplus of 58.7m 2017: purchase section of the Scheme with effect surplus of 13.6m is included in the Group from 1 July 2009.
Balance Sheet as shown in note 6.2.
Members of the Scheme are also eligible for an insured lump sum on death in service in accordance with their terms of employment.
Current employees who were members of the defined benefit section of the Scheme at closure also retain their dependants pension entitlements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 110 Remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Chief Executives relative pay Total Shareholder Return performance graph Table 27 sets out: i the total pay, calculated in line with the single figure methodology: ii Chart 1 Total Shareholder Return the annual bonus pay out as a percentage of maximum: and iii LTI vesting level for the Chief Executive over a nine-year period David Thomas for FY16 to FY18 and Mark Clare for FY10 Value re-based to FY15 : 700 Table 27 Chief Executives pay Audited 600 Nine years to 30 June 2018 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 500 Chief Executives total pay 000 1,417 1,220 2,099 4,310 6,430 7,363 3,155 3,331 2,810 Bonus outturn as percentage 90.2 36.6 99.2 100.0 100.0 93.2 97.4 97.5 92.2 400 ofmaximum opportunity LTI vesting as a percentage 0.0 0.0 32.8 73.9 95.8 100.0 100.0 100.0 76.4 300 ofmaximum award 200 100 0 June June June June June June June June June June 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Barratt Developments Index of currently listed housebuilders FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts This graph shows the value, by 30 June 2018, of 100 invested in Barratt Developments PLC on 30 June 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Index and 100 invested in an unweighted index of listed Housebuilders excluding Barratt Developments PLC.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters Chart 1, prepared in accordance with the regulations, shows the TSR performance over the last nine years against the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts and against an unweighted index of listed housebuilders.
The Board has chosen these comparative indices as the Group and its major competitors are constituents of one or both of these indices.
The TSR has been calculated using a fair method in accordance with the regulations.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC 111 Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to employees Non-Executive directorships Table 28 shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned by the Neither Steven Boyes nor Jessica White held any Non-Executive directorships with other Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive on 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2018, compared companies during the year.
to that of the average pay of all employees of the Group.
David Thomas joined the board of the Home Builders Federation as a Non-Executive Director on 26 April 2018 for which he does not receive a fee.
Table 28 Percentage change in remuneration Salary Benefits Annual bonus Statement of shareholding vote at AGM % change % change % change At the 2017 AGM, a resolution was proposed to shareholders to approve the Directors Chief Executive 3.0 52.9 -2.6 Remuneration Policy binding vote to remain in place for three years following its approval by shareholders for which the following votes were received: Average pay of all employees 3.3 4.5 5.8 Table 30 Remuneration report Relative importance of spend on pay Number of votes % votes cast The following table shows the Groups actual spend on pay for all employees relative to dividends and profit from operations: Votes cast in favour 687,989,418 98.78 Votes cast against 8,526,959 1.22 Table 29 Relative importance of spend on pay Total votes cast 696,516,377 100.00 2018 2017 % m m change Votes withheld 2,232,003 1 Staff costs including Executive Directors 390.5 371.7 5.1 2 Profit from operations 862.6 799.2 7.9 In addition, a resolution was proposed to shareholders to approve the Annual report on 3 remuneration advisory vote for the year ended 30 June 2017 for which the following votes Total capital return 443.1 421.3 5.2 were received: 1 S ee note 2.3 of the Financial Statements.
Table 31 2 P rofit from operations has been chosen as a metric to compare against as it shows how spend on pay is linked to the Groups Remuneration Policy operating performance.
3 I ncludes interim dividend of 8.6 pence per share paid on 18 May 2018 to those shareholders on the register as at the close of business Number of votes % votes cast on 20 April 2018 and a final dividend of 17.9 pence per share and a special dividend of 17.3 pence per share, value of which has been calculated on the number of shares in issue excluding those held by the EBT as at 30 June 2018.
The final dividend and special Votes cast in favour 692,982,315 99.30 dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 2018 AGM, will be paid on 6 November 2018 to those shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12 October 2018.
Votes cast against 4,884,670 0.70 Total votes cast 697,866,985 100.00 Votes withheld 1,748,740 This Remuneration report was approved by the Board on 4 September 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Richard Akers Non-Executive Director 4 September 2018 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Barratt Developments PLC Other Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
