Remuneration Report T his is the first year of reporting on the new remunerationpolicy which was overwhelmingly approved by 97%ofshareholders at the lastAGM.
Jill Caseberry Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Annual Statement Membership Director Date appointed to Number of meetings Dear Shareholder the Committee attended during I am pleased to present my first Remuneration Report as the year Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the Committee.
Jill Caseberry 1 October 2017 3 3 This report consists of this Annual Statement and the Annual Chairman appointed as Chairman on Report on Remuneration for the 2017 18 financial year which 13 December 2017 will be subject to a single advisory shareholder vote at the John Cuthbert 15 January 2010 3 3 forthcoming AGM.
Paul Hampden Smith 1 August 2013 3 3 This is the first year of reporting on the new remuneration Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 3 3 policy which was overwhelmingly approved by 97% of shareholders at the last AGM.
Ian McHoul 1 February 2018 2 2 Mike Toms 1 February 2009 1 1 Board changes Chairman until retired 13 December 2017 As previously announced and as discussed elsewhere his retirement in this report, Ted Ayres retired from the Board on 31 July Main focus in 2017 18 2018 and Jason Honeyman was promoted from his role as Chief Operating Officer to Chief Executive from 1 August Approve the bonus payments and long-term incentive awards vesting levels for the 2016 17 year.
John Watson, who temporarily acted as Executive Chairman during Teds leave of absence until 31 July 2018, Approve the 2016 17 Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration.
is subsequently due to retire at the AGM on 12 December Oversee the successful transition between Mike Toms and Jill Caseberry as 2018.
He will be succeeded by Paul Hampden Smith as Chairman of the Committee.
non-executive Chairman, with Ian McHoul replacing Paul Determine the package for the appointment of Jason Honeyman to the as the Chairman of the Audit Committee on the same date.
Board in September 2017 as Chief Operating Officer, and again on his The new remuneration arrangements are summarised below promotion to Chief Executive from 1 August 2018. in the section on implementation of the remuneration policy Agree the remuneration package to be paid to Ted Ayres on his retirement in 2018 19. from the Board on 31 July 2018.
Teds termination arrangements are in accordance with Set the bonus targets for the 2018 19 year.
his service agreement and our remuneration policy as Make awards under the long-term incentive scheme.
As such, he will be compensated for his Review and determine the remuneration packages for the executive entitlement to salary, pension, benefits and car allowance directors and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
in accordance with his 12 months notice period, which will Review and determine the fee payable to the current Chairman, including be paid monthly and is subject to mitigation.
Ted will not be the additional payment for temporarily acting as Executive Chairman, and eligible for a bonus for the year ended 31 July 2018.
However, the fee payable to the new Chairman from December 2018. as a good leaver, his outstanding PSP awards will all be time Review remuneration policies for senior management below Board level.
pro-rated by reference to 31 July 2018 but will vest on their normal vesting dates, subject to achievement of the relevant Focus areas for 2018 19 performance conditions for each award over the three-year Consider how to implement the requirements of the UK Corporate performance periods.
Governance Code 2018 which will apply to the Company from 1 August 2019.
Approve the bonus payments and long-term incentive awards vesting levels for the 2017 18 year.
Set the bonus targets for the 2019 20 year.
Make awards under the long-term incentive scheme.
Review and determine the remuneration packages for the executive directors and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Review remuneration policies for senior management below Board level.
Bellway p. l. c. 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Performance and reward in 2017 18 The Committee continues to operate a remuneration structure based on the three core elements of basic pay, annual cash bonus and a share-based long-term incentive plan, which it considers closely aligns shareholder interests with those of management.
The Group has built 10,307 new homes this year 2017 9,644, surpassing the 10,000 mark for the first time in its history, following nine consecutive years of volume growth.
The Committee has awarded the executive directors a bonus payment of 102.36% of basic salary and the long-term incentive plan awarded in 2015 16 will vest at 99.775% of the award.
Full details of the bonus and long-term incentive plan performance and levels of award are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration, however the Committee considers that the level of bonus payment and long-term incentive vesting reflects the strong performance of the Group and the executive directors during the twelve-month and three-year period to 31 July 2018.
John Watson became Executive Chairman shortly after the start of the financial year on an interim basis during the Chief Executives absence on medical leave.
The Committee used its discretion to award John an additional payment at the rate of 100,000 p. a. for the period during which he had executive responsibilities, and to link this payment to the annual cash bonus on the same basis as the executive directors.
This payment ceased on 1 August 2018 when he resumed his non-executive role.
How we will implement the remuneration policy in 2018 19 From 1 August 2018, the Chairman and the Group Finance Director were awarded salary increases of 2.5%, consistent with the average salary increase to the general workforce.
In line with the current policy on salaries for new executive directors, the salary of the new Chief Executive has initially been set at a level significantly below market levels and the salary of the previous Chief Executive for the first year at 530,000 to allow him time to gain experience and develop into the role.
The Committee intends to increase this to 689,000 from 1 August 2019, subject to his satisfactory personal performance and proving himself in the role over the next year, to reflect an appropriate salary for the level of responsibility and scope of the full role and bring it in line with the salary that would have been payable to Ted Ayres from that date if he had remained as Chief Executive.
The Committee has conducted a benchmarking exercise and is comfortable that the proposed salary for 2019 20 is appropriate for the role and not excessive.
The 2018 19 annual bonus will continue to be based mainly on financial performance, with a bonus of 90% of salary based on operating profit.
The remaining bonus of 30% of salary will be based on the same strategic measures as last year, with a bonus of 15% of salary on each of land bank and customer care.
However, the customer care measure has been split into two parts, with a bonus of 7.5% of salary available for achieving 5 star home builder status and the other 7.5% of salary linked to the customer satisfaction score.
Health and safety performance will be taken into account as part of the Committees overall assessment of the bonus payment.
The proposed weightings ensure a strong focus on financial performance and sustainability through land bank at the same time as focussing on customers, a key indicator of future growth.
Health and safety continues to remain an integral part of the performance assessment.
The PSP award level is unchanged from last year at 150% of salary for executive directors, with relative TSR performance conditions against the same two peer groups.
The Committee considers this level of award provides a strong focus on incentivising long-term, sustained performance.
Following a review by the Committee of the existing clawback provisions, for bonus years commencing and PSP awards granted after 1 August 2018, the time period over which clawback will apply has been extended to the third anniversary of payment of bonus or vesting of the PSP award, as relevant, and clawback will also apply in the case of corporate failure or material reputational damage.
The new non-executive Chairman will receive a fee of 217,000 in line with the previous non-executive Chairmans fee.
The Committee continues to monitor changes in best practice and corporate governance to ensure the policy remains appropriate.
We are aware of the forthcoming changes in the new UK Corporate Governance Code and, whilst we intend for the current policy approved last year to apply for its full three-year term, we will review and assess over the coming year whether any changes to the policy will be necessary before the three-year period has elapsed.
I hope you will support the resolution relating to directors remuneration which will be put to shareholders for approval at the 2018 AGM.
Jill Caseberry Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15 October 2018 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Remuneration Report continued Remuneration at a glance How remuneration links to our strategy Strategic objective Link to remuneration Metric Performance against metric Business growth Annual bonus Operating profit 652.9 million Land bank Annual bonus Sufficient land bank of plots with DPP Achieved Customer care Annual bonus Customer satisfaction score 86.0% Health and safety Underpin to annual bonus Overall health and safety performance Achieved Shareholder value Long-term incentive plan Relative TSR against two comparator groups 99.775% vesting How our executive directors were paid during 2017 18 Chief 1,815 40% 60% Executive Chief Operating 38% 31% 31% 1,180 officer Group 25% 44% 1,581 Finance 31% Director Executive 75% 25% 412 Chairman 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800 2,000 000 Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term share awards Notes: 1.
The Chief Executive was absent during the year due to ill health and so received no bonus.
The Chief Operating Officer was appointed on 1 September 2017 and so his remuneration is not for a full financial year.
The Chairman became Executive Chairman during the Chief Executives absence and received an additional fee which was eligible for a bonus.
Bonus outcomes see page 69 Strategic objective Weighting Threshold Maximum value Actual Payment Payment % of salary 39% pays out 100% pays out % of maximum % of salary Operating profit 90% 615.0 660.0 652.9 90.40% 81.36% million million million pre-exceptional Objectives and performance against target Score Land bank The land bank of plots with DPP available for completion in the Achieved in part following financial year grew by 8.2% during the year.
This exceeded 11% of salary awarded.
the minimum target and an award of 11% of salary was achieved.
Customer care The Groups customer satisfaction score in 2018 was 86.0% compared Minimum achieved with the base of 85.7%.
This is a slight improvement on last years 10% of salary awarded.
performance, resulting in a minimum payment.
LTIP outcomes see page 70 The PSP awards granted in 2015 16 were based on a three-year TSR performance for the period to 31 July 2018.
Metric Performance condition Threshold target Stretch target Actual % vesting 50% of Relative TSR against an index of peer housebuilders 26.41% TSR 48.91% TSR 54.06% 100.000% awards Index Index 22.5% Bellway TSR 50% of Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding 83 rank 41.75 rank upper 42 Bellway 99.550% awards financial services companies and investment trusts median quartile rank Total 99.775% Bellway p. l. c. 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 000 Governance This part of the remuneration report, the Directors Remuneration Policy, has been prepared in accordance with The Large andMedium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The overall remuneration policy has been developed in compliance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, UK institutional investor guidance and the Listing Rules.
The remuneration policy set out below was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 13 December 2017 and is intended to apply for three years unless a new policy is put to shareholders before then.
The policy report has been reproduced for information and has been updated where appropriate to reflect the passage of time.
Directors Remuneration Policy Objectives of remuneration policy The aim of the Committee is to ensure that the Company has competitive remuneration packages in place that will promote the long-term success of the Company and motivate executive directors in the overall interests of shareholders, the Group, its employees and its customers.
The Committee has a policy of paying a level of remuneration comparable with that at a peer group of similar UK housebuilding businesses, subject to experience and performance.
The Committee uses this comparative approach to benchmarking with caution, recognising the relatively few direct housebuilding comparators, their differing size and the risk of an upward ratchet effect with any peer-based analysis.
The structureof the package has been designed to ensure that the performance-related elements of remuneration annual bonus and long-term incentives constitute a significant proportion of an executives potential total remuneration package, but are only receivable if stretching performance targets are achieved.
The structure of the performance conditions for annual bonus and long-term incentives has been designed to provide a strong link to the Groups performance, namely a focus on maximising profit in a sustainable fashion and producing superior shareholder returns, thereby generating a strong alignment of interest between senior executives and shareholders.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Whilst we do not consult directly with employees when drawing up the executive remuneration policy, in determining the elements of remuneration for the executive directors the Committee takes into consideration the pay and conditions of employees throughout the Group as a whole, paying particular attention to the levels of basic pay increase awarded to the workforce generally.
Since 2015 the salaries of the directors have been increased in accordance with the general pay increase awarded to the workforce.
Prior to that, the salaries of the recently appointed executive directors were below mid-market value and were increased incrementally until they reached mid-market levels.
All eligible employees, including the executive directors, can join the Groups savings related share option arrangements, havelife assurance benefits and have access to pension arrangements.
A significant proportion of employees benefit from health insurance, a company car or car allowance and are eligible to participate in a discretionary bonus scheme.
The Committee is apprised regularly of any significant policy changes for the workforce generally and management below Board level in particular.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes into account the views of shareholders.
When any significant changes are proposed to the remuneration policy, the Chairman of the Committee will consult with major shareholders and representative bodies in advance.
In setting the new policy in the year, the Committee consulted with major shareholders, the Investment Association IA and Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.
ISS who were generally supportive of the proposed changes and the approach being taken.
Choice of performance measures and approaches to target setting The performance measures used in the annual bonus and long-term incentive plan are aligned with the Companys KPIs and the business strategy.
For the annual bonus, operating profit is an appropriate barometer of short-term performance.
Customer care and land bank are important drivers of future growth and maintaining a strong health and safety record is very important to our employee base and the Group.
The Committee believes that relative TSR is an appropriate long-term performance metric as it generates an alignment of interest between executives and institutional shareholders by providing a reward mechanism for delivering superior stock market performance.
The TSR performance is independently calculated for the Committee by the Companys brokers.
Targets for incentive plans are set to be stretching but achievable, taking into account internal and external reference points, including internal forecasts and market consensus.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Remuneration Report continued Clawback The time period over which clawback will apply to bonus years ended and PSP awards made prior to 1 August 2018 is at any time before the later of: i the first anniversary of the date on which the bonus is paid or an award vests, as relevant: or ii the date of publication of the Companys first set of audited financial statements covering the financial year in which the payment or vesting took place, as relevant.
The time period over which clawback will apply to bonuses in respect of bonus years commencing and PSP awards granted after 1 August 2018 is at any time before the third anniversary of payment of bonus or vesting of PSP award, as relevant.
Incentive plan discretions The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and PSP in accordance with their respective rules.
As part of the rules the Committee holds certain discretions which are required for both an efficient operation and administration of these plans, and are consistent with standard market practice.
These include the following discretions: participants of the plans.
the timing of the grant of an award and or payment.
the size of an award and or a payment albeit with quantum and performance targets restricted to the descriptions detailed in the policy table.
the assessment of performance criteria and the determination of vesting.
discretion required when dealing with a change of control e. g. the timing of testing performance targets or restructuring of the Group.
determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each plan and the appropriate treatment chosen.
adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends.
the annual review of performance conditions for the annual bonus plan and PSP from year-to-year.
if certain events occur e. g. a material divestment or acquisition of a Group business, which mean the original performance conditions are no longer appropriate, the Committee retains the ability to make adjustments to the targets and or set different measures and alter weightings as necessary to ensure the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
the outstanding share incentive awards which are detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration will remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Bellway p. l. c. 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Policy table This section of the report describes the key components of each element of the remuneration arrangements for executive and non-executive directors.
Component and Operation Maximum opportunity Framework to assess performance link to strategy Salary To be market Salaries are normally reviewed in July each year and No prescribed In addition to the reviews by the Chairman, competitive and changes normally take effect from 1 August.
as part of the annual Board evaluation, the therefore assist in determined by reference to market levels of a peer group performance of the executives and the Increases are recruiting, retaining of similar UK housebuilding businesses, taking account Company is kept under continuous review normally in line with and motivating high of salaries at other companies of a similar size, and by bythe Board.
the average for the quality executives.
taking account of the role, performance, and experience workforce generally.
Reflects individual of the individual, Company performance, salary increases Increases may be role and experience throughout the rest of the business and economic conditions.
below or above Where salaries of new executive directors are positioned this e. g. due to below market levels, the Committees policy is to progress promotion, change these over time, with increases potentially higher than for in responsibility the general workforce, as experience is gained, subject or experience, to performance.
role change or a significant change in the size, value and or complexity of the Company.
Salaries are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Annual bonus To reward Annual bonuses are normally payable in cash in November 120% of basic The bonus may be based on a achievement with following the year end on 31 July, subject to the achievement salary maximum.
combination of financial and strategic a combination of performance targets that were set at the start of the objectives, with financial performance of financial and financial year.
accounting for a majority of the overall non-financial bonus opportunity.
The Company operates a recovery mechanism which allows operational based the Company to clawback some or all of the payments The Committee determines the choice of performance made under the variable components of an individuals measure s and their weighting for each targets in remuneration, in the following circumstances: year to ensure alignment with the Boards accordance with priorities and Company strategy over the i material misstatement of results.
Group KPIs short to medium-term.
ii error in assessing a performance condition.
The level of payout at threshold for iii gross misconduct by the individual.
financial metrics will not be more than iv in relation to bonuses for the financial year 2018 19 40% of maximum, and varies for nononwards, also in the case of corporate failure or material financial metrics.
Full vesting will take place for equalling or exceeding maximum, subject to the health These circumstances are in addition to those approved and safety underpin.
under the current policy noted at paragraphs i to iii above and will be tabled for formal inclusion into the policy at a The Committee has discretion to adjust the future date.
payment outcome to ensure it reflects the individuals contribution and or the overall performance of the Company over the performance period.
Details of the performance measures used are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Remuneration Report continued Component and Operation Maximum opportunity Framework to assess performance link to strategy Long-term incentives PSP To encourage The Company operates a PSP as its primary long- 150% of basic salary.
PSP awards are subject to stretching threelong-term term incentive.
value creation, Annual awards of nil cost options or conditional awards may The current awards are subject to aid retention, be made under the PSP to the executive directors, at the relative TSR conditions against relevant encourage discretion of the Committee.
shareholding and Awards normally vest three years after grant, subject to the 25% will vest at threshold with full promote alignment achievement of stretching performance targets.
vesting taking place for equalling or of interests exceeding maximum.
with shareholders Dividend equivalents in cash or shares may be payable, and will only accrue during the vesting and holding period on For future awards the Committee may awards that ultimately vest.
choose a financial measure, such as EPS, RoCE or NAV, in conjunction with or as The Company operates recovery and withholding an alternative to TSR depending on the mechanisms which allow the Company, in exceptional medium to long-term priorities of the circumstances, to clawback some or all of the Group at the time of grant.
payments made, or recover unvested awards, in the following circumstances: If the Committee decides to introduce a financial measure, it will carry out prior i material misstatement of results.
The Committee has discretion to adjust iii gross misconduct by the individual.
the vesting outcome in exceptional circumstances to ensure it is a true iv in relation to awards for the financial year 2018 19 reflection of the overall performance of the onwards, also in the case of corporate failure or material Company over the performance period.
Further details of the performance metrics These circumstances are in addition to those approved applying to the awards are set out in the under the current policy noted at paragraphs i to iii above Annual Report on Remuneration.
and will be tabled for formal inclusion into the policy at a future date.
A minimum holding period of two years applies to awards post-vesting.
Pension To provide a Pension contributions into the Companys Group Self Invested Up to 20% of salary.
structure and value Personal Pension Plan and or a salary supplement in lieu of that is market pension contributions.
competitive Benefits To provide a range Typically comprises car or car allowance, life assurance Not applicable.
and value that and health insurance.
Other benefits may be provided is market where appropriate.
competitive Any expenses incurred in carrying out duties will be fully reimbursed by the Company including any personal taxation associated withsuch expenses.
All-employee share schemes To encourage The executive directors can participate in any HMRCSubject to prevailing Not applicable.
employees to approved all-employee plans operated by the Company.
build a stake in the future of the Company Bellway p. l. c. 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Component and Operation Maximum opportunity Framework to assess performance link to strategy Share ownership guideline for executive directors To align executive Executive directors are required to accumulate a minimum Not applicable.
directors interests shareholding equivalent to 200% of basic salary.
with those Within a period of three months of appointment an executive of shareholders director must acquire a minimum of 1,000 ordinary shares in the Company and must retain at least 50% of any shares awarded under the PSP or SMP in respect of awards granted in 2014 or before, after allowance for paying tax, until the requisite number of shares has been accumulated.
If personal circumstances make this difficult, the Committee would exercise discretion.
Chairman and non-executive directors To set appropriate The Chairmans fee is determined by the Not applicable.
The performance of the non-executive fees in light of the Remuneration Committee.
directors is assessed by the Chairman.
time commitment, The senior independent non-executive The remuneration of the non-executive directors responsibilities, director reviews the performance of the is determined by the Board Committee on Nonwider market and Chairman in conjunction with the directors.
Executive Directors Remuneration, which comprises the best practice executive directors.
Fee levels are normally reviewed annually, taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities of the roles including membership or chairmanship of Board committees and the level of fees for similar positions in comparable companies.
Non-executive directors are not normally entitled to any benefits with the exception of the Chairman who receives health and life assurance benefits or pension.
They do not participate in any bonus or long-term incentive plans and they are not entitled to compensation on termination of their arrangements, other than normal notice provisions of three months given by either party.
Travel, accommodation and other related expenses incurred in carrying out the role will be paid by the Company including any personal taxation associated with such expenses.
For the avoidance of doubt, under this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that is consistent with the approved remuneration policy in force at the time the commitment was made or, if made before the current policy was approved, as have been disclosed previously to shareholders, or was made at the time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company.
Details of any payments made to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Remuneration Report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration In arriving at a total package and in considering the quantum for each element of the package, the Committee will take into account the skills and experience of the candidate and the market rate for a candidate of that experience, as well as the importance of securing the preferred candidate.
Element General policy Detail Salary At a level required to attract the most appropriate Discretion to pay lower basic salary with candidate.
incremental increases, potentially higher than for the general workforce, as new appointee becomes established in the role.
Pension and In accordance with Company policies.
Additional benefits in relation to recruitment benefits may be provided where considered appropriate, for example, relocation expenses or allowances, legal fees and other recruitment-related costs may be payable.
Pension provision will be in line with the limits set out in the policy table.
Bonus In accordance with existing schemes.
Depending on the timing of recruitment, bespoke targets could be introduced for an individual within the maximum individual limits of the annual bonus plan applicable at the time.
Pro-rating would be applied as appropriate for intra-year joiners.
Long-term In accordance with Company policies and maximum An award may be made in the year of joining incentives PSP limits in the PSP rules.
or, alternatively, the award can be delayed until the following year.
Targets would normally be the same as for other directors and grant levels consistent within the permitted individual maximum under the rules of the plan and this policy.
Buyout of forfeited The Committee may make an award in cash or shares Awards would, where possible, be consistent remuneration to replace deferred or incentive pay forfeited by an with the awards forfeited in terms of the executive leaving a previous employer and, if required, vehicle, structure, vesting periods, expected by relying on the flexibility provided in the Listing Rules value and performance conditions.
to grant such replacement awards.
Service contracts and loss of office payment policy The details of the executive directors service contracts are as follows: Executive director First appointed Current contract Notice period fromemployer Notice period fromexecutive as a director commencement date Ted Ayres 1 August 2011 1 August 2011 12 months 6 months Keith Adey 1 February 2012 1 February 2012 12 months 6 months Jason Honeyman 1 September 2017 1 August 2018 6 months 6 months The executive directors may accept external appointments provided that such appointments do not, in any way, prejudice their ability to perform their duties as executive directors of the Company.
The extent to which any executive director is allowed to retain any fees payable in respect of such appointments, or whether such fees are remitted to the Company, will be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
None of the executive directors currently hold any outside appointments.
All non-executive directors have letters of appointment with the Company for no more than three years, subject to annual reappointment at the AGM, with a three-month notice period by either side.
The appointment letters for the Chairman and non-executive directors provide that no compensation is payable on termination, other than fees accrued and expenses.
Bellway p. l. c. 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Non-executive director First appointed Current letter of appointment Current letter of appointment as a director commencement date expiry date John Watson 1 August 1995 1 February 2016 31 January 2019 John Cuthbert 1 November 2009 1 November 2015 31 October 2018 Paul Hampden Smith 1 August 2013 1 August 2016 31 July 2019 Denise Jagger 1 August 2013 1 August 2016 31 July 2019 Jill Caseberry 1 October 2017 1 October 2017 30 September 2020 Ian McHoul 1 February 2018 1 February 2018 31 January 2021 The overriding principle for payments on loss of office will be to honour contractual remuneration entitlements.
The Committee would determine, on an equitable basis, the appropriate treatment of performance-linked elements of the package, taking account of the circumstances, in accordance with the rules of each respective plan.
Failure will not be rewarded.
The Company may pay statutory claims.
Reasonable costs of legal expenses incurred by the director may be reimbursed by the Company by making direct payment to the professional adviser.
1 2 3 Element Bad leaver Departure on agreed terms Good leaver Salary, pension Nil.
Up to 12 months basic salary, benefits Apart from death, the Company may pay and benefits and pension.
up to 12 months basic salary, benefits after cessation and pension, less any period of notice Payments may be phased and subject of employment worked.
to offsetting against alternative income from elsewhere during the notice Payments may be phased and subject to period.
offsetting against alternative income from elsewhere during the notice period.
The Company may pay in lieu ofnotice an amount equivalent to 12 The Company may pay in lieu of notice months salary, pension andbenefits.
an amount equivalent to 12 months salary, pension and benefits.
Annual bonus No bonus payable.
For the proportion of the financial year For the proportion of the financial year worked, bonus may be payable proworked, bonus may be payable pro-rata, rata, subject to performance, at the subject to performance, at the discretion discretion of the Committee.
There will of the Committee.
be no bonus payment in respect of any period of notice not worked.
PSP and SMP All awards, including Awards will lapse upon cessation of Awards may be exercised within 12 awards granted those which have vested employment, unless the Committee months of the vesting date.
in 2014 or but are unexercised decides otherwise, in which case Where employment ends before the before will lapse immediately awards may vest.
vesting date, awards may be exercised upon cessation of Where employment ends before the at the normal vesting time other than employment.
vesting date, awards may vest at the by exception and only to the extent that normal time other than by exception the performance conditions have been to the extent that the performance satisfied.
The level of vested award will be The level of vested award will be reduced, pro-rata, based upon the period reduced, pro-rata, based upon of time after the grant date and ending the period of time after the grant on the date of cessation of employment, date and ending on the date of relative to the three-year performance cessation of employment, relative to period unless the Committee, acting the three-year performance period fairly and reasonably, decides that such unless the Committee, acting fairly a scaling back is inappropriate in any and reasonably, decides that such a particular case.
scaling back is inappropriate in any particular case.
Depending upon circumstances, the The Company may pay for outplacement payments Committee may consider payments in support and assistance with legal fees.
respect of an unfair dismissal award, outplacement support and assistance with legal fees.
For example, normal resignation from the Company or termination for cause e. g. disciplinary issues.
This may cover a range of circumstances such as business reorganisation, changes in reporting structure, change in requirement for the role, termination as a result of a failure to be re-electedat an AGM, etc.
Leaver for compassionate reasons such as death, injury, disability or retirement, with the agreement of the employer.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 Remuneration Report continued Illustrations of application of remuneration policy The remuneration policy results in a significant portion of remuneration received by executive directors being dependent on the Groups performance.
The chart below illustrates how the total pay opportunities for the executive directors vary under three performance scenarios: minimum, target and maximum.
The figures are indicative, as share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded.
Chart labels show proportion of total package comprised of each element, assuming each director was in post throughout the full financial year.
Assumptions: Minimum fixed pay only salary benefits pension pay in lieu of pension.
Salary is based on actual for 2018 19, benefits are based on the value of actual benefits received in 2017 18 and pension pay in lieu of pension is based on policy of 20% of salary applied to the 2018 19 salary.
Target fixed pay plus 50% of maximum bonus payment plus PSP award of 150% of salary with 50% of the award vesting.
Maximum fixed pay plus 100% of maximum bonus payment plus PSP award of 150% of salary with 100% of the award vesting.
Bellway p. l. c. 68 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 000 Governance Annual Report on Remuneration Committee membership and activity The Committee meets at least twice a year and details of the Committee members and their attendance are set out in the table on page 58.
The operation of the Committee is conducted by reference to its terms of reference which have been prepared to comply with relevant statutory, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and best practice and are available at www.
None of the Committee members have a personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
There are no conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee receives independent external advice from New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon plc.
NBS was appointed by the Committee and does not provide any other services to the Company other than to the Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration.
NBS is also a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by its Code of Conduct.
The Committee is satisfied that NBS is independent.
The total fee paid to NBS for advice to the committees during the year was 50,696 2017 45,101.
The Committee also benefited from advice received from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary on issues other than those relating to his own remuneration.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors apart from the Chairman is determined by the Board Committee on Non-Executive Directors Remuneration, which comprises the executive directors.
It also receives advice from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and NBS.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2017 18 The auditor is required to report on the information contained in the following part of this report.
Annual bonus for the year ended 31 July 2018 The annual bonus is payable in November 2018 for performance during the year ended 31 July 2018.
The performance targets for the 2017 18 bonus comprised operating profit and two strategic targets.
The actual bonus payment against operating profit was determined on the following basis: Strategic objective Weighting Threshold Maximum value Actual Payment Payment % of salary 39% pays out 100% pays out % of maximum % of salary Operating profit 90% 615.0 660.0 652.9 90.40% 81.36% million million million pre-exceptional The actual operating profit grew by 14.2% to 652.9 million, just below the maximum value forecast by the directors, shareholders and analysts at the start of the year.
The basis for payment of the actual bonus against the two strategic measures are set out below: Strategic measure Objectives and performance against target Score Land bank Increase in the land bank of plots with detailed planning permission Maximum DPP available for completion in the following financial year in the year 15% of salary.
to 31 July 2018 to ensure our growth aspirations are not frustrated by land shortages in future years.
A payment of 10% of salary would be triggered for a predetermined percentage increase in plots with DPP, with an additional 1% payment for further improved performance, up to a maximum of 15% of salary.
The land bank of plots with DPP available for completion in the following Achieved in part financial year grew by 8.2% during the year.
This exceeded the minimum 11% of salary awarded.
target and an award of 11% of salary was achieved.
Customer care No deterioration of previous years net assessment of customer satisfaction Maximum score as a minimum, with additional bonus opportunity for improvement in 15% of salary.
the Groups customer satisfaction score.
There is a minimum payment of 10% of salary for an NHBC score of 85.7% with an additional 1% payment for each 0.5% improvement in score up to a maximum of 15% of salary.
The Groups customer satisfaction score in 2018 was 86.0% compared with Minimum achieved the base of 85.7%.
This is a slight improvement on last years performance, 10% of salary awarded.
Health and safety performance is taken into account by the Committee as part of its overall assessment of the bonus payment, and the Committee has discretion to reduce the overall bonus payment if it considers that health and safety standards have been unsatisfactory.
The RIDDOR seven-day reportable incident rate per 100,000 site operatives reduced by 5.2%, and although our NHBC Safety Score for the year deteriorated, it was still around two and a half times better than the industry average.
Overall, the Committee is satisfied that the resulting bonus payment of 102.36% of salary out of 120% is reflective of the Companys record performance during the year.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives vesting in respect of performance period ended 31 July 2018 The PSP awards granted in 2015 16 were based on a three-year TSR performance for the period to 31 July 2018.
The applicable vesting percentages will be as follows: Metric Performance condition Threshold Stretch Actual % vesting target target 50% of awards Relative TSR against an index of peer 26.41% TSR 48.91% 54.06% 100.000% housebuilders comprising Barratt Index TSR Index Bellway TSR Developments PLC, The Berkeley Group plc, 22.5% Bovis Homes Group PLC, Crest Nicholson Holdings plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc and Taylor Wimpey plc Index : 25% of this part of an award vests at the Index, increasing, prorata, to full vesting at Index 22.5% 7.5% p. a.. 50% of awards Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding 83 rank 41.75 rank 42 Bellway 99.550% financial services companies and investment median upper rank trusts : 25% of this part of an award vests at quartile median, increasing, pro-rata, to full vesting at the upper quartile.
Total 99.775% Regardless of TSR performance, no part of an award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period, taking into account, inter alia, operating profit, operating margin, RoCE and NAV.
The Committee agreed that this underpin had been met and the following awards are expected to be exercisable on 13 November 2018 for Ted Ayres and Keith Adey and on 21 January 2019 for Jason Honeyman.
The award made to Jason Honeyman in 2016 was made in respect of his position as Southern Regional Chairman, before he joined the Board.
Number of Guaranteed number Estimated value 1 shares at grant of shares to vest at vesting 000 2 Ted Ayres 30,496 30,427 963 Keith Adey 19,701 19,656 622 Jason Honeyman 11,727 11,700 370 Notes: 1.
Based on a share price of 31.65, being the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year i. e. 1 May 31 July 2018 as a proxy for the share price at vesting.
The award made to Ted Ayres has been pro-rated down from 33,727 to 30,496 on a time basis to 31 July 2018, the date on which he retired from the Board.
Additional shares not included above will be awarded in lieu of dividends accrued from the date of the award to the date of vesting in respect of each director as follows: Ted Ayres 3,708 shares and Keith Adey 2,395 shares.
For Jason Honeymans award the additional shares in lieu of dividends accrued will be calculated following the ex-dividend date of the final dividend for the year ended 31 July 2018, which is after the date of publication of this report.
Details of these additional shares will be included in next years annual report.
John Watson received an additional payment of 100,000 p. a. from 14 August 2017 to 31 July 2018 to reflect the executive responsibilities he undertook during Ted Ayres leave of absence.
This payment was eligible for a bonus on the same basis as the bonus payable to the executive directors.
Ted Ayres basic salary for 2017 18 was 656,000 and where reference is made in this report to his basic salary for 2017 18 this is the amount to which reference is being made.
The figure shown in the table above is the actual amount paid during the financial year, reflecting a reduction in his take-home pay during his absence on sick leave.
Jason Honeyman was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2017.
His salary and bonus were set at the same level as Keith Adeys but the amounts shown as paid reflects the fact that he joined the Board after the start of the financial year.
Jill Caseberry was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2017, Mike Toms retired from the Board on 13 December 2017 and Ian McHoul was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2018.
Fees paid to these non-executive directors reflect their shorter period of service during the financial year.
Taxable benefits include car allowance and health insurance.
Pension includes both payments in lieu of pension of 257,991 and contributions to a defined contribution scheme of 19,951.
None of the directors are members of the Groups defined benefit scheme and all of the executive directors are members of a defined contribution scheme.
The value of long-term incentives in 2018 reflects the vesting of the 2015 PSP awards, which will be exercisable in 2018 19, including additional shares in lieu of dividends accrued from the date of grant to the date of vesting.
The value shown is based on a share price of 31.65, being the average share price for the last quarter of the financial year i. e. 1 May 31 July 2018 as a proxy for the share price at vesting.
The 2017 figures for Ted Ayres and Keith Adey have been adjusted upwards by 346,450 and 200,047 respectively to reflect the actual share prices at the dates of vesting, which took place after the publication of last years report, and the additional shares in lieu of dividends accrued from the date of grant to the date of vesting of the 2014 SMP awards 2,024 and 1,153 shares respectively.
The additional shares in lieu of dividends accrued for the 2014 PSP awards were already included in the figure shown in last years report.
Other items refer to the discount on the awards, during the year stated, under the Groups all-employee savings related share option scheme.
The performance period was 1 August 2014 31 July 2017.
The TSR performance condition was in two parts.
Half was measured by reference to an index of UK housebuilders comprising Barratt Developments PLC, The Berkeley Group plc, Bovis Homes Group PLC, Crest Nicholson Holdings plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc and Taylor Wimpey plc Housebuilders Index.
If Bellways TSR matched that of the index, 25% of the awards would vest.
Full vesting would be achieved for 7.5% per annum outperformance of the index 22.5% in total.
The other half was measured by reference to the companies in the FTSE 250 Index excluding financial services companies and investment trusts.
Awards would start to vest at 25% if Bellways TSR matches the median of the companies in the group, increasing on a straight-line basis so that full vesting would be achieved if Bellways TSR reached the upper quartile.
Regardless of TSR performance, no part of an award will vest unless the Committee is satisfied that there has been an improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company over the performance period, taking into account, inter alia, operating profit, operating margin, RoCE and NAV.
Both parts of the performance conditions were met in full so 100% of these awards vested.
Details of the vesting of these awards which will take place in the 2018 19 financial year is set out in full under the heading Long-term incentives vesting in respect of performance period ended 31 July 2018 above.
These awards are also subject to clawback provisions.
The performance period is 1 August 2016 31 July 2019.
The awards are subject to the same TSR performance condition set out in note 1 above, and these awards are also subject to clawback provisions.
On 10 November 2017, awards of performance shares under the PSP were made to the executive directors.
The performance period is 1 August 2017 31 July 2020.
The awards are subject to the same TSR performance condition set out in note 1, and these awards are also subject to clawback provisions.
The awards were in the form of nil cost options.
The face values on grant of these awards were 983,998, 574,471 and 574,471 to Ted Ayres, Keith Adey and Jason Honeyman respectively, equal to 150% of their respective salaries.
These awards were made to Jason Honeyman during his employment as Southern Regional Chairman, before he joined the Board.
All of the above options set out in notes 15 were granted for nil consideration.
Bellway p. l. c. 72 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance 7.
The gross gain made by the executive directors on the exercise of their 2013 SRSOS awards in 2018 was 46,442 2017 nil.
The value of long-term incentive plans for the executive directors which were exercised in the year and those which will become exercisable in 2018 19 are shown in the single figure of total remuneration table on page 71.
Further details of the 2013 SRSOS are shown in the summary of outstanding share options in note 23 to the accounts.
The awards made to Ted Ayres which were outstanding as at 31 July 2018 will be exercisable on the normal exercise dates.
Awards have been time pro-rated for length of service from date of grant to 31 July 2018, and are subject to the performance conditions and performance periods set out above.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 July 2018 was 2,917p and the closing range during the year was 2,857p to 3,792p.
Payments to past directors No payments were made to past directors in the year.
Payments for loss of office No payments were made for loss of office in the year.
Payments will be made to Ted Ayres in the 2018 19 financial year in relation to his retirement from the Board on 31 July 2018.
Full details of these payments will be set out in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests The directors interests including family interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 July 2018 are set out below: Director Beneficially % basic salary Shareholding Beneficially Outstanding Outstanding Share options owned at held by executive target of 200% owned at and unvested and unvested exercised in 31 July 2018 directors in of basic salary 31 July 2017 PSP awards share options the year 1 shares met?
Executive directors are required to accumulate a minimum shareholding equivalent to 200% of basic salary.
Jason Honeyman only joined the Board in September 2017 so has not yet had sufficient time to build the target shareholding from vesting share awards.
There has been no change in any of the above interests between 31 July 2018 and the date of this report, except that Ted Ayres retired from the Board on 31 July 2018 and so his interests at the date of this report are no longer disclosable.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Remuneration Report continued The following section of this report is not required to be audited.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2018 19 This section sets out how the Company will implement the remuneration policy for the 2018 19 financial year.
Full details of how each element will operate are set out in the remuneration policy table earlier in this report.
Basic salaries The Committee has awarded Keith Adey a salary increase in line with the increases given to the general workforce of around 2.5% for 2018 19.
Therefore from 1 August 2018, Keiths salary was increased to 392,575 p. a.
On 1 August 2018 Jason Honeyman was promoted from Chief Operating Officer to Chief Executive and his basic salary was increased to reflect his increased level of responsibilities.
In line with the current policy on salaries for new executive directors, the Committee considers that a phased approach to the new Chief Executives salary is appropriate to allow him time to gain experience and develop into the role, and therefore his salary has initially been set significantly below market levels and the salary of the departing Chief Executive at 530,000 in his first year.
As a secondary reference point, the Committee has conducted a benchmarking exercise and is comfortable that the proposed salary for 2019 20 is appropriate for the role and not excessive.
Thereafter it is expected that the Chief Executive will be awarded salary increases consistent with the average salary increase to the general workforce.
Annual bonus For the 2018 19 financial year, the bonus opportunity will continue to be limited to 120% of basic salary.
The performance conditions relate to a stretching target of pre-exceptional operating profit with a maximum payment of 90% of basic salary achievable and the following strategic performance measures which provide a maximum bonus opportunity of 30% of basic salary.
Strategic measure Objectives Score Land bank Increase in the land bank of plots with DPP available for completion in the following Maximum financial year in the year to 31 July 2019 to ensure our growth aspirations are not 15% of salary.
frustrated by land shortages in future years.
Customer care This will be in two parts: Maximum 15% of salary.
7.5% of salary for achieving 5 star home builder status as measured by the HBF.
No deterioration of the previous years customer satisfaction score would result in a minimum payment of 4.5% of salary, with an additional bonus opportunity of 1% of salary for each additional 0.5% improvement in the score up to a maximum of 7.5% of salary.
The customer satisfaction score element is assessed using the average of six key indicators, as measured by the NHBC.
This measure is used as it reflects the metrics by which the performance of each division is managed by the executives.
In the event that the threshold profit criterion is not met, no bonus will be payable under the strategic targets.
The Committee would have discretion if, for example, health and safety standards have been unsatisfactory, or there has been a major safety failure, to reduce the overall bonus payment and could, in exceptional cases, reduce the overall bonus payment to nil.
This includes a possible reduction to the 2018 19 bonus in relation to the outcome of any health and safety investigation which has concluded in respect of the prior year.
Maintaining a strong health and safety record remains a critical objective and the new bonus structure provides for health and safety to have greater influence on annual bonus outcomes.
The actual annual bonus performance targets are considered to be commercially sensitive at this time, and the Committee will disclose these retrospectively in next years annual report on remuneration, provided they are no longer commercially sensitive.
Long-term incentives The Company anticipates making a grant under the PSP in October 2018 with a face value equivalent to 150% of salary to the executive directors.
Awards will vest to executives after three years, subject to the achievement of performance conditions based around TSR, which measures the total return on a notional investment in Bellway shares, compared to the return on the same notional investment in shares in a group of other companies or an index.
This award will be subject to a relative TSR condition with 50% of awards measured against a group of housebuilders and the other 50% against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding financial services companies and investment trusts.
This is shown overleaf: Bellway p. l. c. 74 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Metric Performance condition Threshold target Stretch target 50% of awards Relative TSR against an index of peer housebuilders comprising Barratt TSR Index TSR Index Developments PLC, The Berkeley Group plc, Bovis Homes Group PLC, 7.5% p. a. Crest Nicholson Holdings plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc and Taylor Wimpey plc Index : 25% of this part of an award vests at the Index, increasing, pro-rata, to full vesting at Index 7.5% p. a.
50% of awards Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding financial services Median Upper quartile companies and investment trusts : 25% of this part of an award vests at median, increasing, pro-rata, to full vesting at the upper quartile.
Chairman and non-executive director fees from 1 August 2018 Fee from % increase Fee from 1 August 2017 1 August 2018 Non-executive Chairman fee 212,000 2.5 217,000 Non-executive director fee 57,680 0.9 58,200 Senior independent non-executive director, Audit and 8,240 21.4 10,000  Chair fees The average fee increase for the non-executive directors is 2.5%, which is consistent with the average salary increase to the general workforce.
In respect of the senior independent non-executive director and those non-executive directors who chair acommittee a differential has been applied to reflect the time commitment and responsibility required by the roles and to bring each component broadly in line with the median of the upper half of the FTSE 250.
The Companys Articles of Association specify an annual limit on non-executive director fees of 500,000.
This excludes the fees for the Chairman and additional fees payable to the senior independent non-executive director and to Committee Chairs.
Shareholder approval is required to amend this limit.
Performance graph and table The graph below shows the TSR performance over the past nine years of the Company, the FTSE 250 Index and the bespoke Housebuilders Index as defined in note 1 on page 72.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as the most appropriate broad equity market index as the Company has been a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index over this period.
The bespoke Housebuilders Index has been selected as this index is used for the Companys long-term incentive plans.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Total shareholder return rebased Remuneration Report continued Chief Executive total remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration for the Chief Executive over the same nine-year period as for the chart above, together with the percentage of annual bonus paid and the vesting of long-term incentives as a percentage of the maximum relating to the performance periods ending in that year.
John Watson held the role of Chief Executive up until 31 January 2013 and Ted Ayres was Chief Executive for the remainder of the financial year from 1 February 2013 to 31 July 2013.
The total remuneration for the period as Chief Executive was 714,053 for John Watson and 528,500 for Ted Ayres.
Restated as per note 7 to the table on page 71.
The Chief Executive was absent during the 2017 18 financial year due to ill health and so the figures shown are lower than would normally be expected if he had been at work during the year.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive The table below shows the percentage change over the financial year in respect of the Chief Executives base salary, benefits and annual bonus compared to the average increase across all employees.
% change Salary Chief Executive 3 All other employees 3 Benefits Chief Executive 3 All other employees 1 Annual bonus Chief Executive -100 All other employees 4 Importance of remuneration relative to dividends and section 106 and CIL payments The table below shows the relative expenditure of the Group in respect of employee remuneration, dividends and section 106 and CIL payments, together with the percentage change in each, for the financial years ended 31 July 2017 and 31 July 2018.
The directors have chosen dividends and section 106 and CIL payments as comparators to employee costs as they consider that these demonstrate the relative importance of the remuneration of its employees to the returns the Group generates to shareholders and the contribution it makes to developing communities through section 106 and CIL payments.
Employee costs are calculated as wages and salaries, bonus and taxable benefits including the directors.
The dividend figures shown are the interim and final dividends paid or payable for the relevant financial year less forfeited dividends see note 6.
The section 106 and CIL payments figures are calculated from invoices received for these payments.
Dilution limits shares held in Trust to satisfy awards The Bellway Employee Share Trust 1992 the Trust holds market-purchased shares to satisfy awards made under some of the Companys executive and employee share schemes.
At 31 July 2018 the Trust held 65,540 shares.
It is the Companys current intention to use new issue shares to satisfy awards made under the PSP.
Awards made under the deferred bonus plans to which the executive directors are not eligible must be satisfied using market-purchased shares.
The SRSOS uses new issued shares.
The Companys share plans comply with the IA guidance on dilution limits and the position as at 31 July 2018 was: Limit of 5% in any ten years under all executive share plans Actual 0.16% Limit of 10% in any ten years under all share plans Actual 1.24% Bellway p. l. c. 76 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Statement of voting at AGMs The votes cast by proxy at AGMs in relation to resolutions regarding directors remuneration are set out in the table below: Directors Remuneration Policy Report of the Board on binding vote at AGM Directors Remuneration on 13 December 2017 advisory vote at AGM on 13 December 2017 Number % of Number % of of votes votes cast of votes votes cast For 84,362,645 97.451 84,225,240 98.191 Against 2,206,550 2.549 1,551,554 1.809 Total votes cast excluding votes withheld 86,569,195 100.000 85,776,794 100.000 Votes withheld 578,001 1,370,402 This report will be put to an advisory vote of the Companys shareholders at the AGM on 12 December 2018.
On behalf of the Board Jill Caseberry Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15 October 2018 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77
