Remuneration Report Year ended 31 March 2018 INTRODUCTION This report details the activities of the Remuneration Committee for the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
The report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
It sets out the proposed Remuneration Policy for which the Committee is seeking approval at the forthcoming AGM and remuneration details for the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company both in terms of how the existing Policy has been operated and how the proposed Policy will operate.
It has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-size Companies and Groups Accounts and Report Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The report is divided into three main sections: The Annual Statement which summarises the remuneration outcomes in the year ended 31 March 2018, the proposed new Remuneration Policy and how it will be operated in the year ending 31 March 2019: The Remuneration Policy Report which sets out the proposed Remuneration Policy for which shareholder approval will be sought at the 2018 AGM: and The Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out how the Committee intends to operate the Remuneration Policy for the year ending 31 March 2019, the link between Company performance and remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2018 and payments and awards made to the Directors in respect of the year just ended.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the shareholders on certain parts of the Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
The parts of the Annual Report on Remuneration that are subject to audit are indicated in the report.
The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chair and the Remuneration Policy Report are not subject to audit.
The Committee and its Work During the Year Committee Chair: Tim Clark to 19 July 2017, Georgina Harvey from 20 July 2017 Committee members: Tim Clark from 20 July 2017, Richard Cotton, Georgina Harvey until 19 July 2017, Steve Johnson, Mark Richardson until 20 July 2017, Vince Niblett from 1 June 2017 and Anna Keay from 1 March 2018 Terms of Reference: www.
co. uk investors governance remuneration-policy.
aspx The Committee met four times during the year under review.
The Committees main activities during the year ended 31 March 2018 full details are set out in the relevant sections of this report included: Agreeing Executive Director base salary increases from 1 April 2017 2% : Agreeing the annual bonus pay-out for the year ended 31 March 2017 and setting the targets for the annual bonus for the year ended 31 March 2018: Reviewing the interim performance targets in respect of the Long Term Bonus Performance Plan LTBPP awards which had a three-year performance period ended 31 March 2018: Reviewing the EPS and Total Shareholder Return TSR performance targets and determining the percentage vesting for the 2014 LTIP awards which vested in 2017: Reviewing the Companys Gender Pay calculations and draft disclosures: and Reviewing the Remuneration Policy and consulting with the Companys major shareholders and representative bodies in respect of the proposed Remuneration Policy which will be taken to shareholders for approval at the 2018 AGM.
ANNUAL STATEMENT Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2018.
This is my first report as Chair of the Committee and I would like to thank Tim Clark, who chaired the Committee for nine years, for all of his hard work.
At the 2018 AGM, we will be tabling a binding resolution to seek shareholder approval to update our existing Directors Remuneration Policy, for which shareholder approval was originally obtained in 2015.
A binding resolution will also be tabled to seek approval for the establishment of a Deferred Share Bonus Plan to enable part of the annual bonus to be deferred into shares for a period of time.
In addition, the regular advisory resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration will also be tabled.
Performance, Decisions and Reward Outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2018 The business conditions and performance of the Group in the year ended 31 March 2018 are described more fully in the Chairmans Statement and the Operating and Financial Review of this Annual Report.
In summary: The business of the Group performed strongly: Big Yellow is the clear UK brand leader in self storage and delivered growth in occupancy, cash flow and earnings for the ninth year in a row: Revenue, cash flow and adjusted profit before tax increased by 7%, 13% and 12% respectively: Like-for-like occupancy increased by 3.9 ppts: and Dividends are being increased by 12%.
This strong performance has been reflected in the annual bonus award and share awards which vested in the year ended 31 March 2018.
66 Performance, Decisions and Reward Outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2018 continued Payments made to the Executive Directors under the annual bonus plan amounted to 12.9% of salary out of a maximum of 25% of salary, based on performance against pre-set targets for occupancy, store profitability, store audits and customer satisfaction.
The targets set, and the out-turn were consistent with the average bonus awarded across the stores and head office.
As a result of the Long Term Bonus Performance Plan LTBPP awards reaching the end of the three-year performance period to 31 March 2018, 93.3% of the awards are expected to vest in August 2018 based on strong performance against financial and non-financial performance targets linked to the business plan.
In respect of the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards granted in 2014, which vested in July 2017, three-year EPS and TSR performance resulted in 100% of awards vesting.
Further details of the targets, and performance against the targets, for annual bonus pay-outs and share award vesting levels are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration Policy Review Big Yellow has sought to offer a remuneration policy for its Executive Directors close to, but generally below market levels.
However, packages in practice and salary levels in particular, have been significantly below market levels in recent years.
In addition, the Policy has been at the more complicated end of market practice due to the operation of three incentive plans, being an annual bonus, a conventional LTIP granted annually and LTBPP whereby awards have been granted every three years.
It is against this background and the sensitivities surrounding the executive pay debate that the Committee has reviewed Big Yellows Remuneration Policy, which has been in place since it was formally approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Following the completion of its review, the Committee has concluded that the current incentive arrangements are overly complicated in terms of administration and communication and the current salary positioning is no longer sustainable and risks creating significant issues in future in respect of both retention and recruitment.
As such, the Committee wishes to simplify the Remuneration Policy and align it to a more conventional approach in respect of fixed and variable pay which better reflects Big Yellow in terms of maturity, size and complexity and individual contributions in terms of each individuals relative responsibilities and roles.
The Committee is therefore proposing: i a major simplification and reduction, in percentage of salary terms of Big Yellows incentive arrangements: ii certain adjustments to Executive Director base salary levels to more appropriate and fair levels: iii a reduction to Executive Director pension provision in support of the Investment Associations encouragement for pension alignment internally: and iv additional enhanced shareholder protections to update the Policy.
Summary of the Proposed Changes While details of the proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy and its implementation are set out in detail in the Directors Remuneration Policy and Annual Report on Remuneration, in summary, the key changes are: Simplified incentive arrangements the LTBPP, whereby awards are granted every three years, with performance targets set annually and reviewed at the end of each financial year and end of the three-year period, will be replaced by a conventional deferred annual bonus arrangement.
Rather than enabling a grant of up to 675% of salary every three years providing the average award level across the four Executive Directors does not exceed 450% of salary award every three years, it is proposed that going forward, subject to shareholder approval, the LTBPP is consolidated into the annual bonus albeit with significant deferral.
As such, the annual bonus will be capped at 150% of salary with the existing 25% of salary continuing to be aligned to the workforce cash annual bonus measured through occupancy growth, store profitability, store audits and customer satisfaction scores, and the remaining 125% of salary measured against financial, operational, real estate and strategic targets deferred into Big Yellow shares for three years with vesting subject to continued employment.
Full details of the performance targets set, and Big Yellows performance against those targets with resulting pay-outs, will normally be disclosed in the relevant Remuneration Report for the year just ended.
Alternatively, if the targets are considered to be commercially sensitive, they will be disclosed at the point the Committee considers that they have ceased to be so.
Phased base salary increases Executive Director base salaries will be increased over three years, to more closely reflect each Executive Directors role and contribution to Big Yellow and Big Yellows size and complexity, which has increased significantly.
While the Committee has operated a policy of targeting base salaries close to but generally just below median for some time, actual salaries have been set significantly below median levels.
Following a review of Executive Director base salary levels as part of the Remuneration Policy review, the Remuneration Committee has concluded that current salary levels are no longer reflective of each individuals role and responsibilities in a company of Big Yellows size and complexity given the increase in: i the number of stores: ii the geographical spread, iii the employee base: iv customers: v revenue: and vi profits over the last ten years.
As such, and in connection with the simplification and fide-gearing of incentive potential as part of the Remuneration Policy review, the following base salary increases are proposed: Executive Chief Financial Operations Chief Executive Chairman Officer Director James Gibson Nicholas Vetch John Trotman Adrian Lee Current 302,000 275,200 223,700 223,700 From 1 April 2018 350,000 315,000 260,000 250,000 From 1 April 2019 400,000 350,000 300,000 270,000 From 1 April 2020 440,000 375,000 325,000 285,000 67 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2018 Summary of the Proposed Changes continued The Committee considers the proposed base salary levels to be more appropriate in light of each individuals role and contribution to Big Yellow and Big Yellows size and complexity although they remain conservatively positioned against the sector and market more generally.
Further, in addition to his Executive Chairman role, it should also be noted that Nicholas Vetch has also taken on executive responsibility for the property team in the past year, covering both property acquisitions and development.
The proposed salary increases are neither post freeze catch-up awards, nor are they benchmarking driven and while the Committee had originally intended to increase salary levels from 1 April 2018 and 1 April 2019, the Committee has decided to phase the salary increases over three years following feedback received from a number of investors during consultation.
Further, in line with best practice, the increases from 1 April 2019 and 1 April 2020 are not guaranteed but will be subject to satisfactory Group and individual performance during the years ending 31 March 2019 and 31 March 2020.
Other than for a material role change, subsequent salary increases are expected to be in line with the general workforce increases.
Reduced pension provision Reflecting the proposed base salary increases and the Investment Associations recent encouragement for company pension provision to be aligned to that provided to the general workforce as a percentage of salary, Executive Director pension provision will be reduced from 15% of salary with a policy maximum of 20% of salary to 10% of salary being the pension provided for the Companys Department Heads.
Enhanced shareholder protection A two-year post vesting holding period will be introduced on future LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors following the 2018 AGM.
Further, withholding and recovery provisions malus and clawback will be added to the annual and deferred bonus plan and the existing provisions in the LTIP will be updated and enhanced where necessary.
Shareholding guidelines will remain at 200% of salary.
Shareholder Consultation Exercise and 2018 AGM Resolutions The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered the proposed policy on executive remuneration and the implementation of the approach underlying that policy during the year ending 31 March 2019.
This has included an extensive consultation exercise with Big Yellows top 15 investors and the major shareholder representative bodies and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for their constructive and very positive feedback on the proposals, which the Committee considered and which helped formulate the final policy that is being put to shareholders for approval.
I therefore hope that, at the AGM on 19 July 2018, you will support: the binding resolution on the revised Directors Remuneration Policy contained within this Remuneration Report: the binding resolution on the establishment of a Deferred Share Bonus Plan to enable a significant part of the annual bonus to be deferred into shares for a period of time: and the advisory resolution on the remuneration paid to the Directors in the last financial year, and implementation of the new Remuneration Policy for the forthcoming year as set out in the Annual Remuneration Report section of this Remuneration Report.
Finally, I would like to extend my thanks to my fellow colleagues on the Committee for their support and work in 2017 18.
Georgina Harvey Chair of the Remuneration Committee 21 May 2018 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy which will govern the Companys approach to remuneration.
Following a remuneration review conducted by the Committee, a revised Remuneration Policy is being proposed which will be put to shareholders for approval at the Companys AGM on 19 July 2018.
It is the policy of the Company to ensure that the executive remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain Directors of a high calibre and reward the executives for enhancing value to shareholders.
As a result, a substantial element of the remuneration of the Executive Directors is structured to be dependent on the performance of the Company.
The policy aims to support a performance culture where there is appropriate reward for the achievement of strong Company performance without creating incentives which will encourage excessive risk-taking or unsustainable Company performance.
Policy Scope The Policy applies to the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
Policy Duration The new Directors Remuneration Policy Report will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 19 July 2018 and, subject to receiving majority shareholder support, the Policy will apply from the date of approval and is intended to remain in place for a maximum of three years.
That said, the Remuneration Committee will keep the Policy under review to ensure that it continues to remain appropriate.
68 Changes from 2015 Remuneration Policy The main changes from the 2015 Remuneration Policy are summarised below: Simplified incentive arrangements.
The Long Term Bonus Performance Plan LTBPP, whereby awards are granted every three years, with performance targets set annually and reviewed at the end of each financial year and at the end of the three year period, will be consolidated into the annual bonus arrangement albeit with significant deferral.
Rather than enabling a grant of up to 675% of salary every three years providing the average award level across the four Executive Directors does not exceed 450% of salary award every three years, it is proposed that going forward, subject to shareholder approval, the annual bonus will be capped at 150% of salary with: 25% of salary continuing to be aligned to the workforce cash annual bonus measured against store performance, through occupancy growth, store profitability, store audits and customer satisfaction scores : and the remaining 125% of salary measured against financial, operational, real estate and strategic targets deferred into Big Yellow shares for three years, with vesting subject to continued employment.
Reflecting the proposed base salary increases explained in the Annual Statement and Annual Report on Remuneration and the Investment Associations recent encouragement for company pension provision to be aligned to that provided to the general workforce as a percentage of salary, Executive Director pension provision will be reduced from 15% of salary with a policy maximum of 20% of salary to 10% of salary being the pension provided for Big Yellow Department Heads.
In addition to the changes above, a two-year post vesting holding period will be introduced on future LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors following the 2018 AGM and withholding and recovery provisions malus and clawback will be added to the annual and deferred bonus plan and the existing provisions in the LTIP will be updated and enhanced where necessary.
To aid the administration and clarity of its operation, a number of minor changes have also been made to the wording of the Policy where appropriate.
Summary Policy table Executive Directors The main components of the Directors Remuneration Policy, and how they are linked to and support the Companys business strategy, which will take effect subject to approval from shareholders at the AGM on 19 July 2018, are summarised below: Executive Directors Purpose and link Performance conditions to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment None Base salary To provide Base salary is normally set annually on Salaries are typically set after considering competitive fixed 1 April.
the salary levels in companies of a similar remuneration size and complexity in the FTSE 250.
When considering any increases to base that will attract salaries in the normal course as opposed Our overall policy is normally to target and retain key to a change in role or responsibility, the salaries at close to median levels.
employees and Committee will take into consideration: Base salaries are intended to increase in reflect their level of skill, experience, scope of line with inflation and general employee experience and responsibilities and performance: increases in salary.
position in the business performance, economic Company.
Higher increases may apply if there is a climate and market conditions: change in role, level of responsibility or pay and employment conditions of experience or if the individual is new to employees throughout the Group, the role.
including increases provided to staff: There is no maximum salary cap in place.
and inflation: and increases provided to Executive Directors in comparable companies although such data would be used with caution.
Annual bonus The annual bonus Executive Directors participate in an annual Bonus potential: Assessed annually aligns reward to performance-related bonus scheme.
and determined by key Group strategic the Committee Up to 25% of salary will be paid in cash.
objectives and based on financial, Up to 125% of salary will be deferred drives short-term strategic and or into shares for three years.
personal Dividend equivalents may be payable performance on deferred share awards.
against the Groups business plan for The annual bonus plan rules contain each financial year.
69 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2018 Summary Policy table Executive Directors Purpose and link Performance conditions to strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment Vesting under the Long Term The Long Term Awards are made annually to the Executive Maximum annual grant is 100% of base LTIP is based on Incentive Plan Incentive Plan Directors and certain senior managers who salary, with normal awards of 100% of financial and aligns Executive are in a position to influence significantly annual salary for the Executive Directors.
share-price related Director interests the performance of the Group in the form of Minimum vesting is 25% of salary assuming performance with those of nil-paid options.
achievement of threshold performance, and measures.
shareholders The awards granted under the Long Term the maximum vesting is 100% of salary.
and rewards Incentive Plan are subject to performance value creation.
conditions to be met over a performance period of three years.
Dividend equivalents may be payable on LTIP awards during the vesting period, to the extent awards vest.
The LTIP contains clawback and malus provisions.
A two year post vesting holding period will be applied to any LTIP award granted to Executive Directors following the 2018 AGM.
Pension To provide Contribution made into Executive Directors Maximum contribution of 10% of salary.
None competitive levels personal pension plan, or a cash of retirement supplement of equivalent value paid in lieu benefit.
Other benefits To provide Benefits include: Maximum opportunity is the total cost None competitive levels of providing the benefits.
There is no Private fuel of employment monetary cap on benefits.
Permanent health insurance Life assurance of four times base salary Relocation allowances where relevant Other benefits may be provided where appropriate.
The type and level of benefits provided is reviewed annually to ensure they remain market competitive.
Shareholding To ensure that Requirement to build and maintain a holding 200% of salary.
N A policy Executive Directors of shares in the Company, through retaining interests are at least 50% of shares vesting in aligned with those discretionary share-based incentive plans of shareholders if this guideline has not been met.
All Employee To encourage share Executive Directors may participate in In line with the prevailing None Scheme ownership by all any HMRC tax favoured all employee HMRC limits.
allows them to align their interests with those of investors and also to share in the longterm success of the Company.
70 Notes to the policy table The key principle for the short and long-term incentives is to provide a strong link between reward and individual and Group performance to align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
Annual bonus performance measures and targets Annual bonuses for the Executive Directors are based on: 25% of salary cash bonus: the average of the stores performance against their quarterly targets providing direct alignment of the Directors bonuses to performance and the bonus levels of the staff.
The four Key Performance Indicators used to assess store performance are occupancy growth, store profitability, store audits and customer satisfaction.
Store targets are set every quarter and an average of the four quarters is taken.
125% of salary deferred share bonus: measured against pre-set financial, operational, real estate and strategic targets.
Long Term Incentive Plan performance measures and targets The Committee selected the performance conditions on the LTIP as they provide a direct link between the incentive for the Executive Directors and the value created for shareholders.
The two metrics for the outstanding and proposed 2018 awards are: Relative TSR against the FTSE Real Estate Index, as Big Yellows historic performance has been closely aligned to the performance of this Index: and The adjusted EPS figure is as reported in the audited results of the Group for the last complete financial year ending before the start of the performance period and the last complete financial year ending before the end of the performance period.
Malus and clawback The annual bonus, deferred bonus plan and LTIP include malus and clawback provisions.
Malus is the adjustment of outstanding deferred bonus and LTIP awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
The adjustment may result in the value being reduced to zero.
Malus will apply for the three year period from grant to vesting for the deferred bonus and LTIP awards.
Clawback is the recovery of payments vestings under the cash bonus and LTIP as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
Clawback will apply for three years post payment of a cash bonus grant of deferred share awards and three years post vesting for LTIP awards.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows: discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited consolidated accounts of the Company: the assessment of any performance target or condition in respect of an award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: the discovery that any information used to determine the amount of an award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: action or conduct of an award holder which, in the reasonable opinion of the Board, amounts to fraud or gross misconduct: and events or behaviour which have led to the censure of the Company by a regulatory authority or have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group Company.
Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
In certain circumstances, the Committee will be required to exercise its discretion, taking into consideration the particular circumstances of an Executive Directors departure and or the recent performance of the Company in determining the specific level of payments to be made.
In addition to the discretions under the terms of the annual bonus plan both cash and deferred shares and LTIP, the Committee has discretion to determine whether an individual is classified as a good leaver.
It should be noted that it is the Committees policy to only apply its discretion if the circumstances at the time are, in its opinion, sufficiently exceptional, and to provide a full explanation to shareholders where discretion is exercised.
The Committee does not currently intend to amend or waive any performance conditions.
Differences in remuneration policy for all employees All employees are currently entitled to base salary, benefits, pensions and the Sharesave Scheme.
Additionally, all employees are eligible for annual bonuses with the maximum opportunity available based on the seniority and responsibility of the role held.
The Companys LTIPs are granted to a number of senior managers within Head Office, the area manager team and also to store managers.
71 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2018 Illustrations of application of Remuneration Policy The graphs below seek to demonstrate how pay varies with performance for the Executive Directors based on the proposed Remuneration Policy, which is subject to shareholder approval.
The assumptions used in determining the level of pay out under given scenarios are as follows: Scenario Description Fixed Pay Chief Executive Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Operations Director Base salary 350,000 315,000 260,000 250,000 1 April 2018 Estimated 6,000 5,000 2,000 5,000 Benefits Pension 10% 10% 10% 10% % of salary On-target 50% of annual bonus award being paid and 50% vesting of the LTIP.
Maximum 100% of annual bonus award being paid i. e. 150% of salary and 100% vesting of the LTIP.
Chief Executive Officer Executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Operations Director 000 1,500 1,266 1,139 1,250 28% 938 28% 905 1,000 829 745 28% 28% 21% 750 21% 613 593 41% 41% 21% 21% 32% 32% 41% 391 41% 500 352 32% 32% 288 280 100% 47% 31% 47% 100% 100% 47% 100% 31% 47% 31% 31% 250 0 Minimum Median Maximum Minimum Median Maximum Minimum Median Maximum Minimum Median Maximum Long term incentive Annual bonus Fixed 72 Summary Policy table Non-Executive Directors Objective and link Performance conditions to the strategy Operation Maximum potential value and assessment N A Fees To attract NonFee levels are normally reviewed annually Fee levels are normally set at broadly Executive Directors in March.
median levels for comparable roles at with the requisite companies of a similar size and complexity The Non-Executive Director fee structure skills and within the FTSE 250. is a matter for the full Board.
experience Fees are normally intended to increase in Non-Executive Directors may be entitled to line with inflation.
benefits relating to travel and office support and such other benefits as may be considered appropriate.
The fees may be paid in the form of shares.
Non-Executive Directors fees comprises of a base fee, with an additional 5,000 for a Committee Chairman and for the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The table below summarises our key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration: Salary and Set by reference to market and taking into account individual experience and expertise in the context of the role.
benefits Salary would also be set with reference to the salary of any departing Executive Director and the remaining Executive Directors.
The Executive Director would be eligible to receive benefits in line with Big Yellow Groups benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table this includes either a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits in line with the policies set out in the policy table.
Maximum variable Annual bonus of up to 150% of base salary.
incentive Long term incentive plan award of equivalent to 100% of base salary.
Sign-on payments The Company does not provide sign-on payments to Executive Directors.
Share buy-outs Any previous outstanding share awards which the Executive Director holds which would be forfeited on cessation of his or her previous employment may be compensated.
Where this is the case, the general principle is that the outstanding award will be valued based on the consideration of the following factors: The proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of employment: The performance conditions attached to the vesting of the incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and Any other terms and conditions having a material impact on their value.
The valuation will be conducted using a recognised valuation methodology by an independent party and the equivalent fair value may be awarded as a one-off LTIP on date of joining under the Companys existing long term incentive plan.
To the extent that this is not possible, a bespoke arrangement will be used.
To ensure effective retention of the Executive Director upon recruitment, any new award will be granted subject to performance conditions and vesting may be over the same period as those forfeited from the previous employer or a new three year period.
The exact terms will be determined by the Remuneration Committee on a case-by-case basis taking into account all relevant factors.
Relocation policies In instances where the new Executive Director is relocating from one work location to another, the Company may provide, as a oneoff or otherwise, a relocation allowance as part of the Directors relocation benefits.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case-by-case basis but will take into consideration any cost of living differences, housing allowance and schooling.
Service contracts The Companys policy on Directors service contracts is that they should be on a rolling basis without a specific end-date providing for one years notice.
All Executive Directors have contracts which reflect this policy.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
Their appointments are governed by letters of appointment which are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and which will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Each appointment is for a period of up to three years, although the continued appointment of all Directors is put to shareholders at the AGM on an annual basis.
In addition, the appointment is terminable by either party giving notice of three months.
73 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2018 Payments for loss of office Element Approach Salary and benefits Salary and benefits may be paid in lieu of notice.
In cases where a contract is terminated other than on the terms of the service contract, the Company will seek to mitigate any damages payable.
There will be no compensation for normal resignation or in the event of termination by the Company due to misconduct.
Annual bonus If the individual is a good leaver, bonus will be paid on a pro-rata basis in respect of the period from the start of the financial year.
Any pro-rated bonus would normally be payable in cash i. e. no award of deferred shares would be made.
Deferred share awards would normally vest at the normal vesting date although may vest at the date of cessation.
Good leaver is defined as an individual ceasing employment as a result of ill-health, disability, redundancy or retirement or in any other circumstances which the Committee permits.
A bad leaver is an Executive Director who does not fall within the category of good leaver and bad leavers will forfeit any entitlement to a bonus payment in respect of the current financial year or any completed financial year in respect of which the bonus has not been paid at the cessation date.
Long term incentives A proportion of the LTIP awards held by good leavers will vest at the Committees discretion determined by taking into account whether, LTIP and to what extent, any performance conditions have been satisfied and the length of time the LTIP award has been held at the date of cessation of employment.
The LTIP awards will not normally vest until the end of the performance period with performance tested at that time, although exceptionally such awards may, at the discretion of the Committee, vest at cessation of employment.
Good leaver is defined as an individual ceasing employment as a result of ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, or the sale out of the Group of his employing business for any other reason which the Committee in its absolute discretion permits.
A bad leaver is an Executive Director who does not fall within the category of good leaver and bad leavers will forfeit any unvested awards.
Other The Group may meet relocation and other incidental expenses on termination of employment, the fees of legal or other professional advisers, outplacement, compensation in respect of statutory rights under relevant employment protection legislation and accrued but untaken holiday.
It may also elect to continue to provide certain benefits rather than making payment in lieu of the benefit in question.
Statement of consideration of shareholders views The views of our shareholders are very important to the Committee and we have actively consulted with our major shareholders and the main representative bodies to help formulate our amended Remuneration Policy and arrangements proposed in this report.
Any consultations on remuneration with shareholders and representative bodies will usually be led by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year at its first meeting following the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings with shareholders throughout the year, is then considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee notes that shareholders do not speak with a single voice, but we engage with our largest shareholders to ensure we understand the range of views which exist on remuneration issues.
When any material changes are proposed to the Remuneration Policy, the Remuneration Committee Chair will inform major shareholders in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss these.
Shareholder voting The Group is committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
Where there are substantial votes against resolutions in relation to Directors remuneration, the reasons for that voting will be sought and any actions in response will be detailed here.
There have been no significant issues raised by shareholders in respect of remuneration in the year.
The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2017 Remuneration Report and the binding vote on the Remuneration Policy at the AGM held on 21 July 2015.
Votes for % Votes Against % Votes withheld 2017 Remuneration Report 120,565,327 99.17 1,006,046 0.83 3,811,797 2015 Remuneration Policy 124,032,466 99.22 979,331 0.78 177,620 74 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This section of the Remuneration Report contains details of how the Directors Remuneration Policy will, subject to shareholder approval, be implemented for the year ending 31 March 2019 and how it was implemented during the year ended 31 March 2018.
Implementing the Policy for the Year Ending 31 March 2019 Base salary While the Committee has operated a policy of targeting base salaries close to but generally just below median for some time, actual salaries have been set significantly below median levels.
Following a review of Executive Director base salary levels as part of the Remuneration Policy review, the Remuneration Committee has concluded that current salary levels are no longer reflective of each individuals role and responsibilities in a FTSE 250 company of Big Yellows size and complexity given the increase in i the numbers of stores: ii the geographical spread: iii the employee base: iv customers: v revenue: and vi profits.
As such, and in connection with the simplification and fide-gearing of incentive potential as part of the Remuneration Policy review, the following base salary increases are proposed: Executive Chief Financial Operations Chief Executive Chairman Officer Director James Gibson Nicholas Vetch John Trotman Adrian Lee Current 302,000 275,200 223,700 223,700 From 1 April 2018 350,000 315,000 260,000 250,000 From 1 April 2019 400,000 350,000 300,000 270,000 From 1 April 2020 440,000 375,000 325,000 285,000 The Committee considers the proposed base salary levels to be more appropriate in light of each individuals role and contribution to Big Yellow and Big Yellows size and complexity although they remain conservatively positioned against the sector and market more generally.
The proposed salary increases are neither post freeze catch-up awards, nor are they benchmarking driven and while the Committee had originally intended to increase salary levels from 1 April 2018 and 1 April 2019, the Committee has decided to phase the salary increases over three years following consultation with investors.
Benefits No changes will be made to benefit provision private fuel, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance and relocation allowances, where relevant.
Annual bonus Annual bonus potential will be capped at 150% of salary for the year ending 31 March 2019.
Up to 25% of salary will continue to be aligned to the workforce annual bonus measured against store performance, through occupancy growth, store profitability, store audits and customer satisfaction scores.
Any bonus earned under this part will be payable in cash, following the year ending 31 March 2019.
The remaining 125% of salary will be measured against financial, operational, real estate and strategic targets measured over the financial year ending 31 March 2019.
Any award under this part will be deferred into Big Yellow shares for three years with vesting subject to continued employment.
Pension Reflecting the proposed base salary increases and the Investment Associations recent encouragement for company pension provision to be aligned to that provided to the general workforce as a percentage of salary, Executive Director pension provision was reduced from 15% of salary to 10% of salary being the pension provided for the Companys Department Heads from 1 April 2018.
75 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2018 LTIP LTIP awards will continue to be granted to Executive Directors annually, over shares equal to 100% of salary.
The performance conditions for awards intended to be granted to Executive Directors in 2018 are as follows: 70% adjusted EPS adjusted EPS growth of RPI 3% p. a. for 25% of this element of the award to vest with full vesting occurring for adjusted EPS growth of RPI 8% p. a. : 30% relative TSR performance vs. FTSE Real Estate Index with 25% of this element of the award vesting for median TSR comparative performance and full vesting at upper quartile.
Subject to the new Remuneration Policy receiving shareholder approval, a two year post vesting holding period will be applied to any LTIP award granted to Executive Directors following the 2018 AGM.
Shareholding Guidelines The requirement to build and maintain a holding of at least 200% of salary in shares of the Company, through retaining at least 50% of shares vesting in discretionary share-based incentive plans if this guideline has not been met, will continue to apply.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director fees for the year ending 31 March 2019, together with the fees for the year ended 31 March 2018, are as follows: Non-Executive 2018 19 fee 2017 18 fee Richard Cotton 45,100 44,200 Tim Clark 45,100 44,200 Georgina Harvey 45,100 44,200 Steve Johnson 40,000 39,200 1 Anna Keay 40,000 39,200 1 Vince Niblett 45,100 44,200 1 Annual fee from appointment.
How the Policy Was Implemented for the Year Ended 31 March 2018 Single total figure of remuneration Audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director paid in the year ended 31 March 2018.
2 Nicholas Vetch and James Gibson receive a cash supplement in lieu of their full pension contributions.
Adrian Lee and John Trotman receive cash supplements in lieu of pension contributions above 10,000.
The values shown in long term incentives in the current year are as follows: the LTIP award granted in 2014 which vested on 29 July 2017 to 100% of its maximum value and is valued using the share price on that date of 787p.
The award granted for 2018 is 100% of salary for each Executive Director: the Long Term Bonus Performance Plan, which vested to 93.33% of its maximum value.
The award is exercisable from July 2018: and for James Gibson and John Trotman, Sharesave awards which matured in the financial year.
The average salary increase across the Group in the year was 2%: this increase was also applied to the Executive Directors from 1 April 2017.
76 Annual Bonus Plan awards The policy of the Company is that the cash bonus paid to the Executive Directors is the same as the average of the bonus awards as a % of salary paid to all the Groups stores on achieving their targets during the course of the year.
It is an important part of the Groups culture that the Executive team are rewarded with the same level of annual bonus as the average for all staff.
In respect of the year under review, and in line with the average bonus as a percentage of salary paid across the stores the Executive Directors received a cash bonus of 12.9% of salary out of a maximum of 25% of salary.
Overview of the staff and Executive Director cash bonus scheme The staff bonus scheme is designed, on a quarterly basis, to reward each store with a bonus of up to 25% of their quarterly salary, made up of the following four key elements set out below: Occupancy performance against target Each store is set a quarterly target for occupancy growth.
The weighting of the contribution of these metrics to the bonus varies based on store occupancy, with higher occupied stores having a lower weighting towards their performance against their occupancy target.
The bonus awarded to each store increases as the store moves further ahead of target.
No bonus is awarded if the store fails to meet its target.
The individual store targets have not been disclosed as it would be impractical and commercially sensitive to disclose the targets for every one of our stores in this report.
However following feedback received from our shareholders on previous remuneration reports to increase the disclosure around the annual bonus, we have shown the average annual distribution of performance against target for each of the bonus measures across our stores and the corresponding average payout as a percentage of salary which directly corresponds to the bonus percentage pay-out for the Executive Directors.
The average performance against the four key targets and the associated reward for the stores were as follows: 1 Occupancy Performance 0 to 10% ahead 10 to 20% ahead 20 to 30% ahead 30 to 40% ahead 40% ahead against target Below target of target of target of target of target of target Total No of stores 37 14 3 2 26 73 Average bonus paid 0% 0.8% 2.1% 4.2% 9.0% 12.8% 5.2% Additionally, twelve stores were awarded bonuses for averaging 85% occupancy and above earning a total weighted average bonus of 0.7%.
The weighted average bonus paid to stores for performance against occupancy targets is therefore 5.9% of salary for the year.
2 Profitability Each store is set a quarterly target for profitability.
The weighting of the contribution of these metrics to the bonus varies based on store occupancy, with higher occupied stores having a higher weighting towards their performance against their profitability target.
The performance distribution of the stores performance against their individual targets are provided below.
Performance 0 to 1% ahead 1 to 2% ahead 2 to 3% ahead 3% ahead against target Below target of target of target of target of target Total No of stores 29 12 13 9 10 73 Average bonus paid 0.1% 1.3% 3.6% 4.4% 7.7% 2.5 % The weighted average bonus paid to stores for performance against profitability targets is therefore 2.5% of salary for the year.
3 Store audits Stores receive a bonus if they receive an audit score of in excess of 85% based on visits carried out by the Groups store compliance team.
There were 51 instances of stores receiving an audit score of 85% and above across the year, leading to a weighted average bonus paid to the stores of 1.4% of salary.
77 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2018 Annual Bonus Plan awards continued 4 Customer satisfaction Stores are rewarded based on two elements of customer satisfaction, net promoter scores and individual customer service awards.
The awards based on net promoter scores are summarised in the table below.
NPS score 75 75 Total No of stores 22 51 73 Average bonus paid 0% 1.9% 1.4% The weighted average bonus paid to stores for performance against net promoter scores is therefore 1.4% of salary for the year.
The bonus paid to stores for individual customer service awards amounted to a further 1.7% of salary, which, combined with the net promoter score, amounted to a weighted average bonus paid to the stores for customer satisfaction of 3.1% of salary.
Summary The bonus received by the stores against their targets in the year is summarised as follows.
Category Actual % weighting for category Average % of salary bonus paid across stores 1.
Customer satisfaction 24% 3.1% Total 100% 12.9% In line with the Remuneration Policy an award at this level has therefore also been paid to the Executive Directors for the year.
The performance in the year resulted in a bonus of 12.9% of salary, which equated to the following payments for the Executive Directors: Nicholas Vetch 35,501 James Gibson 38,958 Adrian Lee 28,857 John Trotman 28,857 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards Audited The awards granted under the LTIP are subject to performance conditions to be met over a performance period of three years.
There is no retesting of performance conditions and, if they are not satisfied, the awards will lapse.
The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP which vested in the year, which relate to EPS and TSR, are set out below.
Vesting is conditional on the achievement of EPS growth of an average of 3% above RPI per annum.
This hurdle was met for the 2014 awards, with average annual growth in EPS of 23%, compared to RPI plus 3% of 5% per annum.
The Committee assessed the extent to which the EPS and TSR performance condition has been satisfied for the 2014 award which vested in 2017, with the following results: Threshold Maximum LTIP value for meeting performance performance threshold and maximum Performance Condition Weighting required required performance % salary achieved Vesting % Relative TSR 100% Median of Upper quartile of 25% 100% 7 out of 31 in 100% comparator group the comparator comparator group of real estate group of companies in companies the FTSE Real Estate Index Total 100% 100% 78 The full vesting of the 2014 LTIP award in 2017, equated to the following value for the Executive Directors based on the share price at the date of vesting: Nicholas Vetch 397,680 50,467 shares James Gibson 431,674 55,352 shares Adrian Lee 322,993 40,989 shares John Trotman 306,737 38,926 shares LTIP awards granted in year ended 31 March 2018 Audited The table below sets out the details of the long term incentive awards granted in 2017 in the year ended 31 March 2018 where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future.
Percentage of award Maximum Awards as Face value vesting at threshold percentage of face Performance Performance 1 Director Award type a % of salary of award performance value that could vest period end date conditions Nicholas Vetch 275,200 Annual cycle of Adjusted EPS James Gibson 302,000 awards over nil 25% 100% 3 August 2020 growth and 100% of salary Adrian Lee 223,700 cost options relative TSR John Trotman 223,700 1 The face value of the award is calculated using the average share price three days prior to the grant date of 3 August 2017 average share price of 773.3 pence.
The performance conditions applicable to the awards granted in 2017 are set out below.
There are no changes to the performance measures, their weightings and the targets from the awards granted in 2016: Threshold Maximum LTIP value for meeting performance performance threshold and maximum Condition Weighting required required performance % salary Basis for measurement Relative TSR 30% Median of Upper quartile of 25% to 100% The average of the Groups closing midcomparator group the comparator market share price over the three months of real estate group preceding the start of the performance companies period and preceding the end of the performance period will be used, including dividends re-invested.
Adjusted EPS 70% Adjusted EPS Adjusted EPS 25% to 100% The adjusted EPS figure reported in the growth of RPI 3% growth of RPI 8% audited results of the Group for the last per annum per annum complete financial year ending before the start of the performance period and the last complete financial year ending before the end of the performance period will be used.
Total 100% Between threshold and maximum performance, vesting will take place on a straight-line basis.
Long Term Bonus Performance Plan Audited The only outstanding LTBPP awards are those granted in 2015 which are due to vest in 2018: Awards as a % Percentage of award Maximum of salary at the Face value vesting at threshold percentage of face Performance Performance Director Award type time of grant of award performance value that could vest period end date conditions Granted every Nicholas Vetch 377% 996,900 three years, Assessed James Gibson 496% 1,440,000 award converts annually on 0% 100% 31 March 2018 to nil cost a basket of Adrian Lee 464% 996,900 options on measures John Trotman 464% 996,900 vesting.
79 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2018 Long Term Bonus Performance Plan Audited continued The report on the targets for the year ended 31 March 2018 other than those which remain commercially sensitive is summarised in the table below: Objective Committee Comment Grow the Groups annual operating cash flow by 4 million for the year to The Groups annual operating cash flow grew by 7.0 million in the year to 31 March 2018 compared to the year to 31 March 2017.
Increase the Groups occupied space by 175,000 sq ft in the year ending Overall occupied space increased by 179,000 sq ft in the year.
31 March 2018 compared to a net growth of 112,000 sq ft in the prior year.
Grow the occupancy of the like-for-like stores open at 31 March 2017 to 81.7% Occupancy of the like-for-like stores increased to 83.8% by 30 September 2017, by 30 September 2017, and following the seasonal occupancy loss in the third a year on year increase of 5.3 ppts.
The third quarter saw a slightly larger seasonal quarter, recover to this level by 31 March 2018, compared to an increase of occupancy loss than the prior year, due to the strong summers trading, but after a 2.8 ppts last year.
return to growth in Q4, the closing occupancy was 81.9%, a year on year increase of 3.9 ppts.
Grow the average net rent per square foot across the stores from 26.03 per square The average net rent across the portfolio at 31 March 2018 was 26.74, an increase foot by 1.5% to 26.43 by 31 March 2018, compared to growth of 0.5% in 2017. of 2.7% from 1 April 2017.
Meet budgeted revenue 114.6 million and adjusted profit before tax Revenue for the year was 116.7 million, 2% ahead of budget.
before tax was 61.4 million, 4% ahead of budget.
Meet or exceed the budgeted adjusted earnings per share of 37.2 pence.
Adjusted earnings per share were 38.5 pence for the year, 3% ahead of the budgeted amount.
Review potential sites in London and key target towns outside of London The Group has acquired five development sites since 1 April 2017 in Wapping for store acquisition with a view of acquiring at least one new site in the year.
London, Uxbridge London, Hove, Bracknell and Slough, increasing the development pipeline to 10 sites including one extension site.
The Group continues to monitor other opportunities.
Maintain the Groups online market share measured against the top 35 self The Groups online market share for the year as measured by Connexity storage operators by Connexity Hitwise, at on average greater than 30%.
The planning application for Camberwell has been rejected on design grounds.
Planning consent has now been granted for the development of a 72,000 sq ft We have submitted an appeal by way of an informal hearing rather than a full stores at Camberwell.
We are now starting detailed design work.
The objective is to have a planning consent by March 2018.
Obtain planning consent for Manchester.
Planning consent was granted in September 2017 for a 60,000 sq ft store.
We have started construction with a view to a store in opening in spring 2019.
Maintain the net promoter score for customer satisfaction from the The move in NPS score for the year was 86, an increase from 83 in the prior Customer Experience programme in excess of 70 for move ins and 65 for year.
The move out NPS score for the year was 70, an increase from 67 in move out surveys.
Maintain the Groups brand leadership of unprompted and prompted awareness The YouGov survey commissioned in April 2018 has shown our prompted throughout the UK, to be measured by third party survey in the year.
awareness to be at 71% in London, over two and half times higher than our nearest competitor and 46% for the rest of the UK, over three times higher than our nearest competitor.
For unprompted brand awareness, our recall in London is 46%, six and a half times higher than our nearest competitor and for the rest of the UK it is 23%, nearly eight times higher than our nearest competitor.
2 Reduce the carbon intensity for the year to 31 March 2018 KgCO m of Carbon intensity was reduced by 20% for the year to 31 March 2018.
2 occupied space by 5% from the year to 31 March 2017.
80 Long Term Bonus Performance Plan Audited continued The other targets, covering areas such as real estate, staffing and certain financial targets, were met in the majority of cases.
They have not been disclosed as they are commercially sensitive.
Following careful consideration of the performance targets and actual performance of the Group and the Executive Directors, the Committee has concluded that the award in respect of the financial year ended 31 March 2018 has vested at 100% of its potential amount for the year.
For the years ended 31 March 2016 and 31 March 2017, the Committee concluded that the award had provisionally vested as to 90% of its potential amount for each year.
The Committee has also then assessed the vesting for the three years of the plan and has determined an overall vesting of 93.33% for the whole period of the plan.
In reaching this determination, the Committee took into account the fact that, over the three years of the plan, substantially all of the annual targets set at the outset of each year by reference to the relevant business plan had been met as well as the significant progress which has been made by the Group over the past three years.
By way of illustration, over the past three years, the Groups revenue has increased by 38%, with adjusted EPS increasing by 42% and dividends declared increasing by 42%.
The Committee believes that this level of vesting is therefore consistent with the Groups performance and the shareholder experience and, as such awards under the plan will formally vest in July 2018.
Once vested, part of the award will then be subject to a holding period in line with the current Remuneration Policy.
Sharesave Scheme The Groups Sharesave Scheme is open to all UK employees including Executive Directors with a minimum of six months service and meets UK HMRC requirements, thus giving all eligible employees the opportunity to acquire shares in the Company in a tax efficient manner.
Three of the Executive Directors participated in the scheme during the financial year.
The details of the Sharesave scheme options are shown on page 83.
Pension entitlements The Company pays pension contributions into the Executive Directors personal pension plans or makes a cash contribution in lieu of pension contributions.
They do not participate in any defined benefit scheme.
For the year ended 31 March 2018, the Company contribution was 15% of salary for the Executive Directors.
Payments to past Directors Audited No payments of money or any other assets were made to any former Director of the Company in the financial year ended 31 March 2018 2017: no payments.
Payments on loss of office Audited No payments were made to any Directors in respect of loss of office during the financial year ended 31 March 2018 2017: no payments.
Non-Executive Directors Audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director paid in the year ended 31 March 2018: 2018 2017 Tim Clark 44,200 43,700 Richard Cotton 44,200 41,000 Georgina Harvey 44,200 38,400 Steve Johnson 39,200 38,400 1 Anna Keay 3,267 2 Vince Niblett 36,833 3 Mark Richardson 13,442 41,000 Total 225,342 202,500 1 From appointment on 1 March 2018 2 From appointment on 1 June 2017 3 Until retirement on 20 July 2017 For the year ended 31 March 2018, the Company reviewed the Non-Executive Director base fee and decided to adjust it to 39,200 from 38,400 2% increase and to harmonise the fees provided for Committee Chairs and the Senior Independent Director to 44,200.
Non-Executive Directors received no taxable benefits for the year ended 31 March 2018.
81 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2018 Fees retained for external non-executive directorships The Executive Directors contracts do not allow them to engage in any other business outside the Group except where prior written consent from the Board is received.
The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that this can help broaden the skills and experience of a Director.
Executive Directors are normally permitted to accept external appointments with the approval of the Board and may retain the fees for the appointment.
Nicholas Vetch is a Non-Executive Director of The Local Shopping REIT plc for which he receives a fee of 30,000 per annum.
James Gibson is a Non-Executive Director of AnyJunk Limited and of Moby Self Storage in Brazil: he does not receive any fees for his services.
Statement of Directors shareholding Audited The Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a holding of two times base salary.
These requirements have been met by all Executive Directors throughout the year.
Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Details of the Directors interests in shares are set out below all interests are beneficial interests.
No changes took place in the interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company between 31 March 2018 and the date of this report.
The table below shows, in relation to each Director, the total number of shares and share options in which they have an interest.
LTBPP awards are not shown in the table below as the number of shares awarded is calculated by reference to the total vested award value divided by the Companys share price at the vesting date.
Share LTIP ownership Share Holding as awards requirement ownership multiple of Beneficially subject to Unexercised Options multiple of requirements March 2018 owned performance Sharesave exercised in the Director salary met salary shares conditions options financial year Nicholas Vetch 2x Yes 279x 8,988,366 111,120 50,467 James Gibson 2x Yes 70x 2,465,309 121,908 2,812 57,171 Adrian Lee 2x Yes 33x 854,643 90,324 2,960 40,989 John Trotman 2x Yes 7x 179,788 90,324 2,665 42,565 Non-Executive Directors shareholdings Audited Non-Executive Beneficially owned shares Richard Cotton 88,485 Tim Clark 20,615 Georgina Harvey 15,293 Steve Johnson 10,000 Vince Niblett 3,000 Anna Keay 82 Directors share awards Audited To provide further context on the shareholding of the Executive Directors, options in respect of ordinary shares for Directors who served in the year are as below: No.
Each Executive Director exercised an option over 5,838 approved shares.
The value delivered through these approved options was surrendered in the unapproved LTIPs above.
Performance and pay The graph below shows the Groups performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE All Share Real Estate Index and the FTSE All Share Index for the period since flotation.
The FTSE All Share Real Estate Index is used for the assessment of the Companys LTIP.
1,000 Big Yellow Group 800 FTSE 350 Real Estate Index 600 FTSE All Share Index 400 209.1% 6.5% p. a.
0 Source: Datastream as at 30 March 2018 83 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Remuneration Report continued Year ended 31 March 2018 CEO Remuneration The table below sets out the details of remuneration of the CEO over the past nine financial years.
Long term incentive CEO single figure of Annual bonus pay out weighted average vesting rates total remuneration % against maximum against maximum opportunity Year of 25% of salary % 2018 2,178,066 51.6% 12.9% of salary 95% 2017 850,619 40% 10% of salary 100% 2016 988,811 48% 12% of salary 100% 2015 1,756,290 50% 12.5% of salary 98% 2014 536,262 40% 10% of salary 53% 2013 335,891 40% 10% of salary 0% 2012 1,400,570 40% 10% of salary 89% 2011 325,968 40% 10% of salary 0% 2010 875,593 40% 10% of salary 100% The single figure of remuneration for 2018, 2015 and 2012 are higher than in other years due to the vesting of the three year Long Term Bonus Performance Plan in those years delivering a reward of 1,343,995 93.33% vesting, 945,750 97% vesting and 900,000 90% vesting respectively for the three year period ended in that year.
Percentage increase in the CEOs remuneration The table below compares the percentage increase in the CEOs remuneration including salary, fees, benefits and annual bonus with the remuneration of Big Yellow Group employees.
% increase in remuneration in 2018 compared with 2017 CEO Employees Salary and fees 2% 2% All taxable benefits 10% 2% Annual bonuses 29% 29% Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee reviews the reward and retention of the whole employee population periodically throughout the year to ensure that it can attract and retain top talent.
Particular consideration is given to the general basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions.
Furthermore, the cash annual bonus awarded to Executive Directors is directly linked to the bonuses awarded to all staff.
The Directors are invited to be present at this review of the proposals for salary increase for the employee population generally and on any other changes to remuneration policy within the Company.
The information presented at this review is taken into consideration when setting the pay levels of the executive population.
Additionally, the Committee has guidelines for the grant of all LTIP awards across the Company and responsibility for approving the total annual bonus cost of the Company.
The Company does not invite employees to comment on the remuneration of Directors.
Relative importance of spend on pay 000 The graph below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the year ended 100,000 50% 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017 compared with other disbursements from profit, 90,000 being the distributions to shareholders and retained earnings comprehensive gain 80,000 70,000 for the year less dividends.
60,000 12% 2017 50,000 40,000 2018 30,000 4% 20,000 10,000 0 Retained Total employee pay Profit distributed earnings including Directors by way of dividend 84 Gender pay The Group has reported on its gender pay gap for 2017.
The full report can be found on the investor relations website http: corporate.
The Groups mean gender pay gap was 26%, with a median gap of 10%.
Excluding Executive Directors three of whom were founders of the business, the mean gender pay gap falls to 12% with a median gap of 9%.
All staff are paid equally according to job role.
The Group recognises that its success stems from attracting the right people and creating a diverse and gender balanced workforce, which not only reflects the communities in which the Group operates but also ensures a fully motivated and engaged team.
The Group will ensure that every policy and practice encourages inclusive ways of working, in line with the Big Yellow culture.
Flexible working is promoted across the organisation, with a number of Head Office employees being home based, others working flexibly from home and all employees being able to work from any location within the business.
The family friendly policies include enhanced maternity, paternity and adoption pay and the Groups parental leave policy encourages both men and women to share childcare commitments.
The Group will continue to recruit based on merit and ensure that recruitment processes are bias free.
The Group has recently recruited a female at senior management level to replace a position previously held by a male employee and will continue to endeavour to increase the number of women in all senior positions.
In addition, the Group intends to review our recruitment practices to actively increase the representation of women within store management positions, as well as better utilising internal development programmes to encourage a greater number of women to progress within the Group.
The Group will also be introducing a specific return to work programme for employees returning from maternity leave.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee In undertaking its responsibilities, the committee seeks independent external advice as necessary.
To this end, FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP replaced PwC as the principal external advisers to the Committee during the financial year, following a tender process overseen by the Committee.
The Committee is comfortable that the FIT team provides independent remuneration advice to the Committee and does not have any other connections with Big Yellow that may impair their independence.
FIT is a founding member and signatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.
During the year, FIT provided independent advice on a wide range of remuneration matters including the Remuneration Policy review.
FIT provides no other services to the Company.
The fees paid to FIT in respect of work carried out for the year under review were 55,000.
Attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings Attendance at meetings of the individual Directors at the Remuneration Committee Meetings that they were eligible to attend is shown in the table below: Director Number of meetings attended Tim Clark Richard Cotton Georgina Harvey Steve Johnson Anna Keay Vince Niblett Mark Richardson attended absent Approval This policy report was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2018 and signed on its behalf by Georgina Harvey Remuneration Committee Chair 85
