DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Aligning remuneration to best practice and market forces Q&A with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Caroline Taylor How does Brewin Dolphin ensure that its Directors remuneration is in line with that of its peers, while ensuring that it is sufficient to attract the best talent?
We base it on our Directors Remuneration Policy, which is renewed and subject to shareholder approval every three years.
This means that during 2019 we will be reviewing the Policy that was approved by nearly 99% of votes cast at our 2017 AGM.
This approach ensures that it takes into account market developments, best practice and all revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code before we again put it to a shareholder vote at our 2020 AGM.
Introduction Executive Director changes On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors As announced in April 2018, Andrew Westenberger, Finance Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2018.
Director, stepped down from the Board with effect from 16 May This is my first report as Chairman of the Remuneration 2018.
He received salary for his six-month notice period and an Committee.
Prior to my appointment to the role effective annual bonus for the portion of the year that he served as 1 October 2018, I had been a Committee member for four years.
Full details of his remuneration arrangements I thank my predecessor, Paul Wilson, for his leadership of the are included in this report.
The Single Figure Total Remuneration Committee, which included obtaining renewed shareholder Table see page 63 shows his remuneration for the period approval for our Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy served as a Director during the year, as required by the at the 2017 AGM, with a vote of nearly 99% in favour.
also pleased to receive strong support from shareholders for As announced on 13 August 2018, Siobhan Boylan will join the the implementation of the Policy, with a vote of more than Board as Finance Director in early 2019.
Her remuneration will 99% in favour of the Directors Remuneration Report last year.
be disclosed in our Directors Remuneration Report for 2019.
This Directors Remuneration Report includes the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2018, describing how variable pay Base salary and pension relates to the Groups performance outcomes for the year and The Committee reviewed the Chief Executives base salary over the longer term, and also providing detailed information on effective 1 January 2018 and decided that no increase was to be each Directors individual total remuneration.
This year the Committee proposes to increase the Chief on Remuneration, together with this introductory statement, Executives base salary by 10,000 to 435,000, an increase will be subject to the normal advisory vote at the AGM.
which as a percentage of salary is broadly in line with the rest of For information only, we have also included, at the back of this our employees.
The increase will take effect from 1 January 2019. report, the Directors Remuneration Policy page 71 that was As in previous years, it is important to note that our Executive approved at the AGM in 2017.
The Policy will be subject to Directors do not receive a pension allowance or any significant renewal at the 2020 AGM and the Committee will, therefore, fringe benefits, so their base salary should be compared with the review its approach to remuneration in 2019 to take into total fixed pay of peers in the market, who normally receive these account the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, market elements, in addition to their base salary.
The Chief Executives developments and principles of best practice.
Also the review proposed base salary of 435,000 remains below the market will consider the latest guidance from shareholder voting median for companies of Brewin Dolphins size.
agencies, including those relating to the percentage of annual bonus payable for on-target performance and post-employment shareholding policy.
The Policy is designed to be simple and clear, and to provide close alignment with the interests of our shareholders, and with the Groups values and culture.
Brewin Dolphin 60 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Annual bonus for 2018 Deferred Profit Share Plan renewal Strong outcomes were achieved for the two financial metrics In addition to the resolution relating to the Directors relating to annual bonus.
Adjusted PBT grew by 10.7% relative to Remuneration Report, there will also be a resolution subject the prior year, to 77.5 million.
Discretionary funds also grew by to shareholder approval for the renewal of our Deferred Profit a healthy rate of 11.2%.
Fund flows are a key metric for the Group, Share Plan rules DPSP.
The plan is approaching its ten year and an important indicator of future growth in profit streams.
expiry date and is being submitted for approval with broadly Discretionary fund flows are therefore set as performance metrics the same terms as are currently operated.
The DPSP is used for the annual bonus, and the LTIP, on a three year sustained to enable the deferral of a portion of an employees annual basis.
The overall bonus outcome, including good performance bonus thereby encouraging shareholder alignment and retention.
for a range of key strategic non-financial criteria, resulted in There are no changes to the maximum bonus award permissible an annual bonus award of 106.7% of base salary for the Chief under the current policy.
Further details can be found in the Executive.
A portion of the bonus is deferred into shares Notice of Meeting.
for three years to further enhance alignment with our shareholders interests.
Other activities During the year we also reviewed individual remuneration for LTIP vesting for the three year period ended all employees in Material Risk Taker roles, as required under the FCA Remuneration Code, and have overseen the operation 30 September 2018 of the profit share and other incentive schemes for our investment The Groups strong performance resulted in high outcomes staff, and those in control and support functions.
We have for the two performance metrics relating to the LTIP award reviewed the gender pay gap data for the Group and reviewed for the period FY15-FY18.
Compound growth in adjusted progress towards greater female representation in more senior earnings per share was 8.2% per annum over the three years, roles.
We have also received updates on remuneration trends in and discretionary funds inflows averaged 6.0% per annum.
the wider market and developments in the governance and The overall vesting level was 74.6% of maximum.
The vested regulation of remuneration.
shares, net of sales to settle income tax on vesting, are subject to a two year post-vesting holding period.
TSR performance Brewin Dolphins sustained TSR performance has been very Shareholding requirements strong: 100 invested in the Company at the end of September Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a holding 2008 has delivered a return of 316% by 2018, far ahead of the in Brewin Dolphin shares.
The required shareholding level under FTSE All Share Financials Index which delivered 57% and the the current policy is set at 150% of base salary for the Chief FTSE All Share of 129%.
Executive and 100% of base salary for the Finance Director.
The Committee is aware that this is below the median Conclusion shareholding requirement for FTSE 250 companies, and this I would like to thank shareholders for their support for our in part reflects the relatively low long-term incentive opportunity Remuneration Policy and its implementation in prior years.
which is 100% of salary, compared with the FTSE 250 median I hope you find this years report clear and informative and long-term incentive award level of 200% of base salary.
However, that you will continue to give your support.
the Committee will consider the shareholding requirement as part of its review of Policy in 2019.
Caroline Taylor Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 November 2018 Committee composition The Committee is made up of independent Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board, who was independent upon his appointment.
With effect from 1 October 2018 Paul Wilson stepped down from the Committee and was replaced by Caroline Taylor as Chair.
Caroline was a member of the Committee for four years prior to being appointed as Chair.
The other Committee members are Simon Miller and Ian Dewar.
There is cross-membership with the Risk Committee to help ensure alignment between the Groups key risks and its Remuneration Policy.
Annually the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends the Risk Committee.
Further details of membership and attendance can be found on pages 45 and 48.
The responsibilities of the Committee are outlined in the Committees Terms of Reference, a copy of which can be found at brewinmedia.
co. uk DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED How the Committee spent its time during the year Reviewed the Executive Directors salaries, bonus and other awards.
Executive Directors remuneration Reviewed the remuneration package for the new Finance Director and determined the leaving terms for the exiting Finance Director.
30% Approved the LTIP performance criteria and other share-based incentive plans awards.
Share based Reviewed the proposed 2019 Deferred Profit Share Plan to be put to shareholders at the awards 2019 AGM.
24% Assessed the effectiveness of the external advisers, New Bridge Street.
Routine matters Discussed the outcome of the Committee Performance Evaluation report.
Reviewed the Directors Remuneration Report for the Annual Report.
23% Approved the minutes and Terms of Reference for the Committee.
Approved the Groups remuneration budget and other employee incentives.
Identified and approved the individual compensation for the Material Risk Takers.
Received reports from the Chief Risk Officer on conduct risk.
Regulatory Approved the changes to the Remuneration Policy Statement for submission to the FCA and Pillar III disclosures.
23% Received updates on changes in regulation and trends in remuneration.
Discussed the Group policy on gender pay and considered the result of the Gender Pay Gap Report.
Brewin Dolphin 62 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Annual report on remuneration This part of the Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the revised Schedule 8 set out in the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, and 9.8.
The financial information in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report has been audited where indicated.
Benefits relate to death-in-service insurance and private medical insurance.
Executives can elect to use part of their total fixed remuneration to fund benefits such as Permanent Health Insurance and these amounts are disclosed as part of the salary and fees figure.
Executives can elect to sacrifice part of their annual bonus into the Groups defined contribution pension scheme.
Where employees choose to do this, the Group contributes 13.8% of the sacrificed amount, equal to the employers national insurance that would have been due had the amount been paid as salary.
Sums sacrificed from bonus have been shown in the bonus column, with the related employer contribution of 13.8% shown in the pension column.
This relates to the payment of the annual bonus for the year ending 30 September 2018.
Annual bonus is subject to a mandatory deferral policy as set out on page 72.
The value of the long term incentive is the value of shares for the award where the performance period ends in the year, that would have been received during the three year performance period.
74.6% of the 2015 LTIP has vested in the period.
The figures for 2018 have been calculated using the average of the Groups Q4 share price in the three-month period to 30 September 2018, being 3.52 rounded.
The actual vesting date of the LTIP award is 3 December 2018.
The figures presented for 2017 have been updated from the three-month average figures used in last years report being 72,427 for David Nicol and 62,118 for Andrew Westenberger to take into account the Groups share price on the date of vesting on 4 December 2017, being 3.70 rounded.
Andrew Westenberger stepped down from the Board on 16 May 2018.
The figures for 2018 in the table represent the amount of base salary and benefits, and annual bonus, earned for services as a Board Director.
Michael Kellard was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2017.
Simonetta Rigo was appointed to the Board on 6 June 2018.
Angela Knight stepped down from the Board on 3 February 2017.
In addition to the fees set out above in relation to her Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC directorship, Angela Knight continues to receive an annual fee of 30,000 in relation to her role as Chairman of Tilman Brewin Dolphin, the Groups Irish subsidiary.
co. uk DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Payments to the former Finance Director Audited As we announced on 27 April 2018, Andrew Westenberger, Finance Director, stepped down as a Director with effect from 16 May 2018.
In accordance with his service agreement, Andrew received his salary and contractual benefits for his six-month notice period ended 25 October 2018.
He also received an annual bonus award of 200,000 for the financial year ended 30 September 2018, which is a pro-rated amount taking account of the portion of the year he worked and performance achieved.
Andrew also retained the awards he received in relation to deferred annual bonuses earned in prior years, in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
Andrew also retained the LTIP awards he held, pro-rated for time served, in accordance with the Good Leaver treatment under the plan rules.
Both the DPSP and LTIP share awards will vest on the normal vesting dates, and the LTIP awards are subject to the applicable performance conditions.
Fees of 5,000 were awarded towards the cost of advice in relation to his Settlement Agreement.
Base salary review Audited Salaries are normally reviewed in Q4, to take effect from 1 January.
No increase was awarded at 1 January 2018: however, the Committee decided to award a salary increase of 2% 10,000 effective from 1 January 2019.
This is broadly consistent with the average level of percentage increase to be awarded to our employees.
Salary as at Salary as at 30 September 2018 30 September 2017 Change David Nicol 425,000 425,000 0% Annual variable pay outcomes for 2018 Annual bonuses for the Executive Directors are determined by the Committee based on an assessment of performance relative to Key Performance Indicators KPIs, which are selected to achieve a direct relationship between progress towards the Groups strategic goals and the bonuses that are awarded.
The maximum annual bonus for each individual Executive Director is 150% of base salary.
The bonus award opportunity for on-target performance of 100% of base salary should be seen in the context of the Chief Executives relatively low base salary 74% of FTSE 250 median, and the relatively low level of LTIP award half the FTSE 250 median award percentage.
The Committee has the discretion to adjust the final outcome to take account of overall Group performance and exceptional events.
Overall outcome % of salary % of maximum % of base Criteria Weighting at maximum bonus paid salary Financial 60.0% 90.0% 42.6% 60.2% Non-financial 40.0% 60.0% 28.4% 46.5% Total 150.0% 71.0% 106.7% Performance against financial criteria % of % of Actual for on-target maximum Key Threshold On-target Maximum year ending bonus bonus Performance 25% of total 100% of total 150% of total 30 September awarded for awarded for Indicator Weighting fixed pay fixed pay fixed pay 2018 this criteria this criteria Comment 1 Adjusted 30.0% 64.5m 75.9m 83.5m 77.5m 110.5% 33.0% Targets set PBT in relation to prior year performance and budget 2 Discretionary 30.0% 3.0% 6.0% 9.0% 5.6% 90.0% 27.0% Targets set net funds in relation to inflow prior year performance and budget Outcome 60.0% 1.
See explanation of adjusted performance measures on page 34.
Adjusted for internal service transfers.
Brewin Dolphin 64 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Performance against non-financial criteria % of maximum bonus Criteria awarded for this equally weighted Performance achieved criterion Strategy Continued successful implementation of organic growth strategy with actual 80.0% performance exceeding 5% discretionary net funds inflow target.
H2 2017 acquisition business fully integrated with an expected contribution for the year ended 30 September 2018 exceeding the projected value.
Successful development of new business opportunities including 1762 from Brewin Dolphin and WealthPilot.
Exploration of inorganic growth opportunities with the successful purchase of the Dundee client book.
Talent Successful implementation of the Executive Leadership Programme to facilitate 90.0% succession planning for senior management.
Enhanced delivery of business development training, such as client skills and MiFID II, to enable strategic delivery.
Continued development of training, guidance and systems to streamline processes and enhance efficiency.
A managers programme has been launched alongside new digital learning support for managers to assist with performance reviews.
Development of employee brand and culture resulting in continued high employee engagement rates.
Development of diversity and inclusivity initiatives including diversity events.
In addition, the Group commenced work on the implementation of the Women in Finance Charter and the 30% Club Cross-Company Mentoring Programme.
Successful management of retention rates within risk parameters.
Client service Continued focus on ensuring high quality client experience with customer satisfaction 70.0% exceeding the benchmark.
Leveraging the development of the digital strategy to enhance client experience.
For instance, the launch of our new website improving interactions with clients online.
Risk management Engagement and relationship with Regulators continues to be positive and proactive.
70.0% and compliance Prudent risk management within risk appetite, with remedial action taken where necessary to ensure all risk and compliance programmes remain on track.
Preparation for compliance with GDPR and MiFID II and SMCR.
Continued embedding of risk frameworks including Investment Governance and Operational Risk.
Percentage of maximum bonus for non-financial performance straight average 78.0% Brewin Dolphin 65 www.
co. uk DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Bonus outcomes Audited Based on assessment of performance, the Committee has awarded the following annual bonus to the Chief Executive, with the split between cash and deferred shares as indicated in the table below.
The Executive Directors normally receive part of their annual variable pay under the DPSP as a deferred award in Group shares, normally in the form of a nil-cost option.
The options vest and become exercisable three years from the date of grant.
Both cash and share elements of the bonus are subject to malus provisions.
Please see the Directors Remuneration Policy table on page 72 for further details.
Andrew Westenberger has been awarded a bonus of 200,000, a pro-rated amount, reflecting his service and performance for the period served in the financial year.
As he was no longer employed, Andrew Westenbergers annual bonus for the year ended 30 September 2018 was made in cash, rather than a mix of cash and deferred shares.
1 Name Role Cash Deferred shares Total % of base salary David Nicol Chief Executive 309,492 143,983 453,475 106.7% 1.
Portion of variable pay Fraction deferred Up to 50,000 None Between 50,000 and 1 x fixed remuneration One-third Above 1 x fixed remuneration Two-thirds Vested LTIP outcome for the three year performance period ended 30 September 2018 Audited The Executive Directors received a conditional share award granted under the LTIP in December 2015.
The performance period for the grant was the three years ended 30 September 2018 and the performance criteria set are shown below: Actual performance achieved year ended % of award to Criteria Weighting Threshold target Full vesting target 30 September 2018 vest 1 2 Adjusted EPS Compound 50.0% 5.0% 13.0% 8.2% 32.1% Annual Growth Rate CAGR Average annual discretionary net 50.0% 2.5% 7.5% 6.0% 42.5% 3 fundsgrowth Blended pay outtotal 74.6% 1.
As reported in the 2015 Annual Report the threshold performance requirement of 5% CAGR is measured from an adjusted EPS level of 16.1p for 2014-15, rather than the reported EPS of 17.1p.
This adjustment takes into account the value of discretionary funds at the year-end 2014 15, which was lower than the average discretionary funds for the 2014 15 year as a whole.
As discretionary funds are an important driver of EPS, using the adjusted figure recognises the actual starting point for growth at the end of 2014-15.
The equivalent CAGR for the 2014-15 reported EPS of 17.1p is 3%.
The stretch target of 13% CAGR is in excess of the market consensus of 10% CAGR over the three year period and will be calculated from the starting point of 17.1p for 2014-15.
Market consensus is calculated using the assumption that there will be positive investment performance of 5% per annum.
Average annual net inflows in discretionary funds expressed as a % of prior year discretionary funds.
Brewin Dolphin 66 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Chief Executive pay for performance comparison The graph below shows the value by 30 September 2018, of 100 invested in Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC on 28 September 2008, compared with the Total Remuneration figures of the Chief Executive, rebased to 100 on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Brewin Dolphins TSR has been compared against the FTSE All Share Financial Index reflecting the Companys sector and listing.
TSR vs Chief Executive total pay and FTSE All Share Financial Services Index Source: FactSet 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Chief Executive single gure Indexed FTSE All Share Financials The total remuneration figure for the Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive during each of the previous financial years is shown below.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus which was awarded based on performance in those years.
Where this bonus was subject to deferral, it is shown in the year in which it was awarded.
The annual bonus is shown as a percentage of the maximum for 2012 to 2018 only as there was no maximum amount for bonus in the preceding years.
Year ended 30 September 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total remuneration 000 589 643 593 557 577 770 702 713 1,025 1,221 Annual bonus % max n a n a n a 39 63 80 67 60 82.6 71.1 LTIP vesting % of award n a n a n a n a n a n a n a nil 16.2 74.6 The movement in the salary and annual bonus for the Chief Executive, who is the highest paid Director, between the current and previous financial year compared to that for the average UK Group employee is shown below.
Rather than having separate base salary, pension and benefit components, Executive Directors and other senior staff receive a total fixed pay sum which they can receive part as a defined pension contribution and or benefits such as long-term illness disability insurance.
More junior employees receive a base salary plus pension contributions.
As such, an analysis of the movement in benefits for the Chief Executive and the average employee was not considered to be practical or meaningful and has not been included in the below comparison.
co. uk Value rebased DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors share interests Audited Outstanding share options and conditional share awards The tables below set out details of Executive Directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to performance and or continued service.
The share price at 28 September 2018 was 3.43.
Awards under the Deferred Profit Share Plan were made in 2017, in respect of a portion of the annual bonus earned for performance in FY 2017.
Actual vesting date is 3 December 2018.
Figures shown are the number of shares vested at the end of the three year performance period, 30 September 2018.
Andrew Westenbergers LTIP awards were pro-rated for time served.
Executive Directors received awards under the LTIP with a face value of 100% of base salary.
The awards are subject to the performance conditions as set out in last years Remuneration Report.
25% of the award vests for threshold performance and 100% for stretch performance, with a sliding scale between the two points.
Brewin Dolphin 68 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Beneficial interests To further align the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders, Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding through the retention of shares vesting under the Groups share plans within five years of appointment March 2013 for David Nicol.
The minimum shareholding requirement for the Chief Executive is 150% of base salary and the minimum shareholding requirement for the Finance Director is 100% of base salary.
Shares that count towards these requirements include shares owned outright by the Executive Director, an amount equal to net of tax unvested awards granted under the DPSP as they are unfettered by performance criteria, and net of tax LTIP awards that have vested.
Beneficially Beneficially Beneficially Percentage of Outstanding Outstanding owned as at owned as at owned as at 30 shareholding DPSP LTIP 23 November 30 September 4 5 4 Director September 2018 target held awards awards 2018 2017 Kath Cates 5,587 n a 5,587 5,587 Ian Dewar 6,358 n a 6,358 6,358 1 Michael Kellard 5,493 n a 5,493 Simon Miller 80,000 n a 80,000 75,000 David Nicol 136,090 140% 125,425 257,413 136,090 98,651 2 Simonetta Rigo n a Caroline Taylor 10,000 n a 10,000 5,000 3 Andrew Westenberger 58,890 148% 106,992 110,442 58,890 50,000 Paul Wilson 8,596 n a 8,596 8,596 1.
Holdings as at year end or date of appointment resignation if relevant.
Includes 53% of outstanding DPSP options and 53% of the 2015 LTIP award which will vest at 74.6% on 3 December 2018 but met its performance criteria on 30 September 2018.
These are included on a net of tax basis.
Deferred bonus Material contracts with Directors The Executive Directors receive part of their annual variable There were no material contracts between the Group and the pay under the DPSP as a deferred award in Company shares, Directors, except for their contracts of employment or letters normally in the form of a nil-cost option.
The option vests and of appointment.
The Directors undertake transactions in stocks becomes exercisable three years from the date of grant.
and shares in the ordinary course of the Groups business for their own account.
The transactions are not material to the Share Incentive Plan SIP Group in the context of its operations.
nil was outstanding in respect of these transactions at 30 September 2018 and Employees may use funds from their gross salary up to a 30 September 2017. maximum of 10% of their gross salary in regular monthly payments being not less than 10 and not greater than 150 Total pension entitlements to acquire Ordinary Shares in the Group Partnership Shares.
Partnership Shares are acquired monthly.
For every Partnership Executive Directors may opt to waive part of their aggregate Share purchased, the employee receives one Matching Share up fixed pay amount and receive an equivalent defined pension to a total value of 20.
These shares are held in an employee contribution instead.
They may also receive part of their annual benefit trust the Trust.
Market purchase shares are used to bonus in the form of pension contribution.
Andrew Westenberger satisfy all shares purchased under the SIP and it is the intention and David Nicol have not made contributions to the scheme and of the Directors to continue this practice for the forthcoming do not receive any benefits under the scheme.
Defined benefit scheme Dilution Entry to the Group defined benefit scheme was withdrawn in By agreement with shareholders, the aggregate number of shares 2004 for new employees.
which may be issued at any date of grant, when aggregated with shares issued or issuable pursuant to options or awards granted Death-in-service benefits in the preceding ten years under any employee share plan Executive Directors are eligible for death-in-service benefit cover operated by the Group shall not exceed 10% of the issued share which is equal to six times their individual fixed remuneration.
Within this 10% limit, the aggregate number of shares which may be issued under discretionary schemes targeted at executives and other key roles shall not exceed 5% of the issued share capital in any 10-year rolling period.
The current cumulative dilution level over the 10-year period to 30 September 2018 is 1.73%.
co. uk DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Relative importance of the spend on pay Audited 2018 2017 000 000 Change Staff costs 157,268 147,043 7% Dividends 45,081 41,048 10% Average salary and bonus per employee has increased by 3.4% and 4.8% respectively see page 67.
External advisers The Remuneration Committee is advised by New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon plc, appointed by the Committee.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abides by its code of conduct which requires its advice to be impartial and objective.
NBS has no other connections with the Group.
The total fees paid to NBS in respect of its services to the Committee during the year were 66,841.
External directorships Details of external directorships held by the Executive Directors during the year and any fees that they received in respect of their services are shown below: Executive Director Company Position 2018 2017 David Nicol Hermes Property Unit Chair of appointment committee 40,000 30,762 Andrew Westenberger Baillie Gifford UK Growth Fund plc Non-executive director 29,482 6,190 Statement of shareholder voting The Directors Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from shareholders: Annual Report on Remuneration 2018 AGM % Votes cast in favour 190,489,571 99.04 Votes cast against 1,852,025 0.96 Total votes cast 192,341,596 Abstentions 75,619 How the policy will be applied from 2019 onwards Fees for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors As detailed in the Policy, the Groups approach to setting Non-Executive Directors remuneration is with reference to the market levels in similar-sized FTSE companies, levels of responsibility and time commitments.
The Non-Executive Directors fees were last reviewed in 2016, when it was agreed to increase the fees with effect from 1 January 2017.
Change 30 September 2018 30 September 2017 in fees Chairman 180,000 180,000 0% Base fee 60,000 60,000 0% Senior Independent Director 10,000 10,000 0% Committee chair 10,000-15,000 10,000 15,000 0% Brewin Dolphin 70 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Performance targets for the 2018 19 annual bonus and LTIP awards to be granted in the 2019 financial year For the 2019 financial year, the annual bonus will be based on performance against a balanced scorecard comprising three key performance areas.
Weighting each measured Key performance areas independently 1 Adjusted PBT 30% Discretionary funds net inflows 30% Non-financial targets 40% 1.
Targets for the 2018 19 annual bonus will be disclosed in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The LTIP awards to be granted in the 2019 financial year will be subject to two separate performance metrics shown below, each accounting for one-half of the award.
The targets have been set with reference to market consensus and internal medium-term plans.
There is also a general underpin: the Committee will assess the overall health of the business and whether prudent risk management has been applied and may scale back the vesting level if it considers this to be appropriate.
Weighting each Threshold Stretch measured 25% 100% LTIP performance metric independently vesting vesting Measurement period Adjusted EPS CAGR 50% 5% 15% CAGR measured over the three financial years 2018 19, 2019 20 and 2020 21 using 2017 18 as the base year.
Average annual discretionary net 50% 3% 9% Average over the three financial years fundsgrowth 2018 19, 2019 20 and 2020 21.
Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy This Policy describes the policies, principles and structures that guide the Remuneration Committees decision making process in the area of executive remuneration.
The Policy was approved by the shareholders at the 2017 AGM and will apply for a period of three years unless a revised policy is proposed to shareholders before the end of this period.
The Policy will be subject to renewal at the 2020 AGM and the Committee will therefore review its approach to remuneration in 2019 to take into account the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, market developments and principles of best practice.
The full Directors Remuneration Policy is shown for ease of reference.
Remuneration principles and objectives The primary objectives of the Policy are: To attract, retain and motivate talented Directors and senior management of the calibre required to manage the business successfully, whilst seeking to avoid paying more than is necessary to meet this objective.
To motivate and reward good performance.
To meet relevant regulatory requirements, including the requirements of the FCA Remuneration Code so far as these apply to the Group.
The main principles of the Policy are: To ensure that total remuneration is set at a level that is market competitive by benchmarking against relevant external comparators, taking account of size, complexity and sector, and to ensure that the overall package takes account of market practice.
To maintain appropriate proportions of fixed and performance-related pay, to help to drive performance over the short and longer term, maintain a flexible cost base, and avoid creating incentives for excessive risk taking.
To align incentive plans with the business strategy, prudent risk management and shareholder interests.
To achieve consistency with the general remuneration philosophy applied to the Groups employees as a whole.
co. uk DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary of remuneration elements for Executive Directors Purpose and link to short and long-term Operation, performance measures and periods, Element strategy deferral and clawback Maximum opportunity Provides a level of Executive Directors receive a base salary and can elect to benefit from life Total Fixed Pay is fixed remuneration insurance at a level of six times annual salary and private medical insurance.
benchmarked against sufficient to recruit Executive Directors can choose to sacrifice salary into the Groups defined relevant market levels of and retain necessary contribution pension scheme.
The Company does not make any other aggregate fixed pay i. e. talent, and to permit pension contributions to the Executive Directors.
base salary pension a zero variable pay contribution benefits, Individual levels of total fixed pay are reviewed annually, with any increases Fixed pay award should that paid in the market, normally effective from 1 January, unless there are exceptional reasons for an be appropriate.
and is targeted to be increase at another time of the year.
Any increases are generally targeted at not more than the around the general level of salary inflation in the Group, but may vary from approximate median of this for exceptional reasons such as a change in the individuals role or relevant comparators.
responsibilities, or a need to bring an individuals remuneration to a market competitive level.
Rewards annual The maximum individual Portion of variable pay What fraction is deferred?
Group and personal award of annual Portion up to 50,000 None performance, and, variable pay is currently Portion between 50,000 and One-third through the use of 150% of base salary.
Annual 1 x fixed remuneration deferral into shares, variable pay also aligns reward Portion above 1 x fixed remuneration Two-thirds Discretionary with longer-term The Remuneration Committee may seek to clawback annual variable pay in performance.
exceptional situations, such as misstatement of performance, failure of risk management or serious misconduct.
Rewards Executive Directors will be eligible to be considered each year for The normal maximum achievement a conditional award over BDH shares, which will vest in one tranche, annual award under the of long-term normally no earlier than three years from the date of award.
Vesting will LTIP rules is up to performance be subject to performance conditions and targets set prior to each grant 100% of base salary in objectives.
These performance conditions will be related to financial face value of shares at performance e. g. EPS growth and net discretionary funds flow and will grant, but may be up be aligned to the business strategy.
For each performance metric used, to 150% in exceptional there will be a threshold level of performance at which no more than 25% circumstances.
LTIP of the portion of the award relating to that KPI will vest, and a stretch level Discretionary of performance, at which 100% of the portion of the award relating to that KPI will vest.
Executive Directors will be required to hold net of tax vested shares for a period of two years following vesting.
The Committee may seek to clawback LTIP in exceptional situations, such as misstatement of performance, failure of risk management or serious misconduct.
Brewin Dolphin 72 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Illustrations of the application How the views of shareholders are taken of remuneration policy into account The Remuneration Committee regularly compares the Policy David Nicol, Chief Executive Officer with shareholder guidelines and takes account of the results of shareholder votes on remuneration.
The Remuneration 1,524 1,600 Committee Chairman will consult with major investors ahead 29 of any material changes to the Policy and, along with the 1,141 1,200 Company Secretary, is available to meet with institutional 24 43 shareholders to discuss any of the policy-related disclosures 800 or outcomes contained in this Directors Remuneration Report.
38 435 Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last 400 Long-term incentives 100 38 28 years Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy are Annual bonus provided on page 70.
Fixed pay 0 Minimum Target Maximum Consideration of employment conditions The potential reward opportunities illustrated above were elsewhere in the Group calculated using base salary effective from 1 January 2019.
A consistent remuneration philosophy for employees is applied Illustrations are intended to provide further information to at all levels and the aggregate rate of base salary increase for all shareholders regarding the pay for performance relationship: employees is one of the factors considered when determining however, actual pay delivered will be influenced by changes in increases in fixed pay for Directors.
share price and the vesting period of awards.
The assumptions All employees are eligible for discretionary performance-related below have been made in compiling the above charts: annual bonus and the principle of bonus deferral applies to Assumptions Minimum Target Maximum annual bonuses for employees whose bonuses exceed certain thresholds.
Total fixed Total fixed Total fixed remuneration remuneration remuneration A formal employee consultation on remuneration is not operated: Fixed pay however, employees are able to provide direct feedback on the Groups remuneration policies to their managers or the Human Resources department and as part of an annual employee No annual On-target Maximum engagement survey.
The Group Human Resources Director is bonus annual bonus of annual bonus of a standing attendee at Remuneration Committee meetings and Annual bonus payable 100% of base 150% of base presents regular reports on people strategy, including the salary salary effectiveness of the Groups remuneration policies and how they are viewed by employees.
Zero vesting Share award of Share award of threshold 100% of base 100% of base Fixed ratios between the total remuneration levels of different not achieved salary.
Full LTIP roles in the Group are not applied, as this would prevent us from vesting 62% of vesting 100% of recruiting and retaining the necessary talent in a highly award award competitive employment market.
Benchmarking Policy on share ownership The Remuneration Committee takes account of market The Remuneration Committee has a policy of encouraging benchmark data when setting total remuneration packages Executive Directors to acquire and retain a significant number for Executive Directors and comparisons are made with other of shares in the Company with the objective of further aligning FTSE listed companies of similar size and business profile to the their long-term interests with those of other shareholders.
Practices in the wealth management sector and other The Committee determines the requirement and reviews this related sectors are also considered.
Benchmark data is used as periodically.
The current limits are set out in the Annual Report a reference point, alongside other factors such as the individuals on Remuneration.
role, experience and performance, rather than as a direct determinant of pay levels.
co. uk Remuneration 000s DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Differences in remuneration policy Service contracts and loss for Executive Directors compared of office payments Service contracts normally continue until the Executive Directors to other employees agreed retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
The approach to remuneration for the Executive Directors is The service contracts contain provision for early termination.
generally consistent with that for employees across the Group as a whole.
However, there are some differences which the In summary, the contractual provisions are: Remuneration Committee believes are necessary to reflect Provision Detailed terms the different responsibilities of employees across the Group, Notice period Six months and the need to recruit, retain and motivate employees in a variety Termination payment in the event Total fixed pay in respect of the of roles.
For example, below Executive Director level, the portion of termination by the Company unexpired period of contractual of annual variable pay that is deferred is structured differently and without due notice notice, in addition to any amounts is capped at one-third rather than the two-thirds deferral that to which they are statutorily applies to Executive Directors.
Awards of market purchased entitled.
In certain cases, shares are made to selected individuals from time to time, the Committee may also consider excluding Executive Directors, which vest subject to continued a discretionary award of annual service, to recognise individuals value to the Group and to create variable pay, subject to further alignment with shareholders.
performance, in respect of the portion of any financial year that External non-executive director positions the individual has been working Executive Directors are permitted to serve as non-executive with the Group, although not for directors of other companies, on the grounds that this can help the period of any payment in lieu to broaden the skills and experience of the Director, provided of notice or garden leave.
there is no competition with the Groups business activities and Change of control Same terms as above on where these duties do not interfere with the individuals ability termination.
to perform his duties for the Group.
The number of external directorships an Executive Director can hold is limited to two The Group has power to enter into settlement agreements with non-executive directorships.
executives and to pay compensation to settle potential legal Where an outside appointment is accepted in furtherance of the claims.
Any outstanding share-based entitlements granted to an Groups business, any fees received are remitted to the Group.
Executive Director under the Groups LTIP or other share plans will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The default If the appointment is not connected to the Groups business, treatment is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation the Executive Director is entitled to retain any fees received.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, disability, redundancy, retirement or other Approach to remuneration for new circumstances at the discretion of the Committee taking into Executive Director appointments account the individuals performance and the reasons for their departure, good leaver status can be applied.
In such cases, The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would the normal practice, unless there are exceptional circumstances, be set in accordance with the terms and maximum levels of the is for any LTIP awards held to be pro-rated for the period of the Groups approved remuneration policy in force at the time performance period that has expired, and the performance of appointment.
conditions would continue to apply.
Share awards under The Committee may also offer additional cash and or sharethe DPSP will vest in full on the original vesting schedule.
based elements when it considers these to be in the best An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated interests of the Group and shareholders, for the purpose of without notice and without any further payment or compensation, replacing awards or potential foreseeable earnings which are except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the forgone by the individual on becoming an Executive Director.
occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
This includes the use of awards made under 9.4.
In considering any such payments the Remuneration Legacy arrangements Committee would take account of the amount of remuneration For the avoidance of doubt, the Directors Remuneration Policy forgone and the nature, vesting dates and any performance includes authority for the Group to honour any commitments requirements attached to the remuneration forgone.
Shareholders entered into with current or former Directors that have been will be informed of any such payments and the rationale for these.
disclosed to shareholders in previous Remuneration Reports.
For an internal appointment, any deferred pay element awarded Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according implementation section of this report as they arise.
to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may be permitted to continue where this is considered to be in the best interests of the Group and shareholders.
For external and internal appointments, the Group may meet certain relocation expenses as appropriate.
Brewin Dolphin 74 Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Policy for the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Chairman fee To pay a market competitive The Chairman is paid a single The current maximum all-inclusive fee that takes fee for all his responsibilities.
aggregate fee for Non-Executive account of the role and The level of the fee is reviewed Directors is 700,000 per responsibilities.
periodically by the Committee, annum.
This is subject to with reference to market levels change periodically though any in comparably-sized FTSE increase in aggregate fee companies, without the would be subject to approval Chairman being present.
Non-Executive To pay a market competitive The Non-Executives are As above.
Director fees basic fee, and supplements paid a basic fee.
There are for significant additional also supplements for Committee responsibilities such as Chairmanships and the Senior Committee Chairmanships.
The fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are engaged under letters of appointment: they do not have contracts of service and are not entitled to compensation on early termination of their appointment.
The Group can reimburse Non-Executive Directors reasonable business expenses including tax thereon if applicable.
Compliance with the FCA Remuneration Code The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews its Remuneration Policys compliance with the principles of the Remuneration Code of the UK financial services regulator, as applicable to the Group.
The Remuneration Policy is designed to be consistent with the prudent management of risk and the sustained long-term performance of the Group.
Application of the Policy The Policy took effect from 3 February 2017.
This Directors Remuneration Report, including both the Policy and Annual Remuneration Report, has been approved by the Board of Directors.
Caroline Taylor Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 November 2018 Brewin Dolphin 75 www.
