Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Annual Statement Index to our Remuneration Report on Remuneration Policy Report 76 1.
Overview of what our Executive Directors earned in 2018 and why 90 2.
Executive Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2018 91 3.
Executive Directors remuneration for the upcoming year 97 4.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration for the year ended 31December 2018 100 5.
The Remuneration Committee and shareholder engagement 106 8.
Summary of our Directors Remuneration Policy 109 The following Annual Report on Remuneration has been prepared in accordance with Dimitri the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and as prescribed in The Large and Panayotopoulos Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations Chairman of the 2013 the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations.
Where required and for the Remuneration purpose of the audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing Committee ISA data has been audited by KPMG and this is indicated appropriately.
Pension: Pension contribution rates for new Executive Directors under Dear Shareholder the defined contribution plan will be reduced from 35% to 15% Remuneration and strategy of annual base salary.
Changes will align contributions with those We have completed the review of our Directors Remuneration available to our wider UK population and deliver a coherent pension Policy during 2018, taking into consideration investor and advisory policy throughout the organisation.
body feedback arising from the 2018 AGM, recent changes in Short-Term Incentive Scheme STI : The individual performance the UK corporate governance environment and an assessment multiplier has been removed from the annual bonus, refocusing the STI of our competitive position in the marketplace.
The Committee on strategic metrics and corporate performance solely, while retaining acknowledges the feedback provided by shareholders through the the ability to reduce bonus in cases of poor individual performance.
vote on the Directors Remuneration Report in 2018, which has been uppermost in our minds as we have conducted the review process.
Short-Term Incentive Scheme STI : Postcessation payments to good leavers will no longer be paid on target on a pro rata basis at leave Our focus has been to ensure that we have an effective Remuneration date and instead will operate on a wait and see basis, being paid pro Policy which: 1 enables the Group to attract and retain top quality rata, by reference to full-year results and paid at the normal time in talent in the global marketplace: 2 rewards sustainable long-term March of the following year.
performance in an appropriate and competitive manner: 3 forges closer long-term links between the Groups senior management and its Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP : While there are no current changes shareholders: and 4 incorporates best practice policy features while in award quantum for the Executive Directors, the policy will move to maintaining policy elements which have been well supported and a singular scheme maximum.
Moving to a singular scheme maximum remain appropriate for the Group.
is considered an appropriate policy adjustment: it will mean an appropriate level of differentiation in award quantum is maintained Our recent experiences of working closely with our shareholders to between the CEO and other Executive Directors whilst providing successfully streamline, simplify and reshape our Remuneration Policy flexibility to the Committee over the lifetime of the policy.
reflect these objectives and it is my role to ensure that this focus is maintained.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP : In addition, Altria will be included in the TSR comparator group for awards made from 2019.
Shareholder engagement This expansion of the TSR comparator group is believed to be The latter part of 2018 and early 2019 have been devoted to a appropriate following the acquisition of RAI and the Groups presence programme of engagement with shareholders on the outcomes in the US market.
for 2018 and the remuneration proposals contained in the new Remuneration Policy.
I would personally like to thank all those Dividend equivalent payments: Dividend equivalent payments under shareholders who worked with us and have helped us achieve an the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS and the LTIP will be settled ongoing and transparent dialogue concerning executive remuneration.
in shares, rather than cash.
New remuneration policy Post-employment shareholding: In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, we have developed a policy setting out The Committee has undertaken a focused review of the Remuneration post-employment shareholding requirements for Executive Directors.
Policy, building on the extensive work undertaken prior to 2016 that This policy introduces a requirement for former Executive Directors to created the current policy which is strongly aligned with shareholder hold shares equivalent to 100% of current shareholding requirements interests and remains fit for purpose in all its major aspects.
for two full years following the date of their departure.
I believe that the proposed changes will further sharpen alignment These changes to policy have been introduced to further ensure long with shareholder interests and simplify the policy while ensuring that term alignment between the interests of the Executive Directors and executive compensation continues to be competitive.
Key changes are those of shareholders, and to support Executive Directors in building a as follows: high level of personal shareholding in the Company.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 73 Remuneration Report Annual Statement on Remuneration continued Disclosure of STI targets Following determination of the formulaic outcome for both the 2018 STI and the 2016 LTIP performance conditions, the Remuneration A number of shareholders have requested publication of targets Committee considered the vesting levels against the underlying relating to the STI earlier than has previously been made.
Since the performance of the Group, and whether the decrease in the Groups revised reporting requirements came into effect, publication of share price performance should be reflected in the STI and LTIP the STI targets has been deferred for one year on the basis of the outcomes for Directors.
The Remuneration Committee considered commercially sensitive nature of those targets.
Notwithstanding that that a further adjustment to the STI and LTIP outcomes was not the Remuneration Committee continues to consider that STI targets appropriate, in recognition of: remain commercially sensitive, the Remuneration Committee has, on balance, decided that publication of STI targets will in future be the strong underlying performance of the Group which should form published in the remuneration report following the end of the relevant a solid basis for future growth and share price performance: performance year.
Consequently, this years remuneration report sets the structure of the LTIP is already designed to ensure that the value out the targets relating to both the 2017 and 2018 performance years.
delivered to Directors is affected by share price movements, through Outcomes 2018 fixing the maximum number of shares at the time of grant: Our incentive arrangements are closely aligned to our strategy and share price movements are also reflected in three tranches of deferred performance metrics align with the key performance indicators stated bonus held by each of the Directors: and in the Strategic Report.
the significant personal shareholdings of the Directors in the Group, The Group has delivered an outstanding operational performance which have experienced a material decline in value.
in 2018, building on the long-term strategic growth agenda and exceeding the expectations established by the Committee, which The Remuneration Committee considered salary increases for Executive had been revised upwards beyond the original targets which were Directors in the context of the level of pay increases for UK employees.
These ranged between 0% and 5% based on performance in the prior year and the position of an individuals pay relative to the market, with This is evidenced by the Groups performance in 2018 across key an average increase of 2%.
business metrics, excluding the impact of translational foreign exchange and on a representative basis, which normalises the Groups With consideration of the changes in the composition of the Main results for acquisitions in prior periods.
Board, the Remuneration Committee decided that with effect from 1 April 2019 the Chief Executives salary will remain as per the terms In 2018, the Group has exceeded performance expectations, growing of appointment at 1,175,000 and the Finance Directors salary will market share together with an increase in adjusted revenue and remain unchanged at 924,000. adjusted profit from operations at constant rates of exchange in all regions.
In addition, the Group delivered a strong set of results 2019 LTIP awards with growth in adjusted, diluted, constant currency EPS and a strong The Committee acknowledges the recent decline in the Groups operating cash conversion rate.
RAI Companies results are now wholly share price and the attendant concern as to new awards being out of reflected within the 2018 short-term incentive scheme and within proportion with previous awards made.
Accordingly, the Committee the 2018 performance year attaching to the 2016, 2017 and 2018 has decided to apply a downward adjustment to the 2019 LTIP award.
The 2019 award will be made on the basis of the Groups closing share price on 25 February 2019, increased by 15%, with a resulting share These results are reflected positively in the outcomes for the Groups price of 33.28.
In the event that the Groups share price increases STI, the International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS, for which beyond this level at the award date in March 2019, the higher share the corporate result across the four measures Adjusted profit from price shall be used as the basis of the award.
operations, the Groups share of key markets, Adjusted revenue growth from the strategic portfolio and Cash generated from operations Executive Director changes was 100%.
As discussed elsewhere in the Annual Report, Nicandro Durante will The 2016 LTIP award with metrics representing Adjusted diluted be stepping down as CEO with effect from 1 April 2019 and will be EPS, relative TSR, Adjusted revenue growth and the Operating cash succeeded by Jack Bowles.
Mr Durantes leaving arrangements will be flow conversion ratio will vest in March 2019 at 70.5%.
The vesting in line with our shareholder approved Remuneration Policy and as such result is an accurate reflection of the sustained and strong underlying will include no additional elements outside of our normal approach to performance of the Company in challenging market conditions, but executives who are departing by reason of retirement.
also reflects, through the relative TSR measure, the movement in the The Committee gave careful and detailed consideration to Mr Bowles Groups share price during the performance period.
Consequently, remuneration package for 2019, taking into account all relevant the absolute value attached to the awards at the close of three year factors.
This included a thorough review of the external marketplace, performance period is circa 50% lower than the value of the 2016 consideration of Mr Bowles experience within the industry and his awards at grant.
accumulated experience as part of the Management Board and most recently as COO together with due consideration to changes within the UK Corporate Governance environment and the views expressed by shareholders during previous engagements on policy.
74 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Upon appointment Mr Bowles will receive an annual salary of 1,175,000 which will next be reviewed in April 2020.
This compares to the current salary for the CEO of 1,310,000.
In addition, the pension contribution rate for Mr Bowles will be revised downward to 15% of salary which will then be aligned with our wider UK population.
When considering the changes in aggregate, the result is a 21% decrease in fixed pay for the CEO and a 15% decrease in total remuneration.
As set out elsewhere in this Annual Report, Ben Stevens will step down from his role as Finance Director and from the Main Board with effect from 5 August 2019.
He will retire from the Group with effect from 30 September 2019.
The terms and conditions of Mr Stevens retirement are in accordance with our current shareholder approved Remuneration Policy and as such will include no additional elements outside our normal approach to executives who are leaving by reason of retirement.
As also set out in this Annual Report, Mr Stevens will be succeeded by Tadeu Marroco, currently Director, Group Transformation.
The Remuneration Committee, at its February 2019 meeting, has discussed and approved the terms of appointment for Mr Marroco.
Pay and transparency The Remuneration Committee is very aware of the continued debate on executive remuneration and corporate governance, the emphasis on long-term alignment with shareholder interests and the importance of considering executive compensation in the broader context of the Groups employees.
With the introduction of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 from 1 January 2019, we have ensured that, during the Remuneration Policy review process, we have applied where appropriate the principles of the new Code to the design and structure of our remuneration arrangements.
We have taken the opportunity to review our Remuneration Policy and have restructured and shortened it where possible to simplify and streamline content, which we hope readers will find helpful.
New UK reporting regulations have introduced the requirement to disclose our CEO to employee pay ratio for financial years from 1 January 2019.
The Committee will be reviewing the relevant data during 2019 in readiness to report on the ratios, following calculation method A which we believe to be the most robust and comprehensive means of assessment, as part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be published in early 2020.
In March 2019 we will be publishing data relating to UK Gender Pay in line with statutory requirements.
Upon reviewing the data prior to publication, the Committee noted that while men and women are rewarded equally for similar roles, the Group does have a gender pay gap as defined by the UK legislation.
While the Group continues to make excellent progress with senior female representation, including two recent female appointments to the Management Board, the pay gap is largely a reflection of having more men than women in senior roles and the Group has a comprehensive set of diversity initiatives in place to drive progress on this issue.
Our focus in 2019 On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I acknowledge the scope of the tasks for the year ahead as we turn our attention to the implementation of our new policy and continue our work in relation to delivering on the pay and transparency agenda.
Dimitri Panayotopoulos Chairman, Remuneration Committee 27 February 2019 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 75 Remuneration Report Annual Statement on Remuneration continued Policy Report Introduction This policy section of the Remuneration Report the Policy Report sets out a proposed new Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors.
This new Remuneration Policy, which is intended to replace the current remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, is subject to a binding vote by shareholders at the AGM on 25 April 2019 and, if approved, will come into effect from 26 April 2019.
The new Remuneration Policy is set out in full on the following pages with changes from the current remuneration policy identified for reference.
Principles of remuneration The Committees remuneration principles are to: reward, as an overriding objective, the delivery of the Groups long-term strategy in a manner which is simple, straightforward and understandable and which is aligned with shareholders interests: structure a remuneration package that is appropriately positioned relative to the market and comprises core fixed elements and performancebased variable elements: design the fixed elements of pay comprising base salary, pension and other benefits to recognise the skills and experience of our Executive Directors and to ensure current and future market competitiveness in attracting talent: design the variable elements of pay provided via two performance-based incentive schemes: a short-term incentive scheme delivered through a combination of a cash element and a deferral element, and a long-term incentive scheme, to be both transparent and stretching and to support, motivate and reward the successful delivery of the Groups long-term strategy and growth for shareholders on a sustainable basis: ensure that reputational, behavioural and other risks that can arise from target-based incentive plans are identified and mitigated: maintain an appropriate balance between fixed pay and the opportunity to earn performance-related remuneration with immediate and deferred elements: the performance-based elements form, at maximum opportunity, between 80% and 90% of the Executive Directors total remuneration packages: ensure, through its annual review, that the Remuneration Policy is both rigorously applied and remains aligned with the Companys purpose, values and strategy and the need to promote the long-term success of the Company: and ensure that remuneration arrangements are transparent and promote effective engagement with shareholders and the workforce.
Summary of key changes The background and explanation of the proposed key changes from the current remuneration policy are given in the Annual Statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee starting on page 73 of this Remuneration Report.
Those key changes have been further explained in relevant sections of the Policy Report as summarised below: Policy Element Change in Policy Page Number Pensions The rate of pension provision under the defined contribution arrangements has been 78 reduced from 35% of base salary to 15% of base salary, to ensure alignment with the defined contribution arrangements in place for UK employees.
ShortTerm Incentive The previous individual performance multiplier, allowing a 20% adjustment to the 79 Scheme STI, annual bonus outcome based on the corporate result, has been removed with effect from the 2019 opportunity performance year.
ShortTerm Incentive Post-cessation payments to good leavers will no longer be paid pro rata and on target at 86 Scheme STI, good leaver leave date and instead will operate on a wait and see basis, being paid pro rata, by provisions reference to full year results and paid at the normal time in March of the following year.
LongTerm Incentive Plan The limit on the levels of award to Executive Directors other than the Chief Executive, 81 LTIP, award quantum which has featured in previous remuneration policies, has been removed.
It is not intended that this will lead to a change in the maximum opportunity for the current Finance Director, but is believed to be appropriate to give flexibility over the life of the Remuneration Policy, while maintaining an appropriate level of differentiation between the Chief Executive and other Executive Directors.
LongTerm Incentive Plan The TSR comparator group is expanded to include the Altria Group for awards made from 80 LTIP, performance 2019. measures Dividend equivalent For awards made from 2019, dividend equivalent payments under the Deferred Share 79, 80 payments Bonus Scheme DSBS and the LTIP will be settled in shares, rather than cash.
Shareholding requirements Post-employment shareholding requirements have been introduced for former Executive 81 Directors to hold shares equivalent to 100% of current shareholding requirements for two full years following the date of their departure.
76 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Future Policy Table Executive Directors Base salary How the element supports To attract and retain high calibre individuals to deliver the Groups long-term strategy and to offer the Companys strategic market-competitive levels of guaranteed cash to reflect an individuals skills, experience and role within objectives the Company.
Operation of the element Base salary is normally paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year.
Salaries are normally 2019 Policy: no change in policy reviewed annually in February with salary changes effective from April or subject to an ad hoc review on a significant change of responsibilities.
Salaries are reviewed taking into account factors including individual performance as well as appropriate market data including general UK pay trends and a company size and complexity model based on a Pay Comparator Group including UK companies, the constituents of which for 2019 are as follows: Altria Group Anheuser-Busch InBev AstraZeneca Bayer BP Coca-Cola Colgate-Palmolive Danone Diageo Este Lauder GlaxoSmithKline Heineken Imperial Brands Japan Tobacco Johnson & Johnson Kellogg Kraft Heinz LOral LVMH Mondele z International Nestl PepsiCo Pfizer Philip Morris International Procter & Gamble Reckitt Benckiser Royal Dutch Shell Unilever Vodafone The Committee will continue to exercise its judgement to vary the constituents of the PayComparator Group over the life of this Remuneration Policy.
Only base salary is pensionable.
Maximum potential value Annual increases for Executive Directors base salaries in the normal course will generally be in the 2019 Policy: no change in policy range of the increases in the base pay of other UK-based employees in the Group and will not exceed 10% per annum during the policy period.
The salary of a recently appointed Executive Director as he or she progresses in a role may exceed the top of the range of the salary increases for UK-based employees where the Committee considers it appropriate to reflect the accrual of experience.
A significant change in responsibilities or material change in role may be reflected in an above average increase which may exceed 10% in salary.
Benefits How the element supports the To provide market-competitive benefits consistent with the role which: Companys strategic objectives attract and retain high calibre individuals to deliver the Groups long-term strategy: and recognise that such talent is global in source and that the availability of certain benefits e. g. relocation, repatriation, taxation compliance advice will from time to time be necessary to avoid such factors being an inhibitor to accepting the role.
Operation of the element The Company currently offers the following contractual benefits to Executive Directors: a car or car 2019 Policy: no change in policy allowance: the use of a car and driver for personal and business use: employment tax advice including in instances where multi-jurisdictional tax authorities are involved : tax equalisation payments where appropriate : private medical insurance, including general practitioner walkin medical services: personal life and accident insurance: and housing and education allowances or similar arrangements as appropriate to family circumstances anticipated to be provided for Executive Directors who relocate internationally.
Other benefits may include the Executive Directors and their partners attendance at hospitality or similar functions, and the provision of services and benefits which may be treated as benefits for tax purposes, such as the provision of home security and the reimbursement of expenses incurred in connection with their duties.
Other benefits not identified above may be offered if, in the Committees view, these are necessary in order to remain aligned with market practice.
With the exception of the car or car allowance, in line with the UK market and the practice followed for all the Groups other UK employees, it is also practice to pay the tax that may be due on benefits.
The Company provides Directors and Officers liability insurance D&O and an indemnity to Directors to cover costs and liabilities incurred in the execution of their duties.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 77 Remuneration Report Annual Statement on Remuneration continued Maximum potential value The maximum potential values are based on market practice for individuals of this level of seniority, 2019 Policy: no change in policy with any tax on benefits paid by the Company in addition.
The maximum annual value subject to periodic inflation-related increases where applicable that can be offered for the following benefits is: car allowance: 20,000: use of a car and company driver for personal and business use: cost is dependent on the miles driven in any year: the cost of private medical insurance is dependent on an individuals circumstances and is provided on a family basis: GP walkin medical services located close to the Groups headquarters in London: 5,000: personal life and accident insurance designed to pay out at a multiple of four and five times base salary, respectively: employment tax advice as required, but not exceeding 30,000 and tax equalisation payments as agreed by the Committee from time to time: and housing and education allowances or other similar arrangements, as appropriate to the individuals family circumstances.
Pensions How the element supports the To provide competitive post-retirement benefit arrangements which recognise both the individuals Companys strategic objectives length of tenure with the Group and the external environment in the context of attracting and retaining senior high calibre individuals to deliver the Groups long-term strategy.
Operation of the element Defined contribution benefits 2019 Policy: The rate of pension Subject to participation in legacy arrangements, and with effect from 1 May 2019, Executive Directors provision under the defined are eligible to receive a pension benefit equivalent to 15% of base salary, which the Committee may contribution arrangements is to determine to provide as a contribution into the defined contribution section of the British American be reduced from 35% of base Tobacco UK Pension Fund the Pension Fund or a similar defined contribution arrangement from salary to 15% of base salary, to time to time or as a gross cash sum paid in lieu thereof.
ensure alignment with the defined contribution arrangements in place The level of contribution in the defined contribution section of the Pension Fund is restricted to take for UK employees.
This change into account the annual allowance, and the individual may elect to accumulate any balance in the will apply to the newly-appointed unfunded unapproved retirement benefits scheme UURBS or receive the balance as a gross cash sum.
Legacy arrangements This Remuneration Policy continues to Executive Directors may continue to participate in the defined benefit section of the Pension Fund be subject to Executive Directors being where they were doing so before the section closed to new members.
This is the case for the Finance permitted to participate in legacy Director and could also apply to future Executive Directors where they have legacy participation in the defined benefit arrangements.
defined benefit section prior to appointment to the Board.
In addition, the legacy pension provision This change will apply from 1 May of internal appointees may differ marginally from that outlined in this Remuneration Policy and such 2019, being the start of the first payroll arrangements would ordinarily continue to apply.
month after this Remuneration Policy will come into effect.
Where an individual is entitled to benefits calculated on a base salary that exceeds a scheme-specific salary cap, these are accrued in the UURBS.
Please refer to the Statement of the Chairman of the Remuneration Operation Committee on page 73 for The pension arrangements operate in accordance with the rules of the applicable scheme, including further detail.
in respect of the benefits payable in the event of death or on early retirement.
Details of the Executive Directors accrued pension benefits are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 95.
Maximum potential value With effect from 1 May 2019 the maximum annual contribution in the defined contribution section of the Pension Fund is 15% of base salary.
Excess benefits whether accrued in the UURBS or paid as a cash sum are subject to this same limit.
The pension accrual rate in respect of legacy participation in the defined benefit section of the Pension Fund will not exceed the maximum one-fortieth of salary per annum.
78 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Shortterm incentives: International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS How the element supports the To incentivise the attainment of corporate targets aligned to the Groups strategic objectives Companys strategic objectives onan annual basis, with a deferred element to ensure alignment with shareholders interests.
To ensure, overall, a market-competitive package to attract and retain high calibre individuals todeliver the Groups long-term strategy.
Operation of the element IEIS comprises an annual award referenced to base salary, 50% of which is paid immediately 2019 Policy: the previous individual in cash and 50% of which is awarded in shares through the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme performance multiplier, allowing a 20% DSBS.
adjustment to the outcome based on the The deferred shares normally vest after three years and no further performance conditions corporate result, has been removed with apply in that period.
Deferred shares attract a dividend equivalent which is delivered in effect from the 2019 performance year.
additional quarterly interim dividend equivalent shares, which are subject to the shareholding For DSBS awards from 2019 onwards, the requirements such that they cannot be sold unless the requirements have been met.
dividend equivalent cash payments have Awards under the IEIS are not pensionable and no element of the bonus is guaranteed.
been replaced by delivery of quarterly interim dividend equivalent shares.
IEIS cash payments are subject to clawback provisions, and the deferred shares element of the IEIS is subject to malus and clawback provisions, as described on page 81.
Performance assessment The Committee sets the performance targets each year and is also able to amend the performance measures and vary the weighting of them from year to year.
2019 Policy: no change in policy The Committee reviews performance for the prior year in February each year and the Groups external auditors perform certain specified procedures to assist the Committees assessment of the calculations used to determine the IEIS corporate bonus outcomes and future targets.
The total payout is determined by the Companys performance under each measure relative to that measures performance target.
The Committee may at its discretion adjust, whether positively or negatively, the payout in circumstances where it considers it is appropriate to do so to reflect the overall performance of the Company.
In cases of identified poor individual performance, the corporate result may be reduced by up to 50%.
Performance measures and weighting The IEIS contains four corporate performance measures KPIs and weightings measured over the financial year.
These KPIs are the same as those KPIs used to measure performance against the 2019 Policy: no change in policy.
The current Groups long-term strategy as outlined and explained from page 20 of the Strategic Report: KPIs for 2019 remain the same as for 2018, reflecting the inclusion of Adjusted revenue 1.
Adjusted profit from operations APFO 30%.
APFO is the adjusted profit from operations growth from the Strategic Portfolio, which at constant rates of exchange.
Please refer to page 261 for the detailed description of APFO.
replaces Global Drive Brands and Key 2.
Groups share of key markets 10%.
The Groups retail market share in its Key Markets Strategic Brands and is now included as accounts for around 80% of the volumes of the Groups subsidiaries.
The Groups share is this is a central value driver for the Groups calculated from data supplied by retail and audit service providers and is rebased as and when business from both current and longer-term the Groups Key Markets change.
When rebasing does occur, the Company will also restate strategic perspectives.
historic data and provide fresh comparative data on the markets.
Adjusted revenue growth from the Strategic Portfolio 30%.
The Strategic Portfolio reflects the focus of the Groups investment activity, and is defined as Global Drive Brands GDBs : strategic brands in the US Market: and potentially reduced-risk products portfolio Vapour, THP, Traditional Oral and Modern Oral brands.
This measure is assessed at constant rates of exchange.
Please refer to page 260 for the detailed description of the Strategic Portfolio.
Adjusted Cash generated from operations ACGFO 30%.
Adjusted CGFO is defined as the net cash generated from operating activities, before the impact of adjusting items, dividends paid to non-controlling interests and received from associates, net interest paid and net capital expenditure.
Adjusted CGFO is measured at constant rates of exchange.
Maximum potential value and payment The maximum annual bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive is 250% of base salary and for and threshold other Executive Directors is 190% of base salary.
2019 Policy: no change in policy The annual ontarget bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive is 125% of base salary and for other Executive Directors is 95% of base salary.
For a bonus to be paid in respect of any performance measure, the applicable threshold performance must be exceeded such that no bonus is paid at threshold.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 79 Remuneration Report Annual Statement on Remuneration continued Longterm incentives: LongTerm Incentive Plan LTIP How the element supports the To facilitate the appointment of senior high calibre individuals required to deliver the Groups long Companys strategic objectives term strategy, and to promote the long-term success of the Company.
To put in place a combination of measures with appropriately stretching targets around the long-term plan that provides a balance relevant to the Companys business and market conditions as well as providing alignment between Executive Directors and shareholders interests.
Operation of the element Discretionary annual awards over shares with vesting levels based on the achievement of appropriately 2019 Policy: for LTIP awards from stretching targets against performance measures that are aligned to the Groups long-term strategy 2019 onwards, the dividend equivalent over a three-year performance period, and with a five-year vesting period to ensure longer-term cash payments have been replaced by alignment with shareholders interests.
delivery of dividend equivalent shares LTIP awards vest only to the extent that: at vesting 1. the performance condition is satisfied at the end of the threeyear performance period: and 2. an additional vesting period of two years from the date of the third anniversary of the date of grant has been completed the LTIP Extended Vesting Period.
Participants may receive a dividend equivalent which is delivered in additional shares on vesting at the end of the LTIP Extended Vesting Period to the extent to which awards vest.
Dividend equivalent shares are subject to the shareholding requirements such that they cannot be sold unless the requirements have been met.
LTIP awards may be delivered in any form provided under the LTIP rules as approved by shareholders.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions, as described on page 81.
Performance assessment The Committee sets the performance targets for the applicable performance period each year, including determining the total shareholder return TSR comparator group.
The Committee is also 2019 Policy: no change in policy able to amend the measures and vary the weighting of them from year to year, but will generally only seek to make amendments to them following consultation with shareholders.
The Committee may at its discretion adjust, whether positively or negatively, the level of vesting in circumstances where it considers it is appropriate to do so to reflect the overall performance of the Company.
Performance measures Performance is measured against five measures.
This measures TSR compared with a comparator peer group of international 2019 Policy: the TSR comparator FMCG companies as determined annually by the Committee.
Full vesting of this element is at top group is expanded to include the quartile performance.
Threshold vesting is at median performance, at which 3% of the award Altria Group will vest.
Adjusted diluted EPS growth at current exchange rates 20%.
This measures growth in adjusted diluted EPS measured at current rates of exchange.
Full vesting is at a compound annual growth rate CAGR of 10%.
Threshold vesting is at a CAGR of 5%, at which 3% of the award will vest.
Adjusted diluted EPS growth at constant exchange rates 20%.
This measures growth in adjusted diluted EPS measured at constant rates of exchange.
Full vesting is at a CAGR of 10%.
This measures adjusted revenue growth measured at constant rates of exchange.
Full vesting is at a CAGR of 5%.
Threshold vesting is at a CAGR of 3%, at which 3% of the award will vest.
There is an underpin to the adjusted revenue growth measure: no vesting will occur unless the corresponding three-year constant CAGR of adjusted profit from operations APFO exceeds the CAGR of the threshold performance level for APFO as approved annually in the STI and approved by the Board.
Adjusted operating cash flow conversion ratio 20%.
This measures operating cash flow, at current rates of exchange, as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
Full vesting is at a ratio of 95%.
Threshold vesting is at a ratio of 85%, at which 3% of the award will vest.
The current constituents of the TSR comparator group, for awards to be granted in 2019 are: Altria Group Anheuser-Busch InBev Campbell Soup Carlsberg Coca Cola Colgate-Palmolive Danone Diageo Heineken Imperial Brands Japan Tobacco Johnson & Johnson Kellogg Kimberley-Clark LVMH Mondele z International Nestl PepsiCo Pernod Ricard Philip Morris International Procter & Gamble Reckitt Benckiser Unilever 80 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Maximum potential value and The maximum annual award of shares permitted under the rules of the LTIP, as approved by payment at threshold shareholders, is 500% of salary for Executive Directors.
If the threshold performance level is attained in respect of all five measures, 15% of the award will vest.
2019 Policy: the limit on the levels of award to Executive Directors other than the Chief Executive, which was featured in previous remuneration policies, has been removed.
Allemployee share schemes How the element supports the Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes which Companysstrategic objectives are designed to incentivise employees by giving them an opportunity to build shareholdings in the Company.
Operation of the element The Company currently operates two all-employee share schemes: the Sharesave Scheme, an HM Revenue & Customs HMRC tax-advantaged savings-related share option scheme, and 2019 Policy: no change in policy the Share Incentive Plan SIP an HMRC tax-advantaged plan operated by the Company to allow eligible employees to purchase shares in the Company the Partnership Plan and to make an annual award of free shares of a level based on performance in the previous financial year theShare Reward Scheme.
Maximum potential value Executive Directors are subject to the same limits on participation as other employees, as defined by the applicable statutory provisions.
Currently, these limits are monthly savings under the 2019 Policy: no change in policy Sharesave Scheme of 500 per month, and annual share purchases under the Partnership Plan of 1,800 and annual share awards under the Share Reward Scheme of 3,600.
Shareholding requirements How the element supports the To strengthen the alignment between the interests of the Executive Directors and those of the shareholders Companysstrategic objectives by requiring Executive Directors to build up a high level of personal shareholding in the Company.
To ensure long-term alignment between the interests of the Executive Directors and those of shareholders through the operation of post-employment shareholding requirements.
Operation of the element and Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company: performance metrics used 2019 during service as a Director, equal to the value of the same multiple of salary at which LTIP awards Policy: post-employment shareholding are made to that Director and therefore of 500% for the CEO : and requirements are to be introduced after ceasing service as a Director during the period until the second anniversary of cessation of with effect from the approval of this employment with the Group, of a value equal to 100% of the shareholding requirement that Remuneration Policy, to achieve applied whilst a Director.
In order to monitor and enforce the above provisions, former Executive a longer-term alignment with the Directors are required to hold their shares in a nominee account in respect of which a sale restriction Groups strategy and shareholders applies to shares held to comply with the requirements.
Those Executive Directors who do not, at any point, meet the shareholding requirements, may generally sell a maximum of up to 50% of any shares vesting after tax under the Companys share plans until the threshold for the shareholding requirements has been met.
The estimated notional netof-tax number of shares held subject to unvested awards under the DSBS element, and LTIP Awards during the LTIP Extended Vesting Period, will count towards the respective shareholding requirements.
A waiver of compliance with the shareholding requirements is permitted at the discretion of the Committee in circumstances which the Committee considers to be exceptional.
Additional notes to the Future Policy Table: 1.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments where the terms were agreed prior to an individual being appointed an Executive Director of the Company or prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy including, for the avoidance of doubt, pursuant to the current Remuneration Policy.
This includes the achievement of the applicable performance conditions for Executive Directors who are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
The Company recognises the opportunities and benefits that accrue to the Company and its Executive Directors who undertake non-executive roles.
Consequently, an Executive Director may, with the permission of the Board, undertake a single external appointment and the Executive Director may retain the fees from such appointment.
Malus and clawback: Bonus amounts paid under the IEIS are subject to clawback provisions, and awards made under the DSBS and the LTIP are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
In summary, these provisions may be applied if, within specified periods of payment grant: 1 there has been a material misrepresentation in relation to the performance of any Group company, relevant business unit and or the participant: or 2 an erroneous calculation was made in assessing the extent to which an award vested or bonus was paid, which in either case resulted in the value of the award or payment being more than it should have been.
These provisions may also be applied where a participant is found to have committed, at any time prior to payment of a bonus or the vesting of an award, an act or omission which justified dismissal for misconduct.
Where the Committee determines that these provisions are to be applied, the participant may be required to repay up to the excess value which was paid or vested.
This repayment may also be effected by the number of shares subject to the award being reduced and or by a reduction in other cash or share-based awards held by the participant.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 81 Remuneration Report Annual Statement on Remuneration continued Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy The levels of remuneration to be received by Jack Bowles and Ben Stevens as Executive Directors for the first complete year in which the Remuneration Policy will apply are shown as the hypothetical values of their remuneration packages under different performance scenarios in the charts below.
Remuneration outcomes for varying levels of performance Chief Executive Minimum 100% 1,466,000 Expectation 38% 39% 23% 3,816,000 Maximum 1 14% 29% 57% 10,278,000 Maximum 2 11% 22% 67% 13,216,000 Finance Director Minimum 100% 1,464,000 Expectation 52% 31% 17% 2,827,000 Maximum 1 23% 27% 50% 6,453,000 Maximum 2 18% 22% 60% 8,070,000 Fixed Remuneration IEIS LTIP The following assumptions have been applied in the table above.
Maximum award opportunities % of salary Chief Executive Finance Director STI IEIS 250% 190% LTI LTIP 500% 350% current award level maintained for Ben Stevens Minimum Fixed salary, pension and No bonus payout: no vesting under LTIP benefits only: Expectation Fixed salary, pension and 50% of the maximum IEIS award: threshold vesting under the LTIP benefits, plus: Maximum 1 Fixed salary, pension and 100% payout of the IEIS: 100% vesting under the LTIP benefits, plus: Maximum 2 Fixed salary, pension and 100% payout of the IEIS: 100% vesting under the LTIP: 50% share price benefits, plus: appreciation during the relevant performance period of LTIP Notes: 1.
Benefits value for 2019: 1 comprises an estimated value of the car allowance, medical insurance, life assurance, tax advice an d home security benefits, and associated tax costs, based where applicable on the values of the corresponding benefits in 2018, and for the Chief Executive taking into account an estimate of home security costs and an assumed value of tax advice based for these purposes on the policy maximum: 2 excludes any expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events: 3 excludes the cost of the car and driver provision as the cost of this benefit fluctuates annually depending on business need: and 4 in respect of all employee share plan participation, includes an assumed value of participation in the Share Reward Scheme based for these purposes on the plan maximum and excludes the value of any participation in the Sharesave Scheme or the Partnership Share Scheme.
Pension value for 2019: for the Chief Executive is based on the contribution rate of 15% of base salary that will apply under this Remuneration Policy with effect from 1 May 2019 and for the Finance Director represents an estimated value of his legacy arrangements based on the corresponding value in 2018.
No illustration is provided for Nicandro Durante, as he will cease to be an Executive Director from 1 April 2019, which is prior to the date on which this Remuneration Policy will if approved by shareholders come into force.
82 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Other policy provisions in relation to Directors pay Flexibility, judgement and discretion As the Remuneration Policy needs to be capable of operating over a three-year period, the Committee has built in a degree of flexibility to enable the practical implementation of the Remuneration Policy over that prospective lifetime, including as set out in the Future Policy Table above.
The key discretions and areas of flexibility and judgement are summarised as follows: Salary To determine salary levels, including any annual salary increases.
To review and change the pay comparator group to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Benefits To determine benefit provision.
Pensions To determine the form and level of pension provision within the parameters set out in the policy.
STI cash and deferred shares and LTIP To annually determine the targets for each STI performance measure, and to annually amend the performance measures and or vary their weighting.
To annually determine the targets for each LTIP performance measure, including to review and change the LTIP TSR comparator group.
To amend the LTIP performance measures and or vary their weighting, although the Committee will generally only seek to make amendments following consultation with shareholders.
In respect of STI and LTIP: to adjust, whether positively or negatively, the level of payment vesting in circumstances where the Committee considers it is appropriate to do so to reflect the overall performance of the Company.
to alter performance conditions if events happen which cause the Committee to determine that the performance condition is no longer a fair measure of the Companys performance, provided that the revised target is, in the opinion of the Committee, not materially less challenging than was intended in setting the original condition.
to exercise the available discretions in connection with any termination of employment or a change of control or similar event.
to determine whether awards under the LTIP are delivered as options or under any other form permitted under the LTIP rules as approved by shareholders and, in respect of operational matters not otherwise covered by the Policy, to operate the IEIS, DSBS and LTIP in accordance with their terms.
Other To determine within the parameters set out in the Policy appropriate contractual and remuneration arrangements in connection with the recruitment of a new Executive Director, and to determine, for an initial period only, to agree a contract of longer than a one-year rolling duration.
Within the parameters set out in the Policy, to determine appropriate arrangements in connection with any termination of employment.
Within the parameters set out in the Policy, to agree a waiver of shareholding guidelines, whether during or after service.
To operate malus and clawback provisions.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 83 Remuneration Report Annual Statement on Remuneration continued Approach to remuneration of Directors on recruitment Principles British American Tobacco seeks to appoint senior, high calibre managers.
Many of its competitors for talent are based outside the UK.
In making an Executive Director appointment whether an internal To offer a package both fixed salary, pension and performance-related remuneration which promotion or external appointee the is sufficiently competitive but not excessively so so that senior, high calibre candidates can Committee will follow these principles.
be appointed, and which is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The Committee will consider the market, including the Pay Comparator Group, and by reference to other companies of equivalent size and complexity to ensure that it does not overpay.
2019 Policy: no change in policy Consideration will be given to relevant factors, such as the candidates skills, knowledge and experience and his or her current package and current location in determining the overall package.
Internal pay relativities and the terms and conditions of employment of the new and existing Executive Directors will be considered to ensure fairness between Executive Directors.
External appointment to role of Executive The Committee may exercise its discretion to award two or three-year contracts in the event Director additional considerations that an Executive Director is recruited externally or from overseas: contracts with an initial period of longer than one year will then reduce to a one-year rolling contract after the expiry of the initial period.
2019 Policy: no change in policy The Committee will consider matching up to the maximum of the expected value of lost short or long-term incentive awards in order to facilitate the recruitment of that individual.
A replacement award would generally take the form of either a one-off award with a vesting period similar to the award given up and, in the case of a replacement of a performance-based award, appropriate performance conditions or a cash replacement payment in respect of an award that is within three months of vesting, although in either case the Committee may make other arrangements as it deems to be necessary.
Where appropriate, a replacement award will also be made subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Relocation Relocation support of up to 200,000 may be provided in connection with recruitment.
Examples of this support may include: shipment of goods: temporary accommodation: assistance British American Tobacco may provide to find accommodation: tax support services: and spouse or partner career counselling.
Inbound relocation and shipment expenses are subject to clawback provisions.
2019 Policy: no change in policy 84 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Service contracts Executive Directors The following table describes the provisions of the service contract of Jack Bowles.
It is currently anticipated that service contracts for newlyappointed Executive Directors will not contain terms differing materially from these provisions provided that other arrangements may be entered into in connection with the recruitment of Executive Directors, as described in the Approach to remuneration of Directors on recruitment section on page 84.
Notice period A period of notice to be given by either the Executive Director or the Company of 12 months.
Employed on a permanent contract, The Company may require the Executive Director to be on garden leave during all or any part terminable by either party on one of the period of notice whether given by the Executive Director or the Company.
Contractual terms The primary obligations under the contract which may give rise to remuneration or payments for loss of office are as follows: The contract includes obligations which could give rise to, or impact upon, to provide salary payment, contributions to applicable pension arrangements and benefits whether remuneration and or payments for loss in cash or in kind as specified in the contract, and to reimburse reasonable expenses incurred by the of office.
Executive Director in performing his duties: The provisions of the Companys incentive to give the Executive Director eligibility to participate in annual and or long-term arrangements applicable on a termination of incentive arrangements: employment are set out separately below.
to provide a company car and driver for personal and or business use, and a car allowance: to provide 25 working days plus public holidays paid holiday per annum.
On termination of employment the Company may at its discretion require the Executive Director to take all accrued holiday during any period of notice or pay him a sum in lieu: to provide sick pay at the Executive Directors normal salary rate for up to 12 weeks during any rolling 12-month period, and thereafter at the Companys discretion, subject to the Companys Sick Pay Policy: to give the Executive Director eligibility to participate in a private medical expenses scheme and a personal accident scheme, and to provide life assurance benefits, subject to the terms and conditions of such schemes from time to time in force: to terminate the contract only on the expiry of 12 months written notice or to make a payment in lieu of notice in respect of all, or the unexpired part, of the 12 months notice calculated based on: 1 salary at then current base pay: and 2 the cost to the Company of providing private medical expenses insurance and personal accident insurance or the Company may, at its option, continue those benefits for the unexpired period of the notice.
In determining the value of a payment in lieu of notice the Company shall not be required to reward failure on the part of the Executive Director and shall have regard to corporate governance standards at the termination date.
The Company may, at its reasonable discretion, make the payment in lieu of notice in phased monthly or quarterly instalments and may determine that it should be reduced in accordance with the duty on the part of the Executive Director to mitigate his loss: and to continue to pay the Executive Directors salary and contractual benefits during any garden leave period.
In addition to the contractual rights to a payment on loss of office, the Executive Director may have statutory and or common law rights to certain additional payments depending on the circumstances of the termination.
Legacy arrangements The contractual terms of the Finance Director, entered into prior to this Remuneration Policy coming into force, include the following provisions which are in addition to or differ from those described above: the contractual entitlement to sick pay applies at the Executive Directors normal salary for a period of up to two months, and then half his normal salary for a period of up to one month, and thereafter at the Companys discretion: any payment in lieu of notice is calculated based on: 1 salary at then current base pay: 2 car allowance: and 3 the cost to the Company of providing private medical expenses insurance, life assurance and personal accident insurance or the Company may, at its option, continue any of those benefits for the unexpired period of the notice.
Any payment in lieu of notice is payable in full on termination of employment: and for any time spent on garden leave, the assessment of the Executive Directors performance under his relevant bonus scheme shall be at target level.
Inspection of service contracts The dates of the latest service contracts are shown below: Copies may be inspected at the Companys Executive Director Execution date of current service contract registered office: these contracts are Jack Bowles 11 December 2018 appointment as an Executive Director commenced amended annually following the 1 January 2019 salary review.
Ben Stevens 26 March 2008 as amended by side letter dated 23 July 2010 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 85 Remuneration Report Annual Statement on Remuneration continued Policy on payment for loss of office Treatment of awards under the share Plan Good leaver Other leaver scenarios incentive schemes: International Executive Good leavers are eligible No entitlement to a bonus but the IEIS and DSBS Incentive Scheme IEIS Deferred Share 2019 Policy: with effect for a bonus pro-rated for the Committee has the discretion to treat Bonus Scheme DSBS from this Remuneration period of employment other leavers in the same manner Policy coming into force, during the year.
as good leavers: this discretion LongTerm Incentive Plan LTIP IEIS bonuses paid to is not exercisable in the case of Allemployee scheme Payments made during good leavers are to be summary dismissal.
The release of awards is dependent on a notice period or after assessed on a Awards under the DSBS will lapse leaver status and is at the discretion of cessation may, at the wait and see basis, unless the Committee, in its absolute the Committee.
discretion of the by reference to full-year discretion, decides otherwise.
Committee, be made results, and paid at the incash only.
Bonuses are assessed based on actual full-year performance and paid at the normal time.
Awards under the DSBS will vest upon termination of employment.
LTIP Vesting occurs at the end Unvested awards, including any awards 2019 Policy: no change of the LTIP Extended which are still subject to the LTIP in policy.
Vesting Period, subject to Extended Vesting Period, will lapse performance over the unless the Committee, in its absolute normal performance discretion, decides otherwise.
period and, where applicable, pro-rated for the period of employment during the performance period.
Allemployee share Directors are treated in accordance with the scheme rules, in the schemes same manner as applies to all employees.
The Committee retains discretion in Guidelines deciding good leaver status other than in Factors which may indicate that discretion Factors which may indicate that discretion cases of automatic good leavers as set out may be exercised to treat may not be exercised in the applicable provisions of the DSBS as a good leaver and LTIP rules.
The discretionary powers are Resignation intending to cease work Resignation from the Company to work for a intended to provide flexibility as Executive altogether.
competitor or to undertake a role otherwise Directors may leave employment for a broad acting in conflict with the interests of the variety of reasons which may not necessarily Company.
fall within the prescribed category of Resignation intending to take up a different Resignation from the Company notwithstanding good leaver.
The Committee exercises its occupation, such as a portfolio career.
the Companys plans and role demands.
discretion by reference to guidelines which set out its agreed relevant factors to assist in Delayed resignation from the Company to Termination or resignation in any circumstance the determination of a leavers status.
accommodate the Companys plans or the involving factors such as misconduct or poor demands of his or her current workload.
Departure at the request of and or with the agreement of the Company.
In exercising its discretion, the Committee will also take into account the individuals overall performance as well as their contribution to the Company during their total period of employment.
86 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Other Payment of legal fees incurred by an individual in connection with reviewing a settlement agreement on termination of employment.
Reimbursement of reasonable relocation costs of up to 200,000 where an Executive Director and, where relevant, his or her family had originally relocated to take up the appointment: this may include the shipment of personal goods and winding-up his or her affairs in the UK and the incidental costs incurred in doing so.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors, potentially including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These arrangements would only be entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 87 Remuneration Report Annual Statement on Remuneration continued Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company remuneration provisionsapplicable to the wider Group Remuneration provisions applicable to the wider Group The Groups remuneration policies and practices are founded on a high degree of alignment and consistency across the organisation.
Accordingly, remuneration for members of the Management Board and senior management is determined taking into account the remuneration principles that apply to the Executive Directors, and similar principles also form the basis of the remuneration arrangements for the wider workforce.
A globally consistent pay comparator group, derived from the peer group used by the Remuneration Committee for executive pay benchmarking, is utilised across all levels of the organisation for pay benchmarking purposes, with an appropriate level of flexibility provided to the other employing entities.
The approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the scope of the role, level of individual experience, responsibility, individual performance and pay levels in the selected peer group.
All middle-to-senior managers are eligible to participate in a short-term incentive plan with the same metrics as Executive Directors.
Other employees in corporate functions are eligible to participate in annual bonus plans, which mirror the Executive Directors performance objectives.
Functional incentive schemes are offered to the Groups employees in non-corporate positions such as sales force or manufacturing roles.
Opportunities and metrics which apply to those schemes may vary by organisational level with functional performance indicators incorporated where appropriate.
Senior managers are eligible to participate in the long-term incentive programme LTIP, with opportunities varying across levels with the most senior managers having a bigger portion of their pay delivered under the LTIP.
In the UK, all employees are encouraged to become shareholders by participating in all-employee share plans on the same terms as Executive Directors.
Similar all-employee share schemes have been adopted for other jurisdictions with the goal of encouraging broader long-term employee ownership.
The key difference between Executive Directors remuneration and the wider employee population is the increased emphasis on long-term performance in respect of Executive Directors, with a greater percentage of their total remuneration being performance-related.
This includes an additional two-year holding period on vested LTIPs, and post-employment shareholding requirements which do not apply to other employees.
Under the LTIP, Executive Directors and Management Board members are subject to wait and see provisions requiring the full three-year performance measure to be assessed before vesting is determined.
Retirement benefits, typically in the form of a pension, are provided based on local market practice.
Pension contribution rates for Executive Directors under the defined contribution scheme will be aligned with those available to the wider UK employee population.
Other benefits provided to the wider employee population reflect local market practice and legislative requirements.
Process in setting Executive Directors remuneration The Committee considers the budgeted salary increases for the UK-based employee population, the guidance given to managers on the range of salary increases and other remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for all UK-based employees when determining the remuneration for Executive Directors.
It is expected that future salary increases for Executive Directors will be in line with the range set out in the salary review guidelines for the general UK employee population, except in exceptional circumstances, such as where a recently-appointed Executive Directors salary is increased to reflect his or her growth in the role over time or where significant additional responsibilities are added to the role.
As a key principle, management provides the Remuneration Committee with visibility of the potential impact of proposed changes to the Executive Directors Remuneration Policy on the wider employee population.
Workforce engagement The Group has a range of well-established workforce engagement channels worldwide to ensure the Board, through updates provided by management, understands the views of the Groups workforce across all jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Group engagement channels include works councils, meetings with the European Employee Council, town hall sessions, global, functional and regional webcasts, and CEO webcasts.
Additionally, the Board undertakes a Group market or site visit on an annual basis, including meeting with local employees, and the Executive Directors regularly visit markets and local sites across the Group.
A global employee opinion survey is conducted across the Group every two years.
Questions on the Groups pay arrangements are included in the survey and the outcomes are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and the Board and then reported back across the Group.
Regional and local Board Compensation Committees covering our business units and global functions are provided with the outcomes of remuneration policies and practices for the wider employee population and have visibility of key issues that may have an impact on competitiveness of remuneration elements.
From 1 January 2019, the Group has adopted an enhanced approach to workforce engagement worldwide, to ensure meaningful and regular dialogue is maintained between the Board and our workforce given its geographical spread, scale and diversity.
In addition to the range of engagement channels above, which are implemented at market, business unit, functional and or regional level as appropriate for the composition of the local workforce populations, the Group has implemented new reporting channels to enable regular reporting to the Board on workforce views on key topics at all levels across the Group, including pay and related policies.
Board feedback and associated action planning, as appropriate, is cascaded back to the workforce and the Board is kept updated on progress against identified actions during the year.
The Remuneration Committee is regularly updated on the pay principles and practices in operation across the Group, in order to take these into account in setting the policy for Directors pay.
Although employees are not specifically consulted on the policy for Directors pay as set out above, there continues to be an ongoing dialogue with employees, through a variety of channels, about the Companys pay practices.
88 BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Chairman and NonExecutive Directors Fees The Chairman receives a single all-inclusive fee.
Other Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee and may also receive additional fees in respect of committee membership and or chairmanship.
2019 Policy: no change in policy The Committee considers annually the fee payable to the Chairman and to the other NonExecutive Directors.
This process may take into account factors including the breadth and demands of the relevant role as well as comparison with fees paid by the same comparator group of companies used for setting the base salary of Executive Directors.
The annual review does not necessarily result in a change to the fees.
It is anticipated that any future aggregate increase in fees for the Chairman and other NonExecutive Directors will generally be in the range of the increases in the base pay of UK-based 1 employees in the Group and will not exceed 10% per annum during the policy period.
The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any discussion on their own respective remuneration.
Benefits, travel and related expenses Non-Executive Directors may be reimbursed for the cost of travel, accommodation and related 2019 Policy: no change in policy expenses incurred in connection with their duties and are eligible to use general practitioner walk-in services.
The Non-Executive Directors and their partners may attend hospitality or similar functions.
Benefits for the Chairman may also include: the use of a Company driver: private medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits: the provision of home and personal security: and assistance in relation to personal tax matters.
If necessary, the Company will pay for independent professional advice in connection with the performance of duties as Non-Executive Directors.
The Company provides D&O insurance and an indemnity to the Non-Executive Directors to cover costs and liabilities incurred in the execution of their duties.
In instances where any benefits, reimbursements or expenses are classified by HMRC as a benefit to the Non-Executive Directors, it is also the practice of the Company to pay any tax due on any such benefits.
Other There are no formal requirements or guidelines to hold shares in the Company.
No NonExecutive Director is eligible to participate in the British American Tobacco share schemes, bonus 2019 Policy: no change in policy schemes or incentive plans and no Non-Executive Director may be a member of any Group pension plan.
Aggregate fees limit: the total annual fees of the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors are limited to the overall aggregate annual limit authorised by shareholders with reference to the Companys Articles of Association currently 2,500,000.
Terms of Appointment for the Chairman and other NonExecutive Directors Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed as officeholders, not employees.
In any given year, the period of appointment runs from the close of the Companys last AGM to the close of the Companys next AGM.
The Chairman may terminate his or her appointment on one months written notice, and the Company may give a compensation payment in lieu of all or part of such notice.
The Chairman may be removed by the Company prior to the expiry of his or her term of appointment by three months written notice or a compensation payment in lieu of all or part of such notice.
A Non-Executive Director may terminate his or her appointment at any time in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Alternatively, a Non-Executive Directors appointment will terminate if: 1 the Board requests that he or she not offer himself or herself for re election at the next AGM: 2 the Non-Executive Director is not re-elected at the next AGM: 3 the Non-Executive Director is required to vacate office for any reason pursuant to any of the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association: or 4 the Non-Executive Director is removed as Director or otherwise required to vacate office under any applicable law.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 89
