Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Introduction Audit Nominations Remuneration Responsibility & Board Committee Committee Committee of Directors Annual Statement Index to our Remuneration Report on Remuneration Policy Report 76 1.
Overview of what our Executive Directors earned in 2018 and why 90 2.
Executive Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2018 91 3.
Executive Directors remuneration for the upcoming year 97 4.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration for the year ended 31December 2018 100 5.
The Remuneration Committee and shareholder engagement 106 8.
Summary of our Directors Remuneration Policy 109 The following Annual Report on Remuneration has been prepared in accordance with Dimitri the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and as prescribed in The Large and Panayotopoulos Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations Chairman of the 2013 the UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations.
Where required and for the Remuneration purpose of the audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing Committee ISA data has been audited by KPMG and this is indicated appropriately.
Pension: Pension contribution rates for new Executive Directors under Dear Shareholder the defined contribution plan will be reduced from 35% to 15% Remuneration and strategy of annual base salary.
Changes will align contributions with those We have completed the review of our Directors Remuneration available to our wider UK population and deliver a coherent pension Policy during 2018, taking into consideration investor and advisory policy throughout the organisation.
body feedback arising from the 2018 AGM, recent changes in Short-Term Incentive Scheme STI : The individual performance the UK corporate governance environment and an assessment multiplier has been removed from the annual bonus, refocusing the STI of our competitive position in the marketplace.
The Committee on strategic metrics and corporate performance solely, while retaining acknowledges the feedback provided by shareholders through the the ability to reduce bonus in cases of poor individual performance.
vote on the Directors Remuneration Report in 2018, which has been uppermost in our minds as we have conducted the review process.
Short-Term Incentive Scheme STI : Postcessation payments to good leavers will no longer be paid on target on a pro rata basis at leave Our focus has been to ensure that we have an effective Remuneration date and instead will operate on a wait and see basis, being paid pro Policy which: 1 enables the Group to attract and retain top quality rata, by reference to full-year results and paid at the normal time in talent in the global marketplace: 2 rewards sustainable long-term March of the following year.
performance in an appropriate and competitive manner: 3 forges closer long-term links between the Groups senior management and its Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP : While there are no current changes shareholders: and 4 incorporates best practice policy features while in award quantum for the Executive Directors, the policy will move to maintaining policy elements which have been well supported and a singular scheme maximum.
Moving to a singular scheme maximum remain appropriate for the Group.
is considered an appropriate policy adjustment: it will mean an appropriate level of differentiation in award quantum is maintained Our recent experiences of working closely with our shareholders to between the CEO and other Executive Directors whilst providing successfully streamline, simplify and reshape our Remuneration Policy flexibility to the Committee over the lifetime of the policy.
reflect these objectives and it is my role to ensure that this focus is maintained.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP : In addition, Altria will be included in the TSR comparator group for awards made from 2019.
Shareholder engagement This expansion of the TSR comparator group is believed to be The latter part of 2018 and early 2019 have been devoted to a appropriate following the acquisition of RAI and the Groups presence programme of engagement with shareholders on the outcomes in the US market.
for 2018 and the remuneration proposals contained in the new Remuneration Policy.
I would personally like to thank all those Dividend equivalent payments: Dividend equivalent payments under shareholders who worked with us and have helped us achieve an the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme DSBS and the LTIP will be settled ongoing and transparent dialogue concerning executive remuneration.
in shares, rather than cash.
New remuneration policy Post-employment shareholding: In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, we have developed a policy setting out The Committee has undertaken a focused review of the Remuneration post-employment shareholding requirements for Executive Directors.
Policy, building on the extensive work undertaken prior to 2016 that This policy introduces a requirement for former Executive Directors to created the current policy which is strongly aligned with shareholder hold shares equivalent to 100% of current shareholding requirements interests and remains fit for purpose in all its major aspects.
for two full years following the date of their departure.
I believe that the proposed changes will further sharpen alignment These changes to policy have been introduced to further ensure long with shareholder interests and simplify the policy while ensuring that term alignment between the interests of the Executive Directors and executive compensation continues to be competitive.
Key changes are those of shareholders, and to support Executive Directors in building a as follows: high level of personal shareholding in the Company.
BAT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2018 73
