FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This Remuneration Policy provides details of the remuneration policy for be entitled to receive such additional remuneration as the Board may think the Directors of the Company.
All Directors are non-executive, appointed fit, and such remuneration may be either in addition to or in substitution for under the terms of Letters of Appointment, and none has a service any other remuneration that they may be entitled to receive.
The Company has no employees.
Total remuneration paid to Directors is subject to an annual aggregate A resolution to approve this Remuneration Policy was proposed at the limit of 200,000, as set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Any AGM of the Company held on 20 December 2016.
The resolution was change to this limit would require shareholder approval.
Directors are also passed, and the Remuneration Policy provisions set out below will apply entitled to reimbursement of reasonable fees and expenses incurred by until they are next put to shareholders for renewal of that approval, which them in the performance of their duties.
must be at intervals of not more than three years, or if the Remuneration In line with the majority of investment trusts, no component of any Policy is varied, in which event shareholder approval for the new Directors remuneration is subject to performance factors.
Remuneration Policy will be sought.
The rates of fees per Director are reviewed annually.
Annual fees are The non-executive Directors of the Company are entitled to such rates of pro-rated where a change takes place during a financial year.
annual fees as the Board at its discretion shall from time to time determine.
In addition to the annual fee, under the Companys Articles of Association, if any Director is requested to perform extra or special services, they will Table of Directors Remuneration Components Component Director Rate at 30 September 2018 Purpose of reward Operation Annual Fee All Directors 25,300 For commitment as Directors Determined by the Board of a public company at its discretion see note 1 Additional Fee Chairman 13,200 For additional responsibility Determined by the Board of the Board and time commitment at its discretion see note 1 Additional Fee Chairman of the 4,400 For additional responsibility Determined by the Board Audit Committee and time commitment at its discretion see note 1 Additional Fee Senior Independent 2,500 For additional responsibility Determined by the Board Director and time commitment at its discretion see note 1 Additional Fee All Directors Discretionary For performance of extra or Determined by the Board special services in their role at its discretion as a Director see notes 1 and 2 Expenses All Directors N A Reimbursement of expenses paid Reimbursement upon by them in order to perform submission of appropriate their duties invoices Notes: 1.
The Board only exercises its discretion in setting rates of fees after an analysis of fees paid to Directors of other companies having similar profiles to that of the Company, and consultation with third-party advisers.
Individual Directors do not participate in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Additional fees would only be paid in exceptional circumstances in relation to the performance of extra or special duties.
No such fees were paid in the year to 30 September 2018.
Accordingly, there are no differences in policy on the remuneration of Directors and the remuneration of employees.
No Director is entitled to receive any remuneration which is performance-related.
As a result there are no performance conditions in relation to any elements of the Directors remuneration in existence to set out in this Remuneration Policy.
76 British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 Strategic Investment Financial Shareholder Report Review Governance Statements Information Views of Shareholders Statement of Consideration of Conditions Elsewhere in the Company Any views expressed by shareholders on the fees being paid to Directors As the Company has no employees, the process of consulting with would be taken into consideration by the Board when reviewing levels of employees on the setting of the Remuneration Policy is not relevant.
Other Items Recruitment Remuneration Principles None of the Directors has any entitlement to pensions or pension related 1.
The remuneration package for any new Chairman or non-executive benefits, medical or life insurance schemes, share options, long-term Director will be the same as the prevailing rates determined on the incentive plans, or performance related payments.
No Director is entitled to bases set out above.
The fees and entitlement to reclaim reasonable any other monetary payment or any assets of the Company except in their expenses will be set out in Directors Letters of Appointment.
capacity where applicable as shareholders of the Company.
The Board will not pay any introductory fee or incentive to any person Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is maintained by the to encourage them to become a Director, but may pay the fees of Company, at its expense, on behalf of the Directors.
search and selection specialists in connection with the appointment The Company has also provided indemnities to the Directors in respect of of any new non-executive Director.
costs or other liabilities which they may incur in connection with any claims 3.
The Company intends to appoint only non-executive Directors for relating to their performance or the performance of the Company whilst the foreseeable future.
The maximum aggregate fees currently payable to all Directors The Directors interests in contractual arrangements with the Company is 200,000. are as shown in the Report of the Directors.
Except as noted in the Report of the Directors, no Director was interested in any contracts with the Service Contracts Company during the period or subsequently.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
Non-executive Directors are engaged under Letters of Appointment.
Review of the Remuneration Policy The Board has agreed that there would be a formal review before any change to the Remuneration Policy: and at least once a year the Loss of Office Remuneration Policy will be reviewed to ensure that it remains appropriate.
Directors Letters of Appointment expressly prohibit any entitlement to payment on loss of office.
Scenarios The Chairmans and non-executive Directors remuneration is fixed at annual rates, and there are no other scenarios where remuneration will vary unless there are payments for extra or special services in their role as Directors.
It is accordingly not considered appropriate to provide different remuneration scenarios for each Director.
British Empire Trust plc | Annual Report 2018 77
