Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Our Remuneration Policy aligns management incentives with our strategy Lynn Gladden and Laura Wade-Gery were members throughout theyear and we were pleased to welcome Preben Prebensen to theCommittee on 1 September 2017.
Board changes As previously mentioned by the Companys Chairman, there havebeen a number of Board changes this year.
Lucinda Bell stood down from the Board on 19 January 2018 and left British Land on 4April 2018.
During this period, Lucinda continued to receive her salary and employment benefits in full.
Lucinda is eligible for an annual bonus for the 2017 18 financial year, Dear Shareholders subject to the satisfaction of a combination of corporate and personal objectives.
After over 25 years of service to British Land, Lucinda is On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors considered to be a good leaver and, as such, her outstanding Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2018, which executive share plan awards will be treated in line with the good includes an At A Glance summary and the Companys Annual leaver provisions in the respective plan rules.
Full details are Report on Remuneration.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, which describes both how the As announced in January 2018, Simon Carter will join British Land Committee has implemented the Remuneration Policy during the as an Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer on 21 May 2018. year and our intentions for the coming year, is set out on pages 79 On appointment, Simon Carters basic salary will be set at 485,000. to 91.
As usual, the Report on Remuneration will be subject to an In line with the approved Remuneration Policy, Simons pension advisory vote at this years AGM and I hope to continue to have contribution will be set at 15% of salary and his maximum annual your support.
bonus plan and LTIP opportunities for the year will be set at 150%and 250% of salary respectively, consistent with the other Our Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders in July 2016 ExecutiveDirectors.
To replace a deferred payment forfeited on with over 97% support and a summary is set out on page 78.
The full joining British Land, Simon will be awarded shares worth 675,000, Policy is available in the 2016 Annual Report and on our website at which have to be held for at least one year.
Remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 March 2018 Our current Remuneration Policy will remain in force until the 2019 As noted by the Company Chairman, in the context of the economic AGM.
During the latter part of 2018, the Committee will therefore and political uncertainty that we have seen since the EU referendum, consider what, if any, changes are required to the Remuneration and over the last year in particular, British Land has performed well.
Policy to support the Companys strategy.
We will fully engage with Over the year ended 31 March 2018, the Company delivered good shareholders, employees and other stakeholders to ensure that their financial results and took important steps for long term value creation.
views are taken into consideration.
In recommending any changes to our Remuneration Policy, we will also take account of the outcome of The total returns from our property investments are expected to the current review of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
As a result, payouts from our annual incentive plan are expected to be between 55% and 57.5% Committee membership of maximum for the Executive Directors.
This shows that the As disclosed in last years Annual Report, Lord Turnbull retired Companys remuneration policies have worked as originally from the Board, and this Committee, at the conclusion of the intended when the annual incentive policy was set and approved 2017 AGM.
I would like to thank Lord Turnbull for his commitment by shareholders.
to the Committee during his term of office and wish him well in his retirement.
For our long term incentives, with our three-year performance relative to the original benchmarks underperforming the median of these benchmarks, we expect the LTIP maturing this June 2018 to lapse in full along with half of the MSP awards vesting this year.
76 British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration in respect of the year commencing Gender pay gap 1April 2018 We have recently published our first gender pay gap report Salary and fees w w w. britishland.
As required by legislation, The Committee has discussed and reviewed the Companys annual this information is based on data at a snapshot date of 5 April 2017 salary review framework for all employees.
It has also reviewed the when British Land had 237 employees and Broadgate Estates salaries of the Executive Directors and concluded that these should Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary, had 322 employees.
be increased by 2% in line with the average increase for the wider employee population.
This is the first increase since 2015.
Our pay gap reflects an industry-wide picture where we have more men than women in senior higher paid roles rather than unequal pay The Committee reviewed the annual fee payable to the Chairman, for similar work.
The British Land Board is committed to achieving which has also not increased since 2015, and concluded that this better gender balance across all positions in the Company and has should be increased to 385,000 representing a 4.2% increase, in place recruitment and development practices that it believes will equating to an average increase of 1.4% over the three-year period lead to a material change in this position over time.
for the year commencing 1 April 2018.
Our workforce is made up almost equally of men and women.
The Board also reviewed the fees payable to the Non-Executive We pay men and women who do the same jobs equally, with each Directors and concluded that the base fee should be increased to role benchmarked annually against external data.
We have made significant progress over recent years whilst Annual incentives recognising that there is more work to be done to reduce the extent In respect of the annual incentive awards for Executive Directors, of the imbalance in the future.
In 2013 we were a founding supporter the Committee has set strict weightings and targets for each of Pathways to Property, a programme set up to encourage young performance measure.
For the coming year, we will continue with people from a wide range of diverse backgrounds into the real estate 70% of any potential award being dependent on successfully sector and in 2017 we welcomed a graduate trainee to British Land achieving financial targets, with 20% based on achieving qualitative from the first cohort to complete this programme.
criteria and 10% on individual targets.
Further information is provided on page 79.
British Land was the first FTSE100 property company to achieve the National Equality Standard August 2017.
We are also one of a Long term incentives handful of FTSE100 companies who have introduced companyThe Committee proposes to grant long term incentive awards during enhanced shared parental pay as well as introducing flexible working this coming year at 250% of salary, the same level as last year.
practices in many areas of the business, female mentoring Details on the proposed grants, including performance conditions, programmes and maternity coaching.
We will continue to measure our gender pay very regularly to come We will be using the same three performance measures as to understand if what we are doing is working and to identify areas previously, but have refined the way we will be assessing the Total where there is further need for change.
Property Return component to make it more relevant to the assets the Company owns.
Committee effectiveness As with the other Board Committees, this years evaluation of the Below Board-level incentives effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee was undertaken The Committees remit also includes oversight of the Groups as part of the triennial independently facilitated Board evaluation remuneration policy for the wider employee population.
I am pleased to report that the review concluded that the respect the Committee has approved a change to the long term Committee continued to operate diligently and effectively, that its share incentive arrangements for the senior management population members had an appropriate balance of skills and experience and by approving the use of Restricted Share Awards.
carried out their duties in a sensible and pragmatic way.
Previously the senior management population had participated in the Recommendation Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP on a similar basis as the Executive British Land continues to strive to apply best practice in its Directors.
However, for 2018 for certain employees other than remuneration policies and to listen carefully to shareholder Executive Directors, the Committee has approved the use of feedback.
We therefore hope that you show your support for our Restricted Shares instead of, or for the non-Board members of the approach to remuneration by voting for the Directors Executive Committee in combination with, a lower level of LTIP.
The Remuneration Report at the 2018 AGM.
lower level of LTIP award takes into account the increased certainty of value of Restricted Shares.
The introduction of Restricted Shares creates a stronger alignment with the interests of other shareholders from the date of grant, together with being a more valued and retentive remuneration William Jackson package for senior management.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Restricted Shares will vest after three years subject to continued service.
British Land Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77
