CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Stakeholder engagement in certain areas.
The Committee is also During the year the Committee, along reviewing how it implements the expansion with the Board, undertook visits to of its remit under the Code, although the Britvic locations, including Rugby, Committee is already responsible for setting where significant investment is being pay for senior employees immediately made under our business capability below the Board level and has oversight programme.
This allowed the Committee of the approach taken for the broader to engage directly with the workforce employee population.
The Committee and their invaluable feedback will be has set aside time for an in-depth review considered during 2018 19 as the during 2018 19 to develop a meaningful Committee formalises its approach to and sustainable approach to the relevant employee engagement.
Business performance and remuneration In October we announced that Mathew outcomes for the year Dunn, Chief Financial officer, will be leaving As detailed in the Chief Financial Ofcers the business.
He will receive his salary review, despite the challenges caused and benets during his notice period, and by the CO shortage over the summer, his annual bonus and awards under the 2 the business has remained resilient and long-term incentive plans to the extent Sue Clark delivered another strong performance.
that they vest in respect of the completed Remuneration Committee Chair This has resulted in the following outcomes: 2017 18 financial year, as detailed in this report.
He will not receive any bonus, salary Annual bonus payouts for Executive increase or be awarded further grants under Annual statement from the Directors at 89% of the maximum the Companys long-term incentive plans opportunity reecting a strong Remuneration Committee Chair in respect of the 2018 19 financial year.
performance on profit and cash ow All unvested awards shall lapse upon his above expectations.
Dear Shareholder cessation, as will unexercised options.
The performance share plan awarded in As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, 2015 will vest at 50% of the maximum Following the resignation of the CFO I am pleased to present the Directors opportunity.
EPS compound annual the Committee will be considering the Remuneration Report for the year ended growth of 7.0% will realise a 33.0% remuneration of the incoming CFO, in 30 September 2018. vesting, an outcome of the particularly line with the policy.
The updated remuneration policy was stretching targets when correlated to the The Committee has agreed to increase presented to shareholders at the January TSR performance that was above upper the CEOs base salary effective 1 January 2018 AGM and received 87.5% of votes quartile over the three-year period when 2019 from 612,000 to 627,300, an in favour.
Similarly, the annual report on compared to the comparator group, and inationary increase of 2.5% in line remuneration received strong support of that element will vest in full.
with the 2.5% awarded to the wider 95.4% votes For.
The Committee was The executive share option plan awarded UK employee population.
pleased with this outcome but has spent in 2015 will vest at 33% of the maximum time since the AGM to understand the opportunity, is aligned to the EPS result The remainder of the report sets out: reasons why some shareholders did not noted above and the sustained EPS support the policy.
A summary of the remuneration growth over the performance period.
Committee is mindful of its responsibility outcomes for 2017 18 and the application The above payouts were agreed by the to ensure that there is a balance between of the Remuneration Policy for 2018 19 Committee in the context of performance incentivising the delivery of the business pages 69-73. against the targets set and the underlying strategy in a sustainable way, attracting II.
The Annual Report on remuneration, performance of the business over the and retaining the best people to deliver which is subject to an advisory respective performance periods.
In line with it and at the same time considering our shareholder vote at the January 2019 the remuneration reporting regulations, wider stakeholder responsibilities.
AGM, and sets out the details of details of the performance targets and Against this backdrop, the Committee payments made to Directors in respect actual achievement against these are set has begun to consider the implications of the year ended 30 September 2018 out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
of the recently published UK Corporate pages 74-83.
Looking ahead to 2018 19 Governance Code the Code.
The revised I look forward to receiving your support The new Code will not be effective for Code comes into effect from 1 January on the Annual Report on Remuneration at Britvic plc until the 2019 20 financial 2019 and will apply to Britvic for the the January 2019 AGM.
Nonetheless the Committee has financial year beginning 1 October 2019. any questions relating to our approach to commenced an exercise to discuss and During the year ahead, the Committee will Executive remuneration, please feel free consider the revised Code and its potential focus on the actions it needs to take to to contact me at investors@britvic.
Britvics remuneration implement the new Code, particularly in structure is broadly aligned with the relation to engagement with employees Sue Clark requirements and the new Code, although and the broader stakeholder community.
Remuneration Committee Chair it will be necessary to introduce changes 28 November 2018 68 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION I.
At a glance This section summarises the remuneration outcomes for the 2017 18 year, the link between remuneration and our strategy, and a summary of the new Remuneration Policy approved at the 2018 AGM and its application for 2018 19.
The full Britvic plc Remuneration Policy can be found in the 2017 Annual Report, available on the Britvic plc website at www.
Our remuneration principles Our Remuneration Policy is designed to support our overall vision to become the most dynamic, creative and trusted soft drinks company in the world.
Our people are at the heart of our business.
Our aim is to attract, engage and retain the very best talent from across our global sector.
To determine the shape, size and variability of each element of pay the Committee follows five key remuneration principles: Competitive market To attract, retain and engage the Executive talent we need to realise our vision and deliver our strategy, positioning and opportunity our remuneration arrangements need to be sufciently competitive but not excessive.
Pay aligned with sustainable The mix between both xed and variable pay, as well as the balance between rewarding short versus long-term performance long-term performance, are critical to ensure that we reward those behaviours that will lead to the realisation of our long-term vision without compromising short-term gain.
All forms of variable pay are only fully delivered in return for performance materially above the standards required by Britvic and our shareholders in other words, the superior pay opportunity available can only be realised in return for superior performance.
Incentive metrics aligned with The performance measures selected to determine both our annual bonus and long-term incentive plans our strategy and key KPIs have been carefully considered to focus on a simple and effective selection of those key drivers of our strategy and long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Alignment of Executive and To ensure the continued alignment of Executive and shareholder interests, the greatest potential pay shareholder interests opportunity for Executives is via our long-term incentive plans.
Share based awards are dependent on a balance of absolute and relative growth in long-term value creation for shareholders.
In particular, the mix of share options and performance shares is designed to ensure that Executives are only rewarded for superior market performance and the realisation of our vision.
This is further reinforced by meaningful shareholding guidelines for Executives so that their long-term wealth remains tied to Britvics sustained long-term success.
Mindful of our wider In support of our vision, our Executive Directors pay arrangements are not only focused on financial returns stakeholder responsibilities but also mindful of performance against our wider long-term stakeholder goals.
The Committee takes great care to set appropriate targets that do not compromise our wider stakeholder aspirations.
Both malus and claw-back provisions are in place to address potential inappropriate actions or risk-taking when determining incentive plan payouts.
Single total gure of remuneration for Executive Directors 2017 18 Through the implementation of the Remuneration Policy and principles, the total remuneration received for 2017 18 by Executive Directors is as follows: 1 Fixed Pay Performance Related Pay Total Salary Benets Pension Bonus LTIP Executive Directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 Simon Litherland 608.5 18.0 152.6 757.6 610.7 2,147.4 Mathew Dunn 364.9 15.2 80.5 389.3 196.3 1,046.2 Note: 1.
Variable pay outcomes are summarised in the tables on page 70.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary of performance related pay for 2017 18 i Annual bonus Shown below are the performance outcomes versus the performance measures set for the annual bonus: % Maximum % Maximum bonus Measure Weighting Threshold Target Maximum achieved achieved Adjusted profit 187.2m before tax & amortisation 50%178.8m 182.8m 189.7m 82% 41% 1,608.2m 1,562.0m 1,582.2m 1,600.8m Net revenue 20% 100% 20% 98.2m Net revenue from innovation 10% 78% 8% 84.8m 94.2m 101.5m 65.0m Adjusted free cash ow 20%41.4m 46.0m 55.3m 100% 20% 89% Total 100%0% 50% 100% 89% Notes: 1.
Adjusted profit before tax & amortisation PBTA profit before tax and adjusting items.
Net revenue Net revenue performance on a constant currency basis.
Net revenue from innovation Net revenue from innovation products on a constant currency basis.
Adjusted free cash ow cash ow excluding movements in borrowings, dividend payments and adjusting items.
These measures and denitions are consistently used throughout this Remuneration Report.
ii Long-term incentives Shown below are the outcomes versus the performance conditions set and vesting levels for the 2015 Performance Share Plan PSP and 2015 Executive Share Option Plan ESOP : ESOP Measure Weighting Threshold Target Maximum % Maximum vesting achieved 7% EPS 100%6% 12% 33.3% PSP Measure Weighting Threshold Target Maximum % Maximum vesting achieved 7% EPS 75%6% 12% 25.0% 100% TSR 25% 25.0% Median Upper quartile 50% Total 100% 0% 100% 50.0% Note: 1.
The Committee reviewed underlying return on invested capital ROIC over the performance period and deemed performance appropriate relative to the EPS growth delivered.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Summary of implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2018 19 The table below shows how the Remuneration Policy will be implemented for the two Executive Directors for 2018 19, noting the treatment for Mathew Dunn, following his resignation: Policy Element Simon Litherland CEO Mathew Dunn CFO Base salary 627,300 375,000 2.5% increase.
Pension 28% of salary, paid as a 25% cash allowance.
23% of salary, paid as a Dened Contribution of 7,500 plus a 20% cash allowance.
Annual bonus Target 70% of salary to maximum 140% of salary.
Annual bonus measures For 2018 19, the following performance metrics and weightings apply to the bonus: 50% adjusted profit before tax & amortisation, 30% revenue split total net revenue 20% and net revenue from innovation 10% and adjusted free cash ow 20%.
ESOP Maximum 300% of salary with a two-year post vest No award.
holding period, awarded in market priced options.
ESOP measures EPS growth: Three-year EPS growth of 3% to 8% per annum on a straight-line basis will apply for threshold to maximum performance, respectively.
PSP Maximum 150% of salary with a two-year post vest No award.
PSP measures 75% EPS growth: Three-year EPS growth of 3% to 8% per annum on a straight-line basis will apply for threshold to maximum performance, respectively.
25% three-year relative TSR: Threshold performance of the median of the comparator group, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting for upper quartile performance.
The Committee will also consider underlying ROIC over the performance period to ensure that it remains appropriate relative to the EPS growth delivered.
Payment for For the Annual Bonus, 0% of maximum will be awarded.
threshold performance For the ESOP and PSP, 20% of maximum will be awarded.
Malus and clawback Malus and clawback may be applied to annual bonus and LTIP awards in certain conditions where the payment of the bonus resulted from a material misstatement in the companys accounts or an error in the assessment of the satisfaction of a performance condition.
Shareholding requirement 200% 200% BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Illustration of the application of Remuneration Policy As described in the remuneration principles section on page 69, the Committee believes that our Executive remuneration packages should provide a significant part of potential reward through performance-based incentive plans.
Set out below are the potential total pay outcomes for Simon Litherland across four alternative performance scenarios under the current Remuneration Policy.
The four scenarios are minimum, on-target, maximum performance and maximum performance together with an assumed 50% increase in share price.
For simplicity, the illustrations below are calculated before any change in share price and roll-up of dividends.
The chart has been prepared using the following assumptions: 1 Base salary as at 1 October 2018.
2 Benets reect those estimated to be paid in 2018 19.
3 Target bonus is calculated at 50% of maximum opportunity.
4 Target vesting for the PSP is 60%, being the mid-point between threshold and maximum vesting level.
5 Options awarded under the ESOP are valued on the standard market value for options of 30% of the face value of award.
A target vesting of 60% values the ESOP award at 18% of the maximum value.
6 LTIP at 50% share price growth is calculated as the sum of 150% of maximum PSP award 50% x maximum ESOP award.
A chart has not been prepared for the outgoing CFO, and a chart for the incoming CFO will be produced for the next appropriate Directors Remuneration Report.
with 50% share price growth CEO, Simon Litherland 000 72 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for other employees The implementation of the Remuneration Policy described above applies specically to Executive Directors.
Where possible, principles set out in the policy have been applied to all employees to achieve alignment as per the below table: Element Application of policy for other employees Base salary Paid in cash and reviewed annually, normally taking effect 1 January.
Salaries are set with reference to internal pay levels, as well as local market competitiveness compared with roles of a similar nature and size of responsibility.
Benets Britvic provides local market typical benets focused on employee health and wellbeing.
The majority of UK employees participate in the companys exible benets plan.
Pension Subject to local market practice and regulations.
GB employees have rights under the GB legacy dened benefit pension arrangement, which is now closed to future accrual the plan was closed to Executives at the same time.
A dened contribution pension scheme was introduced following the closure of the dened benefit pension scheme in which UK employees are entitled to participate.
Annual bonus Approximately 250 leaders and senior managers participate in bonus arrangements with measures aligned to that of the Executive Directors.
Typically, all other employees are eligible to receive a bonus linked to profit and revenue of the company as well as their individual performance.
Long-term incentives The performance share plan is awarded to approximately 90 leaders globally each year.
Approximately 15 leaders also receive options under the Executive share option plan.
Performance conditions for both awards are linked to those of the Executive Directors.
All employee share plans Where possible, we offer employees annual free share awards linked to company performance as well as the opportunity to purchase Britvic shares.
In some locations, alternative local profit sharing arrangements are available, depending on local market practices and legislation.
The value of each element that the employee may receive will vary according to the employees seniority and level of responsibility.
BRITVIC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 73
