Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee Members and meetings in 2018 Member Meetings since attended 01 17 Nicoletta Giadrossi Chair 06 13 Ian Tyler 09 15 Peter Kallos 1 05 10 Iain McLaren 2 10 11 Jackie Sheppard Notes: 1 Iain McLaren retired as a Non-Executive Director on 15 May 2018.
The number of meetings he attended is stated up to that date.
2 Jackie Sheppard retired as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2018.
The number of meetings she attended is stated up to that date.
New Chair of the Committee Part 1 Annual statement from the Chair On 15 May 2018, and after having served more than 12 months as of the Committee a member, I became Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
On appointment, I replaced M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC who had fulfilled Dear Shareholder, the role of Chair since March 2012.
I would like to express my thanks to Jackie for all her efforts with the Committee during her tenure and look As the Chair of Cairns Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to forward to building on her work in the coming years.
present our Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 31 December 2018, a period during which we continued to apply the executive Summary of 2018 business context and key remuneration policy that was strongly supported at the 2017 AGM.
remuneration decisions The work of the Committee in 2018 was conducted against a backdrop The Committee remains of the view that the above policy is still fit for of a year in which the Company made strong progress in building and purpose and it will, therefore, also be applied during 2019.
As a result, diversifying its exploration portfolio: continued to maintain a strong shareholders are not being asked to approve a new Directors balance sheet with sufficient cash flow from production to fund its Remuneration Policy at the 2019 AGM.
However, for ease of reference, attractive exploration programme: maintained funding flexibility: and the substantive provisions of the approved policy are repeated in Part 2 made progress in relation to the action under the UK-India bilateral of this report.
Part 3, which contains this years Annual Report on treaty arbitration.
Remuneration, then goes on to explain how these provisions were actually applied in 2018 and how they will be operated in 2019.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 17 May 2019.
88 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Summary of 2018 business context and key remuneration decisions continued The key remuneration related decisions made by the Committee in 2018 are described in more detail in the Annual Report on Remuneration contained on pages 98 to 113 and can be summarised as follows: Base salary increases At its meeting in November 2018, the Committee agreed that, with effect from 1 January 2019, a base salary increase of 2% would be applied to both of the Companys Executive Directors being Simon Thomson and James Smith.
The above increase was consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to other employees at that time.
2018 annual bonus As highlighted in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, the structure of the Executive Directors bonus scheme for 2018 differed from the one that applied in 2017.
Under this revised arrangement, which remained compliant with the remuneration policy approved at the 2017 AGM, the proportion of bonus determined by reference to Group KPIs was increased to 100%.
For the year to 31 December 2017, 90% of the individuals bonuses were based on these KPIs, with the remaining 10% being dependent on the satisfaction of personal performance objectives.
Based on an assessment of the extent to which the relevant targets were achieved during 2018, awards made under the annual bonus scheme to the Executive Directors during the year as a percentage of annual salary were 87.5% for both Simon Thomson and James Smith.
Under the Companys approved remuneration policy, any part of an executive directors bonus that is in excess of 100% of the individuals base salary is deferred into Cairn shares for three years.
Given that this threshold was not reached by the above bonuses, they were paid out wholly in cash.
Further details of the way in which these awards were determined and paid are set out on pages 103 to 105 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The performance period applicable to the LTIP awards granted in 2015 came to an end during 2018.
Over this vesting of 2015 awards period, the Companys Total Shareholder Return was sufficient to place it between the fifth and sixth positions in a group of 18 comparator companies.
This resulted in these awards vesting in respect of 56.65% of the shares over which they were granted.
As part of the above vesting process, the LTIPs rules also required the Committee to review the Companys overall performance over the three years from the grant of the awards.
After due and careful consideration, the Committee concluded that there had been a sustained improvement in such overall performance during that time.
LTIP grant of 2018 awards In March 2018, the Committee made the second annual grant under the Companys long term incentive plan that was adopted at the 2017 AGM the 2017 LTIP.
Details of the awards made to Executive Directors as part of this process are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors fees During 2018, the Committee considered the Chairmans annual fee in the context of market data and the and Chairmans fee time commitment for the role and decided that the fee for 2019 should be retained at the level paid in 2018.
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors were also reviewed by the Board without Non-Executive Directors being present.
Following this review, it was determined that the basic annual fee would be maintained at 75,000.
Similarly, no change was made to the additional fee payable for chairing the Audit and or Remuneration Committees.
Applying the policy in 2019 An overview of the way in which the current remuneration policy will be applied in 2019 is set out on pages 112 to 113 in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In summary: on 1 January 2019, the above noted increases to the base salaries of the CEO and CFO came into effect: the Group KPI measures used for the annual bonus scheme and their respective weightings have been reformulated for 2019 in order to reflect appropriately the Companys strategic priorities for the period: and no material changes have been made to the manner in which the LTIP will operate in 2019.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Leadership and Governance Introduction of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code and new disclosure requirements During the year, the Committee carefully considered the new remuneration related provisions that have been incorporated into the revised UK Corporate Governance Code published in July 2018 the Revised Code.
Although these requirements only apply to the Companys financial years commencing on and after 1 January 2019, the Committee considers that a number of them are already satisfied by its existing policies and practices.
Where this is not the case, the Committee has been actively taking steps to ensure that the Company will be compliant when the Revised Code takes effect.
In particular: Broader Remuneration For a number of years, the Committee has been responsible for setting the remuneration of all the Committee responsibilities Companys PDMRs including the Executive Directors.
Similarly, it regularly reviews the pay policies and practices of the wider workforce in order to ensure appropriate alignment with the approach taken to Executive Directors and has an oversight role in the approval of the Group-wide bonus arrangements for all staff.
Experience of the As demonstrated by my own recent experience, it is already our existing practice that any new Chair must Committee Chair have served for at least 12 months on a remuneration committee before appointment.
Vesting periods for long term As highlighted on page 107 of the Annual Report on Remuneration, the current structure of the 2017 LTIP is incentive arrangements already compliant with the requirements of the Revised Code, in that any shares to which Executive Directors become entitled under that arrangement will not normally be released to them until the expiry of a period of five years from the original date of grant.
Post-employment shareholding As part of the process surrounding the formulation of the Companys next Directors remuneration policy policy and alignment of pension which shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2020 AGM, the Committee will consider their approach provision across the Group to implementing a post-cessation of employment shareholding retention requirement.
At the same time, the Committee will also investigate the possibility of aligning the pension provision for any future executive appointees to the Board with the levels that are available across the Group.
In addition to the above, the Committee has also considered the new disclosure requirements contained in both the Revised Code and the amended Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Amended Regulations.
Although these provisions will only be compulsory in relation to next years Directors Remuneration Report, the Committee has decided to include a number of the disclosures this year on a voluntary basis.
For example, pages 102 and 103 set out information on the ratio between the Chief Executives total remuneration for 2018 and the full-time equivalent remuneration of all the Companys UK employees across the Group as a whole.
In addition, new information relating to the impact of share price appreciation on pay levels has been incorporated into the report.
Feedback on Directors Remuneration Report We welcome questions and feedback from all those interested on both the content and style of this report.
Nicoletta Giadrossi Chair of the Remuneration Committee 11 March 2019 90 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Part 2 Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction At the AGM held on 19 May 2017, 97.96% of votes cast by shareholders were in favour of approving the Directors Remuneration Policy for the Company that was put to that meeting.
This policy specifies the various pay structures operated by the Company and summarises the approach that the Committee will adopt in certain circumstances such as the recruitment of new directors and or the making of any payments for loss of office.
It became effective immediately on receipt of that approval and was applied by the Committee during 2018.
This policy will also be operative throughout 2019.
Although not required by the Amended Regulations, the substantive terms of the above Directors Remuneration Policy are repeated in this Part 2 for ease of reference.
However, any details that were specific to 2017 or earlier years including, for example, any disclosures relating to named directors and the illustrative remuneration scenarios set out on page 96 have, where applicable, been updated to reflect the current position.
The policy as originally approved by shareholders can be found on pages 101 to 110 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, a copy of which is available on the Company website.
Purpose and role of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and the Groups PDMRs Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities.
Within the terms of this agreed policy, the Committee is also responsible for: determining the total individual remuneration package for each Executive Director and the PDMRs: determining the level of awards made under the Companys LTIPs and employee share award schemes and the performance conditions which are to apply: determining the KPIs used to measure performance for the annual bonus scheme: determining the bonuses payable under the Companys annual bonus scheme: determining the vesting levels of awards under the Companys LTIPs and employee share award schemes: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for Executive Directors and PDMRs.
The Committee also reviews and approves the overall remuneration levels of employees below senior management level, but does not set individual remuneration amounts for such individuals.
This oversight role allows the Committee to take into account pay policies and employment conditions within the Group as a whole when designing the reward structures of the Executive Directors and PDMRs.
For example, the Committee considers the standard increase applied to basic pay across the Group when setting Executive Directors base salaries for the same period.
The Committee operates within written terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the Committee remains up-to-date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its strategy and the business and regulatory environment in which it operates.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website.
Consultation with relevant stakeholders The Committee is always keen to ensure that, in carrying out its mandate, it takes into account the views and opinions of all the relevant stakeholders in the business.
During 2018, former Chair of the Committee, Jackie Sheppard, and the new Chair of the Committee, Nicoletta Giadrossi, met with one of the Companys largest institutional investors in order to discuss their views on the Groups remuneration policies and practices.
Historically, the Committee has not undertaken a formal consultation exercise with employees in relation to the Groups policy on senior management remuneration.
Members of staff are, however, regularly given the opportunity to raise issues on a variety of matters, including executive pay, via a number of mechanisms including town hall meetings, the attendance of directors at team meetings and employee engagement surveys.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Leadership and Governance Overview of current remuneration policy Cairns current policy on Executive Directors remuneration, which became effective on 19 May 2017 and which is set out below, is to ensure that it appropriately incentivises individuals to achieve the Groups strategy to deliver value for stakeholders by building and maintaining a balanced portfolio of exploration, development and production assets, whilst offering a competitive package against the market.
A description of each of the elements comprised in the pay packages for Cairns Directors under its remuneration policy is as follows: Policy Table elements of directors remuneration package Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Base salary Helps recruit and retain Normally reviewed annually with Whilst the committee has not set None employees.
changes taking effect on 1 January a monetary maximum, annual and or when otherwise increases will not exceed the level Reflects individual experience appropriate, including when of standard increase awarded to and role.
an individual changes position other employees except that more or responsibility.
significant increases may be awarded at the discretion of the Aim is to provide a competitive committee in connection with: base salary relative to the market an increase in the scope and although the committee does responsibility of the individuals not place undue emphasis on role: or benchmarking data and exercises the individuals development and its own judgement in determining performance in the role following pay levels.
appointment: or Decision influenced by: a re-alignment with market rates.
role and experience: average change in broader workforce salaries: individual performance: and remuneration practices in companies of a broadly similar size and value and relevant oil and gas exploration and production companies.
Benefits Helps recruit and Directors are entitled to a Company cars up to a value of None retain employees.
70,000 or, as an alternative, an For UK executives, the major annual car allowance of up to elements include a company 8,771 may be provided.
Whilst the car, permanent health insurance, committee has not set a monetary private health insurance, maximum for other benefits, they death-in-service benefit and will be in line with the market as a gym and fitness allowance.
The committee reserves the right to provide further benefits where this is appropriate in the individuals particular circumstances for example costs associated with relocation as a result of the directors role with the Company.
Executive directors are also eligible for other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
92 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Annual bonus Rewards the achievement of Bonuses are awarded by reference Maximum % of salary: 125%.
The measures and targets annual KPIs and or other to performance against specific applicable to the annual bonus objectives linked to the targets measured over a single scheme and the different Companys strategic goals.
weightings ascribed to each of them are set annually by the Any amounts awarded to an committee in order to ensure individual under this arrangement they are relevant to participants up to 100% of salary are paid out in and take account of the most full shortly after the assessment of up-to-date business plan the performance targets has been and strategy.
The remainder of the bonus will be deferred into an All, or a significant majority, of the award of shares for a three year bonus opportunity will normally period, or such other period as be determined by reference to determined by the committee.
performance against demanding Group KPIs such as: Annual bonuses may be subject to exploration and new clawback, and the extent to which venture objectives: deferred share awards vest may be development and production reduced, where, in the period of targets: and three years from the end of the HSE.
relevant financial year, the committee becomes aware of Any remaining part of a directors a material misstatement of the bonus will normally be based Companys financial results or on the achievement of personal an error in the calculation of objectives relevant to that performance targets which, had individuals role within the business.
it been known at the relevant time, A payment scale ranging from would have reasonably been 0% to 100% of the opportunity for expected to have resulted in different levels of achievement a lower award being made.
against each KPI and or other objective is specified by the committee at the outset of each year.
The committee has discretion to vary the measures and weightings during the year if events arise which mean that it would be inappropriate to continue with the originally prescribed structure.
The committee expects that this discretion will only be exercised in exceptional circumstances and not to make the bonus scheme for that year less demanding than when it was originally set.
In addition, the committee has discretion to ensure that the ultimate bonus payment for a financial year is fair and reasonable and properly reflects performance over that period.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Leadership and Governance Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance 2017 Long Term Incentivises Executive The 2017 LTIP was established Normal total maximum Vesting of awards granted under Incentive Plan Directors to deliver long-term by the Company following receipt % of salary: 250%.
the 2017 LTIP will be determined or 2017 LTIP performance for the benefit of of the necessary shareholder by the growth in Total Shareholder shareholders, thereby aligning approvals at the 2017 AGM.
Return TSR of Cairn over a the interests of the directors performance period of at least Awards will normally be made with those of the Companys three years.
annually with vesting dependent investors.
on achievement of performance Awards up to 200% of salary the conditions chosen by the core award will be subject to TSR committee that are measured performance measured relative to over a period of at least three years.
a comparator group selected by the committee, with no more All awards which vest will normally than 25% vesting at median be subject to a holding period in and 100% for at least upper terms of which the relevant shares quartile performance.
will only be released become exercisable after a further period of In order to focus on exploration at least two years has expired from success which leads to a material the vesting date.
increase in the share price, once performance for the core award The committee reviews the has been fully achieved, an quantum of awards annually, taking additional element of up to 50% of into account factors such as market salary can be earned if absolute rates and overall remuneration.
TSR growth over the same Awards may be subject to performance period equals or clawback where, in the period of exceeds 100% the kicker award.
three years from the end of the No part of any award will vest relevant performance period, the unless the committee is satisfied committee becomes aware of that there has been an overall a material misstatement of the satisfactory and sustained Companys financial results or improvement in the performance an error in the calculation of of the Company as a whole over performance conditions which, had the performance period.
it been known at the relevant time, would have reasonably been Although the committees expected to have resulted in a intention is that the above lower vesting being determined.
conditions will be applied to LTIP awards granted in 2019, it may decide to impose different but equally challenging conditions in future years.
The committee will consult with major shareholders prior to making any such decision and will ensure that the vesting of at least 50% of all awards granted under the LTIP continues to be determined by reference to the Companys TSR performance.
2009 Long Term Incentivises Executive Directors It is not proposed that further Normal maximum % of salary: 300% Vesting is determined by Incentive Plan or to deliver superior levels of awards will be granted to Executive 400% including multiplier.
comparing the growth in Total 2009 LTIP long-term performance for the Directors under this plan.
Shareholder Return TSR of Cairn Exceptional circumstances benefit of shareholders, thereby over a performance period of Awards vest dependent on maximum % of salary: 400% aligning the interests of the three years from grant with the achievement of performance 532% including multiplier.
directors with those of the TSR of a comparator group of conditions measured over a Companys investors.
international oil and gas three-year period.
companies that is selected by the On vesting of an award, 50% of committee prior to each grant, the shares to which the holder has with 20% vesting at median, 100% become entitled are released at upper decile and on a straight become exercisable immediately, line sliding scale in between.
with the remaining 50% normally In order to encourage exceptional being released becoming performance, the above condition exercisable after a further period provides that, at upper decile of one year.
levels, a multiplier of up to 1.33 is Awards may be subject to applied if absolute TSR growth is clawback where, in the period of between 50% and 100% or more.
three years from the end of the It also states that no part of any relevant performance period, award will vest unless the the committee becomes aware committee is satisfied that there of a material misstatement of has been an overall satisfactory the Companys financial results and sustained improvement or an error in the calculation of in the performance of the performance conditions.
Company as a whole over the performance period.
94 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Share Incentive Encourages a broad range The Company established an HM Participation limits are those set by None Plan or SIP of employees to become Revenue and Customs approved the UK tax authorities from time long-term shareholders.
share incentive plan in April 2010. to time.
These limits are currently It allows the Company to provide as follows: eligible employees, including the Partnership shares: up to 1,800 Executive Directors, with some or per tax year can be deducted all of the following benefits: from salary.
partnership shares acquired Matching shares: up to two using deductions from salary: matching shares for every one matching shares awarded to partnership share purchased.
those employees who purchase Free shares: up to 3,600 worth partnership shares on the basis in each tax year.
of a ratio specified by the Company: and free shares.
Matching and free shares awarded under the SIP must normally be held in the plan for a specified period.
The Company operates a defined Company contributes 15% of basic None contribution group personal salary on behalf of Executive pension plan in the UK.
The Directors or pays them a cash scheme is non-contributory and all equivalent.
UK permanent employees, including the Executive Directors, are eligible to participate.
The Company contributes a specified percentage of basic annual salary for senior employees, including Executive Directors.
Where an Executive Director has an individual personal pension plan or overseas equivalent, the Company pays its contribution to that arrangement.
If an Executive Directors pension arrangements are fully funded or applicable statutory limits are reached, an amount equal to the Companys contribution or the balance thereof is paid in the form of additional salary.
Non-Executive Helps recruit and retain Non-Executive Directors fees are Companys Articles of Association None Directors fees high-quality, experienced considered annually and are set place a limit on the aggregate individuals.
by the executive members of the annual level of Non-Executive Board and the Chairman taking Directors and Chairmans fees Reflects time commitment into account a range of relevant currently 900,000. and role.
factors including: market practice: time commitment: and responsibilities associated with the roles.
Additional fees are payable to the Chairs of the audit and remuneration committees.
Expenses incurred in the performance of Non-Executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including any tax due on the expenses.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Leadership and Governance Remuneration element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Framework for assessing performance Chairmans fees Helps recruit and retain the The Chairmans fee is considered Companys Articles of Association None relevant individual.
annually and is determined in light place a limit on the aggregate of market practice, the time annual level of Non-Executive Reflects time commitment.
commitment and responsibilities Directors and Chairmans fees associated with the role and other currently 900,000. relevant factors.
Expenses incurred in the performance of the Chairmans duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including any tax due on the expenses.
Notes: 1 A description of how the Company intends to implement the policy set out in this table during the financial year to 31 December 2019 is provided on pages 112 and 113.
2 The following differences exist between the Companys above policy for the remuneration of directors and its approach to the payment of employees generally: Participation in the LTIP is typically aimed at the Executive Directors and certain selected senior managers.
Other employees are eligible to participate in the Employee Share Award Scheme details of which are provided on pages 157 to 159 Under the Companys defined contribution pension scheme, the Company contribution for less senior employees is 10% of basic annual salary.
A lower level of maximum annual bonus opportunity applies to employees other than the Executive Directors and certain PDMRs.
Benefits offered to other employees generally comprise permanent health insurance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and gym and fitness allowance.
In general, these differences arise from the development of remuneration arrangements that are market competitive for the various categories of individuals.
They also reflect the fact that, in the case of the Executive Directors and PDMRs, a greater emphasis is placed on variable pay.
3 The TSR performance conditions applicable to the 2017 LTIP and 2009 LTIP further details of which are provided on page 106 were selected by the committee on the basis that they improve shareholder alignment and are consistent with the Companys objective of delivering superior levels of long-term value to shareholders.
Under the terms of these performance conditions, the committee can specify the basis on which TSR for any company is calculated and has the discretion to make adjustments to this methodology to take account of exceptional circumstances, including share capital variations.
Where any company becomes unsuitable as a member of the comparator group as a result of, for example, a change of control or delisting, the committee has the discretion to treat that company in such manner as it deems appropriate including replacing it with another organisation.
4 Where a nil-cost option award under the 2009 LTIP or 2017 LTIP becomes exercisable, it will generally remain so until the 10th anniversary of the date on which it was granted.
5 The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the committees belief that any incentive compensation should be tied to appropriately challenging measures of both the overall performance of the Company against its strategic KPIs and where appropriate those areas that the relevant individual can directly influence.
6 The legislation applicable to the SIP does not allow performance conditions to be applied in relation to partnership or matching shares and, given that the SIP is an all-employee arrangement, the Company has decided that it is currently not appropriate to apply performance conditions to free shares awarded under it, although the committee retains the discretion to apply performance conditions to future awards.
Common terms of share awards Awards under any of the Companys discretionary share plans referred to in this report may: be granted as conditional share awards or nil-cost options or in other such form that the Committee determines has the same economic effect: have any performance conditions applicable to them amended or substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the Committee to determine an amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy: incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid on the shares under the award that vest up to the time of vesting or, where the award is subject to a holding period, release.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: be settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may affect the Companys share price.
Legacy awards The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before 15 May 2014 the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors remuneration policy came into effect : ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Directors remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
96 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration scenarios relating to the above policy Cairns pay policy seeks to ensure that the overall package of the Executive Directors is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, within such variable pay element, that greater emphasis is placed on the delivery of long-term performance through the award of long-term incentives.
In the chart below, we show the make-up of remuneration of the current Executive Directors in 2019 under minimum, on-target and maximum scenarios.
A further column has also been included which illustrates the impact on the figures contained in the maximum scenario of an assumed share price appreciation for the LTIP award of 50% over the relevant performance period.
4,000,000 3,575,521 2,854,466 3,000,000 2,316,056 60% 51% 1,873,831 1,847,078 2,000,000 60% 34% 51% 1,209,267 21% 25% 34% 29% 691,301 1,000,000 21% 25% 440,141 29% 100% 37% 24% 19% 100% 37% 24% 19% 0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum Maximum with share with share Chief Executive CFO price growth price growth Fixed elements Annual variable Long-term Incentives In developing the above scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: The minimum columns are intended to show the fixed level of remuneration to which the Executive Directors are entitled in 2019 irrespective of performance levels, namely base salary at current rates, benefits using the details set out in the 2018 single total figure table provided on page 100 and pension calculated by applying the percentage entitlement set out in the policy table against latest confirmed salary.
The on-target scenario seeks to illustrate the remuneration the Executive Directors would receive if performance was in line with expectation.
In addition to the fixed elements summarised above, it assumes a specified level of payout vesting under the annual bonus scheme and 2017 LTIP.
Given that neither of these incentive arrangements explicitly stipulate an on-target amount, the assumed levels for this scenario are: in the case of the LTIP, for on-target performance the kicker element of the award would not vest.
Therefore the illustration is based on 55% vesting of the core award of 200% of salary.
This vesting level is broadly equal to the percentage applied in determining the grant date fair value of an LTIP award for the purposes of the Companys share-based payment charge: and in the case of the annual bonus, a payout of 76% of maximum opportunity being the approximate average of such payouts for all Executive Directors over the five years up to and including 2018.
The maximum columns demonstrate total remuneration levels in circumstances where the variable elements pay out in full, namely an annual bonus payment of 125% of salary with 100% of salary paid in cash and the balance delivered in the form of a deferred share award and 100% vesting of LTIP awards to be granted in 2019 over shares worth 250% of salary.
For the maximum with share price growth column, share price appreciation of 50% over the relevant performance period has been assumed for the LTIP awards.
For all other columns, any post-grant share price movements have not been taken into account for the purposes of valuing LTIP and deferred bonus awards.
The Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the SIP on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under this arrangement is subject to legislative limits and, for simplicity, has been excluded from the above chart.
Recruitment policy Base salaries Salaries for any new director hires including internal promotions will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below-market salary initially, the Committee will have the discretion to allow phased salary increases over time for newly appointed directors, even though this may involve increases in excess of the rate for the wider workforce and inflation.
Benefits Benefits and pensions for new appointees to the Board will normally be provided in line with those offered to other Executive Directors and employees taking account of local market practice, with relocation expenses arrangements provided for if necessary.
Tax equalisation may also be considered if an executive is adversely affected by taxation due to their employment with Cairn.
Legal fees and other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the individual may also be paid by the Company.
Variable pay For external appointments, the Committee will ensure that their variable remuneration arrangements are framed in accordance with the terms of, and are subject to the limits contained in, the Companys existing policy.
The Committee may however, in connection with an external recruitment, offer additional cash and or share-based elements intended to compensate the individual for the forfeiture of any awards under variable remuneration schemes with a former employer.
The design of these payments would appropriately reflect the value, nature, time horizons and performance requirements attaching to the remuneration foregone.
Shareholders will be informed of any such arrangements at the time of appointment.
Where an individual is appointed to the Board, different performance measures may be set for the year of joining the Board for the annual bonus, taking into account the individuals role and responsibilities and the point in the year the executive joined.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Leadership and Governance Chairman and Non-Executive Directors On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fees will be set taking into account a range of relevant factors including market practice, time commitment and the responsibilities associated with the role.
Where specific cash or share arrangements are delivered to Non-Executive Directors, these will not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Executive Directors service contracts The current Executive Directors service contracts contain the key terms shown in the table below: Provision Detailed terms Salary, pension and benefits.
Remuneration Company car or cash allowance.
Private health insurance for Director and dependants.
Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules.
Participation in deferred bonus, LTIP and SIP, subject to plan rules.
1 Notice period 12 months notice by the Director or by the Company.
Termination payment See separate disclosure below.
During employment and for 12 months after leaving.
Restrictive covenants Note: 1 The Committee believes that this policy on notice periods provides an appropriate balance between the need to retain the services of key individuals who will benefit the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the event of termination.
The Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
Exit payment policy for Executive Directors Executive Directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, at the Companys discretion.
The contracts also allow for phased payments to be made on termination with an obligation on the individual to mitigate loss.
Neither notice nor a payment in lieu of notice will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination and the contractual obligations of both parties as well as the relevant share plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event of termination by the Company, an Executive Director would be entitled to receive an amount representing base salary and the value of benefits and pension contributions due under the individuals service contract for the notice period.
Directors are not entitled to participate in any additional redundancy scheme.
The Committee will have the authority to settle legal claims against the Group e. g. for unfair dismissal, discrimination or whistle-blowing that arise on termination.
The Committee may also authorise the provision of outplacement services and pay reasonable legal expenses associated with the termination.
On termination of employment, the Committee has discretion as to the amount of bonus payable in respect of the current year.
The bonus paid would reflect the Companys and the individuals performance during that period.
However, any bonus payable in cash and or share awards as determined by the Committee on termination would not exceed a pro-rated amount to reflect the period for which the individual had worked in the relevant year.
As a general rule, if an Executive Director ceases employment, all unvested share awards granted pursuant to the Companys deferred bonus arrangements will lapse immediately.
However, if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability, or because the individuals employing company or part of the business in which he she is employed is transferred out of the Group, retirement with the agreement of the Company, or in any other circumstances determined by the Committee other than where an individual has been summarily dismissed in each case, a good leaver, those awards will not lapse and will normally continue to vest at the end of the original vesting period.
The Committee may determine that a deferred bonus award should vest before the normal time in certain circumstances, for example where an individual has died.
The Committee also has the discretion to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver.
As a general rule, if an Executive Director ceases employment, all unvested awards granted pursuant to the Companys long-term incentive arrangements under the 2009 LTIP and 2017 LTIP will lapse immediately.
However, if such cessation occurs by reason of death, injury, permanent disability or, for 2009 LTIP awards, redundancy, or because the individuals employing company or part of the business in which he she is employed is transferred out of the Group, or in any other exceptional circumstances determined by the Committee in each case, a good leaver, those awards will not lapse and will normally continue to vest at the end of the original performance period but only if, and to the extent that, the applicable performance conditions are satisfied.
The Committee may determine that an award should vest before the normal time in certain circumstances, for example where an individual has died.
It is the Remuneration Committees normal policy to time pro-rate any awards held by such a good leaver, although it retains the discretion to refrain from doing so in exceptional circumstances.
Any holding period attached to the share awards would normally continue to apply.
If an Executive Director ceases employment, 2017 LTIP awards subject to a holding period will normally be released or if structured as nil-cost options, become exercisable on the original timescales.
These awards will, however, lapse where cessation occurs due to the individuals gross misconduct, or if the Committee considers it appropriate, the individuals bankruptcy.
The Committee has the discretion to accelerate the release of shares in certain circumstances, for example death.
For 2009 LTIP awards subject to a holding period at the time an Executive Director ceases employment, awards will normally be released on cessation of employment.
98 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Exit payment policy for Executive Directors continued On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to his annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
As noted and explained in previous reports, the Committee recognises that this provision is no longer in accordance with best practice.
It was not included in the contract of the CFO that was entered into on his appointment in 2014, and will not be included in the contracts of other future appointees to the Board: however, it continues to apply to the current Chief Executive.
In the event of a change of control or winding up of the Company, treatment of share awards will be in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
The Committee has the discretion to disapply time pro-rating in the event of a change of control.
If there is a demerger or special dividend, the Committee may allow awards to vest on the same basis as for a change of control.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment None of the Non-Executive Directors nor the Chairman has a service contract but all have letters of appointment that set out their duties and responsibilities, the time commitment expected by the Company, and the basis on which their fees will be paid.
These letters of appointment can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company and are subject to the Companys Articles of Association, which provide for the annual election or re-election by shareholders of all of the Companys Directors.
There are no provisions for compensation payable on termination of appointment.
None of the Non-Executive Directors nor the Chairman participates in any of the Companys share schemes and they are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection, on request, at the Companys registered office.
Part 3 Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction This Annual Report on Remuneration provides details of the way in which the Committee operated during the financial year to 31 December 2018 and explains how Cairns approved Directors Remuneration Policy that is described on pages 90 to 98 was implemented during that period.
It also summarises how that policy will be applied in 2019.
In accordance with the Amended Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 17 May 2019.
The Companys auditor is required to report to Cairns shareholders on the auditable parts of this Annual Report on Remuneration which have been highlighted as such below and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts have been properly prepared in accordance with the Amended Regulations and the Companies Act 2006.
Operation of the Remuneration Committee during 2018 Members of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were as follows: Nicoletta Giadrossi Chair of the Committee from 15 May 2018 : M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Chair of the Committee until 15 May 2018 : Iain McLaren retired as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Committee on 15 May 2018 : Ian Tyler: and Peter Kallos.
The individuals who served on the Committee, each of whom is or was prior to retirement an independent Non-Executive Director of the Company, had no personal financial interest other than as shareholders in the matters decided, no potential conflicts of interest from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running the business.
Biographical information on the individuals that were Committee members as at 31 December 2018 is shown on pages 66 and 67 and details of attendance at the Committees meetings during 2018 are shown on page 75.
Internal assistance provided to the Committee The Chief Executive is not a member of the Remuneration Committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and is consulted in respect of certain of its proposals.
The Chief Executive is not involved in any discussions in respect of his own remuneration.
During the year, the Committee also received material assistance and advice on remuneration policy from the Company Secretary.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Leadership and Governance External assistance provided to the Committee As and when the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from a number of sources.
During the year, it received the following assistance: Assistance provided to the Committee Other services provided to the 1 Adviser during 2018 Fees for Committee assistance in 2018 Company during 2018 2 3 Aon Appointed by the Committee to 21,717 Provided advice on various aspects give periodic advice on various of remuneration practice across aspects of the Directors the Group.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report and provided support on a number of miscellaneous remuneration related projects.
Ernst & Young LLP Appointed by the Company N A no advice provided Internal auditor of the Company to carry out an independent to the Committee throughout the year.
verification of its achievement against performance conditions applicable to the Companys LTIPs and share option schemes.
Shepherd and Wedderburn LLP Appointed by the Company to 25,234 General legal services to the carry out regular calculations in Group throughout the year.
relation to the LTIP performance conditions.
Also assisted with the preparation of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Notes: 1 The bases for charging the fees set out in the table were agreed by the Committee at or around the time the particular services were provided and, in general, reflected the time spent by the adviser in question on the relevant matter.
2 Aon Hewitt Limited, part of Aon plc.
3 Aon is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and their work is governed by the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
4 The Committee reviews the performance and independence of all its advisers on a continuous basis.
No issues relating to performance or independence were noted by the Committee during the year.
Statement of shareholder voting at general meetings The table below shows the voting outcome at the last general meeting s at which shareholders were asked by the Company to approve a resolution relating to its Directors Remuneration Report and Directors Remuneration Policy: Number of votes Date of general For and Number of votes Total number of Number of votes 1 Description of resolution meeting Discretionary % of votes cast Against % of votes cast votes cast Withheld To approve the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report 15 05 18 476,850,997 98.36% 7,973,545 1.64% 484,824,542 1,668,660 To approve Directors Remuneration Policy 19 05 17 465,933,235 97.96% 9,688,508 2.04% 475,621,743 7,035,403 Note: 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law.
The Committee welcomed the endorsement of both the above resolutions that was shown by the vast majority of shareholders at the relevant meetings and gave due consideration to any concerns raised by investors who did not support the resolutions.
100 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Payments to past directors during 2018 audited During the year to 31 December 2018, there were no payments to past directors of the kind which require to be disclosed in terms of the Amended Regulations.
Single total figure table for 2018 audited The tables below set out the remuneration received by Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors during the year in the following categories.
Long-term Total Salary Benefits Pension SIP Bonus incentives remuneration Executive Directors Fixed elements of pay 1 2 3 Financial year Salary and fees Benefits Pension SIP Fixed element subtotal Directors Simon Thomson 2018 565,533 27,930 84,830 7,197 685,490 2017 559,934 32,305 83,990 7,199 683,428 James Smith 2018 367,826 8,681 55,174 7,197 438,878 2017 364,185 21,417 54,628 7,199 447,429 Pay for performance 4 Annual bonus...
Performance element 5 Financial year paid in cash deferred into shares... total bonus Long-term incentives subtotal Total remuneration Directors Simon Thomson 2018 494,841 0 494,841 1,023,670 1,518,511 2,204,001 2017 538,880 0 538,880 1,770,307 2,309,187 2,992,615 James Smith 2018 321,848 0 321,848 665,800 987,648 1,426,526 2017 350,492 0 350,492 1,151,419 1,501,911 1,949,340 Notes: 1 Taxable benefits available to the Executive Directors during 2018 were a company car car allowance, private health insurance, death-in-service benefit and a gym and fitness allowance.
This overall package of taxable benefits was largely unchanged from 2017, with the lower figures for both the Executive Directors in 2018 primarily being attributable to reduced charges for their company cars.
2 Additional disclosures relating to the pension provision for the Executive Directors during 2018 are set out on page 103.
3 This column shows the face value at date of award of matching and free shares provided to the Executive Directors under the SIP during the relevant period.
Further details on the way in which the SIP was operated during 2018 are set out on pages 109 and 110.
4 Under the Companys annual bonus scheme for 2017 and 2018, any sums awarded in excess of 100% of salary are delivered in the form of deferred share awards, which normally vest after a period of three years from grant.
Further information in relation to the annual bonus scheme for 2018 is provided on pages 103 to 105.
For the avoidance of doubt, the quantum of awards made under this arrangement is not attributable, either wholly or in part, to share price appreciation.
5 This column shows the value of shares that vested in respect of LTIP awards with performance conditions that ended during the period in question.
Further details of the LTIPs operation during 2018, including confirmation of the amount of the above vesting value that was attributable to share price appreciation, are provided on pages 106 to 109.
6 Following the end of the year to 31 December 2018, the Committee considered whether there were any circumstances that could or should result in the recovery or withholding of any sums pursuant to the clawback arrangements contained within the Companys remuneration policy.
The conclusion reached by the Committee was that it was not aware of any such circumstances.
Both these changes took effect from 1 January 2018.
2 The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys long-term incentive arrangements and are not entitled to a bonus or pension contributions.
3 An additional fee of 10,000 is payable to the Chair of each of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
In the case of the Audit Committee, both Iain McLaren and Keith Lough served as Chair during 2018 and their share of this additional fee reflects their respective periods in this post.
A similar approach was adopted in respect of M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC and Nicoletta Giadrossi, both of whom fulfilled the role of Chair of the Remuneration Committee for a proportion of the year.
4 Iain McLaren retired as a Director on 15 May 2018.
His fees for 2018 reflect the period from the start of the year to that date.
5 Nicoletta Giadrossi was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 10 January 2017.
Her fees for 2017 reflect the period from that date to the year end.
TSR performance graph and further information on Chief Executive pay Introduction The following chart demonstrates the growth in value of a 100 investment in the Company and an investment of the same amount in both the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers Index over the last 10 years.
These comparisons have been chosen on the basis that: Cairn was a constituent member of the FTSE 250 Index for the whole of 2018: and the FTSE 350 Oil & Gas Producers Index comprises companies who are exposed to broadly similar risks and opportunities as Cairn.
The table following the graph illustrates the movements in the total remuneration of the Companys Chief Executive during the same 10-year period.
Performance graph comparison of 10-year cumulative TSR on an investment of 100 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 18 FTSE 250 Cairn FTSE 350 Oil & Gas 102 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued TSR performance graph and further information on Chief Executive pay continued Total remuneration of Chief Executive during the same 10-year period Annual variable element award Long term incentive vesting Total remuneration rates for Chief Executive rates for Chief Executive 1 Financial year Chief Executive of Chief Executive as % of max.
opportunity as % of original award level 2018 Simon Thomson 2,204,001 70% 56.7% 2017 Simon Thomson 2,992,615 76.9% 90.8% 2016 Simon Thomson 2,081,601 80.2% 81.7% 2015 Simon Thomson 1,292,167 75% 23.4% 2014 Simon Thomson 1,073,425 78.5% 0% 2013 Simon Thomson 962,765 63% 0% 2012 Simon Thomson 1,018,570 86% 0% 2011 Simon Thomson 3,405,719 82% 121% 2 2011 Sir Bill Gammell 4,053,822 N A 106% 2010 Sir Bill Gammell 7,302,533 58% 113% 2009 Sir Bill Gammell 962,757 54% 0% Notes: 1 The amounts disclosed in this column have been calculated using the same methodology prescribed by the Amended Regulations for the purposes of preparing the single total figure table shown on page 100.
2 Sir Bill Gammell stood down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and was replaced by Simon Thomson who had previously been Legal and Commercial Director with effect from that date.
Sir Bill Gammells total remuneration for 2011 shown in the above table reflects the amount of salary, benefits and pension paid to him in respect of the period to 30 June 2011.
However, during the year to 31 December 2011, Sir Bill Gammell also received, in connection with the termination of his employment and in settlement of his contractual entitlements, a payment of salary and benefits in lieu of his contractual notice period of one year 770,000 and a cash bonus under the Companys annual bonus scheme 625,000.
Percentage annual change in Chief Executives remuneration elements compared to all Group employees The table below illustrates, for various elements of the Chief Executives 2018 remuneration package, the percentage change from 2017 and compares it to the average percentage change for all the Groups employees in respect of that same period.
% change in % change in % change in base salary taxable benefits annual bonus 1 Chief Executive 1% 13.54% 8.17% 2 All Group employees 1.64% 3.03% 3.41% Notes: 1 As highlighted on page 100, the above decrease in the Chief Executives taxable benefits is largely attributable to reduced charges for his company car.
2 The standard level of salary increase across the Group in 2018 was 1%.
However, a small number of individuals received higher percentage increases which raised the average for all employees to 1.64%.
Pay ratio information in relation to Chief Executives remuneration The Amended Regulations contain a requirement which applies to financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2019 to disclose the ratio of th th the Chief Executives pay, using the amount set out in the single total figure table, to that of the median, 25 and 75 percentile total remuneration of full-time equivalent UK employees.
Although the above requirement has yet to come into force and, when it does, will only apply to companies with more than 250 UK employees during the relevant period, the Committee felt that it would be appropriate to include the relevant disclosures this year on an entirely voluntary basis as it helps to demonstrate the link between the Chief Executives pay and the remuneration of the wider workforce.
For the year to 31 December 2018, the relevant ratios were as follows: th th 25 percentile 75 percentile Method of pay ratio Median pay ratio pay ratio calculation Chief Executive : Chief Executive : Chief Executive : Year adopted UK employees UK employees UK employees 2018 Option A 36 : 1 22 : 1 11 : 1 Note: th th 1 The median, 25 percentile and 75 percentile figures used to determine the above ratios were calculated by reference to the full-time equivalent annualised remuneration comprising salary, benefits, pension, SIP, annual bonus and long term incentives of all UK based employees of the Group as at 31 December 2018 i. e. Option A.
The Committee selected this calculation methodology as it was felt to produce the most statistically accurate result.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Leadership and Governance The Committee considers that the median pay ratio disclosed above is consistent with the pay, reward and progression policies for the Companys UK employees taken as a whole.
It reflects the fact that only the most senior employees in the Group participate in the Companys LTIP arrangement which attracts a greater level of annual award when compared to the share-based incentive schemes offered to other members of staff.
It also reflects the fact that a greater proportion of Executive Director pay is linked to annual performance through a higher annual bonus opportunity a percentage of which is subject to deferral into shares.
In addition, in-line with market practice, pension contributions available to the current executive team are higher than for the wider workforce.
In future years, the Committee will monitor movements in the disclosed ratios and provide appropriate commentary around annual changes and longer term trends.
th th Pay details for the individuals whose 2018 remuneration is at the median, 25 percentile and 75 percentile amongst UK based employees are as follows: th th Year Chief Executive 25 percentile Median 75 percentile Salary 565,533 34,340 57,802 115,000 Total pay and benefits 2,204,001 61,186 98,902 192,757 Executive Directors base salaries during 2018 Based on a review carried out in November 2017, the following salary increases for Executive Directors became effective on 1 January 2018: 2018 Annual salary details Annual salary Annual salary % increase with effect Job title as at 31 December 2017 as at 1 January 2018 from 1 January 2018 Current Directors Simon Thomson CEO 559,934 565,533 1% James Smith CFO 364,185 367,826 1% The increases shown in the above table for both Simon Thomson and James Smith were consistent with the level of standard annual salary increase awarded to other employees on 1 January 2018.
Executive Directors pension provision during 2018 audited As highlighted in the Directors Remuneration Policy described on pages 90 to 98, the Company operates a defined contribution, non-contributory Group personal pension plan which is open to all UK permanent employees.
The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary 15% in respect of senior executives on behalf of all qualifying employees.
The Company also has a pension committee which meets on a regular basis to assess the performance and suitability of the Companys pension arrangements.
James Smith is a member of the Company scheme and, during the year, received Company contributions up to his statutory annual allowance.
The balance of his 15% of basic salary entitlement was paid as additional salary.
During the year, Simon Thomson received an amount equal to 15% of his annual basic salary in the form of additional salary as his pension arrangements have already reached the relevant lifetime limit.
Details of the actual amounts of pension contributions additional salary that were paid to the Executive Directors during 2018 are set out in the pension column of the single total figure table on page 100.
Annual bonus 2018 structure and outcome audited During 2018, Cairn operated an annual bonus scheme for all employees and Executive Directors.
The maximum level of bonus award for Executive Directors and certain PDMRs for the year was 125% of annual salary.
For all participants other than the Executive Directors, 2018 bonus awards were based on achievement against a mixture of personal objectives, project-based KPIs and Group-wide KPIs.
When determining the level of award attributable to the personal performance element of these individuals bonuses, consideration was also given to the extent to which they demonstrated the Companys high performance behaviours during the period and also the level of their understanding, application and compliance with the Companys various standards and policies.
The final level of all bonuses awarded to employees below Executive Director PDMR level was reviewed and approved by the Committee.
As highlighted in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, 100% of each Executive Directors bonus opportunity for 2018 was determined by reference to the extent to which certain Group KPIs were achieved.
Taking into account commercial sensitivities around disclosure, a summary of the relevant targets, ascribed weightings and achievement levels is set out below.
104 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued 2018 annual bonus scheme Group KPI performance conditions 100% weighting and achievement levels Bonus KPI measures and performance achieved in 2018 Weighting awarded KPI Remuneration as % of allocated Committee proportion of maximum Purpose 2018 KPI Measurement 2018 performance opportunity decision Maintain licence to operate Deliver value in a Demonstrate clear Achievements of leading Good progress made against leading 15% 13.5% Substantially safe, secure and progress and achieve indicators linked to the four indicators, including: achieved environmentally defined milestones in key categories listed.
Inductions on the Code of Ethics and socially relation to HSSE Lagging indicators set completed by all new staff: responsible Corporate responsibility in line with IOGP targets Anti-bribery and corruption assessment manner.
CR objectives, split into and guidelines.
completed for all new assets: four key categories: Inclusion of Modern Slavery Act conditions Society and in all relevant contracts and issue of the first Communities: People: Cairn Modern Slavery Act statement: the Environment: and Outperformed our training plan for Crisis Business Relationships.
and Emergency Response Team training Achieve lagging HSSE in preparedness for the UK operated indicators set in line well: and with IOGP targets Health and well-being, talent and guidelines.
management and management development programmes all successfully developed and launched.
Portfolio management th Portfolio Secure two or more Each new exploration Awarded five licences in the UK 30 10% 10% Fully optimisation and new exploration opportunity secured will be Offshore Exploration Licence Round, achieved replenishment.
opportunities that measured against tests of i operating two of the awards.
enhance our portfolio, control: ii commercial Completed one farm-in in the UK with the meet corporate hurdles robustness based on option to operate.
and offer exploration success case Pmean Secured one block in the Mexico Licence drilling in the near to economics: and iii Round 3.1, as operator.
materiality based on Secured one block offshore Suriname, documented NPV10 as operator.
Deliver exploration success Grow the Mature prospects to drill Mature six or more prospects Prospects successfully matured, assured 25% 11.5% Partially reserves and ready status with all internal reviews and recommended during 2018 for drilling achieved resources base Secure funds and JV completed.
in 2018 or 2019 including two prospects in to provide a support for drilling Drill four or more exploration Block 9, Mexico: one prospect in Block 7, basis for future Execute exploration wells before year end 2018.
Mexico: the Agar-Plantain prospect in the growth.
drilling, to deliver Efficiently discover UK drilled 2018 : the Chimera prospect potentially commercial commercial quantities of in the UK: and the Godalen prospect in volumes to add to our hydrocarbons in line with Norway.
Group Reserves and pre-drill estimates at an Wells on Ekland and Agar-Plantain, each in Resources 2P and 2C.
attractive Group finding the UK, were drilled in 2018 with an oil efficiency rate including discovery made on Agar-Plantain.
2C estimated subsequent volumes discovered were lower than appraisal requirements.
Mature developments Progress Mature the Senegal Timely submission of the The SNE Area Evaluation Report was 17% 13% Substantially Senegal and SNE development SNE Area Evaluation Report, submitted to the Ministry of Energy in achieved Nova and funding plans for Exploitation Plan and July 2018. development presentation to the associated Environmental The SNE Field Development Phase 1 ESIA projects.
and Social Impact was submitted to the authorities in June Mature the Nova Assessment.
2018 and approved in January 2019. development project Approval of the SNE The SNE Exploitation Plan was submitted in Norway to Final Exploitation Plan and to the authorities in October 2018 and is Investment Decision.
associated Exploitation Area technically approved, subject to finalisation by the end of the PSC term of FEED.
The joint venture financing plan is and finalisation and approval underway and expected to be concluded of joint venture financing plan.
Submission of the Nova Plan The Final Investment Decision was taken on of Development to the Nova development in H1 2018 and the Norwegian authorities in H1 Plan of Development submitted to the 2018 and all internal Norwegian authorities also in H1 2018. approvals in place to complete a Final Investment Decision and approve the operator entering into acceptable contractual commitments on behalf of the joint venture during 2018.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Leadership and Governance Bonus KPI measures and performance achieved in 2018 Weighting awarded KPI Remuneration as % of allocated Committee proportion of maximum Purpose 2018 KPI Measurement 2018 performance opportunity decision Deliver operational excellence 15% 8.5% Maximise Deliver target Measured against target net Catcher Target net oil production volumes Partially revenues production volumes, oil production volumes, were exceeded, at better than target achieved through efficient operating costs and operating costs per bbl operating costs and realised at a price within operations.
crude values from targets, average crude the expected target.
Reserves at Catcher Kraken and Catcher at realisation relative to Brent have been marginally upgraded.
Kraken 2018 KPI target production volumes and operating costs were not met in 2018 but the price realised for the crude was better than target.
Reserves at Kraken have been downgraded.
Deliver a sustainable business Manage balance Develop and implement Funding strategy Funding headroom was maintained 18% 13.5% Substantially sheet strength.
a funding strategy that implementation measured throughout the year covering the Groups achieved ensures that an against four funding strategy committed forward capital expenditure.
executable funding plan criteria being met throughout Debt covenants were maintained with is developed and that a the year.
minimum headroom Measured against positive Liquidity was increased during the year to cushion from existing progress achieved in the add material new exploration commitments sources of funding UK-India bilateral treaty in Mexico, Suriname and UK Norway.
arbitration and a successful All arbitration hearings have taken place.
Success in the action award.
Whilst the award has not yet been made, under the UKIndia recognition had been given for the progress bilateral treaty made in the process and for the significant arbitration.
strategic planning that had been carried out for the result.
Totals 100% 70% Read more: Strategy and Key Performance Indicators on P6 2018 annual bonus scheme overview of awards and actual payments made The application of the outturn from the above performance condition assessments resulted in the following bonuses becoming payable to Simon Thomson and James Smith: Simon Thomson James Smith Group KPI measures Group KPI measures Weighting as % of max.
bonus opportunity 100% 100% Award elements x Achievement level 70% 70% Award percentage as % of max.
bonus opportunity as % of salary 125% 125% Award calculation x Award percentage as calculated above 70% 70% Total award as % of salary 87.5% 87.5% Total award as an amount 494,841 321,848 1 Form of payment Cash payment 494,841 321,848 2 Deferred share award 0 0 Note: 1 Cash payments due under the annual bonus scheme were paid to the relevant individuals shortly after completion of the assessment of the relevant performance measures and conditions.
2 Under the Companys annual bonus scheme for 2018, any amounts awarded in excess of 100% of salary would have been delivered in the form of share awards granted under the Companys Deferred Bonus Plan.
The Remuneration Committee considered that the above final award levels were appropriately reflective of overall performance during the year.
106 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives during 2018 Introduction During the year to 31 December 2018, the Executive Directors participated in the Companys 2009 LTIP which was originally approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 2009 and its 2017 LTIP which was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 19 May 2017.
Both the 2009 LTIP and 2017 LTIP enable selected senior individuals to be granted conditional awards or nil-cost options over ordinary shares, the vesting of which is normally dependent on both continued employment with the Group and the extent to which pre-determined performance conditions are met over a specified period of three years.
Following the introduction of the 2017 LTIP during the year to 31 December 2017, no further awards have been, or will be, granted under the 2009 LTIP, although existing entitlements under the earlier arrangement continue to subsist on their original terms.
Overview of performance conditions 2009 LTIP In the case of all awards under the 2009 LTIP including those granted during 2015 and 2016, the performance conditions involve a comparison of the TSR of the Company over a three-year performance period commencing on the date of grant of the relevant award with the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group details of which are set out on page 109.
At the end of this period, each company in the comparator group is listed in order of TSR performance to produce a ranking table.
The vesting of awards then takes place as follows: Ranking of Company against the comparator group Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in award that vest Below median 0% Median 20% Upper decile i. e. top 10% 100% Between median and upper decile 20%100% on a straight-line basis In order to ensure that the 2009 LTIP encourages and rewards exceptional performance in terms of delivering increased growth and shareholder value, the performance conditions attaching to awards also provide that, where the TSR of the Company produces a ranking at or above the upper decile level in the appropriate comparator group, a participant will then be given the opportunity to increase the percentage of his her award that vests through the application of a multiplier that is linked to the TSR actually achieved over the performance period.
The way in which this multiplier operates is as follows: Multiplier applied to determine the number of ordinary shares that actually vest TSR of the Company over the performance period 1 50% or less 1.33 100% or more 11.33 on a straight-line basis Between 50% and 100% However, notwithstanding the performance of the Company against the above targets, no part of an award granted under the 2009 LTIP will vest unless the Remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
Overview of performance conditions 2017 LTIP For the awards granted to Executive Directors under the 2017 LTIP during 2017 and 2018, the performance conditions are comprised of two distinct elements, namely: Conditions applicable to the core award The first condition applies to that element of each award which is over ordinary shares worth 200% of the individuals salary the core award and involves an assessment of the Companys TSR performance over a three-year performance period commencing on the date of grant relative to the performance achieved by a pre-determined comparator group of companies in the same sector details of which are set out on page 109.
Vesting will then take place as follows: Ranking of Company against the comparator group Percentage of ordinary shares comprised in core award that vest Below median 0% Median 25% Upper quartile or above 100% Between median and upper quartile 25%100% on a straight-line basis Conditions applicable to the kicker award The second condition applies to the remaining part of each grant the kicker award, being an element that is granted over ordinary shares worth 50% of salary.
This part of the award will vest in full if, over the same three-year measurement period i the Company achieves an upper quartile ranking or above in the comparator group: and ii the TSR actually achieved by the Company is at least 100%.
For the avoidance of doubt, if either of these requirements is not satisfied, no part of the kicker award will vest.
As with the 2009 LTIP, no part of an award granted under the 2017 LTIP will vest unless the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that there has been an overall satisfactory and sustained improvement in the performance of the Company as a whole over the performance period.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Leadership and Governance Summary of vesting terms, holding periods and clawback arrangements 2009 and 2017 LTIPs On any vesting of an award under the 2009 LTIP, 50% of the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled are released or become exercisable immediately, with the remaining 50% normally being released or becoming exercisable after a further holding period of one year.
In the case of the grants made under the 2017 LTIP to Executive Directors, all awards will normally be subject to a holding period of two years following vesting, at the end of which the ordinary shares to which the holder has become entitled will be released or become exercisable.
For the avoidance of doubt, this additional holding period will apply to both the kicker and core elements see above of these awards.
As noted in the Directors Remuneration Policy, awards granted under the 2009 and 2017 LTIPs are subject to clawback provisions which may be operated by the Committee where, in the period of three years from the end of the applicable performance period, it becomes aware of either a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or an error in the calculation of performance metrics which, had it been known at the relevant time, would have reasonably been expected to have resulted in such lower vesting being determined.
LTIP awards granted during 2018 audited On 28 March 2018, the following awards under the 2017 LTIP were granted to Executive Directors: Face value 000 of... % of shares over which award... max.
of shares over originally granted... shares over shares to vest if all Vesting Basis of award Share price at date which award that vest at which award performance determined by 3 4 5 6 6 Type of award granted of grant originally granted threshold originally granted measures met performance over Directors Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 2.5 x base 2.11 670,062 20% 1,414 1,414 salary of 565,533 3 years until 27 March 2021 James Smith Nil-cost option 2.5 x base 2.11 435,812 20% 920 920 salary of 367,826 Notes: 1 Details of the performance conditions applicable to the awards granted in 2018 are provided on page 106.
2 No price is payable by participants for their shares on the exercise of a nil-cost option granted under the LTIP.
3 As explained on page 106, the above awards are separated into i a core element over ordinary shares worth 2 x base salary : and ii a kicker element over shares worth 0.5 x base salary.
4 This figure represents the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company for the dealing day immediately preceding the date of grant.
The actual closing price on 28 March 2018 was 2.074.
5 As explained on page 106, a 25% threshold vesting percentage applies to the core element of these awards.
This represents 20% of the total award i. e. core plus kicker elements that was granted over shares worth 2.5 x base salary.
6 The values shown in these columns have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares over which the award was originally granted by the share price at date of grant.
LTIP awards vesting during the year audited On 18 March 2018, the three-year performance period applicable to the awards granted under the 2009 LTIP on 19 March 2015 to various participants including the Executive Directors came to an end.
Thereafter, the Remuneration Committee assessed the relevant performance conditions.
The results of this assessment, which was completed on 26 March 2018, can be summarised as follows: Performance measure % of award subject to measure Performance achieved 2015-2018 % of award vested Relative TSR performance against 100% Cairns TSR over the period 56.65% a comparator group of 18 placed it between the fifth and companies with the opportunity for sixth ranked companies in the additional multiplier of up to 1.33 to comparator group.
After careful be applied for upper decile consideration of a variety of factors, absolute TSR performance.
the Committee also concluded that there had been a sustained improvement in the overall performance of the Company over the three years in question.
Notes: 1 Further details of the performance conditions that applied to the above awards are set out on page 106.
2 At various points in the period 19 March 2015 to 18 March 2018, the Committee was required to determine in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in place at that time the treatment of those comparator group companies that were the subject of takeover transactions.
No other discretions were exercised by the Remuneration Committee during or after the relevant performance period.
3 The TSR calculations used to inform the Committees determinations in relation to the above awards were independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.
108 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Long-term incentives during 2018 continued The following table shows, for each Executive Director, details of the 2009 LTIP awards that vested during the year: % of award to vest as per Amount of vesting No.
of shares over performance value attributable which award condition No.
of shares that Value of shares to share price 1 2 3 Type of award Date of grant originally granted Date of vesting assessment vested vesting appreciation Current director Simon Thomson Nil-cost option 19 03 15 877,190 26 03 18 56.65% 496,927 1,023,670 95,409 James Smith Nil-cost option 19 03 15 570,529 26 03 18 56.65% 323,204 665,800 62,055 Notes: 1 On the vesting of a 2009 LTIP award held by a current employee or Executive Director of the Group, 50% of the shares to which the holder has become entitled are available for immediate exercise, with the remaining 50% normally becoming exercisable after a further period of one year.
2 The values shown in this column which are included in the single total figure table for 2018 have been calculated by multiplying the number of shares that vested by 2.06, being the closing mid-market price of a share in the Company on the day such vesting occurred.
3 The values shown in this column have been calculated by i multiplying the grant date face value of the relevant award as disclosed in previous Directors Remuneration Reports by the above noted vesting percentage: and ii deducting that amount from the applicable value of shares vesting figure.
LTIP awards exercised during 2018 audited Details of vested LTIP awards which are in the form of nil-cost options that were exercised by the Executive Directors during the year to 31 December 2018 are as follows: Number of ordinary shares Market value of acquired on ordinary shares at Date of grant Plan Date of vesting Date of exercise exercise Exercise price date of exercise Gain on exercise Current Director Simon Thomson 19 03 14 2009 LTIP 06 04 17 27 03 18 435,822 Nil 2.1015 915,880 19 03 15 2009 LTIP 26 03 18 27 03 18 248,463 Nil 2.1015 522,145 James Smith 19 03 14 2009 LTIP 06 04 17 27 03 18 283,461 Nil 2.1015 595,693 19 03 15 2009 LTIP 26 03 18 27 03 18 161,602 Nil 2.1015 339,607 LTIP other awards held by Executive Directors during the year For the sake of completeness, and in order to allow comparisons to be made with the awards granted under the LTIPs during 2018, set out below are details of the other unvested entitlements under the plans that were held by the Executive Directors during the year: Face value 000 of... % of shares over which No.
of shares award over which originally... shares over... max.
of Vesting determined Share price award granted that which award shares to vest if by performance Basis of award at date of originally vest at originally all performance over three years 2 3 4 5 Date of grant Plan Type of award granted grant granted threshold granted measures met until... Directors Simon 16 03 16 2009 LTIP Nil-cost 3 x base 1.9407 856,994 20% 1,663 2,212 15 03 19 Thomson option salary of 554,390 23 05 17 2017 LTIP Nil-cost 2.5 x base 2.18 642,125 20% 1,400 1,400 22 05 20 option salary of 559,934 16 03 16 2009 LTIP Nil-cost 3 x base 1.9407 557,395 20% 1,082 1,439 15 03 19 James option salary of Smith 360,579 23 05 17 2017 LTIP Nil-cost 2.5 x base 2.18 417,642 20% 910 910 22 05 20 option salary of 364,185 Notes: 1 Further details of the performance conditions that apply to these awards are set out on page 106.
2 In the case of an award granted in 2016, this figure represents the average of the closing mid-market prices of a share in the Company over the three days immediately preceding the date of grant.
For a 2017 award, it is the closing mid-market price of such a share for the single dealing day immediately preceding the date of grant.
3 In the case of an award granted in 2017, a 25% threshold vesting percentage applies to the core element of these awards being the element granted over ordinary shares worth 2 x base salary.
4 The values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares over which the award was originally granted by the appropriate share price at date of grant.
5 In the case of an award granted in 2016, the values shown in this column have been calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares over which the award was originally granted by 1.33% being the vesting percentage that would apply on full satisfaction of all performance conditions to which the awards are subject see page 106 and multiplying the result by the appropriate share price at date of grant.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Leadership and Governance Comparator group companies applicable to LTIP awards The table below provides details of the comparator groups applicable to each tranche of awards granted under the 2009 and 2017 LTIPs to Executive Directors that were outstanding during 2018.
For awards granted under the 2017 LTIP, the Committees normal policy is to remove from the relevant comparator group any company that has delisted less than half way through the applicable performance period.
For delistings that occur after that time, the relevant company is retained and moved in line with the remaining members of the group.
For the 2009 LTIP, all delisted companies are retained in the group, regardless of when such delisting occurs.
Participation of Executive Directors in all-employee share schemes during 2018 Introduction In order to encourage increased levels of long-term share ownership amongst its general employee population, the Company launched an HM Revenue and Customs approved SIP in April 2010.
The SIP provides eligible employees, including the Executive Directors, with the following benefits: Partnership shares employees can authorise deductions of up to 1,800 per tax year from pre-tax salary, which are then used to acquire ordinary shares on their behalf.
Matching shares the Company can award further free shares to all participants who acquire partnership shares on the basis of up to two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased.
For the tax year 2018 2019, the Company awarded two matching shares for every one partnership share purchased and intends to continue using this award ratio for the tax year 2019 2020.
Free shares employees can be given up to 3,600 worth of ordinary shares free in each tax year.
On 6 April 2018, an award of free shares was made to employees, including to the Executive Directors.
As the SIP is an all-employee arrangement, no performance conditions are imposed in relation to any matching or free shares awarded pursuant to its terms.
110 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Participation of Executive Directors in all-employee share schemes during 2018 continued Details of Executive Directors SIP participation in 2018 Details of the shares purchased by and awarded to the Executive Directors under the SIP during the course of the year are as follows: Free shares Partnership shares Matching shares awarded on awarded on awarded on 06 04 18 at 04 05 18 at a 04 05 17 at a Total SIP shares a price of 2.162 price of 2.315 price of 2.315 Total SIP shares held at 01 01 18 per share per share per share held at 31 12 18 Directors Simon Thomson 24,976 1,665 777 1,554 28,972 James Smith 16,681 1,665 777 1,554 20,677 The total number of shares held by each of the current Executive Directors under the SIP is included in their beneficial shareholdings disclosed in the Directors Report on page 114.
Shareholding guidelines for Directors audited The Committee believes that a significant level of shareholding by the Executive Directors strengthens the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders.
Accordingly, a formal share ownership policy is in place under which the Executive Directors are required to build up and maintain a target holding equal to a specified percentage of base salary.
During the year ended 31 December 2017, this target holding was increased from 100% of salary to its current level of 200% of salary.
In order to facilitate the achievement of the above requirement, the share ownership policy also provides that, until the necessary holding is achieved, an Executive Director is obliged to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net-of-tax gain arising from any vesting or exercise under the Companys share incentive plans.
The following table discloses the beneficial interest of each Director in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2018 or date of cessation of directorship, if earlier.
It also highlights the fact that, on 1 January 2019, the above shareholding requirements were satisfied by both Simon Thomson, CEO, and James Smith, CFO.
Shares held Awards over shares under the LTIP Ordinary shares Value of holding subject to vested Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Total holding of as a % of salary on but unexercised subject to Total interest in 2 3 4 5 6 Ordinary shares held in the SIP ordinary shares 1 January 2019 awards unvested awards ordinary shares Executive Directors Simon Thomson 1,182,425 28,972 1,211,397 449% 248,464 2,169,181 3,629,042 James Smith 440,527 20,677 461,204 263% 161,602 1,410,849 2,033,655 Non-Executive Directors Ian Tyler Todd Hunt 72,012 72,012 72,012 Alexander Berger 40,008 40,008 40,008 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 7,000 7,000 7,000 Keith Lough Peter Kallos 10,982 10,982 10,982 Nicoletta Giadrossi Former Director Iain McLaren 32,878 32,878 32,878 1,785,832 49,649 1,835,481 410,066 3,580,030 5,825,577 Notes: 1 Details of the Companys share ownership policy for Executive Directors are set out above.
2 Includes shares held by connected persons.
3 Under the rules of the SIP, certain shares awarded to participants must be retained in the plan for a specified holding period of up to five years.
The receipt of these shares is not subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
4 Share price used is the average share price over the year to 31 December 2018.
5 This column shows all vested but unexercised awards under the LTIP that were held by the Director concerned as at 31 December 2018.
6 This column shows all unvested and outstanding awards under the LTIP that were held by the Director concerned as at 31 December 2018 i. e. including those granted during the year.
Details of these entitlements, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, are set out on page 107.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Leadership and Governance Dilution of share capital pursuant to share plans during 2018 In any 10-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with the Companys discretionary share plans which includes both the LTIPs and the share option award schemes used to incentivise less senior employees cannot exceed 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
In addition, in any 10-year rolling period, the number of ordinary shares which may be issued in connection with all of the Companys employee share schemes whether discretionary or otherwise cannot exceed 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
It should also be noted that all shares acquired by or awarded to participants under the SIP and the Deferred Bonus Plan are existing ordinary shares purchased in the market.
As a result, neither the SIP nor the Deferred Bonus Plan involves the issue of new shares or the transfer of treasury shares.
Board appointments with other companies during 2018 The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of Executive Directors accepting positions as Non-Executive Directors of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments involved are not unduly onerous.
The Executive Directors are permitted to retain any fees paid for such appointments.
The appointment of any Executive Director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the Nomination Committee.
In the case of a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only normally be given if the two companies do not compete in the same geographical area.
Details of the non-executive positions with other companies that were held by Cairns Executive Directors during 2018, and the fees that were payable, are as follows: Fees received for the Position held year to 31 December 2018 Current Directors Simon Thomson Non-executive director, Grahams The Family Dairy Limited 35,000 Non-executive director, Edinburgh Art Festival 0 Relative importance of spend on pay Set out below are details of the amounts of, and percentage change in, remuneration paid to or receivable by all Group employees and distributions to shareholders in the years ended 31 December 2017 and 2018.
Financial Year Financial Year 2017 2018 % change 1 Employee costs US$m 34.2 38.1 11.4% 2 Distributions US$m 0 0 0% Note: 1 This rise in employee costs is largely attributable to the headcount increase that occurred within the business during 2018.
2 For the purposes of the above table, Distributions include amounts distributed to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback.
112 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Leadership and Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Implementation of remuneration policy in 2019 The following table provides details of how the Company intends to implement the key elements of the current Directors Remuneration Policy described in pages 90 to 98 during the year to 31 December 2019.
Remuneration element Implementation during 2019 Base salary Both of the Executive Directors received a 2% increase in base salary on 1 January 2019 this was in line with the standard annual increase awarded to other employees on that date.
After applying this increase, details of the base salaries payable to both the current Executive Directors for the year to 31 December 2019 are as follows: Simon Thomson, CEO 576,844: and James Smith, CFO 375,183.
Benefits Executive Directors will continue to receive the same benefits as in 2018.
Annual bonus 2019 In accordance with the requirements of the policy, Executive Directors will be eligible to receive a bonus of up to 125% of base salary depending on the extent to which specified measures are satisfied over 2019.
However, any bonus awarded to an Executive Director in excess of 100% of salary will be deferred into Cairn shares for a period of three years.
The whole of the Chief Executives and CFOs 2019 bonus opportunity will be based on the Group KPIs described below with details of the weightings specified in brackets : HSSE CR 15% : Demonstrate clear progress and achieve defined milestones in relation to HSSE CR objectives, split into four key categories Governance, People, Society and the Environment.
Achieve lagging HSSE indicators set in line with IOGP targets.
Production 10% : Ensure production and operating cash flow from Kraken and Catcher are at or within guidance on net production volume and lifting cost per barrel.
Funding 24% : Implement funding strategy to support exploration, appraisal and development activity and to mitigate any downside revenue scenarios.
Progress the UK-India bilateral treaty arbitration to conclusion and receipt of awarded sums in event of success.
New Ventures 8% : Secure two new venture opportunities that meet corporate hurdles and have risk levels consistent with our Risk Appetite Statement.
Measured against tests of control, materiality and commercial robustness.
Exploration 25% : Successfully drill and evaluate a programme of six exploration wells across our portfolio.
Discover potentially commercial hydrocarbons in line with pre-drill expectations.
Mature up to six new independent exploration prospects with JV support for drilling in the period 2020-2021.
Developments 18% : Mature the SNE field development project in Senegal to Final Investment Decision.
Progress the Nova development project against key predefined project milestones.
The overall categories and weightings for these KPIs were agreed by the Board, with the specific targets to be used for the purposes of the 2019 bonus scheme being set by the Remuneration Committee which will also be responsible for their assessment at the end of the year.
These targets are commercially sensitive and have not, therefore, been set out in detail above.
However, appropriate disclosure of Group KPIs and Group performance in relation to the 2019 bonus scheme will be included in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Leadership and Governance Remuneration element Implementation during 2019 LTIP It is intended that, during 2019, the Executive Directors will be granted awards pursuant to the rules of the 2017 LTIP.
These awards will, in aggregate, be over shares worth 250% of salary and will take the following forms: a core award over shares worth 200% of salary the vesting of which will be dependent on relative TSR performance over a three-year period versus a comparator group of peer companies with 25% vesting for a median ranking rising on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting for upper quartile performance : and a kicker award over shares worth 50% of salary vesting will be conditional on achieving both an upper quartile ranking in the comparator group and absolute TSR growth over the performance period of at least 100%.
All shares that vest in relation to an award whether core or kicker will be subject to an additional two-year holding period.
The comparator group against which the relative performance conditions are assessed will be the same as the one used for the purposes of the LTIP grants made in 2018 except that Hurricane Energy plc and Energean Oil & Gas plc will be added as additional constituent companies in place of Faroe Petroleum plc which has delisted and Ophir Energy plc which is expected to delist during 2019.
SIP Executive Directors will be given the opportunity to participate in the SIP on the same terms as apply to all other eligible employees in the arrangement.
Pension The Company will continue to contribute 15% of basic salary on behalf of Executive Directors or pay them an equivalent amount of additional salary.
Non-Executive Directors fees For 2019, both the annual Non-Executive Director fee and the additional annual fee for chairing the Audit and or Remuneration Committees remain unchanged at 75,500 and 10,000 respectively.
Chairmans fees The annual Chairmans fee for 2019 has been retained at 177,000.
The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 11 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Nicoletta Giadrossi Chair of the Remuneration Committee 11 March 2019
