80 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Directors remuneration report Committee membership and attendance Members: All members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive John Cresswell Directors.
None of the Committee members have day-to-day Gillian Sheldon involvement with the business nor do they have any personal financial Matthew Lester interest, except as shareholders, in the matters to be recommended.
The number of formal meetings held and the attendance by each Andrew Williams member is shown in the table on page 69.
The Committee also held Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe informal discussions as required.
To encourage effective communication, in addition to the above members, the Board Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and senior human resources personnel are invited to attend all or part of Committee meetings along with representatives from Deloitte, the Groups remuneration advisers.
The performance of the Committee is assessed as part of the Board Our incentive plans are aligned with performance evaluation undertaken annually.
our business transformation to drive The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee better outcomes for all stakeholders.
and is available to assist the members of the Committee as required, ensuring that timely and accurate information is distributed John Cresswell accordingly.
Chairman Remuneration Committee How the Committee operates The Committee has an annual agenda to cover the key planning and Annual statement decision events in the annual remuneration cycle.
I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committee report for the Each meeting is supported by an agenda-setting discussion held in year ended 31 December 2018.
As Sir Ian Powell notes in his advance with the Chief People Officer, Group Reward Director, Group introduction, Capita is a business in transition as our leadership team Company Secretary and Deloitte to identify issues impacting and people restructure and build.
The Remuneration Committee has remuneration that may require consideration by the Committee.
invested significant time working with the CEO in building the leadership team, with Patrick Butcher joining as CFO and seven new Regular reports including updates in corporate governance and appointments to the Executive Committee.
regulatory developments are received from Deloitte.
At each Committee meeting the members may receive other reports and We received strong support for our 2017 Annual Report on presentations covering the annual pay review, incentive scheme Remuneration and we have spent significant time considering arrangements, gender pay reporting, salary proposals for members performance measures and targets for 2018 and 2019 to ensure they of the senior team and approval of remuneration packages for new are meaningful, robust and aligned with our strategy.
Context to the Committees decisions in the year The Remuneration Committees terms of reference set out in full the Since the arrival of Jon Lewis in late 2017, the business has begun a role, responsibilities and authority of the Committee and can be found major transformation, with a rights issue, the formulation of a new on the Companys website at www.
These were business strategy and a series of disposals.
Capita is now a much reviewed and updated during the year.
stronger business with a solid balance sheet, and a clear strategy for transformation that will see the business simplify, strengthen and How the Committee discharged its roles and succeed.
Our overall remuneration framework has a number of responsibilities in 2018 specific objectives.
It is designed to focus on value creation and share The Committee met 12 times during the year and attendance at each ownership to align the high-calibre executives appointed in 2017 meeting is shown on page 69.
In 2018, the Committee held a number and 2018 with the completion of the transformation and the delivery of unscheduled meetings to both consider and approve the of the outcomes promised to shareholders.
There are multiple termination arrangements of exiting Directors and consider and considerations in the design of the overall framework to: ensure approve the remuneration package for the incoming CFO.
long-term shareholder value creation: and recognise Group performance and the individuals specific contribution to it, through an Board changes in 2018 appropriate balance of short and long-term reward, as well as consideration of the level of reward available to employees in the There were a number of changes at Board level in 2018: Chris Sellers wider Group.
A good example of this is the pension contribution or stepped down from the Board on 23 January 2018, and left the Group cash in lieu for our CEO and CFO, which is the same level as is offered on 31 January 2018: and Nick Greatorex stepped down from the Board to other employees in the UK at 5% of salary.
and left the Group on 30 September 2018.
We consulted with major shareholders to obtain their views on the The termination arrangements are set out on page 97.
The terms are in design of our long-term incentive plan.
Feedback received has been accordance with our remuneration policy and contractual obligations, incorporated into the plan design for 2019: further detail is shared and were considered equitable in the circumstances.
The Committee has also decided to introduce an additional The Board conducted a thorough external search for our new Chief two-year holding period for all share awards from 2019 onwards.
Financial Officer which resulted in Patrick Butcher being appointed to In addition, the Committee has incorporated a discretion allowing the the Board with effect from 1 January 2019.
The Remuneration Committee to override formulaic outcomes in line with the changes Committee agreed a remuneration package for Patrick that reflected to the new Corporate Governance Code.
his considerable experience, comprising an annual salary of 430,000 and, in lieu of a pension scheme contribution, a cash contribution equivalent to 5% of base salary in line with our wider workforce.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 81 Patrick will also be eligible to participate in the Companys annual Pay decisions for 2018 bonus plan and long-term incentive plan LTIP in line with our policy.
Buy-out remuneration awards were granted in relation to Patricks Performance measures for 2018 LTIP award appointment to compensate him for deferred share awards that he Our corporate strategy aims to simplify and strengthen the business forfeited when he left Go-Ahead Group plc.
Full details of these so that it is more focused and predictable with improved returns, awards which are consistent in value and structure with the forfeited stronger client relationships and sustainable free cash flow.
The awards can be found on page 94.
Committee set five, equally weighted performance measures for the 2018 LTIP award which are directly aligned to successful delivery of Variable pay outcomes for 2018 this strategy.
Any pay-out against these measures is subject to satisfaction of a general performance underpin focused on underlying Annual bonus and operational performance.
The Committee can therefore, in its The maximum annual bonus for the Executive Directors that could be discretion, reduce the level of vesting from than that achieved based earned in relation to 2018 performance was 200% of salary on the formulaic application of the five applicable performance unchanged from 2017. measures alone.
As reported in the Annual Report 2017, the Remuneration Committee The three financial measures underpinned by financial operational exercised discretion in respect of 2017 bonus payments and performance assessment are key deliverables of the new strategy.
determined that no bonus would be paid to Executive Directors for a The target level of performance for each measure is stated on page second consecutive year.
In this context, and with a new CEO recently 96 and reflects the targets stated in the April 2018 strategy appointed, the Executive Directors bonus plan for 2018 was announcement and rights issue prospectus: redesigned to align with the transformation plan.
Accordingly, the Annualised cost savings part of Capitas new strategy involves bonus plan was based on a rounded assessment of Group financial improving cost competitiveness and operational efficiency, which performance, incorporating free cash flow, cost-out measures 1 includes reducing general and administrative expenses, centralising alongside adjusted profit before tax PBT as well as a set of individual procurement, standardising and investing in processes and systems, non-financial objectives that directly align to what is required to and increasing the use of offshoring and automation.
The Board is deliver the transformation plan.
Based on the assessment of targeting annualised initial cost savings of 175m by the end of performance against targets, the achievement of the financial element 2020 from these initiatives compared to the prior forecasted cost.
If this was achieved, there would be a 50% vesting of this In 2018, under the leadership of Jon Lewis, the Group reported proportion of the award.
adjusted profit before tax ahead of expectations.
Jon oversaw a Free cash flow the successful implementation of the new strategy strategic review of the business, built a new leadership team, and has is expected to generate at least 200m of sustainable annual, postshown highly effective and visible leadership.
He has delivered tax free cash flow in 2020 before exceptional and restructuring significant progress in establishing a culture that places importance on charges, and additional pension contributions.
If the free cash flow integrity, transparency, accountability, collaboration and inclusion.
target is met, 50% of this proportion of the award would vest.
The transformation of the business continues at pace and significant EBIT margin successful delivery of the strategy is expected to improvements have been delivered in efficiency and competitiveness.
deliver a double-digit EBIT margin within three years, which would There was unanimous support for the decision to make an award to result in at least 50% vesting of this proportion of the award.
The reflect the contribution that the new CEO has made to strengthening EBIT margin range has been set between 9% to 12%.
the business and positioning it for success.
Based on this achievement, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the CEO should To complement the financial measures, the LTIP awards are also receive a bonus of 85% of the 200% opportunity, of which 50% is subject to two key non-financial deliverables of the new strategy payable in shares vesting after three years and the remainder as cash again underpinned by financial operational performance assessment and subject to the usual statutory deductions of tax and national in order to drive cultural change and emphasise their importance to insurance.
management, employees and other stakeholders: Nick Greatorex, the former CFO, delivered a very successful rights Customer satisfaction client demands are changing with fewer issue and completed the US debt negotiation.
He also set up the long-term, large-scale deals and more incremental sales on existing programme that resulted in very strong performance against the costcontracts, or smaller new contracts in which companies prove their out target, which exceeded expectations, and delivered what was value and grow over time.
Improving the client experience is required to allow the launch of the finance transformation therefore fundamental to Capitas long-term success.
The Remuneration Committee determined that Nick net promoter score is used to assess this metric.
A threshold target delivered against the personal element of his bonus in full, before of a six-point positive swing in the customer net promoter score leaving Capita on 30 September 2018.
Therefore, the total bonus paid would allow for a 25% vesting of this proportion of the award.
The to Nick for the period to 30 September 2018 was 87.51% of the maximum would vest if there was a 12-point positive swing in maximum of his pro-rated bonus opportunity.
1 Adjusted profit before tax before significant new contracts and restructuring.
Employee engagement a key focus of the new strategy is improving culture and engagement across all levels of the Vesting of 2016 LTIP award organisation and producing better aligned behaviour around Vesting of the LTIP Award granted in 2016 was determined by a winning and execution of contracts.
The employee net promoter combination of earnings per share EPS and return on capital score is used to assess this metric.
If a six-point positive swing in employed ROCE performance and absolute share price, all assessed employee net promoter score was achieved, 25% of this proportion over the three-year period to 31 December 2018.
As the share price of the award would vest.
The maximum would vest, if there was a performance target was not met, these awards will lapse in full 12-point positive swing in employee net promoter score.
For both of these non-financial measures, the Remuneration Committee has set targets that require significant improvement over the three-year performance period.
82 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Directors remuneration report continued However, some shareholders expressed concern about the proportion Pay decisions for 2019 of the award subject to these non-financial measures Base salaries notwithstanding the performance underpin which looks at underlying financial and operational performance.
Recognising these concerns, Base salary for Jon Lewis is fixed at 725,000 and will be reviewed in the Committee has reduced the weighting on customer employee 2021.
Patrick Butchers base salary of 430,000 will be reviewed in measures to 25% of the 2019 LTIP award 2018:40%, with the 2020 and annually thereafter.
proportion to be reviewed again for future awards.
Annual bonus Performance underpin Performance measure Weighting The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the annual bonus plan to 2018 LTIP 2019 LTIP ensure it continues to align with the Groups transformation award award programme.
As there has been no material change in our new Free cash flow 20% 25% corporate strategy, the structure of the proposed financial performance measures for the 2019 annual bonus remains broadly Assessment of the EBIT margin 20% 25% underlying unchanged, although some minor adjustments have been made.
Organic revenue growth 25% financial and For 2019 there is no cost-out target and organic revenue growth is operational Annualised cost savings 20% being included.
This reflects the momentum gained on transformation performance of in 2018, and the need to shift the focus to organic revenue growth and Capita over the Customer satisfaction 20% 12.5% performance profit improvement.
The non-financial performance measures support period.
Employee engagement 20% 12.5% the delivery of our three strategic pillars which are simplify, strengthen and succeed.
Adjusted PBT, free cash flow, organic revenue growth and Further details of the targets are on page 91.
For awards made from strategic personal targets will be stretching for the 2019 financial 2019 onwards, there will be a requirement for Executive Directors to year.
The Committee deems the specific details of the performance hold shares for an additional two-year period following the three-year measures and targets to be commercially sensitive, as they are directly performance period.
Jon Lewiss LTIP award will be in respect of shares linked to the forward-looking strategic plans of the business.
Patrick Butchers award will be worth 200% of disclosure will be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration salary agreed as part of his appointment and consistent with awards for 2019, provided these details are no longer considered sensitive.
The maximum bonus opportunity will remain at 200% of salary for Shareholding guidelines Jon Lewis, and Patrick Butcher will have a maximum bonus opportunity of 175% of salary, which is a reduction to the prior CFO Following the decision in 2017 to increase the minimum shareholding maximum of 200% of salary.
The split between Group financial guideline for Executive Directors, the minimum requirement is 200% metrics and personal and strategic measures will be two-thirds of salary for the Chief Financial Officer and 300% for the Chief financial and one-third non-financial which represents a greater Executive Officer.
Directors are expected to retain at least half of weighting on financial measures compared to 2018.
Any bonus vested share awards post-tax until they are compliant with the pay-outs will be conditional upon Capita achieving an adjusted PBT guideline.
The Committee is in the process of developing a postunderpin target.
If warranted by the circumstances at the time, employment shareholding policy which will be disclosed in the Annual theRemuneration Committee may consider exercising its discretion Report 2019. in relation to bonus pay-outs.
Shareholder views Performance measures for 2019 LTIP award During 2018, we consulted with our top 30 shareholders to obtain As there has been no further material change in our new corporate their views on the proposed performance measures and targets for the strategy, the structure of the proposed performance measures for 2018 LTIP award.
We received a wide range of feedback, which was 2019 LTIP awards remains broadly unchanged from that used for 2018 helpful to the Committee in coming to the decision to implement the LTIP awards.
However, our proposal does contain three changes, which measures and targets as detailed on page 96.
Further feedback from were informed by feedback from shareholders: shareholders has been reflected in the measures and weightings for the 2019 LTIP, as set out above, which in consultation received strong Addition of organic revenue growth as a performance measure support from major shareholders.
Details of voting on remuneration As outlined in our April 2018 strategy update, Capitas reported resolutions at the AGM in June 2018 are set out on page 89. growth has been largely driven by acquisitions and organic growth has I hope you will find this report to be clear and helpful in understanding had less emphasis.
A return to stronger organic revenue growth is an our remuneration practices and that you will be supportive of this important goal in the next phase of our business transformation and years advisory vote to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration at accordingly has been added as a performance measure for the 2019 the AGM set out on pages 8998.
The Committee will continue to LTIP award cycle.
consult widely with shareholders to respond to their expectations of Removal of annualised cost savings as a performance measure remuneration policy and reporting and welcomes feedback.
Business simplification is a key element of the initial phase of our Committee Chairman strategic transformation.
As we expect 2020 to represent the end of the initial simplification phase, we have concluded that it would be I have informed the Board of my intention to step down as Chairman inappropriate to retain cost savings as a performance measure for the of the Committee after three-and-a-half years, but will remain on the 2019 LTIP award where the performance period runs to the end of Board as a Non-Executive Director.
This change also avoids the risk of executives potentially being and feel I can no longer provide Capita with the time and attention rewarded twice for delivery of the same cost savings.
I will remain as Chairman until a replacement is appointed to ensure a smooth handover.
Reduction of the weighting for customer and employee John Cresswell performance measures Chairman When we consulted with shareholders about the 2018 LTIP award, Remuneration Committee there was widespread support for our use of customer and employee 13 March 2019 measures as being fundamental to Capitas long-term success.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 83 In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration policy Committee ensures that the arrangements are in the best interest of At the AGM in June 2017 shareholders approved, with a 89.2% both the Group and its shareholders, by taking into account the majority, the remuneration policy which sets out the Companys following general principles: policy on the remuneration of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
To ensure total remuneration packages are simple and fair in design The remuneration policy became effective from the conclusion of the so that they are valued by participants.
AGM and will apply until 31 December 2020 unless a revised policy is approved by shareholders and comes into force before that date.
To ensure that total remuneration is clear, predictable and highly For the benefit of shareholders we have included the remuneration performance orientated, without being excessive.
policy on the following pages.
Textual changes have been made, where To balance performance-related pay between the achievement of appropriate, to ensure the report is relevant within the context of this financial performance objectives and delivering sustainable Directors remuneration report.
The original remuneration policy, as performance: creating a clear connection between performance and approved by shareholders, can be found in the Directors remuneration reward and providing a focus on sustained improvements in report of the 2016 Annual Report & Accounts which can be found in profitability and returns.
the Investors section of our website.
To provide a significant proportion of performance-linked pay in shares allowing senior management to build a significant The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for establishing shareholding in the business and, therefore, aligning management appropriate remuneration arrangements for the Chairman, Executive with shareholders interests and the Groups performance, without Directors, Executive Committee and Group Company Secretary.
remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Board.
The information provided in this section of the remuneration report is Consideration of shareholder views not subject to audit.
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
The Committee considers the AGM to be an Responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration opportunity to meet and communicate with investors, giving Committee shareholders the opportunity to raise any issues or concerns they may The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the have.
In addition, the Committee will seek to engage directly with Board the policy on Executive Directors remuneration, including major shareholders and their representative bodies should any setting the over-arching principles, parameters and governance material changes be proposed to the policy.
framework and determining the initial remuneration package of each Executive Director.
In addition, the Committee monitors the structure and level of remuneration for the senior management team and, when setting remuneration Executive Directors, take into account workforce remuneration and alignment of incentives and rewards with culture.
84 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy table The following table sets out the key aspects of the policy.
Base salaries Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework To attract and retain talent by Normally reviewed annually in There is no prescribed maximum Individual and business performance ensuring base salaries are sufficiently December, with any changes usually are considerations in setting base monetary annual increase to base competitive.
may award salary increases at other Any annual increase in salaries is at times of the year if it considers it to be appropriate.
the discretion of the Committee, The review takes into account: taking into account the factors stated in this table and the following Salaries in similar companies and comparably-sized companies principles: Remuneration Policy Salaries would typically be Economic climate increased at a rate consistent with Market conditions the average salary increase in Group performance percentage of salary terms for the The role and responsibility of the broader workforce.
individual Director Larger increases may be considered Employee remuneration across the appropriate in certain broader workforce.
circumstances including, but not limited to, a change in an individuals responsibilities or in the scale of their role or in the size and complexity of the Group.
Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director has been initially appointed to the Board at a lower than typical salary.
Annual bonus and deferred annual bonus DAB Plan Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Performance measures are selected to The bonus scheme is reviewed Maximum opportunity of 200% of Executive Directors performance is focus Executives on delivery of the salary.
annually to ensure that bonus measured over a one-year period Group business plan for the financial opportunity and performance relative to challenging targets for year.
measures continue to support the selected measures of Group financial, business plan.
Stretching targets are strategic or individual performance.
set at the start of each financial year.
The majority of the bonus will be determined by measure s of Group Performance against targets is financial performance.
reviewed following completion of the final accounts for the period under A sliding scale is set for each Group review.
financial measure: 50% of the bonus will be paid at target performance, 50% of any bonus earned is normally increasing to 100% for maximum delivered in shares deferred for three performance.
years under the DAB plan, with the remainder delivered in cash or Any bonus pay-out is ultimately at Deferred Shares at the Executive the discretion of the Committee.
An additional payment may be made at the time of vesting in respect of dividends that would have accrued on Deferred Shares during the deferral period.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to all annual bonus and DAB awards for a period of up to three years after the determination of the annual bonus.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 85 Long-term incentive plan LTIP Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Designed to reward and retain LTIP awards are usually granted in the The maximum annual award Performance is measured relative to permitted under the LTIP is shares Executives over the longer term while form of nil cost options.
selected measures of Group financial with a market value as determined by aligning their interests with those or share price performance, with the Award levels for each award are set by the Committee of 300% of salary.
precise measures and weighting of the Committee at a level appropriate, the measures determined by the To link reward to key longer-term in the Committees opinion, with the Committee ahead of each award.
Performance targets Performance targets are reviewed To encourage share ownership.
applying to LTIP awards are relevant annually by the Committee and are to business plan priorities and aligned set appropriate to the economic and with shareholder interests.
political outlook and risk factors prevailing at the time, ensuring that Vesting is dependent on the such targets remain challenging in the achievement of performance circumstances, while remaining conditions usually measured over a realistic enough to motivate and three-year period.
Awards from 2019 must be retained 25% of the awards vest at a threshold for a further two years after vesting.
vesting point, rising to 100% vesting An additional payment may be made at a maximum vesting point.
at the time of vesting in respect of dividends that would have accrued on LTIP awards during the vesting period.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to all LTIP awards for a period up to the fifth anniversary ofgrant.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Designed to be consistent with Benefits include car allowance, private Benefit provision varies between Not performance-related.
benefits available to employees in the medical insurance, travel and property different Executive Directors.
Executive Directors can also While there is no maximum level set participate in all-employee share by the Committee, benefits provision plans.
will be set at a level the Committee The Committee has discretion to add considers appropriate and be based on additional benefits which are not individual circumstances.
currently provided, such as relocation Participation in the Companys expenses.
HMRC-approved all-employee share plan will be limited by the maximum level prescribed by HMRC.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Designed to be consistent with Pension contributions are paid into 5% of salary Not performance-related.
benefits available to employees in the Groups defined contribution theGroup.
scheme and or as a cash allowance.
86 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Non-Executive Director NED fees Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Market competitive fees are set so as Reviewed periodically by the Board.
As for the Executive Directors, there is Not performance-related.
to attract and retain Non-Executive no prescribed maximum monetary Fee levels set by reference to market Directors with required skills, annual increase.
rates, taking into account the experience and knowledge so that the individuals experience, An aggregate annual sum of 1m Board can effectively carry out its responsibilities.
responsibilities, time commitment increased only to take account of the and pay decisions for the broader effect of inflation as measured by the workforce.
Retail Price Index or such index as the Directors consider appropriate or such NED fees comprise payment of an other amount as the Company may annual basic fee and additional fees by ordinary resolution decide.
for further Board responsibilities such as: Senior Independent Director Audit Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman.
The Chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive fee.
No NED participates in the Groups incentive arrangements or pension plan or receives any other benefits other than where travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a taxable benefit in which case a NED may receive grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to all incentive awards granted to Executive Directors.
These provisions permit the Committee to recover bonus awards for up to three years after the determination of the annual bonus and up to the fifth anniversary of the grant of LTIP awards.
The potential circumstances in which malus or clawback provisions can be applied include a material misstatement of the Groups financial results, if an individual deliberately misleads relevant parties regarding financial performance or if their actions cause reputational damage or amount to serious misconduct or conduct which causes significant financial loss.
The annual bonus performance measures are Group financial, strategic or individual measures which are selected annually so as to be consistent with key priorities for the Group.
The LTIP performance measures are chosen to provide alignment with our longer-term strategy of growing the business in a sustainable manner that will be in the best interests of shareholders and other key stakeholders in the Company.
Targets are set on sliding scales that take account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Company.
Only modest rewards are available for achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial outperformance of challenging strategic plans approved at the start of each year.
Share incentive plans incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid on the shares under an award that vests up to the time of vesting release.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been re-invested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis.
The Committee operates incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors in accordance with their respective rules, the Listing Rules and the HMRC rules where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice and the scheme rules, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: Who participates The form in which the award is granted and settled e. g. shares, nil cost options, cash The timing of the grant of award and or payment The size of an award up to individual and plan limits and or a payment Discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a good leaver scenario or a change of control or reconstruction of the Company Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. share capital variation, rights issues, demerger, corporate restructuring, special dividends The ability to vary or substitute any performance condition s if circumstances occur which cause it to determine that the original condition s have ceased to be appropriate, provided that any such variation or waiver is fair, reasonable and not materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition in its opinion.
In the event that the Committee were to make an adjustment of this sort, a full explanation would be provided in the next remuneration report.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the 2014 AGM when the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the policy set out in this Policy Report for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 87 The initial notice period for a service contract may be up to 24 Application of our remuneration policy months, which is longer than the policy of a 12-month notice period, When determining Executive Director remuneration policy and provided it reduces to 12 months within a short space of time.
practices, the Committee reviews workforce remuneration and For an internal appointment or an appointment following the related polices and the alignment of incentives and rewards Companys acquisition of or merger with another company, any withculture.
incentive amount awarded in respect of a prior role may be allowed LTIP awards are granted across the senior management population in to vest on its original terms, or adjusted as relevant to take into order to encourage a high level of employee share ownership.
Any other ongoing remuneration vesting of regular LTIP awards made to Executive Directors is always obligations or terms and conditions existing prior to appointment subject to performance conditions, awards to other senior may continue.
management may, where appropriate such as to assist in retention of key talent, be subject only to continued employment.
Another key The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration difference in the policy for Executive Directors is that remuneration is decisions outside the standard Policy to meet the individual more heavily weighted towards long-term variable pay than other circumstances of recruitment when: employees.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value An interim appointment is made to fill an Executive Director role on created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the a short-term basis.
The Committee did not formally consult with Exceptional circumstances require that the chairman or a Nonemployees in respect of the design of the policy, although the Executive Director takes on an executive function on a short-term Committee will keep this under review.
Directors recruitment and promotions In the event of the appointment of a new Non-Executive Director, The Committee takes into account the need to attract, retain and remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with the motivate the best person for each position, while at the same time structure set out in the policy table for Non-Executive Directors.
ensuring a close alignment between the interests of shareholders However, the Committee or the Board as appropriate may include and management.
any element listed in the policy table or any other element which the Committee considers is appropriate given the particular If a new Executive Director were to be appointed, the Committee circumstances excluding any variable elements, with due regard would seek to align their remuneration package with other Executive tothebest interests of shareholders.
Directors in line with the policy table.
However, flexibility would be retained to offer additional remuneration on appointment outside Directors service agreements and payments for loss the policy if the Committee believe it may be appropriate to make ofoffice buy-out awards or payments in respect of remuneration The Committee regularly reviews the contractual terms of the service arrangements and contractual terms forfeited on leaving a previous agreement to ensure these reflect best practice.
The Committee would look to replicate the arrangements being forfeited as closely as possible and in doing so, would take The service contracts for Executive Directors are for an indefinite account of relevant factors including the nature of the remuneration period and provide for a 12-month notice period.
They do not include and contractual terms, performance conditions and the time over provisions for predetermined compensation on termination that which they would have vested or been paid.
exceed 12-months salary, pension and benefits.
There are no arrangements in place between the Company and its Directors that The Committee would seek to structure awards on recruitment to provide for compensation for loss of office following a takeover bid.
be in line with the Companys remuneration framework so far as All Directors are appointed for an indefinite period but are subject to practical but, if necessary, the Committee may also grant such annual re-election at the annual general meeting.
awards outside of that framework as permitted under Listing Rule 9.4.
If appropriate, a new appointees incentives in their year of In circumstances of termination on notice, the Committee will joining may be subject to different targets to other Executive determine an equitable compensation package, having regard to the Directors.
The Committee may also agree that the Company will particular circumstances of the case.
The Committee reserves the meet certain relocation and incidental expenses as it considers right to make payments in connection with a Directors cessation of appropriate.
office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or excluding awards to compensate for remuneration arrangements settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of and contractual terms forfeited on leaving the previous employer to a Directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include, new Executive Directors in the year of recruitment shall be limited to but are not limited to, paying any fees for outplacement assistance 500% of salary the maximum limit allowed within the policy table.
and or the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
The Committee has discretion to require notice to be worked or to make payment in lieu of notice or to place the Director on garden leave for the notice period.
88 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Directors remuneration report continued The annual bonus may be payable in respect of the period of the Non-Executive Directors terms of engagement bonus plan year worked by the Director: there is no provision for an Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letter of appointment for amount in lieu of bonus to be payable for any part of the notice an initial period of three years.
Each appointment is terminable by period not worked.
The Remuneration Committee has some three months notice on either side.
At the end of the initial period, discretion on bonus pay-outs.
the appointment may be renewed by mutual consent, subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
DAB deferred shares will vest on the date of leaving, other than in circumstances of dismissal for gross misconduct.
The service agreements and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection during normal business For entitlement to unvested LTIP shares, the rules contain hours at the Companys registered office, and available for inspection discretionary provisions setting out the treatment of awards where a at the AGM.
participant leaves for designated reasons i. e. participants who leave early on account of injury, disability or ill health, death, a sale of their employer or business in which they were employed, statutory redundancy or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
In these circumstances, a participants awards will not be forfeited on cessation of employment and instead will continue to vest on the normal vesting date or earlier at the discretion of the Committee, subject to the performance conditions attached to the relevant awards.
The awards will, other than in exceptional circumstances, be scaled back on a time pro-rated basis.
In the event of a change of control, all unvested LTIP awards would vest, to the extent that any performance conditions attached to the relevant awards have been achieved.
LTIP awards will, other than if the Committee determines otherwise, be scaled back pro rata for the proportion of the performance period worked by the Director prior to the change of control.
Unvested DAB deferred shares would vest in the event of a change of control.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 89 Annual Report on Remuneration This part of the remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and paragraphs 9.8.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
The information on pages 9297 has been audited as indicated.
External advice received Deloitte LLP was, following a review, appointed by the Remuneration Committee during 2012 to provide advice on Executive remuneration matters.
During the year, the Committee received independent and objective advice from Deloitte primarily on market practice, disclosure within the accounts and stakeholder liaison.
Deloitte was paid 160,100 in fees during 2018 for these services charged on a time plus expenses basis.
The Committee considers Deloittes advice on remuneration to be independent and objective, and notes that Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group.
As such, Deloitte operates voluntarily under the code of conduct in relation to Executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
In addition, other practices of Deloitte, separate from the Executive remuneration practice, have provided services to the Group in respect of tax, property, advice to internal audit and other ad hoc advisory projects during the year.
The fees were considered appropriate for the work undertaken.
Where appropriate, fees were tendered with other providers to ensure that the fees were in line with market practice and standards.
The Committee also consulted with Jon Lewis to provide further information to the Committee on the performance and proposed remuneration for the Chief Financial Officer and other senior management, but not in relation to his own remuneration.
Shareholder voting at the AGM The 2018 Directors remuneration report will be presented to shareholders at the annual general meeting in May 2019.
At the AGM in 2018, the actual voting in respect of the ordinary resolution to approve the remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2017 was as set out below.
Details of the last shareholder vote on our remuneration policy are also set out below.
1 Votes cast for Votes cast against Abstentions Remuneration report: for the year ended 31 December 2017 1,268m 13.8m 3.61m 98.9% 1.1% Remuneration policy: voted on in June 2017 503.9m 60.8m 0.09m 89.2% 10.8% 1 A vote abstained is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
90 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Statement of implementation of the remuneration policy for 2019 The value and composition of the Executive Directors remuneration packages under the policy for the year ending 31 December 2019 at a minimum, target and maximum performance level are set out in the charts below.
The charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual outcomes may differ from that shown.
Each chart is broken down to show how the total under each scenario is made up of fixed elements of remuneration, the annual bonus and the LTIP.
Jon Lewis 000s Patrick Butcher 000s Max with share Max with share 5,495 2,512 14% 27% 59% 19% 30% 51% price increase price increase Maximum 18% 33% 49% 4,407 Maximum 23% 36% 41% 2,081 Target 30% 28% 42% 2,595 Target 37% 29% 34% 1,275 Minimum 100% 782 Minimum 100% 469 Basic Bonus LTIP Basic Bonus LTIP Basic includes the base salary, benefits and pension i. e. the fixed elements of remuneration.
Notes The scenarios in the above charts are defined as follows: Minimum Performance in line with expectations target Maximum Fixed elements of remuneration Base salary at 1 January 2019 Estimated value of benefits provided under the remuneration policy 5% of salary pension provision Annual bonus: pay-out shown as a maximum opportunity 0% 50% of maximum 100% of maximum LTIP: pay-out shown as a maximum opportunity 0% 50% of maximum 100% of maximum As set out in the policy table above, the maximum permitted annual bonus opportunity is 200% of salary and the maximum permitted LTIP award is 300% of salary.
The charts above reflect the maximum bonus 200% of salary for the CEO and 175% of salary for the CFO and maximum LTIP award 300% of salary for the CEO and 200% of salary for the CFO that could be earned in 2019.
The maximum that can be earned by the CFO in 2019 is lower than the maximum permitted under the policy.
In these charts, deferred shares are presented within the bonus and dividend equivalents have been excluded.
In these charts, LTIP awards have been shown both at face value with no share price growth and a 50% share price growth across the performance period under the maximum scenario.
All-employee share plans have been excluded.
Base salary Base salary for Jon Lewis is unchanged and fixed at 725,000 until 1 January 2021.
Patrick Butcher joined Capita on 10 December 2018 and the Board on 1 January 2019: his salary is 430,000.
Accordingly, base salaries for 2019 are: Base salary from 1 January 2019 Jon Lewis 725,000 Patrick Butcher 430,000 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 91 Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors A summary of the fees for 2019 are as follows: Fee from 1 January 2019 or date of appointment Sir Ian Powell, Chairman 325,000 Gillian Sheldon, Senior Independent Director 75,000 1 Matthew Lester, Audit and Risk Committee Chairman 75,000 1 John Cresswell, Remuneration Committee Chairman 75,000 Andrew Williams 64,500 Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe 64,500 1 Chairmen of Committees have had a fee increase from 64,500 following a review of the time commitment associated with these roles.
Other Non-Executive Directors fees are unchanged.
At the 2019 AGM, shareholders will be asked to approve the election and remuneration of two Employee Directors.
They will receive a basic fee of 64,500 each and further details of their remuneration will be set out in an explanatory memorandum which will be available 15 days before the AGM on the Companys website and at the Companys registered office, and will be available for inspection at the AGM itself.
Annual bonus for 2019 The CEOs maximum bonus opportunity for 2019 will be 200% of base salary and the CFOs maximum bonus opportunity for 2019 will be 175% of base salary, with 50% of any bonus normally deferred into shares for three years.
As explained in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans statement, the Executive Director bonus plan for 2019 continues to align with the transformation plan, with a combination of financial and individual non-financial objectives that support the delivery of our strategy.
Accordingly, the following weightings and measures have been agreed by the Committee: Weighting Jon Lewis Patrick Butcher Group financial performance measures 67% 67% Adjusted PBT, free cash flow, Adjusted PBT, free cash flow, organic revenue growth organic revenue growth Group strategic and individual performance measures 33% 33% The Remuneration Committee may consider exercising discretion on annual bonus pay-outs.
No payment would be made if Capita failed to achieve an adjusted PBT target for 2019.
Details of the Group strategic and individual performance measures and the targets for the Group financial performance measures are considered commercially sensitive by the Board and so will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2019 remuneration report.
Any bonus payments will be subject to malus and clawback provisions as outlined in the Directors remuneration policy.
Long-term incentive to be granted in 2019 Awards will be granted over shares worth 300% of salary to Jon Lewis and worth 200% of salary to Patrick Butcher.
Awards will vest subject to i assessment by the Remuneration Committee of the underlying financial and operational performance of Capita over the three-year period to 31 December 2021 the underpin, and ii subject to satisfaction of the underpin, organic revenue growth, free cash flow, margin enhancement, customer satisfaction and employee engagement performance over the same three-year period to 31 December 2021.
Performance measures, weighting and targets for the 2019 LTIP award, and the performance underpin, are as follows: Performance underpin Performance measure Weighting Threshold Target Stretch 25% vests 50% vests 100% vests 1 Free cash flow 25% 190m 210m 250m 1 EBIT margin 25% 9% 10% 12% 1 Organic revenue growth 25% 3,900m 3,950m 4,050m Assessment of the underlying financial and 6 point positive swing in 8 point positive swing in 12 point positive swing operational Customer satisfaction 12.5% NPS NPS in NPS performance of Capita over the performance 6 point positive swing in 8 point positive swing in 12 point positive swing period Employee engagement 12.5% NPS NPS in NPS 1 For the financial year 2021.
The Committee has actively considered how it may ensure executives do not benefit from share price volatility in the timing of the 2019 LTIP award, and the implications for ensuring future gains are reflective of underlying performance.
The Committee has therefore decided that the number of shares in the 2019 LTIP award will be calculated using the higher of either the closing price on the day immediately prior to the award, or the post-rights issue price of 122.08p.
As stated in the notes to the Policy table, the Committee retains discretion to make adjustments required in certain circumstances including varying the performance conditions if circumstances occur which cause it to determine that the original conditions have ceased to be appropriate, provided that any such variation or waiver is fair, reasonable and not materially less difficult to satisfy than the original condition in its opinion.
The Committee also has a general discretion to override formulaic outcomes in line with the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Any vested LTIP awards will be subject to malus and clawback provisions as outlined in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The net number of shares received on vesting of LTIP awards will be subject to an additional two-year holding period after the initial three-year vesting period.
92 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration earned in 2018 single-figure table audited The table below summarises Directors remuneration received in 2018.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Equinor ASA and received and retained a fee of NOK 212,623.
2 Nick Greatorex was appointed interim CEO in respect of the period from 16 September 2017 to 30 November 2017 and was paid an allowance of 12,500 per month in respect of his additional responsibilities up to 31 December 2017 including a one-month handover period to Jon Lewis.
This is reflected in the 2017 figure for base salary.
3 Chris Sellers and Nick Greatorex stepped down from the Board on 23 January 2018 and 30 September 2018 respectively.
Amounts shown in the table for Chris Sellers and Nick Greatorex relate to the period of time during which they served as Directors.
4 50% of Jon Lewiss bonus will be deferred into shares under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
5 2017 comparatives updated to present the value of the final matching shares award under the UK all-employee scheme for Nick Greatorex 279 and Chris Sellers 310.
For 2017, in addition to the amounts noted above, total remuneration was also paid to the following Directors who left during 2017:Paul Bowtell 27,091: Andy Parker 494,070: and Vic Gysin 416,931.
Base salary includes base salary plus fixed cash allowances which are a normal part of the fixed remuneration package and usual local practice.
Benefits include all taxable benefits as defined by paragraph 11 1 of Schedule 8 to the Accounts regulations.
This includes private medical insurance, company car allowance, work travel, accommodation and the value of matching awards under the UK all-employee scheme.
In 2017, for Jon Lewis, this figure also included one-off legal fees associated with the negotiation of his service contract.
Employee entertainment has also been included under benefits and in some cases this cost will be for more than the individual Director themselves.
Performance targets for the 2016 LTIP awards were, for awards of more than 20,000 shares, EPS growth of 6% 18.75% vest to 12% 75% vest, average ROCE 14% 6.25% vest to 16% 25% vest over the three-year period to 31 December 2018 and average share price at vesting must not be lower than at grant.
For awards of 12,001 to 20,000 shares and awards up to 12,000 shares the targets were identical except that 50% and 75%, respectively, of the award would vest at 6% EPS.
As the share price at vesting was lower than grant, the award did not vest.
No Director waived any fees or salary for 2018.
Patrick Butcher commenced employment with Capita on 10 December 2018 and became an Executive Director on 1 January 2019: accordingly, he has not been included in the single figure table for 2018.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 93 Annual bonus for 2018 audited The maximum annual bonus for the Executive Directors that could be earned in relation to 2018 performance was 200% of salary unchanged from 2017.
The annual bonus that could be paid to Executive Directors in respect of 2018 performance was determined by a combination of Group financial performance alongside an adjusted PBT threshold target underpin and Executive Directors personal contributions.
For Jon Lewis, the split between Group financial metrics and personal and strategic measures was 60:40 and for Nick Greatorex it was 50:50.
50% of the bonus was payable for achieving target performance with 100% payable for achieving the maximum target.
25% of bonus was payable for achieving the threshold target.
The table below illustrates the components of the financial metrics at maximum and actual pay-outs for the targets set for the period to 31December 2018.
There is a straight-line outcome calculation between the threshold target and on-target performance and between ontarget and maximum performance.
Actual adjusted PBT of 282.1m exceeded the threshold underpin of 245m and therefore based on the assessment ofperformance against the targets, the achievement on the financial element is 75% of maximum.
Achievement Threshold against measure Financial target On-target Maximum Actual performance % maximum performance performance performance performance and opportunity for weighting 25% 50% 100% bonus pay-out this measure Adjusted profit before tax pre bonus and includes disposals 50% 245m 275m 297.5m 282.1m 66% HfS businesses 1 Free cash flow adjusted cash position 25% 1m 21m 41m 27.5m 66% Cost-out 25% 69.9m 80.0m 120m 120m 100% Financial metrics bonus pay-out 75% 1 Adjusted free cash flow changed for earlier-than-planned clearance of non-recourse trade receivables financing.
In respect of 2018, 40% of Jon Lewiss annual bonus was payable on three equally weighted personal and strategic objectives set on joining Capita which were: Percentage Objective Delivery Weighting achieved Completing a full In the absence of any prior strategy, and in order to secure a rights issue necessary to address the balance sheet 13.34% 100% strategic review issues discovered upon his arrival at Capita, Jon undertook a strategic review of the business that resulted in deliver a Board Board approval of our simplify, strengthen and succeed strategy, components of which include: agreed strategy and three-year The definition of our five growth platforms: and a portfolio of non-core value maximisation businesses, plans for the managed within Specialist Services.
business by September 2018 A set of unambiguous financial commitments for 2020.
Divisional strategic imperatives that focus leadership efforts and guide resource allocation.
Completion of key disposals to further strengthen the balance sheet.
Jon successfully communicated the strategy to employees the 2018 internal survey found that 81% understood our strategy.
The strategy and its associated rights issue, together with the necessary focus on operational imperatives in 2018, have created a much-needed stable foundation on which to embark on the next phase of strategic simplification and focus, which will be undertaken in 2019.
There has been positive evolution of the share register, as our strategy is now shaping the markets we focus upon and the allocation of resources to grow the business.
The Remuneration Committee deemed performance to exceed expectation for the first 12 months in role and so awarded the maximum achievement to the non-financial element relating to this objective.
Driving cultural The Committee deemed performance to be very strong.
Jon has shown highly effective and visible leadership 13.33% 100% change through throughout 2018 and over the course of the last 12 months has delivered significant progress in establishing a behaviour and culture that places importance on integrity, transparency, accountability, collaboration and inclusion.
Changes in leadership the executive team and a new approach to managing business reviews was implemented and embedded demonstrate alongside high levels of engagement with wider stakeholders including employees, suppliers and partners.
A new positive impact purpose, refreshed values with underpinning behaviours, a revised code of conduct and several new governance on the values and leadership forums have been established which operationalise the culture change being driven from the top.
and culture of Recent survey results indicate 94% of employees feel they can ask Jon any question, which speaks to a culture of the Company trust.
The improvement in the Hampton-Alexander gender diversity rankings year-on-year from below 200 in across the year 2017 up to 110 and a green status for the first time in 2018.
All stakeholders including clients and external bodies are now voicing recognition of a reforming Capita.
Based on Jons achievement, the Remuneration Committee has awarded the maximum achievement to the non-financial element relating to this objective.
Building the Jon took decisive action very early on, regarding changes required in the executive team.
Proven capability was 13.33% 100% leadership team brought into Capita within the first month to ensure the business had the expertise necessary to address restructure the operational imperatives, define strategy and launch the rights issue.
Through the year, and shaped by the new senior strategy, Jon built an experienced Executive Committee which included seven new roles with the required management professional competencies, values and behaviours necessary to create a collegiate and effective team.
Members team and bring in of the executive team are making a material contribution, have been well received by the broader organisation, top team as including by the Board, and are working well as a team under Jons leadership.
Stakeholders internal and appropriate external recognise the strength of team now in place.
The Remuneration Committee deemed performance to be very strong and awarded the maximum achievement to the non-financial element relating to this objective.
94 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Directors remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee has determined that Jon Lewis has achieved the full 40% of his personal and strategic measures.
Therefore, the total bonus paid to Jon Lewis for the period to 31 December 2018 was 85% 1,228,150 of the maximum bonus opportunity, of which 614,075 will be deferred into the shares to be held for three years under the Deferred Annual Bonus Plan.
The remainder will be paid as cash, subject to the usual statutory deductions of tax and national insurance.
In respect of 2018, 50% of Nick Greatorexs annual bonus was payable on four equally weighted strategic and personal objectives which are listed below: Complete rights issue in 2018 raising 701m from investors including five-year planning, strategy and investor roadshow.
Complete the US PP debt renegotiation in 2018 prior to the launch of the rights issue, including the covenant changes as required by IFRS 15 and the pre-approval of the divestment programme.
Set up and lead the cost competitiveness workstream ofthe transformation programme to deliver the 2018 cost programme, delivering the 70m cost savings set out in the rights issue.
Ensure the finance transformation programme receives a satisfactory internal audit rating in 2018 and the key milestones for 2018 remain on track for a November 2019 go-live date.
Nick delivered a very successful rights issue, completed the US debt negotiation, set up the programme that resulted in very strong performance against the cost-out target that exceeded expectation, and delivered what was required to allow the launch of the finance transformation programme.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that Nick Greatorex achieved the full 50% of his personal and strategic measures before leaving Capita on 30 September 2018.
Therefore, the total bonus paid in cash with no deferral to Nick Greatorex for the period to 30 September 2018 was 87.51% 538,125 of his pro-rated maximum bonus opportunity.
Long-term incentive awards in 2018 audited Number of shares LTIP award following Face value of 1 2 Name of Director LTIP award rights issue adjustment LTIP award Percentage of salary Jon Lewis 1,202,986 1,972,776 2,175,000 300% Nick Greatorex 453,539 743,758 820,000 200% 1 The date of the grant was 24 April 2018.
The closing price on the preceding day of 1.8080 was used to determine the number of shares.
2 Percentage calculated using base salary as at date of award Jon Lewis 725,000: Nick Greatorex 410,000.
LTIP awards are granted as nil-cost options and awarded as a percentage of salary.
Awards will vest three years from the date of grant subject to i assessment by the Remuneration Committee of the underlying financial and operational performance of Capita over the three-year period to 31 December 2020 the underpin, and ii subject to satisfaction of the underpin, annualised cost savings, free cash flow, margin enhancement, customer satisfaction and employee engagement performance over the same three-year period to 31 December 2020.
25% of LTIP awards vest for achieving threshold performance.
Performance targets for the 2018 award were set following consultation with major shareholders.
Full details of the performance conditions relating to these awards are outlined on page 96.
Buy-out remuneration awards in 2018 Number of shares Name of Director 2018 award Total Patrick Butcher 288,078 288,078 1 The date of the grant was 11 December 2018.
The closing price on the preceding day of 1.06 was used to determine the number of shares.
Patrick Butcher was granted a buy-out award under the LTIP as part of his remuneration package on appointment, which will vest in two tranches 15 November 2019 and 15 November 2021 subject to continued employment.
The award is equal to the value of 6,770 Go-Ahead Group plc shares on 10 December 2018, using their close price of 15.80, and 198,398 representing the value of his forfeited deferred share award which were subject to continued employment.
Directors interests and shareholding guidelines audited In line with the new remuneration policy approved in 2017, Executive Directors are expected to hold 200% 300% for the Chief Executive Officer of salary in shares in the Company.
This must be built up over a period offive years from appointment.
The guidelines include shares held beneficially and also shares within the DAB that have beendeferred over the three-year period.
Any shares in the DAB used for this are calculated net of tax.
Share awards that are subject to performance conditions are not included.
Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 95 Directors interests and shareholding guidelines audited Interests in Interests in Interests in share share Interests in Interests in Percentage of share incentive Interests in incentive incentive share option share option shareholding schemes, share incentive schemes, schemes, schemes where schemes where Percentage of target awarded schemes, awarded awarded performance performance shareholding requirement Beneficially Beneficially without awarded subject to subject to conditions have conditions have target at held held performance without performance performance been met but been met but requirement 31December interests at interests at conditions at performance conditions at conditions at not exercised at not exercised at at 2018 based 31 December 31 December 31 December conditions at 31 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31December on cost of 3 3 Director 2018 2017 2018 December 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 investment Ian Powell 30,000 8,400 - - - - - - - - Jon Lewis 402,030 - - - 1,972,776 - - - 21% 21% Gillian Sheldon 12,500 3,000 - - - - - - - - Matthew Lester 21,745 8,698 - - - - - - - - John Cresswell 10,500 3,000 - - - - - - - - Andrew Williams 100,000 10,000 - - - - - - - - Lucy Neville-Rolfe 13,842 - - - - - - - - - 1, 4 Nick Greatorex 54,426 21,125 28,057 17,109 1,176,789 337,726 - - - - 2, 4 Chris Sellers 21,380 21,337 - - 259,943 259,943 - - - - 1 Stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2018.
2 Stepped down from the Board on 23 January 2018.
3 Beneficially held interests includes those held by connected persons.
4 2018 interests are shown as at date of resignation from the Board.
Between the end of the financial year and 13 March 2019, Jon Lewis acquired 437 shares under the Capita UK all-employee share incentive plan, increasing their beneficial interest in ordinary shares of the Company to 402,467.
Share plans audited Plan name: deferred annual bonus DAB plan Deferred award this is the deferred element of an individuals bonus.
Any deferral is made on a gross basis into deferred shares or as a net restricted share award.
The deferred shares are held for a period of three years from the date of award.
Thispart isnot subject to performance conditions.
As no bonus was awarded in 2017 and 2018, there is no corresponding DAB deferred award.
Unvested DAB deferred restricted awards at 31 December 2018 Number of shares 1 1 Name of Director 2016 award 2017 award 2018 award Total Jon Lewis N A N A N A N A 2 Nick Greatorex 28,057 N A N A 28,057 1 No bonus was awarded in 2017 and 2018 in respect of 2016 and 2017 performance therefore no deferred award was made.
2 Figures as at date of resignation from Board 30 September 2018 and adjusted to reflect the effect of the rights issue.
Plan name: long-term incentive plan 2017 LTIP At the annual general meeting in 2017, the LTIP wasapproved by shareholders.
Under the plan rules the Committee can award up to three timessalary.
The vesting of awards will depend on performance measured over a three-year period.
Unvested LTIP awards at 31 December 2018 Number of shares Name of Director 2016 award 2017 award 2018 award Total Jon Lewis N A N A 1,972,776 1,972,776 1 Nick Greatorex 165,278 267,753 743,758 1,176,789 2 Chris Sellers 88,685 261,222 N A 349,907 LTIP figures for each Executive Director have been adjusted to reflect the effect of the rights issue.
1 Figures at date of resignation from Board 30 September 2018.
2 Figures at date of resignation from Board 23 January 2018 before any pro-rata reductions.
Capita adopted IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers with effect from 1 January 2017, resulting in revenue and profits being recognised later across the life of many contracts, with potentially lower profits or losses in the early years of contracts and potentially higher profits in later years.
In light of this change, the Committee considered what, if any, adjustments should be made to the EPS and ROCE targets applicable to the outstanding LTIP awards granted 2017 and concluded this would be reviewed at the end of the performance period 31 December 2019 to ensure the position did not become materially easier to achieve under the new standard.
The 2016 LTIP awards is subject to a share price underpin of 10.17 and therefore will not vest.
96 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Unvested LTIP buy-out remuneration awards at 31 December 2018 Number of shares Name of Director 2018 award Total Patrick Butcher 288,078 288,078 Patrick Butcher was granted a buy-out award as part of his remuneration package on appointment which will vest in two tranches, 15November 2019 and 15 November 2021, subject to continued employment.
Performance criteria 2016 Performance measure Performance condition EPS 75% of the award is measured on EPS growth EPS growth: 6%12% per annum Vesting percentage: 18.75%75% of award Straight line vesting occurs between these points.
ROCE 25% of the award is measured on average ROCE Average ROCE: 14%16% Vesting percentage: 6.25%25% of award Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
Share price underpin Capitas average share price at the vesting date must not be below the share price at the date of grant 10.17.
2017 Performance underpin Performance measure Performance condition Assessment of the EPS 75% of the award is measured on EPS growth EPS growth: 3%8% per annum underlying financial and Vesting percentage: 18.75%75% of award operational Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
performance of Capita ROCE 25% of the award is measured on average ROCE Average ROCE: 11%15% over the performance Vesting percentage: 6.25%25% of award period.
Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
2018 Threshold Target Stretch Performance underpin Performance measure Weighting 25% vests 50% vests 100% vests Assessment of the Annualised cost savings 20% 160m 175m 205m underlying financial and Free cash flow 20% 180m 200m 240m operational performance of Capita EBIT margin 20% 9% 10% 12% over the performance Customer satisfaction 20% 6 point positive swing in 8 point positive swing in 12 point positive swing period.
NPS NPS in NPS Employee engagement 20% 6 point positive swing in 8 point positive swing in 12 point positive swing NPS NPS in NPS A straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
Satisfaction of options When satisfying awards made under its share plans, the Company uses newly issued, treasury or purchased shares as appropriate.
Dilution All awards are made under plans that incorporate the overall dilution limit of 10% in 10 years.
The estimated dilution from existing awards, including Executive and all-employee share awards, was approximately 1.94% of the Companys share capital at 31 December 2018.
Executive Directors service agreements Details of the service agreements are set out below: Executive Directors Date of joining the Company Notice period Jon Lewis 1 December 2017 12 months Patrick Butcher 10 December 2018 12 months Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements 97 Non-Executive Directors terms of engagement In 2018, all Non-Executive Directors were considered to be independent of the Company.
Non-Executive Directors Date of joining the Board Expiry date of current appointment Ian Powell 1 September 2016 31 December 2019 Gillian Sheldon 1 September 2012 31 August 2020 Andrew Williams 1 January 2015 31 December 2020 John Cresswell 17 November 2015 16 November 2021 Matthew Lester 1 March 2017 28 February 2020 Baroness Lucy Neville-Rolfe 6 December 2017 5 December 2020 Payments to former Directors audited No payments other than regular pension benefits commenced in previous years and legacy share plan maturities which were reported in previous years were made during the year ended 31 December 2018 to any past Director of the Company.
The 2016 LTIP lapsed in full for Vic Gysin, Chris Sellers and Nick Greatorex.
As previously disclosed, Vic Gysin exercised his 2015 and 2016 DAB awards on leaving Capita and received a payment of 47,073.
NickGreatorex exercised his 2016 DAB award over 28,057 shares on leaving Capita and retained 14,843 shares after sales for tax.
Payments for loss of office audited Chris Sellers stepped down from the Board on 23 January 2018 and left Capita on 31 January 2018.
The agreed termination comprises a payment in lieu of notice of 360,000 in respect of salary for his 12-month notice period, 4,500 in respect of accrued holiday entitlement and250 in consideration for enhanced post-employment undertakings.
The Remuneration Committee having exercised its discretion, Chrissoutstanding LTIP awards as detailed on page 95 will remain capable of vesting in accordance with the rules of the scheme, subject to achievement of applicable performance measures and, where relevant, reduced pro-rata to reflect Chris period of employment including the notice period as a proportion of each awards three-year vesting period.
His 2016 LTIP award did not vest and lapsed in full.
Up to 16,000 excluding VAT will be paid directly to third-party service providers in respect of: i legal services relating to Chris settlement: and ii outplacement and training services, and he will continue to receive life assurance cover reduced to a level of two times base salary and private medical insurance cover consistent with current levels until 31 January 2019.
Nick Greatorex stepped down from the Board and left Capita on 30 September 2018 following market announcements on 18 July 2018 and 22 August 2018.
Nick Greatorex will receive the payments set out below less any required tax withholdings.
The payments are in full and final settlement of all claims against the Company and are in accordance with the Companys remuneration policy and where relevant, his service agreement.
The agreed termination arrangement comprises payment in lieu of notice of notice of 445,500 in respect of salary and benefits including pension for his 12-month notice period, a final settlement payment of 403,773 arising out of or in connection with his employment and 250 in consideration for enhanced post-employment undertakings.
He was eligible for a bonus of up to 615,000 being his pro-rated maximum bonus opportunity, reflecting his period of service in the year.
He received an actual payment of 538,125 as detailed on page 94.
His DAB award of 28,057 shares vested on 30 September 2018.
The Remuneration Committee having exercised its discretion, Nicks outstanding LTIP awards as detailed on page 95 remain capable of vesting in accordance with the rules of the scheme, subject to achievement of applicable performance measures, reduced pro-rata to reflect his period of employment rounded up on a whole-year basis as a proportion of each awards three-year vesting period.
Up to 25,000 excluding VAT will be paid directly to third-party service providers in respect of legal services relating to Nicks departure.
Nick continues to receive private medical insurance cover consistent with current levels until 30 September 2019.
Percentage change in remuneration levels The table below shows change in base compensation, benefits and annual bonus for the CEO in the 2018 financial year, compared to the average for all employees: 1 Chief Executive Officer All employees At 31 December 2018 % change 2018 v 2017 % change 2018 v 2017 Base compensation 725,000 % 3.72 % Benefits 24,809 58.3 % 1.07 % Bonus 1,228,150 1.1 % 1 CEO figures represent those disclosed in the single figure table on page 92.
As there was no bonus payable to the CEO in respect of 2017 no percentage change is shown.
This all-employee information is based on UK employees only, as it was felt that using overseas payroll data would distort the information.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below shows the spend on employee costs in the 2018 financial year, compared to dividends: 2018 m 2017 m % change Employee costs 1,993.1 2,218.9 10.2 % Dividends 211 100.0 % 98 Capita plc Annual Report 2018 Directors remuneration report continued Performance graph and CEO pay The following chart compares the value of an investment of 100 in the Companys shares with an investment of the same amount in the FTSE All-Share Index and the FTSE 350 Support Services Index, assuming that all dividend income is re-invested.
Capita vs. FTSE all-share index and FTSE 350 support services index value of investment of 100 on 1 January 2009 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 01 Jan 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Capita Group FTSE All Share Index FTSE 350 Support Services Index The Committee is of the opinion that this comparison provides a clear picture of the performance of the Group, relative to both a wide range of companies in the UK and also a specific group of companies within the same sector.
Over the 10-year period to 31 December 2018, 100 invested in Capita on 1 January 2009 would be worth 33 at 31 December 2018 compared to 238 for an investment in the FTSE All-Share Index and 325 for an investment in the FTSE 350 Support Services Index.
The total remuneration figures for the CEO during the 2018 financial year are shown in the table below.
Consistent with the calculation methodology for the single figure for total remuneration, the total remuneration figure includes the total annual bonus award based on that years performance and the LTIP award based on the three-year performance period ending in the relevant year.
The annual bonus pay-out and LTIP award vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown for this year.
For 2014, this is the actual vesting for the LTIP as there is no DAB maturity in 2014.
Note: figures for 20102013 are based on remuneration for Paul Pindar.
Figures for 20142016 are based on remuneration for Andy Parker.
Figures for 2017 are based on remuneration paid to Andy Parker as CEO until 15 September 2017, to Nick Greatorex as interim CEO from 16 September 2017 to 30 November 2017, and to Jon Lewis as CEO from 1 December 2017.
Approval of the Directors remuneration report The Directors remuneration report was approved by the Board on 13 March 2019.
John Cresswell Chairman Remuneration Committee 13 March 2019 Value of 100 invested on 1 January 2009
