Directors remuneration report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT A framework to deliver the Companys strategic objectives.
Charlotte Boyle, Chair of the Remuneration Committee In addition, the long-term incentive awards which would have ANNUAL STATEMENT vested in 2019 based on TSR and TR performance up to the end Dear Shareholder, of 2018 are expected to lapse as neither the TSR or TR targets I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report are expected to be met.
The Committees key objectives, as in previous years, Implementation of the remuneration policy in 2019 were to ensure that Capcos executive team is appropriately In 2019, base salary increases for the Chief Executive and incentivised by remuneration arrangements that are fully Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer will be in aligned with the Companys strategy of providing long-term line with those for the general workforce, being approximately market-leading returns to shareholders.
Following a review of market alignment and in light incentives are linked to the KPIs which the Company uses to of additional responsibilities, the Committee has determined measure the creation and growth of value for shareholders.
that the salary of the Chief Financial Officer will be increased by These KPIs are described in full on page 15. approximately 5.7 per cent to 395,000.
Pension and benefits In 2018, the Remuneration Committee continued to operate will continue to operate as in prior years, the annual bonus the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 opportunity will continue to be 150 per cent, and PSP awards AGM.
In addition to the normal matters of business, the of 350 per cent of salary will be granted in 2019.
Performance Committee also made detailed preparations for remuneration measures will be the same as in prior years.
However, when the in the case of a demerger or a sale of Capcos interests in Earls Committee determined the targets, in light of the possibility Court Properties excluding Lillie Square.
It also considered of corporate or asset transactions being undertaken during how to address the recent changes to the UK Corporate the year, the Committee incorporated alternative sets of Governance Code.
Further detail on the key remuneration performance measures and targets for the 2019 annual bonus decisions relating to 2018 is set out below.
and PSP awards to account for these exceptional circumstances and our strategic objective to explore the merits of creating Performance in 2018 and variable remuneration outcomes value through a separation of the two main assets or other Although uncertainties in the broader political and economic strategic options.
environment continue to prevail, Capco delivered strong operational performance across both its key estates 2018.
These targets are, by their nature, commercially sensitive and Covent Garden exhibited growth of both ERV and NRI and saw will be disclosed retrospectively once they cease to be the completion of the Floral Court development.
However, the performance measures continued to realise value with progress at Lillie Square and the for the annual bonus continue to be based at least 75 per cent on sale of the Empress State Building at a 30 million premium to financial measures, which is in line with our policy, and the December 2017 valuation.
performance measures for the PSP will continue to be based on appropriate TSR and TR measures.
In the event of a separation Unfortunately, despite strong operational performance in 2018, of the assets, the performance measures relating to Covent the threshold financial targets for NAV, TPR and EPS were not Garden will continue to be relative TSR and relative TR, with met.
As a result, there was no payment for the financial element an updated comparator group to better reflect the Covent of the bonus.
However, delivery of key investment, corporate Garden asset, and the maximum performance target will be the and financial objectives resulted in between 95 and 100 per cent upper quartile of the revised group.
In the event of a demerger, of the personal element of the annual bonus being paid.
the performance measures for Earls Court would be changed Further information is set out on page 75.
64 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements and would include absolute targets recognising the difficulty 1.
POLICY REPORT in finding an appropriate comparator group which reflects the This section of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out change in value of central London residential land.
In both Capcos remuneration policy which took effect following cases, threshold vesting would reduce from 33 per cent to shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
In the interests of 25 per cent of the shares under award.
clarity, the report includes some minor annotations to show, where appropriate, how the policy will be implemented in Impact of the UK Corporate Governance Code on 2019.
A full version of the policy approved by shareholders can remuneration be found in the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the The Committee seeks to comply in full with the remuneration year ended 31 December 2016 which can be downloaded from provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of actual remuneration the publication of the new Code in the second half of 2018, the paid, share awards made, and the approach to remuneration for Committee reviewed Capcos remuneration policy and the 2019 are set out within the Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committees terms of reference to ensure that which starts on page 72. they remain compliant with the new Code.
Following this review, the Committee noted that Capco is already broadly 1.1 Remuneration policy compliant with the new Code and has undertaken actions to The key objectives of the Companys remuneration policy ensure that Capco will be appropriately compliant during 2019. are to: Conclusion strongly align executive and shareholder interests: We are not proposing changes to our policy having received underpin an effective pay-for-performance culture: shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM held on 5 May 2017.
Thisyear, we will only ask shareholders to approve the Annual support the retention, motivation and recruitment of Report on Remuneration and this Annual Statement.
We have talented people who are commercially astute: and included the remuneration policy in the Annual Report in encourage executives to acquire and retain significant order to provide clarity for our shareholders.
The Committee holdings of Capco shares.
looks forward to receiving your support for this advisory vote at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Committee aims to achieve an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration, and between variable remuneration based on short-term and longer-term performance.
Fixed remuneration includes base salary, benefits and pension.
Variable remuneration includes an annual bonus, half of which is deferred in shares, and awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Charlotte Boyle Chair of Remuneration Committee, 26 February 2019 The remuneration policy is aligned to the strategy and nature of the Company, and reflects the importance of total return and Members: the long-term nature of Capcos business, rewarding the Charlotte Boyle Chair Andrew Strang Executive Directors for delivering strong performance against Gerry Murphy the Companys Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
Details of each element of remuneration, their operation, purpose, link to strategy and performance metrics are set out in this section.
com 65 Directors remuneration report continued 1.2 Executive Director Policy Table The table below summarises each of the components of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary To provide an appropriately competitive base salary, whilst Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis, with any increase normally Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of the The Committee considers individual and Company performance when setting base placing emphasis on the performance related elements of taking effect from 1 April.
annual review and will normally be in line with increases awarded salary, as well as the general increase awarded to other employees.
However, the Committee may make additional The Committee reviews base salaries with reference to: adjustments in certain circumstances to reflect, for example, an The Committee believes base salary for high-performing other property companies including the constituents of the long-term incentive increase in scope or responsibility, development in role, to address experienced Executive Directors should be at least median.
plans comparator group an increase in size or complexity of the business, to address a gap in UK companies of a similar size market positioning and or to reward the long-term performance of each Executive Directors performance and contribution during the year an individual.
For the purposes of stating a maximum as required by the remuneration regulations, no increase will be applied to an scope of each Executive Directors responsibilities Executive Directors base salary if the resulting base salary would changes to the remuneration and overall conditions of other employees be above the upper quartile base salary for CEOs at companies in When reviewing base salaries, the Committee is mindful of the gearing effect that increases the FTSE 350. in base salary will have on the potential total remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Benefits To be appropriately competitive with those offered at Benefits will be in line with those offered to some or all employees and may include Set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate in light of N A comparator companies.
private dental and healthcare, life insurance, personal accident cover, travel insurance, relevant market practice for the role and individual circumstances.
The income protection and a car allowance, currently paid in cash.
cost of all benefits will not normally exceed 10 per cent of base salary, with the exception of any future expatriate and or relocation benefits, Other benefits may be introduced from time to time to ensure the benefits package is which would be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Any appropriately competitive and reflects individual circumstances.
For example, Directors reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon can be may be offered relocation and or expatriate benefits should a Director be required to reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit.
relocate as a result of emerging business requirements.
Pension To be appropriately competitive with that offered by Capco offers a defined contribution pension scheme.
The maximum contribution is 10 per cent of base salary for any N A comparator companies.
Executive Director appointed on or after the 2017 AGM, in line with Executive Directors may elect to be paid some or all of their entitlement in cash.
the level available for other head office and Covent Garden employees.
Executive Directors appointed before the 2017 AGM receive 24 per cent of base salary as a defined contribution.
Annual bonus To incentivise and reward performance.
The annual bonus arrangements are reviewed at the start of each financial year to ensure The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is 150 per Executives performance is measured relative to challenging one-year targets in performance measures and weightings are appropriate and support the business strategy.
cent of annual salary with a bonus of 75 per cent of salary payable for key financial, operational and strategic measures.
The measures selected and their The Committee selects performance measures and achieving target levels of performance.
No bonus is payable for weightings vary each year according to the strategic priorities.
targets each year to reinforce the strategic business The Committee reviews performance against the annual bonus targets but has the below threshold performance.
The payment for threshold priorities for the year.
ability to take into account broader factors and, subject to the 150 per cent of salary At least 75 per cent of the bonus will be measured against financial performance.
performance will not exceed 10 per cent of maximum.
Awards are maximum, may exercise two-way discretion to ensure that the annual bonus awarded The deferral of half of the bonus into shares is designed Measures and respective weightings used for the annual bonus for 2018 and made on a straight-line basis for performance between threshold properly reflects the performance of the Company and each Director.
to further align executives with shareholders interests.
proposed for next years annual bonus are set out in the Annual Report on and target, and on a separate straight-line basis for performance Adjudication of bonuses will be explained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Remuneration on pages 74 to 77. between target and maximum.
50 per cent of any bonus earned is deferred in Capco shares or nil cost options for three years An explanation of how the performance measures were chosen and how the under the Performance Share Plan without further performance conditions but subject to risk performance targets are set is given on page 68. of forfeiture should an Executive Director leave the Company in certain circumstances.
Directors may be entitled to be paid dividend equivalents on deferred bonus.
Deferred bonus is subject to malus as described in the notes to this table.
Performance Share Plan PSP To incentivise and reward long-term outperformance, Executive Directors are eligible to receive awards of shares under the PSP, which may be made Each year participants may be granted up to 350 per cent of salary in PSP awards vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, and are subject to a and help retain Executive Directors over the longer term.
as awards of shares or nil cost options, at the discretion of the Committee.
In assessing the awards or nil cost options.
outcome of the performance conditions, the Committee must satisfy itself that the figures are 33 per cent of an award vests for threshold performance, with full The vesting of awards is subject to continued employment and the Companys a genuine reflection of underlying financial performance, and may exercise downwards vesting taking place for equalling or exceeding maximum performance over a three-year performance period based: discretion when determining the proportion of an award that will vest.
performance conditions and straight-line vesting between 50 per cent on relative Total Return Net Asset Value growth plus dividends : and Dividend equivalents may be paid.
50 per cent on relative Total Shareholder Return The Committee has the discretion in certain circumstances to grant and or settle an award in For both measures, performance is measured relative to a comparator group cash.
In practice this will only be used in exceptional circumstances for Executive Directors.
comprising the largest FTSE350 property companies.
PSP awards are subject to malus and clawback as described in the notes to this table.
The performance measures and weightings which apply to the PSP are reviewed by the Committee annually, and, subject to consultation with shareholders, the Committee has discretion to make changes to the measures, the weightings and or comparator group for future awards to ensure that they remain relevant to the Company strategy and are suitably stretching.
Details of the performance conditions for previous years awards, and those proposed for 2019 awards, are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 76 to 78.
An explanation of how the performance measures were chosen and how the performance targets are set is given on page 68.
All Employee Share Schemes The Company does not currently operate any All Employee Share Schemes, however if such a In line with HMRC approved limits.
scheme were introduced the Executive Directors would be able to participate on the same terms as other employees.
66 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 1.2 Executive Director Policy Table The table below summarises each of the components of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Base salary To provide an appropriately competitive base salary, whilst Base salaries are normally reviewed on an annual basis, with any increase normally Base salary increases will be applied in line with the outcome of the The Committee considers individual and Company performance when setting base placing emphasis on the performance related elements of taking effect from 1 April.
com 67 Directors remuneration report continued The Committee believes that NAV growth For future awards, the Remuneration 1.3 Notes to the Policy Table is the most important internal measure of Committee has discretion to change the Performance measurement selection success for Capco at this time.
Accordingly, performance measures and weightings.
Annual bonus scheme the Committee considered it appropriate to However, any such changes would only be Executive Directors may earn bonuses reward NAV performance in both the short made after consulting with shareholders.
depending on the Companys financial and long-term incentive arrangements, performance and performance against Discretions with one-year absolute NAV growth being individual performance targets designed Under the annual bonus scheme and the used in respect of the annual bonus to deliver strategic goals.
The current PSP the Company has the standard arrangements and three-year relative NAV structure of the annual bonus performance discretions to take appropriate action in the as the main component of three-year Total conditions is illustrated within the Annual event of unforeseen events which affect the Return being used in respect of the Report on Remuneration on page 77.
The schemes such as a variation in share capital long-term incentives.
NAV is used as a financial performance measures and the as well as terminations and on a change in performance measure by over half of importance of each are set out in the table control as described in the policy.
The FTSE350 property companies in their below.
The Remuneration Committee has Committee does not intend to make long-term incentive arrangements.
The discretion to change the performance adjustments to the methods by which it Companys NAV is based on independent conditions in the annual bonus, but within measures the performance conditions, external valuations carried out in the bounds set out in the Remuneration however, it reserves the discretion to make accordance with RICS Valuation Policy Table.
adjustments in very exceptional Professional Standards.
Shareholders would be The annual financial performance targets Relative TSR helps align the interests of given details of any exercise of discretion.
are set by the Committee in the first quarter Executive Directors with shareholders by of each year following an analysis of Payments resulting from existing incentivising share price growth and, in the external and internal expectations arrangements Committees view, provides an objective compiled by the Committees independent The Committee may make any measure of the Companys long-term success.
The Committee sets targets it remuneration payments and payments believes to be appropriately stretching, The current long-term incentive for loss of office including exercising any but achievable.
performance conditions are summarised discretions it has relating to such payments within the Annual Report on Remuneration even though they are not in line with the Long-term incentives on page 78.
Performance is measured policy set out in this report.
This will apply As mentioned above, the performance relative to a comparator group comprising where the entitlement to the payment conditions for the PSP currently comprise the largest FTSE350 property companies arose: i before the 2014 AGM: ii at a time two measures: and Capco.
The members of the comparator when the relevant individual was not a group are shown in Figure 4 on page 76.
Three-year relative Total Return TR, Director of the Company and, in the growth in NAV per share plus dividends : opinion of the Committee, the payment was In order for any awards to vest, the and not in consideration for the individual Committee must also satisfy itself that the becoming a Director of the Company: or iii Three-year relative Total Shareholder TR and TSR figures are a genuine reflection under a remuneration policy previously Return TSR, increase in price of an of underlying financial performance.
In approved by the Companys shareholders.
assessing the extent to which the For these purposes entitlements arising performance conditions have been met, the The Committee believes that these two under the Companys previous Committee consults with its independent measures are currently the most remuneration policy as approved by remuneration adviser.
The calculation of appropriate measures of long-term success shareholders at the 2014 AGM will be the returns is also reviewed by the for Capco as long-term relative performance incorporated into this policy, payments Companys auditors as appropriate.
The provides an appropriately objective and includes the Committee satisfying awards performance targets are set by the relevant measure of Capcos success of variable remuneration, and an Committee following an analysis of internal which is strongly aligned with entitlement under an award over shares and external expectations, and are believed shareholders interests.
arises at the time the award is granted.
Why are the current annual bonus performance measures appropriate for Capco?
Measure Reason Growth in Net Asset Value Considered by the Committee to be the most important driver of value creation for Capco at the present time.
per share Relative Total Property Return Rewards the additional portfolio value created by management over and above any changes in value from tracking the property market as a whole, as measured by the MSCI formerly IPD Total Return All Property Index, an external benchmark widely used in the property industry.
Underlying Earnings Per Share Rewards value growth in net rental income as well as the management of financing and other costs.
Given the current stage of the Companys development, the Committee considers EPS to be relatively less relevant as an indicator of value creation than growth in Net Asset Value per share.
68 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements In exceptional circumstances, such as Malus and clawback 1.4 Performance scenario charts recruitment, long-term incentive awards Awards granted under the long-term The potential reward opportunities may be granted without performance incentive arrangements are subject to malus illustrated in Figure 1 are based on the conditions to participants below and clawback until the end of the respective policy which will apply in 2019, applied the Board: holding periods.
Deferred bonus awards are to the base salary at the salary review date, subject to malus prior to vesting.
Reasons Employees below the Board are not 1 April 2019, and provide estimates of the for malus and clawback include: in the subject to any minimum shareholding potential future reward opportunity for event of gross misconduct of a Director, in requirement: and each Executive Director, and the potential the event of a material misstatement in the split between the different elements of Incentive awards granted to employees audited accounts of the Company for a remuneration under three different below the Board may not be subject to period that was wholly or partly before the performance scenarios: Below Threshold, holding periods, clawback or malus.
end of the financial year by reference to Target and Maximum.
Shareholding guidelines which any performance condition was The Below Threshold scenario includes base The Chief Executive is required to achieve a assessed, or in the event that the assessment salary, pension and benefits fixed pay.
No shareholding in the Company equivalent to of the satisfaction of any performance annual bonus or PSP elements are included 300 per cent of salary and the other condition was based on error or inaccurate variable pay.
The Target scenario includes Executive Directors are required to achieve or misleading information.
In the latter two fixed pay, on target bonus and threshold a shareholding in the Company equivalent scenarios, to the extent an overpayment vesting of PSP awards.
The Maximum to 200 per cent of base salary, to be achieved resulted.
The application of any malus or scenario includes fixed pay, maximum by retaining at least 50 per cent of any clawback is at the discretion of the bonus and full vesting of PSP awards.
For vested share awards net of tax or within Remuneration Committee.
variable pay, the amounts illustrated are the three years.
The current shareholdings of normal maximum opportunities.
Remuneration of employees below the Executive Directors are set out on page the Board 80.
The former Chairman was required to It should be noted that the PSP awards No element of remuneration is operated maintain a shareholding in the Company granted in a year do not normally vest until solely for Executive Directors.
Capco head equivalent to 100 per cent of his base fee, the third anniversary of the date of grant office including Earls Court Properties and an arrangement which would be reviewed and are subject to a two-year post-vesting Covent Garden employees below the Board on any new appointment.
The projected values of receive base salary, benefits, annual bonus, Chairman does not have a formal long-term incentives shown here exclude and participate in the PSP.
The current the impact of share price movement contribution for new Executive Directors shareholding of the Chairman is set out and dividends.
has been set at the same level as available to on page 80. employees at Capco head office including Earls Court Properties and Covent Garden.
However, there are some differences in operation as set out below: Figure 1 Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer 000 000 000 3,895 4,000 4,000 4,000 56% 3,489 56% 3,000 3,000 3,000 2,490 56% 1,983 1,778 2,000 2,000 2,000 36% 36% 24% 1,272 24% 23% 36% 795 23% 24% 714 1,000 1,000 1,000 515 23% 100% 41% 20% 100% 41% 20% 100% 41% 20% 0 Below Target Maximum 0 Below Threshold Maximum 0 Below Target Maximum Threshold Threshold Threshold 1 1 1 Fixed Pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives Fixed Pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives Fixed Pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives Salary for Chief Executive assumes a 2.14 per cent increase Salary for Managing Director and Chief Investment Officer Salary for Chief Financial Officer assumes a 5.69 per cent on prior year assumes a 2.02 per cent increase on prior year increase on prior year 1.
Fixed pay comprises salary, pension and benefits.
com 69 Directors remuneration report continued 1.5 Approach to recruitment remuneration When hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Element of remuneration Policy on recruitment Maximum opportunity Salary Based on scope and nature of responsibilities of the proposed role: the candidates N A experience: implications for total remuneration positioning vs. market pay levels for comparable roles: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
A new Director may be appointed at a salary which is less than the prevailing market rate but increased over a period to the desired positioning subject to satisfactory performance.
Pension A contribution of up to 10 per cent of salary may be offered, consistent with policy.
Benefits Appropriate benefits will be provided, which may include the continuation of benefits received in a previous role.
Annual bonus Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the annual bonus scheme on the The maximum opportunity same basis as existing Executive Directors, pro-rated for proportion of year served.
will be 150 per cent of salary, consistent with policy.
Depending on the timing of the appointment, the Committee may deem it appropriate to set different annual bonus performance conditions to the current Executive Directors In exceptional circumstances, in the first performance year of appointment.
normal policy table limits may be exceeded on recruitment.
The maximum additional bonus opportunity will be limited to 50 per cent of salary.
Performance Share Plan New Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in the long-term incentive scheme The opportunity levels will be set out in the remuneration policy table.
consistent with those disclosed in the table.
A PSP award can be made shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a prohibited period.
Other In determining appropriate remuneration for new Executive Directors, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, the nature of remuneration and where the candidate was recruited from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of Capco and its shareholders.
Remuneration may include: An award made in respect of a new appointment to buy out existing incentive awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In such cases the compensatory award would typically be a like-for-like award with similar time-to-vesting, performance conditions and likelihood of those conditions being met.
The fair value of the compensatory award would not be greater than the awards being replaced.
To facilitate such a buyout, the Committee may use an award under a different structure or an additional award under the PSP: A relocation package, should this be required: For an overseas appointment, the Committee will have discretion to offer cost-effective benefits and pension provisions which reflect local market practice and relevant legislation: and In the event that an employee is promoted to the Board, the Company would honour any existing contractual arrangements.
1.6 Service contracts and exit payment policy The service contracts of Executive Directors are approved by the Remuneration Committee and are one-year rolling contracts.
The commencement dates of the current contracts are shown below.
The service contracts may be terminated by either party giving one years notice to the other.
It is the Companys policy that termination payments should not exceed the Directors current salary and benefits for the notice period.
The service contracts may be viewed at the Companys registered office.
Where a Director may be entitled to pursue a claim against the Company in respect of his her statutory employment rights or any other claim arising from the employment or its termination, the Committee will be entitled to enter into a settlement agreement with the Director.
The Company may pay a Directors legal fees in relation to any settlement agreement.
The Committee may pay reasonable outplacement fees where considered appropriate.
When considering exit payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
The payment of any annual bonus is subject to the discretion of the Committee, and both the cash and deferred share elements of an annual bonus would normally be payable at the normal payment date.
Any deferred share element could be paid in cash.
Any outstanding deferred bonus may be released or paid in cash, subject to clawback for a period of three years from the date of grant.
Commencement date Notice period Ian Hawksworth 17 May 2010 12 months Situl Jobanputra 1 January 2017 12 months Gary Yardley 17 May 2010 12 months 70 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements An individual would generally be considered a good leaver if they left the Groups employment for reasons including injury, ill-health, disability approved by the Committee, redundancy or retirement with the agreement of the employing company.
The table below summarises how PSP awards are typically treated in specific leaver circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion, for example an individual may be considered a good leaver for any other reason at the absolute discretion of the Committee, and the vesting of awards may be reduced for good leavers.
Reason for leaving Timing of vesting Treatment of awards Good leaver Normal vesting date, although the Payments are normally pro-rated for time and remain subject to outstanding performance Committee has discretion to conditions.
Where vesting is accelerated, payments are further pro-rated to reflect the accelerate.
extent to which the performance conditions had been satisfied at the date of leaving.
The holding period would continue to apply.
Change of control Immediately Vesting will be pro-rated for time and remain subject to performance conditions.
However, the Committee has discretion to allow awards to vest in full in such circumstances if it deems this to be fair and reasonable.
The holding period would cease to apply.
Any other reason Awards lapse There are no obligations on the Company contained within the existing Directors service contracts which would give rise to payments not disclosed in this report.
The service contracts of any future-appointed Directors will provide for mitigation in the event of termination.
1.7 Non-executive Director Policy Table The Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but instead have letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment of the Non-executive Directors are reviewed by the Board annually and contain a one-month notice period.
The Chairmans letter of appointment contains a three-month notice period.
The letters of appointment may be viewed at the Companys registered office.
Non-executive Directors dates of appointment and unexpired terms Date of most recent Unexpired term as at Date of appointment letter of appointment 31 December 2018 Charlotte Boyle 1 October 2017 26 September 2017 4 months Graeme Gordon 23 February 2010 4 May 2018 4 months Gerry Murphy 1 March 2015 29 May 2018 4 months Henry Staunton 2 June 2010 29 May 2018 4 months Anthony Steains 1 March 2016 4 May 2018 4 months Andrew Strang 23 February 2010 4 May 2018 4 months The table below summarises each of the components of the remuneration package for the Non-executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors do not receive any pension, bonus or long-term incentive benefits from the Company.
Performance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity metrics Fee To recruit and retain The Chairman and Non-executive Director fees are reviewed on an Non-executive Director fees may N A appropriately qualified annual basis, with any increase taking effect from 1 May.
include a basic fee and Committee Non-executive Directors.
SID fees as disclosed in the Annual The Board and Committee review fees with reference to: Report on Remuneration.
These are other property companies: set at a level that is considered UK companies of a similar size: and appropriately competitive in light of the time that Non-executive Directors are required to devote to market practice, and will not exceed the role.
the aggregate fees permitted by the Companys Articles of Association.
In exceptional circumstances, if there is a temporary yet material increase in the time commitments for Non-Executive Directors, the Board may pay extra fees on a pro-rata basis to recognise the additional workload.
Benefits To be appropriately competitive The Chairmans benefits include private healthcare and personal The maximum value of the benefits N A with those offered at comparator accident and travel insurance.
provided to Non-executive Directors companies.
will be the cost of purchasing them Other Non-executive Directors will be covered by the Companys in the market.
travel insurance policy should they be required to travel on Company business.
Any reasonable business related expenses can be reimbursed including tax thereon if determined to be a taxable benefit.
com 71 Directors remuneration report continued Directors compares to that of other 1.8 External Directorships 1.9 Consideration of conditions employees: for example, salary increases are The Companys policy is to encourage each elsewhere in the Company generally in line with increases awarded to Executive Director to take up one or more When setting Executive Director pay the other employees, which are set with Non-executive Directorships, subject to Committee considers the remuneration reference to market data.
Fees received for serving and overall conditions of all employees.
as a Non-executive Director of a company As Capco has a relatively small workforce, 1.10 Consideration of shareholder views outside the Capco Group are retained by the Committee does not consult with It is the Committees policy to consult with the Executive Director.
employees when deciding remuneration major shareholders as appropriate, for policy, but it receives regular updates from example, prior to finalising any major the Head of HR on salary increases, bonus changes to its executive remuneration policy.
and share awards made to Group employees and is aware of how the remuneration of satisfied that the advice received was 2.
ANNUAL REPORT ON objective and independent.
In addition to Matters considered by the REMUNERATION advice provided to the Committee, Aon Committee over the past year This section of the Directors Remuneration Hewitt also provided share award valuation include: Report explains how Capcos current services to the Company.
During 2018, the Executive Director remuneration remuneration policy has been implemented Company was charged a total of 58,255 by during the year.
Aon Hewitt in respect of advice to the Shareholder and investor body Committee.
In addition, fees of 155,899 correspondence 2.1 Remuneration Committee were charged in respect of advice relating to The Remuneration Committee is Legislative and regulatory the potential demerger and other strategic responsible for determining and developments including 2018 UK options.
Fees were charged on a time basis.
recommending to the Board the policy for Corporate Governance Code the remuneration of the Executive 2.3 Statement of shareholder voting Directors remuneration report Directors, setting targets for the Companys The table below shows the results of the incentive schemes and determining the Committee terms of reference advisory vote on the 2017 Directors total individual remuneration package for Remuneration Report and the binding vote Potential corporate transactions each Executive Director.
Membership of the on remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM.
Committee as at 31 December 2018 and the Institutional investor voting 2.4 Single figure of remuneration date of this report is set out on page 65.
In reports and voting at 2018 AGM The table on page 73 shows the single addition, the Company Chairman, Chief Setting of and evaluation of figures of total remuneration paid to each Executive and the Company Secretary are performance against Executive Director in 2018 and 2017.
The charts in invited to attend Committee meetings and Directors performance targets Figure 2 on page 74 illustrate the contribute, except on matters relating to contribution that each element of their own remuneration.
Attendance at the Remuneration across the Group remuneration made to the total eight meetings held during the year is Share scheme awards and remuneration of the Executive Directors.
shown in the table on page 57 and a performance targets summary of the matters considered by the Committee during the year is set out in the Outcome of 2017 shareholder adjacent shaded box in column 3. consultation on performance targets 2.2 Remuneration Committee and Directors shareholdings and its advisers ownership guidelines The Committee appointed Aon Hewitt as its independent remuneration adviser in Chairmans remuneration 2014 following a competitive process.
Chairmans and Chief Executives During the year, the Committee received expenses advice on matters including remuneration structure, incentive design and target setting from Aon Hewitt.
Aon Hewitt is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its code of conduct.
The Committee has received confirmation of independence from Aon Hewitt, and is Voting on Remuneration Report 2018 AGM Votes withheld Votes for % For Votes against % Against Total votes cast abstentions Approval of Remuneration Report 577,067,034 97.48 14,891,662 2.52 591,958,696 10,784,876 Voting on Remuneration Policy 2017 AGM Votes withheld Votes for % For Votes against % Against Total votes cast abstentions Approval of Remuneration Policy 650,133,456 97.63 15,774,537 2.37 665,907,993 2,857,671 72 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Single figure of remuneration 2018 and 2017 Audited 1 2 3 Base salary and fees Taxable benefits Single-year variable Multiple-year variable Pension related benefits Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Chairman 4 Henry Staunton 194 92 9 203 92 Executive Directors Ian Hawksworth 604 591 26 24 216 550 145 142 991 1,307 Situl Jobanputra 362 325 25 23 140 314 87 78 614 740 Gary Yardley 541 529 26 25 194 485 130 127 891 1,166 Non-executive Directors 5 Charlotte Boyle 74 16 74 16 Graeme Gordon 52 51 19 19 71 70 Gerry Murphy 89 79 89 79 Anthony Steains 58 57 37 23 95 80 Andrew Strang 72 70 1 1 73 71 Former Directors 6 Ian Durant 133 262 8 6 141 268 7 Demetra Pinsent 48 48 Total 2,179 2,120 151 121 550 1,349 362 347 3,242 3,937 1.
Comprises Executive Director car allowance of 18,000, medical insurance and Non-executive Directors travel expenses relating to Board meeting attendance where these are taxable or would be if the Director were resident in the UK for tax purposes.
Where applicable, the Company pays the tax payable on Non-executive Director travel expenses as they are incurred in the fulfilment of Directors duties.
The 2018 disclosure comprises the estimated value on maturity of the 2016 Former PSP and MSP awards which have a performance period that ran from 2016 to 2018, and were expected to vest in early 2019.
These awards have been included in the 2018 single figure as the performance conditions relating to these awards had been substantially but not fully completed during 2018.
The disclosure has been calculated assuming that 0 per cent of the Former PSP awards and MSP awards will vest.
The 2017 multi-year variable comparators were previously disclosed on the basis described above assuming vesting of 0 per cent, and it is confirmed that the awards lapsed as the performance conditions were not satisfied.
Comprises payments in lieu of pension contributions.
Appointed as Chairman on 5 June 2018.
Retired from the Board on 5 June 2018.
Stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017.
What is included in the single figure?
The salary or fees paid in the year The gross cash value of any taxable benefits The total annual bonus awarded for the year including both cash and the deferred element The expected value of any long-term incentive awards due to vest The cash value of any pension contribution or allowance www.
com 73 Directors remuneration report continued The figures below illustrate the contribution that each element of the Executive Directors remuneration made to the single figure disclosures.
Figure 2 Composition of 2018 single figures Composition of 2017 single figures Ian Ian Hawksworth Hawksworth Gary Gary Yardley Yardley Situl Situl Jobanputra Jobanputra 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Salary Benefits in kind Pension Bonus Salary Benefits in kind Pension Bonus Personal measures: The Committee assessed individual performance 2.5 Annual bonus outcomes for 2018 against a set of KPIs which align with the Companys objectives Opportunity outlined on page 15 of the Annual Report.
These KPIs include: Executive Directors can earn bonuses of up to 150 per cent of salary.
Corporate objectives: enhancing Capcos position and reputation Half of the bonus earned is deferred in Capco shares or nil cost in the market: identifying, monitoring and controlling risk options for three years, subject to forfeiture should the Executive including health and safety: progress towards meeting mediumDirector leave the Company.
term corporate objectives: Performance measures and targets Financial objectives: optimising liquidity and financing: effective Awards made in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 were cost and capital expenditure management: other budgeted KPIs: based 75 per cent on financial performance, and 25 per cent on individual performance.
Investment objectives: strategic investment initiatives: operation of joint ventures: implementation of business plans: Financial measures: The financial performance element for the year achievement of planning targets: and ended 31 December 2018 was based on growth in absolute NAV per share NAV, Total Property Return relative to the MSCI Total CR HR objectives: personal development: optimisation of Return All Property Index TPR, and underlying Earnings Per organisational structure: nurturing of future leaders: promotion Share EPS.
When setting the annual targets for these measures and support of CR initiatives.
in 2018, the Committee recognised the long-term nature of some Outcome of 2018 annual bonus performance measures Audited aspects of the Companys strategy, and the extent to which this Outcome of financial objectives: In respect of the year ended would be reflected in these measures on a 12-month horizon.
In line 31 December 2018, the Companys performance did not meet the with the framework set for the annual bonus at the beginning of threshold performance targets for TPR, EPS or NAV performance.
the year, the EPS target was adjusted following the disposal of the Accordingly, no awards were made to Ian Hawksworth, Situl Empress State Building on 26 March 2018.
The adjustment was Jobanputra and Gary Yardley in respect of the financial made to ensure that the target remained as stretching as intended performance measures.
when originally set at the start of 2018 and did not become more or less challenging to achieve as a result of the adjustment.
The Outcome of personal objectives: The Executive Directors were performance measures, weightings and targets that applied in considered to have performed very well in 2018 delivering strong respect of the 2018 annual bonus are summarised in the table on the outcomes at Covent Garden through high levels of leasing following page.
transactions and store openings, growth of both ERV and NRI and the completion of Floral Court: the completion of demolition The Committee has previously committed to publishing the works at Earls Court: the sale of the Empress State Building: financial performance targets once they cease to be commercially progress on corporate strategic objectives, particularly regarding sensitive.
The Committee has determined that the financial a possible demerger: continued progress on reduction of performance targets that applied in respect of the years ended administration costs: management of capital and corporate 31 December 2017 are no longer commercially sensitive: liquidity: and implementation of HR initiatives.
Accordingly, accordingly, the targets and the Companys performance against awards of between 35.63 and 37.50 per cent of salary were made to these targets are set out on the following page.
In future the the Executive Directors in respect of the individual performance Committee expects to continue to disclose annual bonus targets measures.
A summary of the overall outcomes of 2018 annual bonus one year retrospectively.
performance measures is shown in Figure 3 on page 75.
Half of bonus earned is deferred in Capco shares or nil cost options for three years, subject to forfeiture should the Executive Director leave the Company 74 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Outcome of 2018 annual bonus performance measures Audited Performance measure Weighting Performance Outcome Chief Chief Executive MD & CIO CFO Executive MD & CIO CFO Financial performance % of max 75% 75% 75% nil nil nil Comprising: Absolute Net Asset Value per share 50% 50% 50% Below threshold nil nil nil Relative Total Property Return 30% 30% 30% Below threshold nil nil nil Underlying Earnings per Share 20% 20% 20% Below threshold nil nil nil Individual performance % of max 25% 25% 25% 23.75 25 23.75 25 25 25 Total performance outcome % of salary 35.63% 35.63% 37.50% Figure 3 Outcome of 2018 annual bonus performance objectives Executive Financial Performance Individual Performance Director Chief Executive CFO MD & CIO 0 25 50 75 100 % of bonus opportunity Financial objectives Personal objectives NAV Investment transaction objectives TPR Corporate objectives EPS Financial objectives CR HR other objectives Disclosure of 2017 annual bonus financial performance targets Audited Performance measure Weighting Target range Actual performance % of bonus opportunity awarded Threshold Maximum 0% payout 100% payout Absolute Net Asset Value per share 55% 316p 339p 333.8p 82.7% Relative Total 1.5% 10.2% Property Return 35% 0 outperformance underperformance 0% Underlying Earnings per Share 10% 0.4p 1.0p 1.3p 100% www.
com 75 Directors remuneration report continued Performance measures and outcomes for Performance outcome: In early 2019, the 2.6 Long-term incentive outcomes for 2016 awards under the Former PSP and Committee determined that Capcos TR 2018 Audited Former MSP was not expected to equal the median of the In 2016 the following awards with a comparator group vs an outperformance performance period of 2016-2018 were made Performance measures and targets: The target of 2.5 per cent per annum or 3 per under the Companys former Performance performance conditions for the Former PSP cent for exceptional awards, and that Share Plan Former PSP and former and Former MSP comprised two equally Capcos TSR was not expected to equal the Matching Share Plan Former MSP : weighted measures: median of the comparator group vs an Former PSP: Awards of 150 per cent of salary Three-year relative Total Return TR, outperformance target of 4 per cent per were made to Executive Directors.
growth in NAV per share plus dividends annum or 5 per cent for exceptional awards, and as such the performance Former MSP: Shares awarded in respect of Three-year relative Total Shareholder conditions relating to the 2016 Former PSP Executive Directors deferred 2015 bonus Return TSR, increase in price of an and Former MSP awards had not been met.
were matched under the MSP on a 1:1 basis.
ordinary share plus dividends Accordingly, the 2016 Former PSP and Additionally, awards were made pursuant Where an exceptional award was made, the Former MSP awards are expected to lapse to the Committees 2013 invitation to additional matching opportunity could and no value has been included in the Executive Directors to invest up to 150 per only be earned for performance above the single figure disclosures in respect of cent of 2013 salary between 2013 and 2015 normal stretch targets.
subsequently extended to early 2016 when targets are set out in Figure 4 below.
permitted by scheme headroom with an exceptional matching opportunity of 2:1.
Figure 4 Performance measures for the Former MSP The graphs below illustrate the proportion of a Former MSP award tested against each performance measure that would vest at different levels of performance.
33 per cent of a non-exceptional award would vest at median performance.
3-year TR outperformance 3-year TSR outperformance Exceptional awards All other awards Exceptional awards All other awards Performance conditions for the Former PSP The graphs below illustrate the proportion of a Former PSP award that would vest at different levels of performance.
3-year TSR outperformance 3-year TR outperformance All outstanding awards All outstanding awards TR AND TSR COMPARATOR GROUP FOR THE PSP, FORMER PSP AND FORMER MSP British Land Great Portland Estates Land Securities Capco Hammerson Segro Derwent London Intu Properties Shaftesbury 76 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 % of a normal Former PSP award tested Matching award as a percentage of the against each performance measure number of matched shares % of a normal Former PSP award tested Matching award as a percentage of the against each performance measure number of matched shares Strategic report Governance Financial statements Scheme interests awarded during the financial year 1 PSP AUDITED Market price Exercise on date price Face value of Number Performance Holding Threshold Exercisable 2 3 Basis of award of grant if any award awarded period period vesting % between Ian Hawksworth 350 per cent 269.1p Nil 2,124,499 789,483 2018 2021 2021 2023 16.5% 2021 2028 of salary Ian Hawksworth Value of 269.1p Nil 274,894 102,153 2018 2021 N A 100% 2021 2028 Deferred Bonus Situl Jobanputra 350 per cent 269.1p Nil 1,308,125 486,111 2018 2021 2021 2023 16.5% 2021 2028 of salary Situl Jobanputra Value of 269.1p Nil 156,856 58,289 2018 2021 N A 100% 2021 2028 Deferred Bonus Gary Yardley 350 per cent 269.1p Nil 1,903,998 707,543 2018 2021 2021 2023 16.5% 2021 2028 of salary Gary Yardley Value of 269.1p Nil 242,252 90,023 2018 2021 N A 100% 2021 2028 Deferred Bonus 1.
PSP awards are granted as nil cost options 2.
Average closing share price on three business days preceding the date of grant 3.
Assumes threshold vesting under one performance condition for annual PSP awards.
There are no performance conditions for the deferred bonus.
The performance measures for awards made under the PSP in 2018 Pension and benefits are described on page 67 and the targets are set out below: As described in the policy table on pages 66 and 67.
Threshold Maximum Annual bonus Opportunity TR Median Median 2% The annual bonus opportunity will remain unchanged for 2019.
TSR Median Median 4% Performance conditions 2.7 Payments for loss of office and payments to previous The financial performance targets for the year ended 31 December Directors Audited 2018 were based on growth in absolute NAV per share, Total No payments for loss of office or payments to previous Directors in Property Return relative to the MSCI Total Return All Property respect of relevant services were made during 2018.
The Committee has decided that the relative weightings of the NAV, TPR and EPS measures will remain 2.8 Total pension entitlement Audited unchanged for 2019.
The relative weighting of financial and No Director participates in or has a deferred benefit under a defined individual performance measures will also remain unchanged.
However, should a demerger or sale of the Earls Court business or 2.9 External Non-executive Directorships parts thereof be decided upon, the performance measures will be No Executive Director currently serves as a Non-executive modified so that they continue to be aligned with Capcos strategy, Director elsewhere.
or that of the appropriate demerged business.
Further detail has been set out in the Annual Statement.
2.10 Statement of implementation of policy for 2018 salary Performance targets The Executive Directors salaries are reviewed annually.
In April 2019, the salary of the Chief Executive and Managing Director and The TPR target is included in the Companys KPIs on page 15.
The Chief Investment Officer will be increased by approximately 2 per KPIs are in part dependent upon the occurrence of certain discrete cent to 620,000 and 555,000 respectively, which is in line with events.
Therefore, whilst the outperformance targets that apply to the lower end of the range of increases expected to be applied to the long-term incentives are disclosed, the Board has decided that Group employees.
The salary of the Chief Financial Officer will be as the Group operates in two specific locations within the increased by approximately 5.7% to 395,000. competitive central London property market, prospective disclosure of specific short-term NAV and EPS targets would The proposed revised salaries for the Executive Directors are set out provide a level of information to counterparties that could in the table below: prejudice the Companys commercial interests.
The Committee will Executive Director salaries 2018 and 2019 publish the performance targets retrospectively once they have ceased to be commercially sensitive, which is expected to be one 2019 2018 % Increase year in retrospect.
Further information on the Companys KPIs can Ian Hawksworth 620,000 607,000 2.14 % be found on page 15.
Situl Jobanputra 395,000 373,750 5.69 % 2019 financial performance measures Gary Yardley 555,000 544,000 2.02 % Absolute Net Asset Value per share 50% Relative Total Property Return 30% Underlying Earnings per Share 20% www.
com 77 Directors remuneration report continued The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is considered Performance Share Plan by the Chairman and the Chief Executive, with regard to market PSP awards of 350 per cent of 2019 salary will be made as awards or comparatives, and recommended to the Board as a whole.
The applicable performance conditions are set out Non-executive Director fees are reviewed annually.
Following the in the table below.
However, as with the annual bonus, the 2018 review, it was agreed that the Non-executive Director fees performance condition incorporates flexibility so that it will change would be increased as set out in the table below with effect from should a demerger or sale of the Earls Court business or parts 1May 2019. thereof be decided upon, so that it continues to incentivise and reward outcomes and behaviours aligned with Capcos strategy or Non-executive Director fees 2018 and 2019 that of the relevant demerged business.
Further detail has been set 2019 2018 out in the Annual Statement.
Basic fee 53,500 52,500 Threshold Maximum Committee member except Nomination Committee 7,000 6,850 TR Median Median 2% Committee member Nomination Committee 6,200 6,100 TSR Median Median 4% Committee Chairman Audit and Remuneration Committee 16,600 16,300 Chairman and Non-executive Director remuneration Senior Independent Director 13,400 13,150 The Chairman has been appointed for a three-year term, subject to annual re-election by shareholders, which will expire at the 2021 AGM.
The Chairmans annual base fee for 2018 was 270,000.
The remuneration of the Chairman is reviewed annually.
Following the 2018 review, it was agreed that the Chairmans annual base fee would be increased to 275,400 with effect from 1 May 2019.
2.11 Chart of single figure vs. TSR This graph shows the total shareholder return at 31 December 2018 of 100 invested in Capital & Counties Properties PLC at the start of the first day of trading in its shares following its demerger from Liberty International PLC 10 May 2010, compared to the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
The Committee considers this benchmark to be the Companys performance.
The table below the graph shows, for each financial year, information on the remuneration of Ian Hawksworth, who has been Chief Executive of Capco since its establishment in 2010.
Depending on the award 78 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 2.12 Percentage increase of Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration from the prior year compared with the average percentage change in remuneration for employees at Capco head office including Earls Court Properties and Covent Garden.
To allow a meaningful comparison, the analysis for employees is based on a consistent group of individuals.
The increase in employees taxable benefits primarily reflects increased private medical insurance premiums in 2018 2.13 Distribution statement The graphs in Figure 6 below illustrate Capcos dividends paid and total employee pay expenditure this includes pension, variable pay, and social security for the financial years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018, and the percentage change in each.
The measures above are those prescribed by the remuneration disclosure regulations: however, they do not reflect Capcos KPIs, which are explained on page 15.
Accordingly, graphs showing Capcos one-year TPR and TR are also included below.
com 79 Directors remuneration report continued 2.14 Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interests Audited a Directors shareholdings The beneficial interests in the shares of the Company for each Director who served during the year as at 31 December 2018 and 25 February 2019, being a date not less than one month before the date of the Notice of Annual General Meeting, are set out in the table below.
The Chief Executive is required to achieve a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 300 per cent of salary and the other Executive Directors are required to achieve a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 200 per cent of base salary, to be achieved by retaining at least 50 per cent of any vested share awards net of tax and or within three years.
The current shareholdings of the Executive Directors are illustrated in Figure 7.
The shares which are included in these holdings are those held beneficially by the Director, their spouse or dependant family members, shares held within ISAs, PEPs or pensions, shares that are subject to a holding period, such as deferred bonus, and vested but unexercised awards.
The latter two categories are included on a net of tax basis.
Directors shareholdings including connected persons Figure 7: Executive Director Shareholdings 2018 and 2017 Audited as at 31 December 2018 2018 2017 % of salary fee Number Number 400 Chairman Henry Staunton 250,000 250,000 300 Executive Ian Hawksworth 820,604 820,604 200 Situl Jobanputra 50,000 50,000 100 Gary Yardley 473,073 473,073 Non-executive 0 Ian Gary Situl Charlotte Boyle 10,052 10,000 1 Hawksworth Yardley Jobanputra 1 Graeme Gordon 2,305,268 30,450,061 Shareholding and unexercised vested awards Shares subject to a holding period Shareholding guideline Gerry Murphy 50,000 50,000 1.
Appointed 1 January 2017 Anthony Steains Andrew Strang Former Directors 2 Ian Durant 568,632 568,632 3 Demetra Pinsent 1.
Reflects a change in the way the various interests of the Gordon Family holdings are administered.
See Directors Report on page 84 2.
Shareholdings as at 5 June 2018, being the date that Ian Durant retired from the Board 3.
Shareholdings as at 30 September 2017, being the date that Demetra Pinsent stepped down from the Board b Directors share interests Audited Details of Executive Directors share scheme interests, including information on share awards that were exercised or vested during the year, are set out in the tables below.
i Summary of Executive Directors interests in shares and share schemes full details are set out on pages 81 and 82 Nil cost option awards, Nil cost option awards, Nil cost option awards in no longer subject to subject to performance 1 2 Executive Director Shares held respect of deferred bonus performance conditions conditions Total Ian Hawksworth 820,604 347,354 2,218,684 3,386,642 Situl Jobanputra 50,000 58,289 900,693 1,008,982 Gary Yardley 473,073 494,192 347,095 1,805,798 3,120,158 Total 1,343,677 899,835 347,095 4,925,175 7,515,782 1.
Comprises vested but unexercised Former PSP and Former MSP nil cost option awards 2.
Subject to performance conditions that apply to awards made under the PSP, Former PSP and Former MSP as set out on pages 67, 76 and 78 2.
Vested but unexercised or not exercised in full 3.
Subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period c Former MSP Audited i Deferred shares The following awards made to Executive Directors in respect of annual bonus are outstanding: Market price Option on date price Held at Granted Exercised Lapsed Held at Year of grant pence if 1 January during during during 31 December Exercisable Name granted pence any 2018 the year the year the year 2018 between 1 Ian Hawksworth 2015 402.93 Nil 94,557 94,557 2018 2025 Ian Hawksworth 2016 315.30 Nil 121,116 121,116 2019 2026 1 Gary Yardley 2013 268.10 Nil 102,998 102,998 2016 2023 1 Gary Yardley 2014 351.93 Nil 88,767 88,767 2017 2024 1 Gary Yardley 2015 402.93 Nil 81,279 81,279 2018 2025 Gary Yardley 2016 315.30 Nil 104,662 104,662 2019 2026 Total 593,379 593,379 1.
com 81 Directors remuneration report continued 1 ii Matched deferred shares The following matching awards made to Executive Directors following their award of deferred bonus are outstanding: Option Market price price Held at Granted Exercised Held at Year on date of pence 1 January during the during the Lapsed during 31December Exercisable Name granted grant pence if any 2018 year year the year 2018 between Ian Hawksworth 2015 402.93 Nil 94,557 94,557 2018 2025 Ian Hawksworth 2016 315.30 Nil 121,116 121,116 2019 2026 2 Gary Yardley 2013 268.10 Nil 76,538 76,538 2016 2023 Gary Yardley 2015 402.93 Nil 81,279 81,279 2018 2025 Gary Yardley 2016 315.30 Nil 104,662 104,662 2019 2026 Total 478,152 302,316 1.
Subject to performance conditions that apply to awards made under the Former PSP and Former MSP, as set out on page 76 2.
Vested but unexercised 1 iii Matching of Directors co-investment The following matching awards made to Executive Directors following their co-investment in ordinary shares in the Company are outstanding: Option price Held at Granted Exercised Held at Year pence if 1 January during the during the Lapsed during 31 December Exercisable Name granted any 2018 year year the year 2018 between Ian Hawksworth 2016 Nil 365,556 365,556 2019 2026 2 Gary Yardley 2013 Nil 73,963 73,963 2016 2023 Gary Yardley 2015 Nil 152,788 152,788 2018 2025 Gary Yardley 2016 Nil 149,169 149,169 2019 2026 Total 741,476 588,688 1.
Subject to performance conditions set out on page 76.
The market price of Capital & Counties Properties PLC shares on 31 December 2018 being the last day for trading during the year was 231.1 pence and during the year the price varied between 226.3 pence and 319.9 pence.
No share options were exercised by Executive Directors during the year.
This Remuneration Report has been approved for issue by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2019.
Charlotte Boyle Chair of the Remuneration Committee 82 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2018
