Directors Remuneration Report INTRODUCTION This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into three sections, the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Directors Remuneration Policy section sets out the policy which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM on 31May 2018 and, if approved, the new policy will take effect from that date.
The Letter from the Chair of the Committee and the Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to shareholders for approval at the AGM on 31 May 2018, although the vote is advisory.
54 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section on pages 55 to 60 inclusive describes Card Factorys Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy which will be put forward for shareholder approval under Resolution 10 at the AGM to be held on 31 May 2018.
Card Factorys policy for Executive Directors remuneration aims to provide a competitive package of fixed and performance linked pay, which supports the long-term strategic objectives of the business.
Following a detailed review of the existing policy we propose to make the following changes: to replace LTIP awards with specific three-year targets with awards of Restricted Shares with a face value which is 50% lower than the LTIP awards with a longer vesting period and post vest holding period: to provide a more conventionally expressed pension maximum under the policy as a percentage of salary, rather than a value amount: under the current policy at least 80% of bonus must be determined by financial metrics.
In practice, currently 100% is determined by EBITDA.
We propose to slightly amend our policy to allow greater flexibility in selection of performance measures to support the business strategy, while ensuring a majority is always based on financial KPIs.
Bonus payments will always be subject to the Remuneration Committee ensuring underlying performance of the business is acceptable: and the level of shareholding required to be built and maintained has increased from 200% and 150% to 250% and 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, respectively.
POLICY TABLE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The key components of Executive Directors remuneration are as follows: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics FIXED PAY Base salary Base salaries are reviewed Whilst there is no maximum Business and individual To attract and retain talent by annually, with reference to salary, Executive Directors performance are considerations ensuring base salaries are scopeof role, individual salary increases will normally be in setting base salary competitive in the relevant talent performance, experience, in line with the average market, and to reflect an  of percentage increase for the executives skills and experience totalremuneration, inflation wider employee population andsalary increases across In certain circumstances theGroup including, but not limited to, a Increases will normally be material increase in job size or effective 1 May complexity, promotion, recruitment or development of the individual in the role, or a significant misalignment with market the Committee has discretion to make appropriate adjustments to salary levels to ensure they remain fair and competitive Pension Executive Directors may receive The maximum company None To provide post-retirement a company contribution into a contribution or cash allowance in benefits pension plan or a cash allowance lieu of pension is 5% of salary for in lieu of pension current Directors Benefits Benefits include private medical There is no maximum To provide Executive Directors insurance, life insurance, income opportunity for benefits, as there with a reasonable level of protection, and the provision of may be factors outside of the benefits acar or car allowance Companys control which change the cost to the Company eg Where appropriate, other increases in insurance premiums benefits may be offered, for example including, but not The cost of providing benefits for limited to, relocation allowances the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Directors Remuneration Report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics VARIABLE PAY Annual bonus Bonus payments will be 125% of salary Performance measures and To focus executives on delivery determined based on targets are set by the Committee of year-on-year financial and performance in a single financial and the Committee determines non-financial performance year and payment may be made the extent to which the targets in cash or in shares have been achieved at the The part of the bonus invested in year-end shares helps towards achieving If participants have not met an appropriate balance between A majority of bonus will be based the minimum shareholding year-on-year financial on financial measures requirement, one third of any performance and longer-term bonus after payment of tax value creation and contributes to The Committee may scale back must be used to acquire higher executive shareholdings the bonus if it considers the shares in the Company which outcome is not representative of must be held for three years the underlying performance of the Company Robust clawback and malus provisions apply.
The Committee For achievement of threshold has discretion to reduce the performance, up to 15% of amount of any bonus potential, maximum bonus is earned and require repayment of any bonus paid within two years of payment, in the event of material misstatement, error, misconduct or reputational damage Restricted Shares The Committee may grant annual 87.5% of salary face value at In order for Restricted Shares to To align the interests of awards of Restricted Shares, grant be capable of vesting, the executives with shareholders structured as conditional awards Committee must be satisfied that ingrowing the value of the or nil-cost options business performance is robust business over the longterm and sustainable and that 50% of an award vests after management has strengthened threeyears, 25% after four and the business over three financial 25% after five years, subject to years commencing with the year service in which the award is made.
In assessing performance, the All shares will be held for at Committee will consider financial and non-financial KPIs of the least five years from grant business as well as delivery except for sales to meet tax against strategic priorities.
The holding the extent it is not satisfied with period and vesting period will performance the Committee may continue post cessation of scale back the level of vested employment to the extent that awards including to zero.
Full awards do not lapse on disclosure of the Committees cessation assessment will be made in the Annual Report on Remuneration An additional benefit is provided for the year in which the in cash or shares equal to assessment is made dividends that would have been paid over the vesting period or holding period on awards thatvest Robust clawback and malus provisions apply.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the amount of any unvested award, and repayment of any vested award within two years of vesting, in the event of material misstatement, error, misconduct or reputational damage 56 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics SAYE A UK tax-qualified scheme under Savings are capped at the None To encourage share ownership which eligible employees prevailing HMRC limit at the time across the workforce including Executive Directors eligible employees are invited to may save up to the maximum participate, or such lower limit as monthly savings limit as determined by the Remuneration determined by prevailing Committee legislation over a period of three or five years Participants are granted an option to acquire shares at up to a 20% discount to the price on grant.
The number of shares under option is that which can be acquired at that price using savings made.
Shareholding guidelines Requirement to build up and Details of the current guidelines None To encourage share ownership maintain a beneficial holding of and Executive Director and ensure alignment of shares in the Company defined shareholdings are included in the executive interests with those of as a % of salary Annual Report on Remuneration shareholders Performance measure selection and approach to target setting The measures used in the annual bonus are selected to reflect the Companys main financial KPIs and other strategic objectives for the year.
Performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, considering the Companys strategic priorities and the economic environment in which the Company operates.
Financial targets are set taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups strategic and operating plan.
Adjustments and use of Remuneration Committee discretion The Remuneration Committee will review formulaic annual bonus outcomes and may adjust these to ensure alignment of pay with the underlying performance of the business.
The Remuneration Committee may also adjust the calculation of shortand long-term performance measures for outstanding LTIP awards in specific circumstances and within the limits of applicable plan rules.
Such circumstances include: changes in accounting standards, major corporate events such as rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends, corporate restructurings, mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
Differences in remuneration policy operated for other employees The policy and practice with regard to the remuneration of the senior management team below the Board will be consistent with that for the Executive Directors.
The senior management team will participate in the same annual bonus and will receive Restricted Shares awards alongside the Executive Directors.
The Policy for our Executive Directors is considered with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group in mind.
The remuneration arrangements for other employees reflect the seniority of each role.
As a result, the levels and structure of remuneration for different groups of employees will differ from the Policy for executives as set out above, but with the common intention that remuneration arrangements for all groups are fair.
Other In addition to the above elements of remuneration, any commitment made prior to but due to be fulfilled after the approval at the 2018 AGM, will be honoured, including arrangements put in place prior to an individual becoming a Director.
The Committee also retains discretion to make non-significant changes to the policy without reverting to shareholders for example, for regulatory, tax, legislative or administrative purposes.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Directors Remuneration Report continued PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS The graphs below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunities for Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Mid and Maximum.
The projected value for Restricted Shares excludes the impact of share price movements or dividend accrual.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer 34% 39%27% 38% 35%27% Maximum Maximum 1,534k 888k 42% 24% 34% 46% 22% 32% Mid 1,236k Mid 731k 100% 100% Minimum 521k Minimum 337k 0 400 800 1200 1600 0250 500750 1000 Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Restricted Shares In illustrating potential reward opportunities, the following assumptions are made: Fixed pay Annual bonus Restricted Shares Minimum Salary as at 1 May 2018 No annual bonus payable An award of Restricted Shares worth 87.5% and 75% of base salary for the Mid On-target annual bonus payable The CEO and CFO each receive a Chief Executive and Chief Financial 50%of maximum contribution of just over 3% of base Officer, respectively Maximum Maximum annual bonus payable of salary to their personal pensions 125% and 100% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Benefits paid for the most recent Officer, respectively financial year APPROACH TO REMUNERATION FOR NEW DIRECTOR APPOINTMENTS In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both Card Factory and its shareholders, and will be mindful not to overpay on recruitment.
The Remuneration Committee will seek to ensure that the remuneration arrangements will be in line with those outlined in the Policy table above, other than as follows: Component Approach Maximum opportunity Pension New appointees may be offered pension arrangements based on market 5% of base salary or higher in exceptional competitive contribution rates circumstances Annual bonus In line with the policy, albeit with the relevant maximum normally being 125% of salary prorated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
The total value of any such buy out incentive arrangements will not exceed that of awards forfeited on leaving the previous employer, and time to vesting will be matched.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the approach will be consistent with the policy for external appointees detailed above save for buy outs.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to the Board, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Measures used for below Board employees may be different from those used for Executive Directors to tailor incentives to a particular division, role or individual.
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will use the Policy as set out in this report.
58 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials SERVICE CONTRACTS AND EXIT PAYMENT POLICY Executive Directors The Committee sets notice periods for the Executive Directors of no more than 12 months.
The Executive Directors may be put on garden leave during their notice period for up to six months, and the Company can elect to terminate their employment by making a payment in lieu of notice equivalent to basic salary and benefits including pension contributions.
Any payment in lieu will be made on a monthly basis and subject to mitigation.
Executive Directors service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office and at the forthcoming AGM.
Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period Karen Hubbard 5 January 2016 9 months Kris Lee 19 April 2017 9 months If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement under statute or otherwise to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
In addition, the Committee may: settle any claims by or on behalf of the Executive Director in return for making an appropriate payment: and contribute to the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and the individual must seek independent legaladvice.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, outplacement services, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
The Companys policy on termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, considering the executives contractual terms, the circumstances of termination and any duty to mitigate.
The table below summarises how incentives are typically treated in different circumstances: Plan Scenario Timing of vesting Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Default treatment No bonus is paid n a Death, injury, ill-health or Normal payment date, although The Committee will determine disability, retirement or any the Committee has discretion the bonus outcome based on otherreason the Committee toaccelerate circumstances and the date of maydetermine leaving.
Performance against targets is typically assessed at the end of the year in the normal way and any resulting bonus will be pro rated for time served during the year Shares acquired by Directors Not applicable as shares are with annual bonus purchased and owned outright by the executive.
Restricted Shares Default treatment Awards lapse n a Death, injury or disability, Normal vesting date and holding Any outstanding awards will redundancy, retirement, the sale period would normally continue normally be pro rated for service of the employing company or to apply, although the over the three financial years business out of the Group or any Committee has discretion to starting with the year in which other reason as the Committee accelerate vesting and remove the award is made and over may determine the holding requirement in which the underlying exceptional circumstances.
performance of the Company will be reviewed to determine vesting.
The Committee may disapply time pro rating in exceptional circumstances SAYE Treated in line with HMRC rules Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Directors Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were appointed on the dates set out in the table below.
Their letters of appointment set out the terms of their appointment and are available for inspection at the Groups registered office and at the AGM.
Appointments are initially for three years subject to annual re-election at the AGM and unless agreed by the Board, they may not remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in office, whichever is shorter.
The Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors may resign from their positions but must serve the Board six and one months written notice, respectively.
Non-Executive Director Letter of appointment date Geoff Cooper 30 April 2014 Octavia Morley 30 April 2014 David Stead 30 April 2014 Paul McCrudden 1 December 2014 Roger Whiteside 27 November 2017 Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the annual bonus or any equity schemes, do not receive any additional pension or benefits on top of the fees and are not entitled to a termination payment.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION AND EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS IN GROUP The Committee considers the remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining remuneration for Executive Directors.
The Committee does not currently consult specifically with employees on the executive remuneration Policy, but will keep this policy under review and will stay abreast of likely future guidance on this issue from the Financial Reporting Council.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Company has engaged with significant investors on remuneration as part of its first corporate governance day and intends to hold similar events in future based on investor demand.
More generally, when determining remuneration policy and its application, the Committee considers the guidelines of shareholder bodies and shareholders views.
The Committee is open to feedback from shareholders on remuneration policy and arrangements, and commits to undergoing consultation in advance of any significant changes to remuneration policy.
The Committee continues to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of the executive remuneration remains appropriate.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS The Committee acknowledges that Executive Directors may be invited to become Independent Non-Executive Directors of other quoted companies which have no business relationship with the Company and that these duties can broaden their experience and knowledge to the benefit of the Company.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept such appointments with the prior approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be given where the appointment does not present a conflict of interest with the Groups activities and the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the development of the individual.
Where fees are payable in respect of such appointments, these would be retained by the Executive Director.
POLICY TABLE FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The key components of Non-Executive Directors remuneration are as follows: Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Non-Executive Directors fees Annual fee for Chairman and Any increases to NED fees will be Performance of the Board as To attract Directors with the Non-Executive Directors considered following a thorough a whole will be reviewed appropriate skills and experience, review process and considering regularly as part of a Board and to reflect the time Additional fees paid for additional wider market factors, eg inflation evaluation process commitment in preparing for and roles or time commitment, eg attending meetings, the duties chairing Board Committees The maximum aggregate annual and responsibilities of the role and fee for all directors provided in the contribution expected from Non-Executive Directors do not the Companys Articles of the Non-Executive Directors participate in any incentive Association is 1,000,000 pa schemes or receive any other benefits other than travel expenses, which may be grossed up for tax 60 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This is the Annual Report on Remuneration for the financial year ended 31 January 2018.
This report sets out how the Policy has been applied in the financial year being reported on, and how it will be applied in the coming year.
Kris Lee was appointed to the Board with effect from 3 July 2017.
Darren Bryant retired from the Board on 31 July 2017.
Taxable benefits comprise car or car allowance, fuel allowance and family private medical insurance.
Karen Hubbard and Kris Lee and formerly Darren Bryant are members of the Group Life Assurance Scheme.
The amounts stated relate to insurance premiums paid by the Group.
No annual bonus was payable for the year 2017 2018.
The value of Darren Bryants LTIP awards that were included in 2016 17 in the table above was calculated using the three-month average share price to 31 January 2017 of 251p, as the awards had not vested at the date of signing last years report.
The actual value on vesting was 348,143 and so the value has been restated from 264,894 to 348,143.
Embedded value of SAYE options at grant.
There are no performance conditions.
As previously disclosed, as part of her recruitment package, and in order that Karen Hubbard was able to take up her position at a time to allow a suitable handover with the outgoing CEO, the Committee approved a like-for-like buyout of her forfeited bonus, which was assessed to have a fair value of 130,000, with the time of payment matched to that of the forfeited award.
As part of his recruitment package, and in order that Kris Lee was able to take up his position quickly, the Committee approved a like-for-like buyout of his forfeited bonus of 150,000.
ANNUAL BONUS PAYMENTS AND LINK TO PERFORMANCE Bonus opportunities for 2017 18 were 125% of salary for Karen Hubbard and 100% of salary for Kris Lee pro rated for time in role.
Darren Bryant did not participate in the 2017 18 annual bonus.
The bonus was subject to achieving a range of EBITDA targets and subject to a personal performance underpin.
Personal performance is assessed on achievement against the four pillars of the agreed growth strategy, to ensure the foundations for future growth.
The EBITDA performance targets for the year, performance against them and bonus payments were: 2017 18 Percentage of EBITDA EBITDA maximum Performance Bonus payable Performance level target bonus awarded achieved % of maximum Threshold 98.0m 15% 94.0m 0% Maximum 101.6m 100% 94.0m 0% GRANTS OF AWARDS UNDER THE LTIP IN 2017 AUDITED Awards under the LTIP were granted to the Executive Directors on 27 October 2017.
Awards were made over shares worth 175% of basic salary for Karen Hubbard and 150% of salary for Kris Lee pro-rated for time in role.
% of award Number of Face maximum vesting at LTIP shares value of awards threshold and Performance 1 Executive awarded at grant date Maximum period Karen Hubbard 245,921 794,325 25% 100% 1.2.
In line with the LTIP rules, based on the average middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company for the three months prior to the date of award, 27 October 2017, of 323.0p.
The primary performance targets for these awards, are EPS growth over three financial years starting with that in which the award is granted.
The award was made in the second half of our financial year to align with the timing of last years grant, which had been delayed to allow a proper assessment of Brexit on the market and our business outlook.
Our interim results for FY17 18 showed strong sales performance on both a total and a like-for-like basis, but also demonstrated the significant impact of various cost headwinds in particular foreign exchange and wage rates.
Against this outlook, the Committee set an EPS growth range of 1% to 6% p. a. CAGR for the three financial years to January 2020, which is viewed as appropriately stretching in the circumstances.
In addition, for awards to vest, the Remuneration Committee needs to be satisfied that the Companys return on capital has been broadly consistent with historic levels.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61 Directors Remuneration Report continued Awards that vest after any sales required to pay tax and social security contributions will be subject to a two-year holding period.
2015 LTIP AWARD VESTING Awards granted in 2015 under the LTIP were subject to the three-year EPS compound annual growth target of 9% pa to 15% pa with 25% vesting at threshold, and were subject to a return on capital underpin.
EPS performance over the three-year period 1 February 2015 to 31 January 2018 was below 9% meaning none of these awards will vest.
SAYE Awards under the HMRC-approved SAYE were granted to all participating employees on 27 June 2017.
Options were granted at a discount of 20% to the share price on grant, and vest after three years subject to continued employment.
Face Maximum % of Award Value of Vesting Number of SAYE Awards at Grant at Threshold and Performance 1 Executive options awarded Date Maximum Period Karen Hubbard 3,358 11,222 n a n a 1.
Based on the share price on the date of award, 27 June 2017, of 3.34 REMUNERATION FOR RETIRING DIRECTORS Darren Bryant stepped down as CFO and retired from the Board on 31 July 2017 and salary, benefits and pension ceased to be paid at that date.
As set out above, Darren did not receive an LTIP grant in 2017 nor was he eligible to receive any bonus for performance for the financial year 2017 18.
As a good leaver he will, to the extent that they vest based on performance, receive his outstanding pro rated LTIP awards at the normal vesting date.
The Committee exercised its discretion to disapply any holding period on any vested LTIP awards on the basis that Darren retains a significant holding in the Company which continues to align his interests with other shareholders.
TOTAL FEES PAID TO NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the year ended 31January 2018 and the prior year.
The remuneration arrangements on cessation for Darren Bryant are set outabove.
PAYMENTS TO PREVIOUS DIRECTORS No such payments were made during the year other than those disclosed in relation to Darren Bryant retirement.
62 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE AND CEO REMUNERATION The graph below illustrates the total shareholder return of Card Factory against the FTSE 250 over the period since the Group listed on 20 May 2014.
The FTSE 250 has been chosen as it is a recognised broad equity market index of which the Group is amember.
For 2016 17 this represents the aggregate single figure for Karen Hubbard from date of appointment as CEO and Richard Hayes to date of stepping down as CEO.
CHANGE IN CEO CASH REMUNERATION, 2016 17 TO 2017 18 Change in CEO Average change pay over the across all 1 2 year employees Salary 0.8% 3.8% Taxable benefits 18.6 % Annual variable 100 % 18.4 % 1.
Permanent store employees representing c 90% of all permanent employees.
DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT The charts below illustrate the year-on-year change in total remuneration for all employees and total shareholder distributions.
Total remuneration Total shareholder for all employees distributions 8.1% 1.0% including special dividend 2.3% excluding special dividend m m 120 90 82.2 83.0 102.3 80 94.6 100 70 80 60 50 60 40 40 30 20 20 31.1 31.8 10 0 0 2016 172017 18 2016 172017 18 2016 17 2017 18 Special Dividend Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 63 Value of 100 invested at IPO Directors Remuneration Report continued STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING The following table shows the results of the shareholder votes on the Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2017 Annual GeneralMeeting: Annual Report on Remuneration 2017 Total number of votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 277,072,929 98.75 Against 3,507,910 1.25 Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 280,580,839 0 1 Total votes withheld 2,359 Total votes cast including withheld votes 280,583,198 1.
A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND INTEREST IN SHARES AUDITED The Committee sets shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors.
The current guideline is to build and maintain, over time, a holding of shares in the Company equivalent in value to at least 200% and 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, respectively.
This will be increased in FY2019 to 250% and 200% respectively.
Both Executive Directors joined the Board recently and so have not yet met the shareholding guideline.
Karen Hubbard purchased all of the shares she or her connected persons currently hold.
Shares held Options held Unvested Unvested Unvested and Current Shareholding and not and subject to shareholding requirement Owned subject to subject to Vested but not continued % of salary % of salary Guideline 1 2 Director outright performance performance exercised employment fee fee met?
Executive Directors Karen Hubbard 110,619 481,406 22% 200% No Kris Lee 85,366 150% No Darren Bryant 618,036 232,795 n a n a Non-Executive Directors Geoff Cooper 318,828 Octavia Morley 13,333 David Stead 22,222 Paul McCrudden Roger Whiteside 22,520 1.
Including shares owned by connected persons.
Calculated using the closing share price of the Company on 31 January 2017 of 250p.
There have been no changes in the numbers of shares owned by the Directors and their connected persons between the end of the year and the date of this report.
DETAILS OF DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES IN INCENTIVE PLANS Number Date of Share price Exercise of shares grant at grant price awarded Face value at grant Performance period Exercise period Karen Hubbard 1 LTIP 30.9.
Based on the average middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company for the six months prior to the date of award, 30 September 2016, of 330.7p.
Based on the average middle market quotation of a share in the capital of the Company for the three months prior to the date of award, 27 October 2017, of 323.0. p. 64 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financials HOW THE POLICY WILL BE APPLIED IN FY18 19 SALARY The salaries of the Executive Directors will, with effect from 1 May 2018, be as follows: Executive Director 1 May 2018 1 May 2017 Karen Hubbard 477,000 453,900 Kris Lee 315,000 n a ANNUAL BONUS FOR 2018 19 The annual bonus is capped at 125% and 100% of salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, based 80% on EBITDA and 20% on a number of strategic measures.
The EBITDA targets have been set by the Committee and will require Executive Directors to deliver significant stretch performance.
Given the close link between these targets and Card Factorys competitive strategy, EBITDA targets are considered commercially sensitive but will be published in the next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The strategic objectives for the CEO and the CFO have been set to measure progress on the building blocks of the Groups established four pillar strategy.
These will position us for growth in future years and mitigate business risk in achieving these goals in addition to their focus on delivering annual business results.
These objectives are set out below, together with details of how they will be measured.
The specific targets are commercially sensitive and will be disclosed retrospectively in next years Directors Remuneration Report with performance against them.
The CEOs strategic objectives are: strengthening our customer value proposition, measured by external research results compiled by OC&C and reported annually: improving our ongoing Business Efficiency by delivering a step change in store productivity, measured by store cost savings: delivering a future platform for Card Factory online, measured through EBITDA performance in this channel: and generating performance through our leadership team, managing succession planning and integrating the new senior hires into the business to deliver positive results.
This will be measured through externally facilitated leadership feedback.
The CFOs strategic objectives are: delivery of the new store roll out programme, measured by average store profit contribution: within our business efficiencies pillar, improving our working capital management, measured by the year on year change: development and delivery of strategic trials and initiatives to drive future sales and profitability for the Group, measured by the successful implementation of new projects: and generating performance through our leadership team, managing succession planning and integrating the new senior hires into the business to deliver positive results.
This will be measured through externally facilitated management feedback.
BENEFITS AND PENSION These will be paid in line with the policy.
RESTRICTED SHARES Restricted Shares will be granted over shares with a value at the time of grant of 87.5% of salary and 75% of salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
In order for Restricted Shares to vest, the Committee must be satisfied that business performance is robust and sustainable and that management hasstrengthenedthe business.
In assessing performance, the Committee will consider financial and nonfinancial KPIs of the business as well as delivery against strategic priorities.
To the extent it is not satisfied with performance the Committee may scale back the level of vested awards including to zero.
There will be full disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts of the Committees determination of the performance underpin.
SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT The level of shareholding required to be built and maintained is equivalent to 250% and 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer respectively.
Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 65 Directors Remuneration Report continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES No increases are proposed for the current year.
2018 19 2017 18 Base fees Chairman 125,000 125,000 Senior Independent Director 49,000 49,000 Non-Executive Director 45,000 45,000 Additional fees Chair of the Remuneration Committee 8,000 8,000 Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee 8,000 8,000 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ADVISERS The Remuneration Committee consists of four Independent Non-Executive Directors: Octavia Morley Chairman, David Stead, Paul McCrudden and Roger Whiteside, and the Non-Executive Chairman, Geoff Cooper.
A more detailed explanation of the Remuneration Committees role is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 41 and 42 and a copy of its terms of reference, which comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code, are available on Card Factorys investor relations website www.
The Committee fulfils its duties with a combination of both formal meetings and informal consultation with relevant parties internally and externally.
Its principal external advisers are Korn Ferry Hay Group, who were appointed by the Committee following a tender process during the year.
Korn Ferry does not provide any other services to the Company.
Korn Ferry is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants in the UK, details of which can be found on the Remuneration Consultants Groups website at www.
Accordingly, the Committee is satisfied that the advice received is objective and independent.
There were no fees paid to Korn Ferry during the financial year.
COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES During 2017 18, the Committee met to consider the following remuneration matters: a full review of the directors remuneration policy and cascade to senior executive levels and below, including extensive investor consultation: to consider performance against targets and resulting bonus payments and vesting of awards under the LTIP: to determine 2017 18 grants of LTIP awards and associatedtargets: to consider measures and targets for the 2018 19 annualbonus: to determine the remuneration package for the incoming Chief Financial Officer and the departure arrangements for his predecessor: to review developing trends in remuneration governance: and to formally approve the Directors Remuneration Report set out in this Annual Report.
Approved by the Board of Card Factory plc on 9 April 2018 and signed on its behalf by Octavia Morley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9 April 2018 66 Card Factory plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
