CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the 2018 remuneration report.
Edward Haslam Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Policy review revised targets for the 2018 awards Introduction under the Companys Performance At the AGM in 2018 substantial votes As Chairman of the Remuneration Share Plan were agreed as a direct were lodged against the resolutions to Committee, I am pleased to present result of shareholder feedback approve the remuneration report the 2018 remuneration report.
This included circa 32% votes against and This report includes i our revised removing the dividend and remuneration policy circa 52% votes Directors remuneration policy, for reserves targets that were originally against.
While both these resolutions which shareholder approval will be proposed but which were were advisory only reflecting the fact sought at the forthcoming AGM questioned by some shareholders: that, as a Jersey-incorporated pages 122 to 128 and ii our annual company, Centamin is not bound by the shareholding guidelines for the report on remuneration pages 129 the Directors Remuneration Report Executive Directors were increased to 143 which describes how our Regulations the Remuneration to 200% of salary from the current Directors remuneration policy Committee takes these matters previous 150%, a level that had was implemented for the year ended very seriously.
been criticised by some investors : 31 December 2018 and how it is and Consequently, and as detailed in the intended that our revised policy be an undertaking was given to interim results announcement implemented for the forthcoming year.
provide more detailed disclosure published on 3 May, the Remuneration As explained below, it has been the of performance against the 2018 Committee commenced a formal design of a revised remuneration annual bonus targets in future tender process for the appointment policy following a material number remuneration reports as certain of a specialist independent of votes being cast against the shareholders had concerns remuneration adviser, which resulted remuneration-related resolutions regarding the level of disclosure in the appointment of Korn Ferry.
tabled at the 2018 AGM that has provided in the past.
Together with its new advisers, the been the focus of the Remuneration Remuneration Committee undertook Having taken these initial steps, the Committees attention during 2018. a full review of the Companys Remuneration Committee undertook Other standard agenda items that remuneration policy and practices a full review of Centamins Directors have also been considered over the in 2018.
However, in advance of remuneration policy.
This policy year include i the Executive Directors this review commencing, the review was undertaken in the context 2018 remuneration packages, ii Remuneration Committee took a of a challenging period for the assessing bonus and Performance number of immediate steps to address Company in terms of production at Share Plan outturns and iii preparing some of the concerns expressed by the Sukari Gold Mine.
Centamins last years remuneration report.
shareholders: corporate strategy remains focused on the delivery of low cost operations at Sukari which is the solid foundation from which the Company is able to generate significant cash flows that will fund the next stage growth investment within the exploration and development pipeline and allow the 118 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Company to maintain its dividend Target bonus opportunity has been against the targets and a policy.
The Company is clearly reduced from 75% of maximum to pro rata reduction unless the disappointed with the operational 62.5% of maximum.
Remuneration Committee performance this year which has determines otherwise and ii in A new share deferral feature will be resulted in guidance having to be the event of a change in control, introduced past bonuses have revised downwards and a awards will normally vest at that been paid entirely in cash under consequential adverse impact on the point subject to performance which the net amount of any bonus share price, but believe the execution against the targets and a pro earned in excess of 75% of salary of Centamins strategy will see the rata reduction unless the must be used to acquire shares delivery of strong returns to investors Remuneration Committee which must be held for at least two in the longer term.
These shares and the related cash element of the bonus will When conducting its review, the Remuneration Committee be subject to more robust claw Remuneration Committee had at the discretion back malus provisions.
forefront of its thinking the need to Again reflecting best practice, take account of the concerns raised by Performance Share Plan a new override provision will be investors at the 2018 AGM that had introduced for both the annual Again, no change will be made to not already been addressed by the bonus and PSP that will enable the policy award levels under the PSP.
These concerns Remuneration Committee to adjust However, a full two year post largely related to the structure and any formula-based incentive vesting holding period will be operation of the annual bonus plan.
outcomes to better reflect a introduced thus far, only 50% of Consequently, the Remuneration broader view of the Companys vested shares must be held for two Committee came to the view that financial performance and or years, with the remaining 50% changes should be made to this shareholders experience.
receivable immediately after the element of the current remuneration end of the three year performance In addition, the Remuneration policy at the same time as bringing period.
Committee will reserve some the current Performance Share Plan market-standard discretions A revised approach to PSP targets PSP into line with best practice regarding the operation of the will be followed.
For the 2019 institutional investor expectations.
annual bonus plan and PSP.
awards a blend of relative TSR, cash Following the conclusion of the flow and production targets will be Previously, shareholder approval has Remuneration Committees policy used.
been sought for the renewal of our review, a consultation exercise was Certain administrative changes policy every year.
However, to held with the Companys major to the PSP rules will be made: demonstrate the Remuneration shareholders and the main proxy the malus claw back provisions Committees long term commitment voting agencies.
The Remuneration that currently apply will be to this new policy and to reflect Committee was pleased that its formally enshrined into the PSP typical practice it is intended that proposed changes were well received rules and made more robust and the new policy will be applicable for by these bodies.
In summary, these wide-reaching: the three years following the 2019 proposed changes are as follows: the ability to credit dividends AGM, which the relevant resolution to Annual bonus plan declared over the vesting period be tabled at the forthcoming AGM will While no change will be made to on shares that vest will be reflect.
In addition, a resolution to overall bonus opportunity, a higher included: and approve the changes to the PSP portion of the bonus than was where required by the Plan rules will the treatment of awards in leaver previously the case i. e. now 70% also be tabled at the 2019 AGM, situations and in the event of a compared with 50% will be payable together with the normal resolution to change in control will be made by reference to performance approve the remuneration report.
more consistent with typical against financial and other practice i. e. i in prescribed objectively measurable targets.
good leaver circumstances, awards will normally vest at the expiry of the performance period subject to performance Centamin plc Annual report 2018 119 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued will vest due to the TSR and EBITDA any bonus earned in excess of 75% Introduction continued targets being achieved in full.
Full of salary will be deferred into Remuneration outcomes details of the vesting criteria and the shares.
for 2018 vesting outcome are set out on As explained in last years report, In 2018, 75% of the maximum bonus page 134.
Josef El-Raghy does not the annual bonus opportunities of opportunity was payable for achieving hold any PSP awards.
the three Executive Directors were a target level of performance.
The split between 50% financial and Approach to remuneration Remuneration Committees original operational metrics, 10% strategic, in 2019 intention was to retain this 75% of 10% corporate and 30% individual maximum payout for target Subject to shareholder approval being objectives.
No bonus was payable to performance for the 2019 bonus and obtained for the revised policy as any of the Executive Directors for the onwards.
However, having reflected described above, the Remuneration financial or operational metrics, with on the feedback it received from some Committee intends to adopt the the exception of the improvements in investors during the consultation following approach to the Executive the injury frequency rate LTIFR.
In exercise, the Remuneration Directors remuneration in 2019: addition, at the recommendation of Committee has agreed to alter its Base salary the Remuneration Committee, approach so that, for the 2019 bonus Andrew Pardey agreed to waive all Andrew Pardey and Ross Jerrard are and onwards, no more than 62.5% of amounts achieved including the LTIFR, to receive a 3% increase on their base the maximum is payable for achieving remaining financial, strategic, salary in 2019 in line with the increase the target level of performance i. e. corporate and individual objectives, in cost of living.
To reflect his change the approach that had been adopted resulting in a zero bonus payout.
in role, Josef El-Raghy will not receive to the bonus prior to 2018.
The Furthermore, it was not considered any salary but will receive an annual Remuneration Committee is appropriate to award a bonus to Josef Directors fee of 250,000. comfortable with this approach in light El-Raghy whilst serving notice under of a number of factors: Pension other benefits his executive contract and given his the bonus maximum of 125% of No changes will be made to the ongoing role as Non-Executive Chair.
salary is relatively modest for a approach adopted in the past i. e. However, having assessed Ross company of Centamins size and neither Andrew Pardey nor Jerrards performance against his complexity and therefore a 62.5% Ross Jerrard will receive a contribution individual targets further details of of maximum payout for target towards or allowance for a pension.
which can be found on page 133, it performance, when expressed as a To reflect his change in role, was recommended by the percentage of salary, is within the Josef El-Raghy will no longer be Remuneration Committee, and bandwidth of typical target bonus offered a pension provision.
approved by the Board, that Ross payouts offered by other similar should retain the bonus earned based Annual bonus sized companies that offer a higher on his performance against the targets Annual bonus opportunity for bonus maximum: initially set which results in a total Andrew Pardey and Ross Jerrard will when considered in the round, the bonus outturn for Ross Jerrard of 44% remain unchanged at 125% of salary.
Executive Directors total target of his maximum bonus opportunity Josef El-Raghy will no longer remuneration in aggregate reflects i. e. 55% of salary.
It should be noted participate in the annual bonus plan.
the appropriate amount when that Ross Jerrards non-financial taking account of the market in Reflecting the new policy: targets related to deliverables which which the Company operates and were not impacted by or directly 70% of the bonus opportunity will companies of a similar size and related to the operational challenges be based on financial objectively complexity, even with the 62.5% faced in 2018 and therefore the measurable targets, namely target payout under the bonus: Remuneration Committee felt that it Production assessed by reference the more robust approach that was not necessary or appropriate for to both volume and safety record will apply to the bonus structure Ross Jerrard to waive his bonus.
via LTIFR, EBITDA, sustaining and going forward e. g. bonus deferral, direct operating costs, The PSP awards granted to Andrew higher weighting on financial non-sustaining costs and capital Pardey and Ross Jerrard in June 2016 targets, more detailed target projects.
The remaining 30% will be are capable of vesting in June 2019. disclosure etc.
should be taken based on personal strategic Of the blend of TSR, reserve into account: and targets.
Further details can be replacement, EBITDA and production found on page 142: and targets measured up to the end of the 2018 financial year, 40% of the award 120 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the target level of the combined Non-Executive Directors legislative changes e. g. the disclosure performance metrics which, if of the CEO to all-employee pay ratio No changes to the fees of the achieved, would result in a 62.5% of which, as a Jersey incorporated Non-Executive Directors will be made maximum payout will be stretching.
company with considerably fewer than for 2019, save to reflect recent Therefore, paying 62.5% of 250 UK employees, is therefore not changes in responsibilities and or maximum bonus for this level of applicable to Centamin.
performance falls within the typical The fees now payable to Josef Summary market range.
El-Raghy following the change in I hope that you find the report clear role from Executive to Non-Executive Performance Share Plan and informative and are supportive of Chair are set out below.
the various changes we have made to Andrew Pardey and Ross Jerrard will Legislative and regulatory our remuneration policy and practices receive PSP awards over shares worth developments in light of the feedback we received 150% of salary, reflecting the from investors last year.
Josef The Remuneration Committee is El-Raghy will not receive an award.
considering the impact of recent I am always happy to hear from the Awards will vest based upon a blend regulatory changes e. g. the 2018 Companys shareholders and you can of three year relative TSR, cash flow Corporate Governance Code which contact me via the Company and production targets.
Also, formally apply to Centamin from the Secretary if you have any questions reflecting the new policy, these 2019 financial year onwards.
In our on this report or more generally in awards will be subject to a full two report next year, we are intending to relation to the Companys year post vesting holding period.
comply in full with the provisions of remuneration.
the 2018 Code, but we reserve the right to explain any area of Edward Haslam non-compliance if it is decided that Chairman of the Remuneration compliance would not be in the best Committee interests of Centamin or its shareholders.
The Remuneration 1 March 2019 Committee is aware of recent Executive Director remuneration at a glance KEY COMPONENT HOW IMPLEMENTED IN 2018 INTENDED IMPLEMENTATION FOR 2019 Base salary Executive Chair 546,363 There is no longer an Executive Chair CEO 506,966 CEO 522,175 CFO 402,500 CFO 414,575 Pension benefits Executive Chair 20% of salary There is no longer an Executive Chair CEO CFO 0% CEO CFO 0% Annual bonus Executive Chair 175% of salary maximum There is no longer an Executive Chair CEO CFO 125% of salary maximum CEO CFO 125% of salary maximum Targets: Targets: 20% financial 70% financial quantitative e. g. Production, EBITDA, sustaining and direct operating costs, 20% operational non-sustaining costs and capital projects 20% strategic 30% personal strategic 10% corporate Any bonus over 75% of salary is to be used to 30% personal purchase shares subject to a two year holding No share deferral period PSP Executive Chair no award There is no longer an Executive Chair CEO CFO 150% of salary CEO CFO 150% of salary Targets: Targets: 40% relative TSR vs industry peer group 50% relative TSR vs industry peer group 20% EBITDA 25% free cash flow generation 40% production 25% production Shareholding requirements 150% of salary post 2018 AGM change to 200% 200% of salary Centamin plc Annual report 2018 121 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued Introduction continued As set out in the business model, Centamin creates value through the process of gold exploration through to production by maximising production at the lowest possible cost.
The gold and silver dor bars produced at Sukari are sold to our appointed refiners who, in turn, refine the dor bars and sell the near-pure gold at the price determined by the London bullion markets.
Performance metrics used in the annual bonus and PSP reflect the achievement of the Company in meeting its strategic objectives through the actions and influences of the Executive Directors: KEY MEASURE LINKAGE TO INCENTIVE PLANS ASSET QUALITY AND FINANCIAL FLEXIBILITY Gold production Production targets employed in both the annual bonus and PSP Cost control EBITDA used in the annual bonus.
Cost control is a driver of long term returns to shareholders, measured via relative TSR in the PSP Stable finances Personal KPIs for formalising and implementing sound policy decisions reflected in the annual bonus STAKEHOLDER RETURNS Consistent dividend policy Delivering shareholder returns in line with the dividend policy will drive TSR which is measured in the PSP Shareholder return relative 50% of PSP based on relative performance against peers to peers ACTIVE GROWTH PIPELINE Optimising production Identifying high grade from the existing resource and optimising throughput rates, with production targets used in the bonus and PSP Self-funded growth Reserve replacement and growth targets employed in the strategic element of individual KPIs within and exploration the annual bonus Exploration in West Africa PSP provides a long term incentive to identify and deliver on projects outside of Egypt SUSTAINABILITY Safety record and human LTIFR used in production element of bonus structure.
Zero level 5 or 4 environmental incidents rewarded resources through personal KPIs.
Workforce engagement, implementing human rights, supplier policies and HR policies through personal KPIs Government relations and Maintaining key relationships and delivery of initiatives linked directly to individual bonus KPIs community initiatives Remuneration policy The Directors remuneration policy as set out below will be put to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 8 April 2019 and is intended to replace the existing policy and apply for the period of three years from the date of approval.
Details of the changes proposed to the existing policy are explained above.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ELEMENT OF PAY AND LINKAGE TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Base pay Pay is reviewed annually and any Base salaries will be set at an N A change ordinarily takes effect from appropriate level.
Any increase Base pay to be set 1 January.
When determining an which exceeds that of the competitively so as to appropriate level of salary, the general workforce may only allow the motivation Remuneration Committee considers: normally be awarded in cases of and retention of key a change in responsibility, executives of the remuneration practices within the complexity and nature of the calibre and skills Company: role or size of the organisation, necessary to support the performance of the individual when the pay level becomes out Centamins short and Executive Director: of line with the market data or to long term objectives.
the individual Executive Directors reflect the fact that a director experience and responsibilities: has been appointed on a below the general performance of the market salary with the intention Company: being that this salary will be salaries within the ranges paid by increased if considered the companies in the comparator appropriate.
group s used for remuneration benchmarking: and the economic environment.
122 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ELEMENT OF PAY AND LINKAGE TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Benefits The normal benefits that may be It is not intended that i normal N A provided include items such as car benefits will exceed 5% of base Benefits may be or car allowance, life assurance, pay and ii additional benefits provided where private medical provision, will exceed 10% of base pay to necessary to ensure subscriptions and phones.
include tax paid on the benefits.
competitive Therefore, it is not intended that remuneration Where necessary e. g. due to the normal benefits and additional packages are location of operations of the benefits will exceed 15% of base consistent with the business it may be necessary to pay to include tax paid on the market.
provide additional benefits such as benefits.
but not limited to private security, accommodation and reasonable travel costs or enhanced provision of other benefits.
Pension The Remuneration Committee It is intended that, if pension N A maintains the ability to provide provision is offered to any Positioned to ensure pension funding in the form of a Executive Director, the value of competitive packages salary supplement or formal pension such pension in percentage of and provision of allowance, which does not form part salary terms will be in line with appropriate income of the salary for the purposes of the pension contributions for executives in determining the extent of provided to the majority of the retirement.
participation in the Companys relevant workforce.
Annual bonus The Remuneration Committee will 125% of salary The performance measures are determine the bonus payable after selected to provide an appropriate To provide a driver the year end based on performance balance between incentivising and reward for the against targets.
Executive Directors to meet financial delivery of short term operational targets for the year and performance goals, Annual bonuses up to 75% of salary incentivising them to achieve specific normally over the are paid in cash after the end of the personal strategic objectives.
No less course of the financial financial year to which they relate.
than 70% of the bonus opportunity year.
The net amount of any bonus earned will be linked to the achievement of in excess of 75% of salary must be financial objectively measurable applied in the acquisition of shares targets.
that must in normal circumstances be retained for two years.
Dividend No more than 25% of the maximum equivalents can be paid on deferred opportunity is payable for delivering a shares.
threshold level of performance where such an approach can be applied The bonus plan is subject to given the nature of the metric target malus claw back provisions used.
Up to 62.5% of the maximum described in the notes to this table.
opportunity is payable for delivering a target level of performance again, where such an approach can be applied.
The Remuneration Committee may adjust the formula-based bonus outturn if this does not reflect underlying performance and or shareholders experience.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 123 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ELEMENT OF PAY AND LINKAGE TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Long term The Performance Share Plan PSP The aggregate market value as PSP awards vest subject to the incentives was approved by shareholders at the at the respective award dates of achievement of challenging AGM in 2015.
Executive Directors shares in respect of which performance conditions set by the To align the long term and other selected employees may awards are made to an eligible Remuneration Committee prior to interests of the participate in the PSP on the employee in any year shall not in each grant.
These conditions may executives with those recommendation of the normal circumstances be greater include a blend of financial, of shareholders.
than 150% of the amount of operational and or shareholder such eligible employees salary return-related metrics.
The Awards to Executive Directors shall at the award date, save in Remuneration Committee may adjust in normal circumstances be satisfied circumstances which are the formula-based vesting outturn if in shares and will vest no earlier than considered by the Remuneration this does not reflect underlying three years following grant subject to Committee to be exceptional, performance and or shareholders continued employment and the where an absolute limit of 250% experience.
satisfaction of performance of salary may be applied.
Awards granted from 2019 onwards which vest at the end of the three year performance period will be subject to an additional two year holding period.
During this period the shares cannot be sold other than as required for tax purposes.
A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Remuneration Committee to pay an amount in shares or cash equivalent to the dividends paid or payable on vested shares between the date of grant and the vesting of an award.
Awards are subject to malus claw back provisions described in the notes to this table.
Share ownership Executive Directors are required to 200% of salary.
The N A requirement build a holding of shares in the Remuneration Committee will, Company equivalent to 200% of during the course of the year, To encourage base salary.
consider its approach to post ownership of shares, cessation shareholding thereby creating requirements for Directors.
alignment of interest between shareholders and the executives.
124 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ELEMENT AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS Non-Executive When appointed, the independent Non-Executive Chairs fees will be N A Director fees determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Board.
The level of fees takes into To attract and retain account the time commitment, responsibilities, market levels and the high calibre skills and experience required.
Non-Executive Directors by the Non-Executive Directors normally receive a basic fee and an additional provision of fee for specific Board responsibilities, including membership and competitive fees.
Chairmanship of Remuneration Committees or if materially more time is required to be spent in the course of their duties than envisaged.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are entitled to receive certain benefits in addition to fees.
Expenses incurred in the performance of non-executive duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on the expenses.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive arrangements.
Malus claw back the participants: determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the Bonuses and or PSP awards may be the timing of the grant of an award amendment is required so that the subject to malus claw back for up to or payment: conditions achieve their original three years after payout vesting in the the size of an award: purpose and are not materially less following circumstances: i termination the determination of the extent to difficult to satisfy having taken for cause gross misconduct: ii which performance measures have account of the event in question.
material misstatement of accounts: iii been met and the corresponding error in calculation of the extent of vesting or payment levels: The Remuneration Committee also payout vesting: iv an event that discretion required when dealing retains discretion to make any materially adversely affects the with a change of control or payments, notwithstanding that they Companys reputation which may restructuring of the Group: are not in line with the policy set out include a material health and safety above, where the terms of the determination of the treatment of event and: v corporate failure.
payment were agreed: i before the leavers based on the rules of the policy came into effect: or ii at a time Committee discretions respective arrangement and the when the relevant individual was not a appropriate treatment chosen, As noted above, the Remuneration Director of the Company and, in the including the pro rating of awards: Committee retains the discretion to opinion of the Remuneration adjust the outturn under the annual adjustments required in certain Committee, the payment was not in bonus and or PSP based on a circumstances e. g. rights issues, consideration of the individual formulaic assessment of performance corporate restructuring events and becoming a Director of the Company.
against the targets if such formulaic special dividends : For these purposes, payments assessment provides a result that is the annual review of performance includes the Remuneration Committee not considered appropriate and or not measures, weighting and targets satisfying awards of variable reflective of shareholders experience from year to year: and remuneration and, in relation to an over the relevant performance period.
the manner in which share awards award over shares, the terms of the can be satisfied i. e. through the The Remuneration Committee will payment are determined at the time use of new issue, market purchased operate the annual bonus and long the award is granted.
Details of any or treasury shares or by way of a term incentive arrangements such payments will be disclosed in the cash payment, although it is according to their respective rules and annual report on remuneration for the currently intended that PSP awards in accordance with the Listing Rules relevant year.
will be satisfied in shares.
Consistent with Any use of the above discretions market practice the Remuneration In addition, the Remuneration would be explained in the annual Committee retains certain discretions Committee retains the ability to adjust report on remuneration for the in respect of the operation and the targets and or set different relevant year and may, as appropriate, administration of these arrangements measures if events occur e. g. a be the subject of consultation with the which include, but are not limited to, material acquisition and or divestment Companys major shareholders.
the following: of a Group business which cause it to Centamin plc Annual report 2018 125 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy continued Annual incentives are typically linked CEO CFO to local business performance with a focus on performance against key 2,072k 1,574k strategic business objectives.
Key management team members may also 38% 40% 1,475k receive some of their annual bonus in 1,099k 29% shares which are deferred.
At this time 32% there are no all-employee share 32% 33% 28% 29% arrangements but this is kept under 636k 433k review on a regular basis taking 100% 43% 31% 100% 39% 28% account of the locations the Company operates in and the appropriateness Fixed On target Max Fixed On target Max of share-based rewards in such Fixed pay Annual bonus locations.
Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP LTIP All employees of Sukari Gold Mine Company the majority of whom are Performance targets Three scenarios have been illustrated based at the Sukari mine site are for each Executive Director: Annual bonus metrics and targets are subject to a performance related selected to provide an appropriate 1.
Minimum performance: bonus which is linked to underlying balance between incentivising comprising the minimum operation performance and cost Executive Directors to meet financial remuneration receivable i. e. fixed control measures at the mine.
Further objectives for the year and achieving pay only, being base salary details on employee relations can be strategic operational personal effective 1 January 2019, pension found in the sustainability report, objectives.
Annual bonus metrics and allowances for the 2019 financial which is published separately.
targets are chosen to be incentivising year if any and benefits calculated Although the Remuneration and appropriately stretching.
Metrics using the 2018 figure as set out in Committee does not actively consult used in the PSP are determined by the the table on page 129. with employees on the remuneration Remuneration Committee to reflect 2.
On-target performance: policy, consideration is given to the the Companys strategy and having comprising fixed pay, an annual base salary increase, relative regard to market practice within the bonus payment of 62.5% of the performance of the Company and Companys sector.
Measuring maximum opportunity and PSP working conditions of the wider performance over a three year period awards vesting at 25% of maximum workforce.
The main differences in under the PSP ensures a genuine long opportunity.
determining executive and senior term focus.
Maximum performance: employee compensation compared Illustration of application of comprising fixed pay, 100% of to the wider workforce relates to the remuneration policy annual bonus and 100% vesting emphasis on rewarding long term The following charts illustrate the of PSP awards.
performance, as well as performance remuneration opportunity provided at an operational, strategic and The illustrations do not take into to each Executive Director in line corporate level.
Consideration is also account dividends and the value of with the proposed revisions to the given to the level of responsibility of the share plan is based on the value remuneration policy at different executives and senior employees.
levels of performance for the 2019 In addition, the Remuneration financial year.
The wider employee context Committee will be reviewing its Our remuneration policy for Executive approach in light of the publication of Directors takes account of that across the 2018 UK Corporate Governance the Company and aims to attract and Code which recommends that retain high performing individuals and engagement with the workforce takes to reward success.
Base pay and place to explain how executive benefits are set competitively taking remuneration aligns with wider account of the individuals Company pay policy.
126 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Consideration of Policy if a new Director the proportion of the performance shareholder views is appointed period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of Feedback from shareholders, as well When hiring a new Executive Director, employment: as proxy advisers acting on behalf of or promoting an individual to the many of our major shareholders and Board, the Remuneration Committee the performance conditions meetings held with shareholders and will offer a package that is sufficient to attached to the vesting of these investors, are considered as part of attract and motivate while aiming to incentives and the likelihood of the Companys annual remuneration pay no more than is necessary, taking them being satisfied: policy review.
Major shareholders are account of market data, the impact on the timeframe to receipt of shares: contacted should there be any other existing remuneration and proposed material changes to our arrangements, the candidates any other terms and conditions remuneration policy or practices, as location and experience, external having a material effect on their was the case in connection with the market influences and internal pay value lapsed value.
The Remuneration Committee may Service contracts The structure of the remuneration then grant up to the equivalent value package of a new Executive Director Executive Directors have rolling as the lapsed value, where possible, will follow the policy above: however, service contracts which are terminable under the Companys incentive plans in certain circumstances, the on no more than twelve months and any buy-out would typically aim to Remuneration Committee may use notice on either side.
Executive mirror the form and structure of what other elements of remuneration if it Directors are entitled to be paid salary is forfeited on joining the Company.
considers it appropriate with due and pension in respect of the relevant To the extent that it is not possible or regard to the best interests of the notice period.
In the case of notice practical to provide the buy-out within shareholders.
In particular, a service given in connection with and shortly the terms of the Companys existing contract that contains a longer initial following a change of control, incentive plans the Remuneration notice period, tapering down to Executive Directors will be entitled to Committee may, in exceptional twelve months over a set period of payment in lieu of an amount equal to circumstances consider it appropriate time, the buy-out of short and or long twelve months basic salary together to grant an award under a different term incentive arrangements taking with any bonus that, in the opinion of structure to facilitate a buy-out of account of the performance measures the Remuneration Committee, would outstanding awards held by an on such incentives as close as have been due to him at the time of individual on recruitment.
possible on a comparable basis, the the completion of the change of Where an existing employee is provision of long term incentives and control taking into account all the promoted to the Board, the policy set the provision of benefits such as relevant performance indicators.
out above would apply from the date housing allowance or similar The Chairman and Non-Executive of promotion but there would be no particularly where it is an expatriate Directors have formal letters of retrospective application of the policy appointment may be offered.
appointment which provide for three in relation to subsisting incentive That said, the Remuneration months notice for the Chairman and awards or remuneration Committees policy is not to provide reasonable notice for the other arrangements.
These letters elements of the remuneration the Remuneration Committees policy of appointment also provide for package for an existing employee is not to provide buy-outs as a matter additional payments to be made post would be honoured and form part of of course.
However, should the termination in the event that they are the ongoing remuneration of the Remuneration Committee determine required to spend material time person concerned.
These would be that the individual circumstances of assisting the Company, for example in disclosed to shareholders in the recruitment justified the provision of a connection with an investigation for annual report on Remuneration for the buy-out, an estimate of the equivalent which they are entitled to be relevant financial year.
value of any incentives that will be indemnified by the Company.
The Companys policy when setting forfeited on cessation of a Directors There are no other provisions for fees for the appointment of new previous employment will be payment for loss of office.
Directors Non-Executive Directors is to apply calculated taking into account: service contracts are kept available for the policy which applies to current inspection at the Companys Non-Executive Directors.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 127 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued Where the Company wishes to With regard to annual bonus, the Remuneration policy continued terminate the agreement and make a Remuneration Committees approach Policy on payment for payment in lieu of notice, this payment will be influenced by the loss of office shall normally be phased in monthly or circumstances of the cessation.
Directors contractual terms and quarterly instalments over a period of A departing executive may be entitled conditions, including notice periods, no longer than twelve months or the to a bonus and, if so, such bonus will are reviewed by the Remuneration and notice period if less and any payment normally be pro rated for the period of Nomination Committees.
should where appropriate be employment and be payable at the The Companys approach to payment reduced in accordance with the duty end of the relevant year based on on loss of office will take account of on the executive to mitigate his loss.
performance against the relevant the circumstances of the termination The Company will consider if any targets.
Bonuses may be paid in of employment.
In the normal course, bonus amount is to be included in the respect of the year in which a change the individual will be expected to work calculation when determining the of control occurs, if the Remuneration through the notice period and will be payment in lieu of notice.
Any bonus Committee considers this appropriate, entitled to all the benefits under the if included at all would normally be with the Remuneration Committee service agreement during that period restricted to the Directors actual determining the level of bonus taking subject to the garden leave provisions period of service only i. e. be the into account any factors it considers which may be applied in certain subject of a possible reduction.
In the case of notice given in In relation to the PSP, in normal Subject to the employees compliance connection with and shortly following circumstances awards lapse on with the Companys sickness absence a change of control then the Executive cessation of employment.
However, procedures as amended from time to Directors are entitled to payment in in certain good leaver circumstances time, the employee shall continue to lieu of an amount equal to twelve awards will normally vest at the expiry receive his full salary and contractual months basic salary plus bonus.
Any of the performance period subject to benefits during any period of absence bonus that may be due to him at the performance against the targets and a due to incapacity for up to an completion of the change of control pro rata reduction unless the aggregate of 10 days in any 52 week shall be determined by the Committee Remuneration Committee determines period.
Such payment shall be and such bonus if any would normally otherwise.
In the event of a change in inclusive of any statutory sick pay be based on the period only up to the control, awards will normally vest at due in accordance with applicable completion of the change of control, that point subject to performance legislation in force at the time taking account of all the relevant key against the targets and a pro rata of absence.
reduction unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
In the case of a termination as a result The Remuneration Committee of poor performance or a breach of reserves the right to make additional Policy on external Board any of the material terms of the payments where such payments are appointments agreement, then the Company may made in good faith in discharge of an The Company will consider requests terminate with immediate effect existing legal obligation or by way of for Executive Directors to have without notice and with no liability damages for breach of such an non-executive external appointments, to make any further payment to the obligation : or by way of settlement or on the basis that such appointments individual other than in respect of compromise of any claim arising in do not adversely impact on the duties amounts accrued due at the date of connection with the termination of an required to be performed to the termination.
Executive Directors office or Company.
Where there are external employment: or in relation to the appointments, the Director will retain provision of outplacement or similar any fees for such appointments and services.
will not be liable to account to the Company for such fees.
40% of the performance conditions relating to PSP awards granted in 2016 have been met as at 31 December 2018 and the full market value based on the average of the last three months of 2018 has been attributed to the table above.
Details of the grants made under the terms of the PSP can be found in page 135.
Benefits are within the limits of the policy and relate primarily to travel related costs to and from the individuals original place of domicile.
Directors remuneration paid in foreign currency was converted at an average rate during the year.
The average GBP:US$ exchange rate for 2018 was 1.364.
Bonus accruals for 2018 applied an exchange rate of GBP:US$1.2823 to reflect the exchange rate at the end of the year.
The pension payable to Josef El-Raghy represents a cash payment in lieu of contributions to a pension scheme.
Non-Executive Director fees audited Non-Executive Directors receive annual fees within an aggregate Directors fee pool limited to an amount which is approved by shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee reviews and recommends, for Board approval, remuneration levels and policies for Directors within this overall Directors fee pool.
The fees which are paid are also periodically reviewed.
The current annual fee rate for Non-Executive Directors is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 As at 31 December 2017 Annual base fee GBP65,000 US$83,350 GBP65,000 US$84,273 Chairman of a Board committee GBP10,000 US$12,823 GBP10,000 US$12,965 Member of a Board committee GBP5,000 US$6,411 GBP5,000 US$6,482 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director GBP125,000 US$160,288 GBP125,000 US$162,064 Notes to table: During 2018 Edward Haslam undertook an enhanced role as Deputy Chairman and senior Non-Executive Director.
These duties are reflected in this fee.
The fee remains unchanged in 2018 and no further remuneration has been applied for additional committee membership.
The Company reviewed the Non-Executive Director fees during 2018 and no increases were proposed.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys share plans or incentive plans.
The US$ figure in the table reflects the average exchange rate during the year, which may differ from the amount shown in the single figure table as payments to Non-Executive Directors are made quarterly and reflect the exchange rate at the date of the transaction.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 129 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued a successful handover of executive 30% individual targets based on Annual remuneration report duties had been undertaken from a number of factors such as i continued Josef to Andrew Pardey.
achieving pre-feasibility study in 2018 annual bonus audited West Africa and building relations The 2018 bonus plan for the Executive Andrew Pardeys 2018 bonus was split with the authorities in Burkina Faso Directors was based upon a balanced between 70% business and 30% and Cte dIvoire, ii governance scorecard approach designed to individual targets as follows: objectives including diversity encourage and reward the delivery of 70% business targets based on: improvements and senior operational, financial, strategic and management appointments, 20% financial profitability corporate performance.
As set out in iii ESG-related targets e. g. relating financial position, cost against the risk matrix, the Company is to preparation of a feasibility study budget and operational exposed to the daily fluctuations in for the installation of a 15MW solar efficiency : the price of gold, receiving the market power plant on site at Sukari, 30% operational meeting rates on the day of sale.
Consequently, iv employee welfare targets e. g. production guidance, health, revenue cannot be directly linked with continue to develop and review HR safety and environment, CSR the performance of the executive, and policies and procedures, v human development, open pit and therefore the Remuneration rights targets e. g. review the 2015 underground mining, resource Committee used other metrics to Act further with a view to and reserve growth : assess performance such as controls enhancing the Companys existing 10% strategic measures Sukari over costs, production rates, targeted human rights policies during 2018, underground reserve expansion, drilling through exploration as well as giving consideration to the 2015 exploration success in Egypt and encouraging a safety culture and Act and related UK guidance on elsewhere, M&A opportunities sustainable operations.
adherence with the Acts principles including geographical In relation to Josef El-Raghy, the and vi disclosure targets e. g. diversification : and Remuneration Committee noted that develop policies and processes 10% corporate HSES during 2018 he served a twelve month towards GRI compliance.
objectives including Sukari, notice period.
To reflect this, and his Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire ongoing role as Non-Executive Chair, social initiatives, emissions the Committee agreed that a bonus controls and water management would not be awarded to Josef and developing the El-Raghy for 2018 although the organisational culture.
Remuneration Committee noted that The following table summarises performance against Andrew Pardeys 2018 bonus targets audited : Provisional outturn as % of Performance Maximum bonus maximum bonus measure Weighting opportunity opportunity Business targets Financial see breakdown below 20% 25% 0% Operational see breakdown below 30% 37.5% 4% Strategic 10% 12.5% 3% Corporate 10% 12.5% 5% Individual targets Individual KPIs 30% 37.5% 15% Total 100% 125% 27% 130 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Performance against Andrews financial and operational targets were as follows audited : Provisional outturn as % of maximum Performance % of bonus bonus Category measure opportunity Threshold Target Maximum Actual opportunity Financial 20% EBITDA US$m 10% 319 354 372 258 0% All-in sustaining production cost US$ per ounce 10% 847 610 770 555 731 527 884 624 0% Operational 30% Production 000 ounces 25% 522 580 609 472 0% LTIFR 5% 0.27 0.08 0.01 0.06 4% Notes to table: Threshold achievement represents 25% of the bonus opportunity for the respective performance measure.
Maximum achievement represents 100% of the bonus opportunity for the respective performance measure.
AISC is based on ounces sold.
Production is based on ounces produced.
LTIFR is based on 200,000 working hours calculated for the Group.
Due to a change in accounting policy see note 1.2.
1 in the financial statements, target EBITDA has been adjusted to deduct E&E expenditure which is now expensed, rather than capitalised, so the measure is on an equivalent basis to the actual.
In reviewing performance against the strategic, corporate and individual targets, the Remuneration Committee considered the key milestones achieved during the year which Andrew Pardey was instrumental in delivering.
These included the following: ANDREW PARDEY ACHIEVED UNAUDITED Strategic see full details in the strategic report and operational highlights Total provisional outturn as % of max Delivered reserve replacement at Sukari Underground bonus : 3% Progressed Sukari Underground operation Cleopatra exploration & development Exploration drilling programmes in Cte dIvoire Doropo and ABC projects undertaken Reviewed and assessed M&A projects Preparation of long term mine plans and related models Corporate see full details in the 2018 sustainability report which is published separately Total provisional outturn as % of max More than 95 Take5 pre-start micro-risk assessment completed every day bonus : 5% 38.9% of all water recycled $744,574 invested in community development projects in 2018 58% of suppliers at Sukari are Egyptian up from 45% in 2017 Individual KPIs see further details in the operational review, Nomination Committee and sustainability Total provisional reports outturn as % of max bonus : 15% Updated resource statements covering Doropo and ABC in Cte dIvoire Arranged and attended key government meetings in Egypt Board succession and diversity progressed Senior management team appointments made Solar power farm evaluation progressed Supply chain reviewed preparation of human rights policies undertaken HR policies and procedures reformed GRI compliance and CDP disclosures made Centamin plc Annual report 2018 131 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report continued 2018 annual bonus audited continued However, at the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee and taking into account the production challenges during 2018 which resulted in the downgrades on during the year, Andrew Pardey agreed to waive all amounts achieved under his bonus arrangements amounting to 27% of his maximum bonus, resulting in a zero bonus payout for 2018.
Ross Jerrards 2018 bonus was also split between 70% business and 30% individual targets as follows: 70% the business targets are based on: 20% financial profitability financial position, cost against budget and operational efficiency : 30% operational meeting production guidance, health, safety and environment, CSR development, open pit and underground mining, resource and reserve growth : 10% strategic measures M&A opportunities including geographical diversification and exploration success in Egypt and elsewhere : and 10% corporate: deliver on annual audit plans internal and external, financial controls and framework, deliver all financial compliance across the Group and subsidiaries and overall responsibility for tax, treasury, risk and insurance.
30% individual targets based on a number of factors such as: i building the management team and taking on the new responsibilities as Executive Director: ii building team capabilities across finance and HR: iii delivering high quality and timely financial and non-financial metrics: iv providing quality and timely financial information to the Board: and v implementing upgrades to financial systems and reporting.
The following table summarises performance against Ross Jerrards 2018 bonus targets audited : Provisional outturn as % of maximum Performance Maximum bonus bonus measure Weighting opportunity opportunity Business targets Financial see breakdown below 20% 25% 0% Operational see breakdown below 30% 37.5% 4% Strategic 10% 12.5% 5% Corporate 10% 12.5% 8% Individual targets Individual KPIs 30% 37.5% 27% Total 100% 125% 44% 132 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Performance against Ross Jerrards financial and operational targets were as follows audited : Provisional outturn as % of maximum Performance % of bonus bonus Category measure opportunity Threshold Target Maximum Actual opportunity Financial 20% EBITDA US$m 10% 319 354 372 258 0% All-in sustaining and production cost US$ per ounce 10% 847 610 770 555 731 527 884 624 0% Operational 30% Production 000 ounces 25% 522 580 609 472 0% LTIFR 5% 0.27 0.08 0.01 0.06 4% Notes to table: Threshold achievement represents 25% of the bonus opportunity for the respective performance measure.
1 to the financial statements, target EBITDA has been adjusted to deduct E&E expenditure which is now expensed, rather than capitalised, so the measure is on an equivalent basis to the actual.
In reviewing performance against the strategic, corporate and individual targets, the Remuneration Committee considered the key milestones achieved during the year which Ross Jerrard was instrumental in delivering.
These included the following: ROSS JERRARD ACHIEVED UNAUDITED Strategic see further details in the strategic report and financial review Total provisional outturn as % of max Reviewed and assessed potential M&A projects building models to assess potential bonus : 5% Prepared and contributed to long term mine plan modelling Management of both capex and E&E spend within approved budget parameters Corporate see further details in the financial review Total provisional outturn as % of max Handled tax related matters across the Companys jurisdictions bonus : 8% Insurance renewal programme undertaken improvements secured in cover and reduction in overall premium on insurance Treasury management undertaken and maintained dividend distributions in excess of policy Minimised impact of cost per ounce metrics despite downgrade in production guidance Improved internal reporting and ensured timely delivery of financial information Individual KPIs see further details in the financial review and audit and risk report Total provisional outturn as % of max Maintained good relations with EMRA and government, attending key meetings and scheduled assemblies bonus : 27% Delivery of audit and assurance engagements Successful management of FRC enquiry see more in the audit and risk report on page 113 Secured reduction in Inventory and working capital Reductions in minimum stock levels and key consumables and reagents secured Sector leading management of corporate costs $30 per ounce produced Work with suppliers and supply chain management improved Systems improvements made in inventory and accounting across the business Centamin plc Annual report 2018 133 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report continued 2018 annual bonus audited continued The Remuneration Committee assessed Ross Jerrards performance against his bonus targets and it was recommended by the Remuneration Committee, and approved by the Board, that Ross Jerrard should be paid the following bonuses: i 4% of his maximum bonus opportunity for the LTIFR element: and ii 40% of his maximum bonus entitlement by reference to performance against the remaining strategic, corporate and individual KPIs.
It should be noted that Ross Jerrards personal targets related to deliverables which were not impacted by or directly related to the operational challenges faced in 2018 and therefore the Remuneration Committee felt that it was not necessary or appropriate for Ross to waive his award.
Achievement against the KPIs are assessed by the Remuneration Committee comparing the relative achievement during the year and the pre-determined indicators set at the beginning of the year.
Therefore, the bonus outcome for Ross Jerrard for 2018 was 44% of the maximum opportunity of 125%, which equates to GBP221,357 and represents 55% of base salary.
Long term incentives shares award table audited Vesting of June 2016 PSP award The performance conditions for the grants made in June 2016 covered the period from 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2018.
40% of the performance conditions have now been met as set out below: PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS RANGE % ACHIEVED 20% relative total shareholder return 31 December 2015 to 31 December 2018: achieved upper quartile 100% 1 ranked fourth out of 15-strong comparator group 30% mineral reserve replacement 105% replacement level of performance for 100% payout 0% 75% replacement level of performance for 25% payout Global Sukari reserve replacement achieved: 0% 20% compound growth rate in EBITDA 9% CAGR level of performance for 100% payout 100% 5% CAGR level of performance for 25% payout 2 31 December 2015: EBITDA US$117,817 million 31 December 2018: EBITDA US$257,934 million CAGR in EBITDA achieved of 29.8%: 100% 30% compound growth in 8% CAGR level of performance for 100% payout 0% gold production 4% CAGR level of performance for 25% payout 31 December 2015: gold production of 508,396 ounces 31 December 2018: gold production of 472,418 ounces CAGR of gold production achieved: 0% 1 TSR against the comparator group was independently verified by Korn Ferry.
2 Due to a change in accounting policy see note 1.2.
1 in the financial statements, published EBITDA in the 2015 financial statements has been adjusted to deduct E&E expenditure which is now expensed, rather than capitalised, so the measure is on an equivalent basis.
134 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For Andrew Pardey, 276,000 of the 690,000 shares over which awards were granted in 2016 shall vest.
For Ross Jerrard, 350,000 of the 875,000 shares over which awards were granted in 2016 shall vest.
50% of the vested award will vest in June 2019 and the remaining 50% vested will be held for a further two years.
PSP award table Andrew Pardey Value of End of Basis of Total award at performance award vested in Total grant date Total 5 4 6 Award Type period granted Granted 2018 unvested in US$ vested PSP 4 June Conditional 31 Dec 150% of 1 2015 award 2017 base salary 900,000 900,000 900,000 861,660 PSP 4 June Conditional 31 Dec 150% of 2 2016 award 2018 base salary 690,000 690,000 931,597 276,000 PSP 4 June Conditional 31 Dec 150% of 3 2017 award 2019 base salary 440,000 440,000 824,560 PSP 4 June Conditional 31 Dec 150% of 4 2018 award 2020 base salary 640,000 640,000 696,320 There is nil cost for conditional awards which are subject to performance conditions.
PSP award table Ross Jerrard Value of End of Basis of award at performance award Total Total grant date Total 4 5,6 Award Type period granted Granted vested unvested in US$ vested PSP 4 June Conditional 31 Dec 250% of 2 2016 award 2018 base salary 875,000 875,000 1,181,373 350,000 PSP 4 June Conditional 31 Dec 200% of 3 2017 award 2019 base salary 420,000 420,000 787,080 PSP 4 June Conditional 31 Dec 150% of 4 2018 award 2020 base salary 510,000 510,000 554,880 1 The value of the award granted under the terms of the PSP on 4 June 2015 in US$ is 20% TSR: 0.7894: 50% EPS: 0.9994: 30% gold production: 0.9994.
The market value of the shares as at the date of the award, in accordance with the scheme rules, was 0.69 per share.
2 The value of the award granted under the terms of the PSP on 4 June 2016 in US$ is 20%: TSR: 0.9107: 30% reserve growth: 1.46: 20% EBITDA: 1.46: 30% gold production: 1.46.
The market value of the shares as at the date of the award, in accordance with the scheme rules, was 0.985 per share.
3 The value of the award granted under the terms of the PSP on 4 June 2017 in US$ is 20% TSR: 1.49: 30% reserve growth: 1.97: 20% EBITDA: 1.97: 30% gold production: 1.97.
The market value of the shares as at the date of the award, in accordance with the scheme rules, was 1.67 per share.
4 The value of the award granted under the terms of the PSP on 27 June 2018 in US$ is 40% TSR: 0.71: 20% EBITDA: 1.34: 40% gold production: 1.34.
The market value of the shares as at the date of the award, in accordance with the scheme rules, was 1.17 per share.
5 The performance conditions for the grant made in June 2015 were met in full at 31 December 2017 and the current market value is included in the single figure table.
The awards made in June 2015 vested in June 2018.
6 The performance conditions for the grant made in June 2016 achieved 40% and the current market value is included in the single figure table.
The awards made in June 2016 are due to vest in June 2019.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 135 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report continued Service contracts Under the Articles of Association adopted by the Company, all Directors are now subject to annual re-election.
All members of the Board offered themselves for either election or re-election at the last annual general meeting of the Company.
Copies of the appointment letters, including the terms of service, are available at the Companys registered office or at the annual general meeting.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors have formal letters of appointment and there is no provision for payments for loss of office.
ANDREW PARDEY ROSS JERRARD Date of agreement February 2019.
Notice period Twelve months notice from either party.
Twelve months notice from either party.
Expiry date No fixed expiry date as rolling contract.
No fixed expiry date as rolling contract.
Pension Andrew Pardey does not receive a pension or a Ross Jerrard does not receive a pension or a cash cash payment in lieu of a pension and this will payment in lieu of a pension and this will remain remain under review.
Benefits Entitlement in accordance with the remuneration Entitlement in accordance with the remuneration policy.
Annual bonus Eligible to participate in an annual bonus Eligible to participate in an annual bonus arrangement as determined by the Remuneration arrangement as determined by the Remuneration Committee from time to time.
Committee from time to time.
Termination payment Entitled to be paid salary and pension in respect of Entitled to be paid salary and pension in respect of the relevant notice period.
In the case of notice the relevant notice period.
In the case of notice given in connection with and shortly following a given in connection with and shortly following a change of control, Andrew Pardey will be entitled change of control, Ross Jerrard will be entitled to to payment in lieu of an amount equal to twelve payment in lieu of an amount equal to twelve months basic salary together with any bonus that, months basic salary together with any bonus that, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, would have been due to him at the time of the would have been due to him at the time of the completion of the change of control taking into completion of the change of control taking into account all the relevant performance indicators.
account all the relevant performance indicators.
Long term incentives Eligible to participate in the PSP.
Eligible to participate in the PSP.
136 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Shareholding guidelines audited To encourage ownership of shares and thereby create a link of interest between shareholders and the executives, the remuneration policy requires Executive Directors to build a holding of shares in the Company equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Vested shares awarded by the Company are included in the calculation.
The following table shows the current shareholding of each of the Directors.
As at 31 Percentage December Unvested of base 1 4 3,4 Name 2018 awards Balance salary 2 Executive Directors Andrew Pardey 3,789,268 1,770,000 2,019,268 433% 5 Ross Jerrard 1,805,000 1,805,000 0% 2 Non-Executive Directors Josef El-Raghy 10,500,000 10,500,000 n a Edward Haslam 127,056 127,056 n a Mark Arnesen 49,000 49,000 n a Mark Bankes 190,000 190,000 n a Alison Baker n a Ibrahim Fawzy n a 6 Trevor Schultz 32,600 n a 1 No Non-Executive Directors hold shares, share options or awards that are subject to performance measures.
2 There have been no changes to Directors shareholdings from 31 December 2018 to the date of this report.
3 The valuations of the shareholdings are based on the share price at 31 December 2018.
4 Includes shares held subject to the two year holding period under the terms of the PSP.
5 In June 2019, 350,000 shares are due to vest to Ross Jerrard resulting in share ownership with a value of circa 100% of base salary.
6 Reflects the share ownership as at 26 March 2018 when Trevor Schultz resigned as a Director.
Performance graph and CEO remuneration table The graph below compares the TSR of the Company to the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Mining indices.
The graphs show the return for the last seven years.
The graphs were chosen to allow shareholders to compare the Companys performance against other peers considered relevant for these purposes.
Centamin plc FTSE Gold Mine FTSE 250 250 200 150 100 50 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 137 US$ CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report continued Performance graph and CEO remuneration table continued The Remuneration Committee considers that these indices are appropriate comparators of the Company for this purpose.
We have reflected details of the CEO pay from 2011, when Centamin plc was incorporated.
Long term Annual incentives bonus vesting in Single figure as % of year as % of Chairman Josef El-Raghy remuneration maximum maximum 2011 Chairman CEO US$1,290,742 65% n a 2012 Chairman CEO US$1,920,644 80% n a 2013 Chairman CEO US$2,020,562 75% n a 2014 Chairman CEO US$2,073,192 80% n a 2015 Chairman US$1,862,338 70% n a Long term Annual incentives bonus vesting in Single figure as % of year as % of CEO Andrew Pardey remuneration maximum maximum 2016 US$1,205,892 77% 0% 2017 US$3,096,791 78% 100% 2018 US$1,144,053 Bonus waived 40% The CEO pay from 2012 to 2014 reflects the total remuneration for Josef El-Raghy while he held the position of CEO and Chairman.
Andrew Pardey was appointed CEO from 1 February 2015.
Percentage change in remuneration unaudited The Company has chosen the comparator group to be all the employees of the Centamin Group excluding Non-Executive Directors.
Percentage Percentage Percentage change in change in change in salary benefits bonus between 2017 between 2017 between 2017 and 2018 and 2018 and 2018 1 Comparator group 3% 24% -40% 2 Centamins Chief Executive Officer 3% 0% -100% 1 Based on the average number of employees based in Egypt in 2018: 1,380 2017: 1,345 employees.
2 Based on the US$ amount disclosed in the single figure table excludes change in PSP.
Relative spend on pay The following table proves an illustration of the relative spend on pay to place the Directors pay in the context of the wider Group finances.
Between Percentage Spend on pay 2017 and 2018 change $million 1 Comparator group -2% 23.38 Remuneration of Centamins Executive Directors -16% 2.56 Remuneration of Centamins Non-Executive Directors 0% 0.5 2 Distributions to Centamin shareholders -55% 63.5 1 Based on the average number of employees based in Egypt in 2018: 1,380 2017: 1,345 employees.
2 The percentage change relates to distributions to shareholders based on the amount paid during 2017 and 2018.
138 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Centamin is not required to report performance conditions over the gold production: 40% of the award under the Equality Act 2010 Gender three year financial period ended shall be assessed by reference to Pay Gap Information Regulations 2017 31 December 2018.
As noted above, compound growth in gold as only a few members of staff are 40% of these awards vested.
production over the three year either UK tax residents or have a UK period to December 2020.
The majority of the workforce compound annual growth rate of 3,459,000 conditional awards to are based in Egypt.
3.5% of gold production is employees of the Group.
The awards achieved by 2020, all 40% of the Other than the paid and declared granted in June 2017 will vest in June award tranche shall vest.
If gold dividends during the year, there have 2020 with 50% of the vested shares production in 2020 is maintained at been no other shareholder related deferred for a further two years and the levels achieved in 2017, 25% of returns of capital or share buy backs subject to satisfaction of the the award tranche shall vest.
performance conditions over the In total, 40 employees participate in three-year financial period ended Long term incentive the PSP, including heads of 31 December 2019.
Details can be arrangements department and senior personnel found in the 2016 annual report and Introduction based on site, as well as members of accounts but are in summary, i 20% Centamin introduced a long term the senior management team located of the award shall be assessed by incentive scheme the Performance at the head office.
reference to a target total shareholder Share Plan, or PSP which was return: ii 30% of the award shall be Deferred bonus scheme approved by shareholders at the AGM assessed by reference to reserve not for Directors on 18 May 2015.
The PSP was replacement and growth, iii 20% of introduced to provide a suitable This plan, introduced in 2012, allows the award shall be assessed by recruitment and retention tool for any the annual bonus to be matched with reference to EBITDA adjusted for new or promoted executives and shares which are then ordinarily non-cash impairments and iv 30% incentivise Executive Directors and released in three annual tranches, of the award shall be assessed by senior management.
The PSP takes conditional upon continued reference to compound growth in due account of best practice employment with the Group.
guidelines and provides a platform, was introduced as a review of annual as part of the remuneration policy, to bonus arrangements for management June 2018 be used to provide a long term with the objectives of: 4,908,000 conditional awards to reward tool for participants.
The awards increasing the variable pay element granted on 27 June 2018 will vest in Following the adoption of the PSP, the of remuneration: 27 June 2021 with 50% of the vested Company has granted the following introducing a new retention shares deferred for a further two years awards: element in the remuneration and will be subject to satisfaction of package: and June 2015 the following performance conditions linking part of that reward to the 5,145,000 conditional awards to over the three-year financial period medium term share performance of employees of the Group.
The awards ended 31 December 2020: the Company.
granted on 4 June 2015 vested on TSR: 40% of the award vs a 4 June 2018 with 50% of the vested The DBSP, now in its sixth year, bespoke Group of listed mining shares deferred for a further two years provides a simple yet effective peers median vesting 25% of based on the performance conditions incentive to senior management and award, upper quartile full vesting : over the three year financial period senior employees below Board level, EBITDA adjusted for non-cash ended 31 December 2018, 100% of motivating and retaining individuals impairments and non-recurring the award vested.
Three items : 20% of the award if a employees remain in the scheme.
June 2016 compound annual growth rate of Payment to past Directors 3.5% of EBITDA is achieved by 4,999,000 conditional awards to audited 2020, all 20% of the award tranche employees of the Group.
The awards There are no payments to past shall vest.
If EBITDA in 2020 is granted on 4 June 2016 will subject to Directors of the Company.
maintained at the levels achieved in continued employment vest on 2017, 25% of the award tranche 4 June 2019 with 50% of the vested shall vest: and shares deferred for a further two years be subject to satisfaction of the Centamin plc Annual report 2018 139 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report continued Payment for loss of office audited There are no payments to Directors for loss of office.
The Committee The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the Company represented by three independent Non-Executive Directors, namely Edward Haslam Chairman of the Committee, Mark Arnesen and Mark Bankes.
No member of the Committee has any financial interest, other than as shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
None of the members of the Committee participate in any bonus scheme, long term incentive, pension or other form of remuneration other than the fees disclosed in this report.
There is no actual or potential conflict of interest arising from the other directorships held by members of the Committee.
Josef El-Raghy may attend meetings of the Committee to make recommendations relating to the performance and remuneration of his direct reports but neither he, nor the Company Secretary, attend meetings when their own remuneration is under consideration.
Attendance Committee members Joined in 2018 Edward Haslam Chairman of the Committee 2011 4 of 4 Mark Arnesen 2011 4 of 4 Mark Bankes 2017 4 of 4 Activities of the Committee The Committee met four times during the year and also approved two sets of resolutions by way of written resolution.
The business conducted during the year is set out below: DATE OF ACTIVITY SUMMARY OF ACTIVITY 21 March 2018 Scheduled quarterly Committee meeting review of shareholder and proxy feedback ahead of the AGM on 26 March 2018.
26 March 2018 AGM followed an announcement of the Committees actions to address the significant votes against the policy and remuneration report.
Tender process initiated to identify a remuneration consultant to assist the Committee to understand the issues raised by shareholders, to carry out a consultation with shareholders and review and improve the remuneration policy to the satisfaction of shareholders and the Executive Directors.
30 April 2018 Finalising the tender for the selection and appointment of the remuneration consultant.
This process resulted in the appointment of Korn Ferry in early May 2018.
16 May 2018 The Committee undertook a thorough shareholder engagement programme with two key letters sent to investors and proxy advisory groups.
The first letter took account of shareholder feedback and responded by adjusting the PSP metrics and increasing the shareholding requirement to 200%.
The second letter sought to engage on the proposed broad changes to the remuneration policy and approach to the disclosures in the DRR.
The consultation included face to face meetings with shareholders and proxy advisory groups.
4 June 27 June 2018 Review and approval of grants and revised performance conditions under the Companys share plans.
18 September 2018 Review of draft policy proposal following feedback and consultation with major investors.
Follow up letter to investors outlining proposed structure of the remuneration policy.
13 December 2018 Conducting performance reviews for the executive and management, taking account of the objectives set at the beginning of the year.
January February Prepare and finalise the DRR and remuneration policy in line with the shareholder consultation and committee 2019 and Board recommendations.
Finalise the 2018 bonus and PSP outcome.
Finalise the 2019 bonus criteria, taking account of the individuals objectives, the Companys priorities and workforce targets.
Finalise the 2019 PSP performance conditions.
Review the amendments to the Charter taking account of the 2018 Code.
140 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Advice provided to the Committee Korn Ferry was appointed by the Committee during the year following a tender process to provide independent advice on remuneration matters.
Representatives from Korn Ferry attend Committee meetings and provide advice and briefings to the Committee Chairman outside of meetings as necessary.
Fees are charged on a cost incurred basis and the fees charged by Korn Ferry in the year ended 31 December 2018 totalled 35,000.
Korn Ferry is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and operates voluntarily under the Groups code which sets out the scope and conduct of the role of executive remuneration consultants when advising UK listed companies.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice provided on matters of remuneration remains objective and independent.
Korn Ferry did not provide any other advice to the Company.
Shareholder voting at the AGM At the AGM of the Company on 26 March 2018 the following votes for and against the adoption of the remuneration report and policy were as follows: For Against Withheld Approval of the remuneration report 531,913,702 249,326,064 6,223,763 Approval of the remuneration policy 372,494,622 403,620,079 11,347,428 The reasons for the votes against the resolutions included: i the structure, operation and approach to disclosure relating to the annual bonus: ii the size of the share ownership guidelines: and iii the proposed 2018 PSP targets.
As noted above, following the AGM the Committee undertook a full review of the Companys approach to executive remuneration and is tabling a revised policy for shareholder approval at the forthcoming AGM.
Policy implementation in 2019 Subject to shareholder approval being obtained for the revised policy at the AGM, the Committee intends to adopt the following approach to remuneration in 2019: Base salary Andrew Pardey and Ross Jerrard are to receive a 3% increase on their base salary in 2019 in line with the increase in cost of living.
Pension other benefits No changes will be made to the approach adopted in the past i. e. neither Andrew Pardey nor Ross Jerrard will receive a pension.
To reflect his change in role, Josef El-Raghy will no longer be offered a pension provision.
Annual bonus Annual bonus opportunity for Andrew Pardey and Ross Jerrard will remain unchanged at 125% of salary.
Josef El-Raghy will no longer participate in the annual bonus plan.
Reflecting the new policy: 70% of the bonus opportunity will be based on financial objectively measurable targets, namely production assessed by reference to both volume and safety record via LTIFR, adjusted EBITDA, sustaining and direct operating costs, non-sustaining costs and capital projects: the remaining 30% will be based on personal strategic targets: and any bonus earned in excess of 75% of salary will be deferred into shares.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 141 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued Annual remuneration report continued Policy implementation in 2019 continued Annual bonus continued Further detail of the 2019 bonus structure is set out below which apply to both Andrew Pardey and Ross Jerrard: Performance measure Weighting Financial and objectively measurable Production 10% LTIFR global 10% Adjusted EBITDA 10% Sustaining and direct operating costs 22.5% Non-sustaining and capital projects 17.5% 70% Individual KPIs Balanced scorecard 30% Notes to table: Threshold achievement represents 25% of the bonus opportunity for the respective performance measure.
Target achievement represents 62.5% of the bonus opportunity for the respective performance measures as explained in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter.
Adjusted EBITDA will be per the published Non-GAAP measures.
As noted in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter, the reduced payout of 62.5% of maximum for target performance for 2019 from 75% of maximum in 2018 is appropriate and should be considered in light of a number of factors such as: i the bonus maximum of 125% of salary is relatively modest for a company of Centamins size and complexity and, therefore a 62.5% of maximum payout for target performance, when expressed as a percentage of salary, is within the bandwidth of typical target bonus payouts offered by other similar sized companies that offer a higher bonus maximum: ii when considered in the round, the Executive Directors total target remuneration in aggregate reflects the appropriate amount when taking account of the market in which the Company operates and companies of a similar size and complexity, even with the 62.5% target payout under the bonus: iii the more robust approach that will apply to the bonus structure going forward e. g. bonus deferral, higher weighting on financial targets, more detailed target disclosure etc : and iv the fact that the target level of performance that, if achieved, would result in a 62.5% of maximum payout will, across the performance measures, be stretching.
The 30% of the bonus opportunity payable by reference to performance against personal strategic corporate objectives will take account of the following: ANDREW PARDEY ROSS JERRARD Strategy setting and business development Strategy budget planning capital projects Growth in reserves Risk assessment Workforce engagement Internal external audit Legal financial regulatory controls Financial operating controls systems Investor government relations Finance treasury ESG Personnel training development Safety culture Investor government relations Due to commercial sensitivity, the Committee does not believe it in shareholders interests to provide more detailed prospective disclosure of the bonus targets.
However, further detail will be provided in next years report.
142 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Performance Share Plan Andrew Pardey and Ross Jerrard will receive PSP awards over shares worth 150% of salary, reflecting the approach adopted last year.
Josef El-Raghy will not receive an award.
Awards will vest based upon a blend of three year relative TSR, cash flow and production targets.
Also, reflecting the new policy, these awards will be subject to a full two year post vesting holding period.
More particularly, the targets applied to this award are as follows: Threshold Stretch Metric Unit Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting Relative TSR vs bespoke mining peer group 50% Median Upper quartile Free cash flow $million 25% 65 110 Gold production 000 ounces 25% 510 590 Notes: The bespoke mining peer group will comprise 27 relevant comparator companies.
The Remuneration Committee will assess performance based on gold produced in 2021 over the Sukari concession.
The Remuneration Committee will assess performance based on free cash flow generated over the Sukari Concession Agreement in 2021.
Free cash flow is a Non-GAAP measure and the Remuneration Committee will apply a retrospective adjustment for any non-sustaining capex that has not been considered as part of the estimate.
Dividends payable to CEY shareholders have not been included in this estimate.
Non-Executive Directors No changes to the fees of the Non-Executive Directors will be made for 2019, save to reflect recent changes in responsibilities and or committee chairmanship or membership.
To reflect his change in role, Josef El-Raghy will receive an annual fee of 250,000.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Edward Haslam Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 1 March 2019 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 143 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Whats in this section Financial statements 146 Directors responsibilities 147 Independent auditors report 152 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 153 Consolidated statement of financial position 154 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 155 Consolidated statement of cash flows 156 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 144 Centamin plc Annual report 2018 Introduction Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 24-hour operation at Sukari view over the process plant.
Centamin plc Annual report 2018 145 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors responsibilities Directors responsibilities in respect The Directors are responsible for The financial statements were approved of the annual report and financial the maintenance and integrity of the by the Board of Directors on 1 March 2019 statements Companys website.
Legislation in the and signed on their behalf by Andrew The Directors are responsible for United Kingdom and Jersey governing the Pardey CEO and Ross Jerrard CFO.
preparing the annual report and the preparation and dissemination of financial Each of the Directors, whose names and financial statements in accordance with statements may differ from legislation in functions are listed in the governance applicable law and regulations.
report, confirm that, to the best of their Company law requires the Directors to The Directors consider that the knowledge: prepare financial statements for each annual report and financial statements, the Group financial statements, financial year.
Under that law the taken as a whole, are fair, balanced which have been prepared in Directors have prepared the Group and understandable and provides the accordance with IFRS as adopted by the financial statements in accordance with information necessary for shareholders to European Union, give a true and fair International Financial Reporting Standards assess the Groups performance, business view of the assets, liabilities, financial IFRS as adopted by the European model and strategy.
position and profit of the Group: and Union.
Under company law the Directors The Directors have undertaken a robust the strategic and governance must not approve the Group financial assessment of the principal risks impacting report includes a fair review of the statements unless they are satisfied that the Company.
The assessment identified development and performance of the they give a true and fair view of the state of strategic and operational risks at a business and the position of the Group, affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss corporate level and principal risks together with a description of the of the Group for that period.
In preparing impacting our operations in Egypt and principal risks and uncertainties that the financial statements, the Directors are West Africa.
Details of the risk assessment it faces.
required to: can be found in the audit and risk report In the case of each Director in office select suitable accounting policies on pages 116 and 117 and the risk at the date the governance report is and then apply them consistently: management section on pages 42 to 47. approved: state whether applicable IFRS as The Board receives written assurances so far as the Director is aware, there is adopted by the European Union have from the CEO and CFO that to the best no relevant audit information of which been followed, subject to any material of their knowledge and belief, the Groups the Groups auditor is unaware: and departures disclosed and explained in financial position presents a true and fair the financial statements: they have taken all the steps that they view and that the financial statements are ought to have taken as a Director in make judgments and accounting founded on a sound system of risk order to make themselves aware of estimates that are reasonable and management, internal compliance and any relevant audit information and prudent: and control.
Further, they confirm that the to establish that the Groups auditor prepare the financial statements on Groups risk management and internal is aware of that information.
the going concern basis unless it is compliance is operating efficiently and inappropriate to presume that the effectively.
The Board recognises that On behalf of the Board: Group will continue in business.
internal control assurances from the CEO and CFO can only be reasonable rather The Directors are responsible for keeping Andrew Pardey Ross Jerrard than absolute, and therefore they are not adequate accounting records that are Chief Executive Chief Financial and cannot be designed to detect all sufficient to show and explain the Groups Officer Officer weaknesses in control procedures.
transactions and disclose with reasonable Director Director accuracy at any time the financial position The financial statements have been of the Group and enable them to ensure audited by  LLP, 1 March 2019 1 March 2019 that the financial statements and the independent auditor, who was given Directors remuneration report comply unrestricted access to all financial records with The Companies Jersey Law, 1991. and related information, including minutes of all shareholder, Board and committee The Directors are also responsible for meetings.
safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
