Directors Remuneration report The Committee recognises the importance of close alignment of remuneration with Group performance and has kept under review the design of the Remuneration Policy.
Given the challenges of this year and the differentiated measures required, we believe that the remuneration outcomes for 2018 utilise in an appropriate way the full range of instruments available under the Remuneration Policy.
Steve Holliday Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Key areas of responsibility Committee membership, meetings and attendance Sets the Companys Remuneration Policy.
The table below shows the number of scheduled meetings Determines the Remuneration Policy and packages for the attended out of the number of meetings members were eligible Executive Directors and the Executive Committee and agrees to attend.
the fees for the Non-Executive Chairman.
Director Member since Attended Oversees the implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
Steve Holliday October 2016 4 4 Activity highlights Sir Christopher Gent October 2016 4 4 The Committee focused this year on dealing with the effects Jesper Ovesen October 2016 4 4 surrounding the trading update: Ros Rivaz August 2017 4 4 Agreed the terms of retirement of Paul Moraviec as CEO.
Ensured remuneration arrangements appropriately supported The CEO, CFO, Executive Vice President, Human Resources and the retention and motivation of executive team members, and Vice President, Compensation & Benefits attend meetings of thus business continuity.
the Committee by invitation: they are absent when their own Considered the impact of share price performance on the LTIP remuneration is under consideration.
In addition to the formal allocation for 2019. meetings, the Committee met numerous times in ad hoc alignment meetings.
Furthermore, Steve Holliday met on a regular basis with 2019 priorities the Executive Vice President, Human Resources and the Vice Setting appropriate performance targets supporting the President, Compensation & Benefits.
sustainable rebalancing of business fundamentals.
Reviewing the Remuneration Policy for renewed shareholder vote in 2020.
In this section you will find Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Page 103 Our remuneration at a glance Page 104 Our Annual Report on Remuneration how we implemented our Remuneration Policy during 2018 and how we intend to apply it in 2019 Page 106 Our Remuneration Policy Page 112 102 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder Committee activities during the period On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the report of the Key area Matter Remuneration Committee for the year to 31 December 2018.
Retirement Approved Paul Moraviecs retirement package.
arrangements Performance in the year ended 31 December 2018 and Interim CEO Considered the fees for the services of Rick implications for remuneration Anderson as Interim CEO.
The Groups performance issues with the second profit warning Retention Considered enhancements to the CFOs since Listing resulted in the announcement of Paul Moraviecs remuneration package including consultation with retirement in October 2018.
Paul stepped down from the Board shareholders in relation to the proposed changes.
with effect from 14 October 2018 with his employment continuing Remuneration Approved the remuneration packages for new until the end of his contractual notice period on 12 April 2019.
In line packages appointees to the Executive Committee.
with our Remuneration Policy, Paul retained the equity which Embedding Ensured that appropriate performance targets vested before the end of his contractual notice period in April 2019, performance were established and embedded in the Groups and forfeited all unvested equity, including deferred bonus shares.
He will not receive a bonus for the 2018 financial year.
LTIP Considered 2019 LTIP allocations to be made to The Committee carefully considered the root causes for the Groups members of senior management to ensure no benefit as a result of the reduced share price.
performance issues and decided to exercise its discretion in allocating rewards.
Reflecting the reduced share price, the Committee US contractual Introduced employment agreements to US considered the impact on quantum and reduced the 2019 Long issues executives including notice periods and post Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards to the participants in the plan.
However, given the CFOs key role to laying the foundations for Board based Reviewed the criteria for determining eligibility sustainable and profitable growth, the Committee considered it equity plans for discretionary long-term incentive awards for appropriate to increase his 2018 LTIP award opportunity from 175% non-Board Directors and Associate Directors.
of salary granted in March 2018 to 250% of salary.
This additional Gender pay gap Reviewed the gender pay gap dynamics and grant is within policy limits, aligns the interests of our shareholders management response with the introduction of and the CFO, and was broadly supported by major shareholders who diversity scorecards.
were consulted prior to the award being made.
Therefore, the Committee made a further award under the LTIP in December 2018 Committee composition to effect this change as set out on page 108.
During the year, the composition of the Committee remained unchanged.
Based on performance in 2018, the financial portion of the annual incentive plan will not trigger a payout.
Remuneration policy Our Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2017 In light of the above mentioned contribution, however, the AGM and remains unchanged for 2019.
However, the Committee Committee has decided to award CFO Frank Schulkes a payout will shortly commence its review of the Remuneration Policy which, under the individual targets section of the plan equivalent to 18% in line with the Regulations, is required to be submitted to a binding shareholder vote at the 2020 AGM.
The Committee will be of the bonus maximum.
reviewing the current Remuneration Policy in the context of the Groups strategy supported by the Board, as well as the arrival of a The Committee recognises the importance of close alignment of new CEO.
It will ensure continued alignment of Executive Directors remuneration with Group performance, and has kept under review and shareholder interests.
We will also take into account recent the design of the Remuneration Policy.
Given the challenges of this developments in remuneration governance, including the 2018 Code year and the differentiated measures required, we believe that the and the latest remuneration reporting requirements that came into remuneration outcomes for 2018 utilise in an appropriate way the full force on 1 January 2019.
The Committee looks forward to meaningful range of instruments available under the Remuneration Policy.
The two-way dialogue with shareholders on remuneration over the course remuneration framework in place remains fit-for-purpose for 2019. of the coming year.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory vote at the 2019 AGM, and the Remuneration Committee The Committee also set the fixed fee for Rick Anderson in his hopes that it can count on your support for this resolution.
capacity as Interim CEO effective from 15 October 2018.
With the Groups interest of seeing Rick return to the Board as independent Non-Executive Director post his interim service, subject to the Boards careful consideration in light of the guidance in the Code and criteria for independence determined by the Board, his fee as Interim CEO has been set to reflect the size of the engagement, but Steve Holliday fundamentally retain the format of fixed fees.
No performanceChairman of the Remuneration Committee related incentives will be paid to Rick, nor will any share grants be 14 February 2019 made to him.
103 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Fixed components Our remuneration at a glance Base salaries Our Remuneration Policy Our Remuneration Policy the Policy remains unchanged from 2018 2019 that approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and which is CFO Frank Schulkes 430,000 442,000 effective for a period of three years from this date.
The Policy is set out in full on pages 112 to 118.
The base salary for the CFO will be increased to 442,000 2.7% increase in line with the salary increases to the general Remuneration principles employee population in the UK.
The Policy is based on the following remuneration principles: To incentivise sustained strong financial performance.
To align rewards with the delivery of the Groups strategy.
Policy To help ensure the alignment of employees with the interests of Base salaries will be reviewed by the Committee annually, shareholders and encourage widespread share ownership across and benchmarked periodically against comparable roles at the workforce.
international MedTech peers, as well as UK-listed companies To help attract, motivate and retain the best talent to deliver the of similar size and complexity.
Groups strategy and create long-term shareholder value.
To reflect market best practice and consistently adhere to In deciding base salary levels, the Committee considers principles of good corporate governance and encourage good personal performance including the individuals contribution risk management.
to the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
The Committee will also consider employment conditions and Strategic drivers salary levels across the Group, and prevailing market conditions.
Our strategy is designed to drive sales and earnings momentum by Base salary increases for the Executive Directors will normally building on our portfolio of differentiated products and our leading be aligned with those of the wider workforce.
positions in large structurally growing markets.
Our refreshed execution model, which is explained on pages 28 to 31, is focused on four strategic drivers: Simplify, Innovate, Segment and Invest.
Pension and other benefits in 2019 These strategic drivers are embedded in our incentives through the Employer pension contributions performance measures we select and the targets we set.
CFO Frank Schulkes 15% of base salary Other taxable benefits Components of remuneration for the CFO CFO Frank Schulkes 16,435 The remuneration package for the CFO comprises both fixed and variable elements consistent with our remuneration principles.
Policy Executive Directors may receive a contribution of up to 15% Fixed of base salary to their personal pension plan, a cash allowance Salary Pension and other benefits or a combination of these.
Other benefits include car allowance, medical insurance and life insurance, and are set at a level considered appropriate taking into account market practice and consistent with the wider workforce.
Fixed total Variable Annual bonus LTIP Variable components Annual bonus Variable total Maximum bonus opportunities for 2019 CFO Frank Schulkes 150% of base salary Performance measures Weighting Total remuneration Organic revenue growth 40% Adjusted EBIT 40% Personal strategic objectives 20% How remuneration links to strategy 50% of the bonus opportunity will pay out for on-target Our strategic drivers performance.
There is no payout for at or below threshold performance.
Two-thirds of any bonus earned is paid in cash with one-third Simplify Innovate Segment Invest normally deferred in ConvaTec Group Plc shares for a further three-year period.
Revenue Revenue Annual bonus EBIT EBIT EBIT Personal Personal EPS EPS EPS LTIP ROCE ROCE TSR TSR TSR 104 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Pay at risk Variable components continued CFO Frank Schulkes Policy Annual Bonus Maximum award opportunity: 1.
200% of base salary in face value 2.
Variable 80% Performance measures, targets and weightings are set by the Committee at the start of each year.
After the end of the Based on maximum opportunity.
financial year the Committee determines the level of bonus to.
be paid based on performance.
80% of the bonus will normally be based on financial performance with Group revenue and Group profit weighted equally, with the remainder linked to personal strategic objectives.
Malus and clawback provisions apply under certain circumstances.
LTIP Pay scenarios Award levels for 2019 face value CFO Frank Schulkes CFO Frank Schulkes 250% of base salary In light of the critical role of the CFO to creating long-term, Maximum, k sustainable performance across the Group, the Committee determined that it was appropriate to award an LTIP opportunity of 250% of salary to the CFO in 2019 as permitted under the Policy.
The Committee will review the ongoing normal award On-target, k level for 2020 and future years as part of its 2019 review of the Policy for the next three years.
Performance measures Weighting Minimum k Three-year relative TSR One-third Fixed remuneration Annual bonus LTIP Three-year average Return on Invested The above charts are based on the following assumptions: Capital ROIC One-third Maximum: fixed remuneration salary, pension, other benefits, plus maximum Three-year compound annualised bonus 150% of salary and full vesting of LTIP awards 250% of salary.
growth in EPS One-third On-target: fixed remuneration as above, plus target bonus 50% of maximum and threshold LTIP vesting 25% of maximum.
Minimum: fixed remuneration only, being the only element of Executive Policy LTIP Directors remuneration not linked to performance.
Maximum award opportunity: 250% of base salary in face value Remuneration arrangements for the Interim CEO Prior to awards being granted each year, the performance The Committee determined the package for Rick Anderson on his conditions and targets are set by the Committee to ensure appointment as Interim CEO in the context of our policy, and taking they are stretching and aligned with the Group strategy.
25% of into consideration the short-term interim nature of his appointment.
an award will vest at threshold, with 100% vesting at maximum In this role, he is paid a monthly fee of 91,667.
In addition, the and a straight-line sliding scale between these points.
Company is covering temporary housing costs as well as travel The LTIP has a performance period of at least three years and expenses.
Rick does not receive any pension contribution or a minimum vesting period of three years.
A two-year postallowance in lieu, and he is not eligible to participate in the annual vesting holding period will apply.
Malus and clawback provisions apply under certain The Committee considers this approach to appropriately reflect the circumstances.
scope of Ricks contribution in this role, mindful that the Board will review Ricks independence in light of the guidance in the updated UK Corporate Governance Code published in 2018, and criteria for independence determined by the Board, at the time he resumes his Shareholding requirements role as a Non-Executive Director following the appointment of CFO Frank Schulkes 300% of base salary a permanent CEO.
Remuneration for the wider workforce Remuneration for the wider workforce is determined based on broadly consistent principles as those for Executive Directors.
Annual salary reviews take into account Group performance, local pay and market conditions to ensure that reward at ConvaTec remains competitive.
Incentive arrangements are in place for some employees below the executive level.
105 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Our Annual Report on Remuneration This section of the Remuneration Report provides details of how our Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year ended 31 December 2018, and how it will be implemented during the year ending 31 December 2019.
It has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
It also meets the requirements of the UKLAs Listing Rules.
In accordance with the Regulations, the following sections of the Remuneration Report are subject to audit: the single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, and accompanying notes pages 106 and 107, scheme interests awarded during the financial year page 108, exit payments made in the year page 109, payments to past Directors page 109 and the statement of Directors shareholdings page 118.
The remaining sections of the report are not subject to audit.
Committee membership in 2018 Details about the membership of the Committee, the number of times it met during 2018 and attendance at its meetings are set out in the Committee Chairs letter on page 102.
Committee responsibilities The Committees key areas of responsibility are also set out in the Committee Chairs letter on page 102.
Advisers Mercer Kepler is the Committees appointed independent advisor, having been appointed by the Committee at its first meeting following Listing in 2016.
Mercer Kepler provides support to the Committee and the Group on remuneration-related matters, and reports to the Committee Chairman.
Mercer Kepler is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK www.
Neither Mercer Kepler nor its parent, Mercer has any other  connection with the Group and is considered to be independent by the Committee.
Fees paid to Mercer Kepler are determined on a time and materials basis, and totalled 49,250 excluding expenses and VAT for the 2018 financial year 2017: 71,150 in their capacity as advisers to the Committee.
Summary of shareholder voting The following table shows the results at the 2018 AGM of the advisory vote on the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration and the binding vote on the Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM.
Vote Vote Votes 1 Resolution for against withheld Approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 AGM 99.45% 0.55% 338,007 To approve the Directors Remuneration Report 2018 AGM 98.33% 1.67% 9,568,789 1.
Votes withheld are not votes in law and, therefore, have not been included in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against each resolution.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors audited The following table sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the 2018 financial year, and compares this with the equivalent figure for the 2017 financial year.
2018 Base Taxable Annual Pension 3 4 5 salary benefits bonus LTIP benefit Other Total Resolution 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Frank Schulkes 430 16 116 n a 65 n a 627 1 Rick Anderson 235 29 n a n a n a n a 264 2 Paul Moraviec 531 20 0 n a 80 n a 631 2017 Base Taxable Annual Pension 3 4 5 salary benefits bonus LTIP benefit Other Total Resolution 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Frank Schulkes 176 6 50 n a 26 n a 258 Paul Moraviec 670 27 118 n a 102 n a 917 1.
Appointed as Interim CEO effective 15 October 2018.
He receives a fixed monthly fee of 91,667 and benefits covering temporary housing costs as well as travel expenses.
Rick does not receive any pension contribution or allowance in lieu, and he is not eligible to participate in the annual bonus or the LTIP.
The figures disclosed cover the period from 15 October to 31 December 2018.
Paul Moraviec stepped down from the Board on 14 October 2018 with his employment continuing until 12 April 2019.
The figures disclosed cover the period from 1 January to 14 October 2018.
Further details of the decisions in relation to Paul Moraviecs remuneration following his retirement are set out on page 109.
F or Frank Schulkes, benefits consist and, for Paul Moraviec, consisted primarily of car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
For Rick Anderson, benefits consist of temporary housing costs as well as travel commuting expenses.
Reflects the total bonus awarded for performance in the relevant financial year.
One-third of the bonus earned by Paul Moraviec and Frank Schulkes is deferred into shares for three years.
See below and overleaf for further details.
Pension benefits in the year, equivalent to 15% of base salary.
106 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Non-Executive Director for the 2018 and 2017 financial years.
In addition to the fees payable to each of the Directors, the Group reimburses reasonable expenses.
Rick Anderson was appointed as CEO on an interim basis on 15 October 2018, having served as a non-executive director prior to that date.
His fees for FY18 cover the period 1 January to 14 October 2018.
He receives no fees in relation to his other appointments, which are described on page 80.
Joined the Board on 14 August 2017.
Joined the Board on 28 March 2017.
Mr Kutays fee was paid to Novo Holdings A S. He stepped down from the Board with effect from 3 July 2018.
Joined the Board on 3 July 2018 as Mr Kutays replacement as the nominated director representative of Novo Holdings A S. Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2018 audited Annual bonus in respect of performance in the 2018 financial year For 2018, Paul Moraviec had a maximum bonus opportunity of 200% of base salary, and Frank Schulkes had a maximum opportunity of 150% of base salary.
Any payments under the annual bonus are normally payable two-thirds in cash and one-third in shares, deferred for three years.
The on-target opportunity was 50% of maximum.
The annual bonus for 2018 was based on a combination of organic revenue growth weighted 40%, Adjusted EBIT 40% and personal strategic objectives 20%.
Paul Moraviecs annual bonus opportunity lapsed on his retirement.
The table below summarises the structure of the 2018 annual bonus, the targets set, our performance over the financial year and the resulting annual bonus payout.
Maximum Performance targets Earned bonus opportunity Actual 1 Director Measure Weighting % of salary Threshold Target Maximum performance % of salary 000 Frank Schulkes Organic revenue growth 40% 60% $1,862m $1,914m $1,954m $1,841m 0% 0 Adjusted EBIT 40% 60% $465m $478m $495m $414m 0% 0 The Committee determined that the personal performance element of Mr Schulkes bonus should pay out near the maximum, reflecting his strong contribution to establishing the fundamental platforms, processes and tools needed to drive sustainable growth going forward and to deliver the Pivot to Growth refreshed execution model.
Specifically, Mr Schulkes completed the transformation of the corporate finance function by transferring the department from Bridgewater, New Jersey, to Reading in the UK.
Wave 1 of the team transfer was completed ahead of time and in budget.
Wave 2, originally planned for 2019, was already started.
Supporting the margin improvement plan and key cost out projects, Mr Schulkes introduced business intelligence and other gross margin reporting capabilities, significantly enhancing the quality of decision making and supporting the commercial regions and matrix organisations in optimising their positions.
In the area of IT and cyber security, a higher level of certified and audited protection was achieved than planned, namely Cyber Essentials Plus.
Key CRM Personal databases were upgraded for new systems with objectives 20% 30% higher capabilities.
Actual performance is measured at CER and excluding M&A activity.
One-third of the bonus earned by Frank Schulkes will be deferred into shares for three years.
107 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Scheme interests vesting in 2018 second tranche of Transition Awards As previously disclosed, Paul Moraviec was granted one-off Transition Awards comprising restricted shares and market value options under the LTIP shortly after Listing.
The values of these awards were captured in full in the 2016 single figure.
The second tranche of the restricted shares and market value options vested on 11 November 2018, as follows: Number Exercise Number Vesting Market Value gain 1 Director Vehicle awarded price Vesting % vesting date price 000 Paul Moraviec Share options 201,807 249.00p 100% 201,807 11 11 18 156.00p nil 2 Restricted shares 134,538 100% 137,892 11 11 18 156.00p 215 1.
The closing share price on the vesting date.
Reflects additional shares awarded in lieu of the value of dividends accruing on the restricted shares over the vesting period 3,354 shares.
These vested awards remain subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period.
The third and final tranche of the Transition Awards granted to Paul Moraviec will lapse on 12 April 2019.
Scheme interests awarded in 2018 audited 2018 LTIP Awards During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Executive Directors were awarded conditional share awards under the LTIP, details of which are summarised in the table below.
Rick Anderson, Interim CEO, is not eligible to receive any awards under the LTIP.
The LTIP face values are determined as a % of each Executive Directors salary, and converted into numbers of conditional shares using the closing price on the trading day preceding the date of grant.
Paul Moraviecs award is scheduled to lapse on 12 April 2019.
As disclosed earlier in this Report, the Committee determined during the year that it was appropriate to increase Frank Schulkes award opportunity for 2018 to 250% of salary, to strengthen alignment with shareholders and maximise the alignment between his pay and the Groups performance over the next 2-3 years.
This additional award was made in December 2018, and will vest after 3 years subject to the same performance conditions attached to the March 2018 award.
The performance conditions attached to these 2018 LTIP awards are set out in the table below.
Vesting schedule Performance % of annualised Measure Weighting period salary Three-year Relative TSR against the following comparators: Median 0% Ambu, Beckton Dickinson, Coloplast, Fresenius, Getinge, GN Store Nord, Median 25% 1 January 2018 Integra Lifesciences, Smith & Nephew, Stryker, Teleflex, William Demant and th 90 percentile 100% to 31 December Zimmer Biomet 2020 Straight-line sliding scale vesting 13rd between these points Three-year compound annualised growth in EPS 5% p. a.
100% to 31 December 2020 Straight-line sliding scale vesting 13rd between these points Three-year average Return on Invested Capital 9.1% 0% 9.1% 25% 1 January 2018 11.0% 100% to 31 December 2020 Straight-line sliding scale vesting 13rd between these points Our definition of adjusted ROIC is: Adjusted Net Operating Profit After Tax NOPAT Adjusted ROIC Adjusted Invested Capital Where: Adjusted NOPAT Adjusted EBIT less tax at the adjusted effective tax rate.
Adjusted EBIT will be consistent with the definition previously published by the Company and excludes acquisition-related amortisation expense.
It also excludes items identified as non-recurring, infrequent or unusual in nature that management believes are not indicative of the underlying performance of the consolidated Group.
Adjusted Invested Capital Net Assets excluding cash, debt and all amortisation related to the Companys historical acquisitions.
108 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 The impact of future acquisitions including intangible assets, amortisation and goodwill will be captured in the calculations of both the numerator and denominator.
However, the Remuneration Committee will review and consider adjusting for the impact of material mergers and acquisitions M&A activity on the Adjusted ROIC targets.
Any adjustment will be made on the basis of ensuring neutrality of the LTIP to this M&A.
To the extent the 2018 LTIP awards vest, vested shares will be required to be held for a further two-year post-vesting holding period.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from 2017 to 2018 compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all other employees over the same period.
Average of 1 2 Element of remuneration CEO employees Base salary 13% 2.61% Benefits -100% 2.61% Annual bonus -100% -99% 1.
Paul Moraviecs salary remained unchanged during 2018.
The 13% difference in base salary relates to the difference in the salary for Paul Moraviec time pro-rated to 14 October 2018 and the monthly fixed fee for Rick Anderson time pro-rated from 15 October to the end of the year.
The year-on-year increase in benefits reflects the Groups best estimate for the change in the average value of benefits for all employees.
Although there was no change to benefits provision in 2018 compared to 2017, some benefits increased in value through being linked to employees salaries.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and share buybacks and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018, and the percentage change year-on-year.
2017 2018 Year-on-year $m $m change Total employee pay expenditure 472 473 0.3% Shareholder distributions 112 112 0.4% Exit payments made in the year audited Paul Moraviec retired from the Board on 14 October 2018, with his employment continuing until the end of the contractual notice period on 12 April 2019.
In line with the provisions of his contract and the shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy, Paul Moraviec is entitled to his salary 55,833 per month along with a payment in lieu of pension and other benefits until April 2019.
Paul Moraviec did not receive any annual bonus for 2018, and is not eligible for any bonus opportunity in 2019.
Paul Moraviecs unvested deferred bonus, LTIP awards and the final tranche of the Transition Award granted shortly after IPO will lapse in April 2019.
In line with the relevant plan rules, the second tranche of the Transition Award vested on 11 November 2018 during Paul Moraviecs notice period.
The vested portions of the Transition Award remain subject to malus and clawback provisions and a two-year holding period from the applicable vesting dates.
Certain time-based lock-up and forfeiture arrangements put into place at the time of Listing in relation to Paul Moraviecs shares in the Company lapsed in October 2018 in accordance with the terms of such arrangements.
Payments to past Directors audited As disclosed fully in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, Nigel Clerkin received monthly payments of 39,853 in lieu of notice until May 2018.
These were reduced to 24,809 from 1 May 2018 to 31 July 2018 to reflect his appointment as CFO of UDG Healthcare.
No further payments in connection with cessation of his employment have, or will be, made to Nigel Clerkin.
Review of past performance This graph shows the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR compared to the FTSE 100 Index, of which the Group has been a constituent for a significant period since Listing.
Performance, as required by legislation, is measured by TSR over the period from commencement of conditional dealing 26 October 2016 to 31 December 2018.
TSR chart for 2018 DRR ConvaTec vs the FTSE 100 index Value of 100 invested on 25 October 2016 in ConvaTec and the FTSE 100 index ConvaTec FTSE 109 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued The table below details the CEOs single total figure of remuneration and incentive outcomes over the same period: 2018 2018 2017 CEO Paul Moraviec Rick Anderson retired as a from Director on 15 October 14 October 2018 2018 Paul Moraviec CEO single figure 000 253 631 917 Annual bonus % max n a n a 9% LTIP vesting % max n a n a n a Implementation of Executive Director Remuneration Policy for 2019 Base salary Frank Schulkes salary was set on the date of his appointment 3 August 2017 and has not been increased in 2018.
In 2019 his salary was reviewed and the Committee decided to award an increase of 2.7% in line with the increases for the general employee population in the UK increase effective 1 April 2019.
As disclosed earlier in the Report, Rick Anderson receives a fixed monthly fee of 91,667 in connection with his appointment as Interim CEO.
Director Role 2019 2018 Frank Schulkes CFO 442,000 430,000 Pension Frank Schulkes will continue to receive a cash allowance of 15% of base salary in lieu of a pension contribution.
Rick Anderson does not receive a pension contribution or allowance in lieu.
Annual bonus For 2019, Frank Schulkes will continue to have a maximum bonus opportunity of 150% of salary.
The on-target bonus opportunity remains 50% of maximum.
Two-thirds of any bonus earned will be paid in cash, with the remainder deferred into ConvaTec Group Plc shares for a further three-year period.
Rick Anderson does not participate in the annual bonus.
The annual bonus for 2019 will continue to be based on the following measures and weightings: Measure Weighting Organic revenue growth 40% 1 Adjusted EBIT 40% Personal strategic objectives 20% 1.
Excludes exceptional one-off items and the impact of portfolio changes occurring in the performance year.
The Committee will normally disclose the annual bonus targets retrospectively in next years Annual Report on Remuneration.
In the event the Board considers these targets to remain commercially sensitive, they will be disclosed as soon as possible once they are no longer considered to be sensitive.
In line with our Policy, bonuses for the 2019 financial year will be subject to the Groups malus and clawback provisions see page 114 for further details.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Frank Schulkes will receive a conditional award of shares under the ConvaTec LTIP in respect of 2019 with a face value of 250% of salary.
The Committee determined that this award opportunity was appropriate to strengthen the alignment of Mr Schulkes interests with those of our shareholders and maximise the incentive to deliver the stretching targets set for the next three years.
Rick Anderson will not receive an LTIP award.
In light of the refreshed execution model to support our strategy and investments to drive growth to transform the business, the Committee has concluded that it would be appropriate to renew the targets and metrics that apply to the LTIP awards to be granted to other senior management in 2019 to ensure that they are aligned with these plans.
LTIP awards would typically be granted in March.
However, in order to allow adequate time for the Committees review and also for appropriate engagement with shareholders on any revised approach, the Company will delay the grant of further awards until the second quarter of 2019.
Details of the revised targets and metrics will be announced via RNS once they have been agreed.
They will also be published on the Groups website and included in the 2019 remuneration report.
110 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Implementation of Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy for 2019 Non-Executive Director fees were set on Listing taking into account competitive practice for similar roles in other international MedTech companies and FTSE 100 companies of similar size.
The current fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are set out below: Role Fee Chairman 400,000 Deputy Chairman basic fee 110,000 Non-Executive Director basic fee 60,000 Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 20,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee 22,000 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20,000 Membership of Board committees 12,000 Non-Executive Director fees will remain at these levels for 2019.
Share scheme dilution limits The Company complies with the guidelines laid down by the Investment Association.
These restrict the issue of new shares under all the Companys share schemes in any ten-year period to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital and under the Companys discretionary schemes to 5% in any ten-year period.
As at 31 December 2018, the headroom available under these limits was 10% and 5%, respectively.
The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Steve Holliday Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 14 February 2019 111 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Our Remuneration Policy This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Directors that was developed to reflect the guiding principles set out on page 104.
The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM on 11 May 2017 and is effective for a period of up to three years from this date.
The only amendments to this Policy Report from the version approved by shareholders in 2017 are to update: i the data used in the pay-for-performance scenarios: ii the section Approach to target setting and performance measure selection, to reflect the introduction of ROIC to the LTIP for 2018 awards: iii page references: and iv the sections on Executive Director service contracts and Non-Executive Director letters of appointment, to reflect changes in Board composition during 2018.
2017 Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Base salary To attract and retain talented Executive Base salaries will be reviewed by the The maximum salary payable to n a Directors to deliver the Groups strategy, Committee annually, and benchmarked Executive Directors will be capped at by ensuring base salaries and the implied periodically against comparable roles at the upper quartile of the benchmarking total package are competitive in relevant international MedTech peers, as well as comparator group for the role under talent markets, while not overpaying.
UK-listed companies of similar size and review.
Salaries will be set on a complexity.
Any resulting changes are case-by-case basis to reflect the role normally effective from 1 April, in line and the experience and qualifications with the effective date for salary of the individual.
increases for the broader workforce.
Base salaries for the year under review In deciding base salary levels, the and the following year, as well as the Committee considers personal rationale for any increases, will be performance including the individuals disclosed in the relevant years Annual contribution to the achievement of Report on Remuneration.
The Committee will also consider employment conditions and salary levels across the Group, and prevailing market conditions.
Base salary increases for the Executive Directors will normally be aligned with those of the wider workforce, but may be made above this level in exceptional circumstances such as a material change in responsibilities, size or complexity of the role, or if a Director was intentionally appointed on a below-market salary.
Pension To provide an appropriate level of Executive Directors may receive a Executive Directors are eligible for a n a post-retirement benefit for Executive contribution to a personal pension company contribution from the Group Directors in a cost-efficient manner.
plan, a cash allowance in lieu, or a of up to 15% of salary.
Details of the pension contributions Salary is the only element of made to Executive Directors during the remuneration that is pensionable.
year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Other benefits To provide non-cash benefits which are The Group may provide benefits in kind Benefits for Executive Directors are n a competitive in the market in which the including, but not limited to, a company set at a level which the Committee Executive Director is employed.
car or car allowance, private medical considers appropriate compared to insurance or allowance in lieu, wider employee benefits, as well as permanent health insurance, and life competitive practices in relevant insurance.
Executive Directors may also markets.
be provided certain other benefits to take account of individual circumstances The value of annual benefits will such as, but not limited to, payment of normally not exceed 10% of salary, tax, financial, and or legal adviser fees, and it is not anticipated that the costs expatriate allowance, relocation of benefits provided will increase expenses, housing allowance and tax significantly in the financial years over equalisation including associated which this Policy will apply, although interest, penalties or fees plus, in certain the Committee retains discretion to circumstances or where the Committee approve non-material increases in cost.
consider it appropriate, any tax incurred In addition, the Committee retains on such benefits.
Executive Directors discretion to approve a higher cost in may also be offered any other future exceptional circumstances e. g. to benefits made available either to all facilitate recruitment, relocation, senior employees globally or in the expatriation, etc.
or in circumstances region in which the Executive Director where factors outside the Groups is employed.
control have changed e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
Benefits in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
112 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus To incentivise Executive Directors to Performance measures, targets and The maximum annual bonus Bonuses are based on a combination deliver strong financial performance on weightings are set by the Committee opportunity is 200% of base salary.
of stretching annual financial and an annual basis and reward the delivery at the start of the year.
After the end non-financial strategic performance of the Groups strategic aims that will of the financial year, the Committee The payout for on-target performance measures, selected to reflect the underpin the longer-term health and determines the level of bonus to be is 50% of maximum: threshold Groups short-term KPIs, financial goals growth of the business.
paid, taking into account the extent performance which will not normally and strategic drivers.
to which these targets have been be set lower than the prior year outturn Deferral into shares enhances achieved.
The financial element of the annual alignment with shareholders.
bonus will normally be weighted 80% To the extent that the performance The current maximum bonus of the overall bonus opportunity, as criteria have been met, one-third of the opportunities for each of the Executive measured by two equally-weighted annual bonus earned will normally be Directors are disclosed in the Annual elements based on Group revenue and compulsorily deferred into shares for Report on Remuneration.
The remainder of the a period of three years under the bonus will be linked to the achievement Deferred Bonus Plan.
The remainder of personalised strategic objectives.
of the bonus will be paid in cash.
The Committee may adjust the Dividends may accrue on deferred formulaic annual bonus outcomes bonus shares over the deferral period including to zero to avoid unintended and, if so, will be paid in cash or outcomes, align pay outcomes with additional shares on deferred shares underlying Group performance that vest at the time these are released and ensure fairness to shareholders to the Executive Director.
Malus and clawback provisions apply Further details will be disclosed in the to the annual bonus in certain relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
circumstances as set out in the Notes Performance targets set for each year to the Policy Table.
will be disclosed retrospectively, usually in the Annual Report on Remuneration in respect of the year to which such performance targets relate.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP To align the interests of Executive Executive Directors are eligible to The maximum annual LTIP opportunity Vesting of the LTIP is subject to Directors and shareholders in growing receive annual awards over ConvaTec is 250% of base salary.
continued employment during the the value of the Group over the Group Plc shares under the LTIP either performance period and the long term.
in the form of conditional share awards 25% of an award will vest if achievement of performance conditions or nil cost options.
performance against each performance aligned with the Groups strategic plan condition is at threshold and 100% if it and shareholder value creation.
LTIP Prior to awards being granted each year, is at maximum, with straight-line vesting awards granted in 2017 will be based on the performance conditions and targets in between.
a combination of EPS and relative Total are agreed and set to ensure they Shareholder Return, and for awards remain appropriately stretching and Further details of the LTIP awards granted in 2018 onwards will include aligned to the Groups strategy.
granted to each of the Executive an additional returns measure.
The Directors will be disclosed in the weighting on each measure may be Awards granted under the LTIP to relevant Annual Report on adjusted prior to making new awards, Executive Directors will have a Remuneration.
although each measure will be weighted performance period of three years and at least 25% of the award opportunity.
a minimum vesting period of three years.
If no entitlement has been earned The Committee may adjust the at the end of the relevant performance formulaic LTIP outcome to ensure it period, awards will not vest.
Shares takes account of any major changes received as a result of an award vesting to the Group e. g. as a result of M&A will normally be subject to an additional activity and is a fair reflection of the two-year holding period.
underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Dividends may accrue on LTIP awards over the vesting period and, if so, will be Further details, including the paid in additional shares or in cash on performance targets attached to the shares that vest at the end of the LTIP in respect of each year, will be vesting period.
disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors will be subject to malus and clawback provisions, as set out in the Notes to the Policy Table.
Save-As-You-Earn SAYE or equivalent scheme To align the interests of employees and Executive Directors are entitled to Employees are limited to saving a n a shareholders by encouraging all participate in the Groups all-employee maximum in line with the maximum employees to buy and own ConvaTec share plan applicable to the jurisdiction monthly savings limit imposed by the Group Plc shares.
in which they are based on identical Committee which will not exceed any terms as other eligible employees.
A UK limits imposed by legislation at the time or Europe-based Executive Director they are invited to participate.
may make monthly savings over a period of three or five years or other period set by any relevant tax authority linked to the grant of an option over Group shares.
The option price will be set at a discount of up to 15% of the market value of the shares at grant to align with similar all-employee arrangements in the US.
113 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Transition Awards legacy IPO related awards not part of 2017 Policy To maximise alignment of executive Transition Awards were made on a Share options: n a and shareholder interests through one-off basis shortly after Listing.
CEO: 225% of base salary strong linkage to the Groups share CFO: 175% of base salary price performance over the first three Awards comprise a grant of market years post-Listing, and support value share options and an award of Restricted shares: retention.
Awards will vest in CEO: 150% of base salary three equal tranches on the first, CFO: 120% of base salary second and third anniversary of grant, subject to continued employment.
Share options have a five-year life.
Dividends shall accrue on restricted share awards but not options over the vesting period and will be paid in cash or additional shares on shares that vest at the end of the relevant vesting period.
Transition Awards granted to Executive Directors will be subject to malus and clawback provisions, as set out in the Notes to the Policy Table.
Notes to the Policy Table Malus and clawback policy Malus and clawback may be applied to the annual bonus, LTIP awards and Transition Awards in cases of fraud, negligence or gross misconduct by the Executive Director or material financial misstatement in the audited financial results of the Group.
Cash bonuses will be subject to clawback, with deferred shares being subject to malus, over the deferral period.
LTIP awards and Transition Awards will be subject to malus over the vesting period and clawback from the vesting date to the second anniversary of the relevant vesting date.
Share ownership guidelines The Committee recognises the importance of aligning Executive Directors and shareholders interests through significant shareholdings in the Group.
The Groups policy as published in the Prospectus was initially set to require Executive Directors to build up a shareholding worth 200% of their base salary, and to retain these shares until retirement from the Board of Directors.
However, the Committee has since decided to increase the share ownership guidelines in line with prevailing best practice to 400% of base salary for the CEO, and 300% of base salary for other Executive Directors.
50% of any net vested share awards after sales to meet tax liabilities must be retained until the minimum shareholding requirements are met.
The share ownership guidelines have been met by the Executive Directors see page 118.
Details of the Executive Directors current personal shareholdings are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Use of discretion The Committee may apply its discretion as set out below when agreeing remuneration outcomes, to help ensure that the implementation of our Remuneration Policy is consistent with the guiding principles for ConvaTec remuneration.
Payments from outstanding awards The Committee reserves the right in certain circumstances to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments where the terms of the payment were agreed: before the Policy came into effect: or at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Group provided, that in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not agreed in consideration of the individual becoming a Director of the Group.
For these purposes, payments include the satisfaction of variable remuneration awards previously granted, but not vested, to an individual.
Minor changes to Policy The Committee retains discretion to make minor, non-significant changes to the Policy set out above for reasons including, but not limited to, regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without reverting to shareholders for approval for that amendment, where seeking such shareholder approval would be disproportionate to the discretion being exercised.
LTIP awards The Committee may exercise its discretion as provided for in the LTIP rules approved by shareholders.
The Committee may also adjust the number of shares comprising an LTIP award or the exercise price if the award comprises options in the event of a variation of share capital, demerger, special dividend, distribution or any other corporate event which may affect the current or future value of an award.
It is intended that any adjustment will be made on a neutral basis, i. e. to not be to the benefit or detriment of participants.
Any use of discretion by the Committee during a financial year will be detailed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration and may be the subject of consultation with the Groups major shareholders, as appropriate.
114 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Remuneration Policy for the wider workforce The Remuneration Policy for other employees is based on principles that are broadly consistent with those applied to Executive Director remuneration, with a common objective of driving financial performance and the achievement of strategic objectives, and contributing to the long-term success of the Group.
Remuneration supports our ability to attract, motivate and retain skilled and dedicated individuals, whose contribution continues to be a key factor in the Groups success.
Annual salary reviews take into account Group performance, local pay and market conditions, and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
Pension entitlements and other benefits vary according to jurisdiction, to ensure these remain appropriately competitive for the local market.
Employee ownership of ConvaTec Group Plc shares is promoted across the Group.
Some employees below executive level are eligible to participate in annual bonus schemes: opportunities and performance measures vary by organisational level, geographical region and an individuals role.
Senior executives are eligible for LTIP awards on similar terms as the Executive Directors, although award opportunities are lower and vary by organisational level.
Other executives are eligible for restricted share awards on a discretionary basis.
ConvaTec also offers all employees the opportunity to participate in a share purchase plan, as approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Approach to target setting and performance measure selection The Committee considers carefully the selection of performance measures at the start of each performance cycle, taking into consideration the Groups strategic objectives and the macroeconomic environment.
Annual bonus measures are selected to align with the Groups short-term KPIs.
Measures may change from year to year subject to the Remuneration Policy, and the rationale for any changes to the bonus measures selected will therefore be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP performance measures are selected to ensure they align with the Groups strategy and long-term shareholder value creation.
In line with the commitment made to shareholders last year, LTIP awards to be granted in 2018 will be based on a blend of EPS performance, relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and Return on Invested Capital ROIC as defined on page 105 over a three-year period.
The Committee considers these measures to align executive incentives to the Groups strategy and shareholder interests, and provide a good balance between external and internal measures of performance, and between growth and returns.
Targets are set to be stretching but achievable over the three-year performance period.
EPS and ROIC targets are set taking account of multiple relevant reference points, including internal forecasts, external expectations for future performance at both the Group and its closest sector peers, and for EPS typical EPS performance ranges at other FTSE companies of comparable size and complexity.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the Executive Directors, and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Maximum, On-target and Minimum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on the forward-looking policy i. e. excluding Transition Awards, applied to 2018 base salaries and incentive opportunities.
Note that the LTIP awards granted in a year will not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant, and the projected value excludes the impact of share price movement or dividend accrual.
Pay scenarios CFO Frank Schulkes Maximum, k On-target, k Minimum k Fixed remuneration Annual bonus LTIP The above charts are based on the following assumptions: Maximum: fixed remuneration salary, pension, other benefits, plus maximum b onus 150% of salary and full vesting of the 2019 LTIP awards 250% of salary.
On-target: fixed remuneration as above, plus target bonus 50% of maximum a nd threshold LTIP vesting 25% of maximum.
Minimum: fixed remuneration only, being the only element of Executive D irectors remuneration not linked to performance.
Executive Director service contracts In accordance with general market practice, each of the Executive Directors has a rolling service contract.
Paul Moraviec and Frank Schulkes have service contracts with the Company.
Frank Schulkes service contract a copy of which is available to view at the Groups registered office is terminable on 12 months notice from the Group and six months notice from the Executive Director.
This practice will also apply for any new Executive Directors.
The following table shows the date of the service contract for each Executive Director that served during the year: Executive Director Position Date of appointment Date of service agreement 1 Paul Moraviec CEO 6 September 2016 12 October 2016 Frank Schulkes CFO 1 November 2017 2 August 2017 1.
The service contract for Paul Moraviec took effect on 31 October 2016.
115 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy report continued Exit payments policy The Groups policy on termination payments is to consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms in the executives service contract and the circumstances of termination.
Executive Directors contracts provide for the payment of a pre-determined sum in the event of termination of employment in certain circumstances but excluding circumstances where the Group is entitled to dismiss without compensation, comprising base salary, pension allowance and benefits in respect of the unexpired portion of the notice period.
Termination payments may take the form of payments in lieu of notice.
Payments would normally be made on a phased basis and subject to mitigation.
If the employment is terminated by the Group, the Committee retains the discretion to settle any other amount the Committee considers reasonable to the Executive Director including in settlement of claims, in respect of legal fees incurred in connection with the termination and fees for outplacement services and relocation costs.
In addition to contractual provisions, the table below summarises how awards under each discretionary incentive plan are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion as provided under the rules of the plan.
In the event of termination, any outstanding options granted under the SAYE or equivalent scheme will be treated in accordance with the rules of the scheme, which do not include discretion.
Disclosure in relation to any departing Executive Director, including details of any remuneration payment made to him after he ceases to be a Director, will be made on the Companys website in accordance with Section 430 2B of the Companies Act 2006.
Treatment of awards on cessation of employment Reason for cessation Calculation of vesting payment Timing of vesting payment Annual bonus Injury, disability, death, redundancy, retirement, or The Committee may determine that a bonus is payable on cessation of employment normally pro-rated for the other such event as the Committee determines proportion of the performance year worked and the Committee retains discretion to determine that the bonus should be paid wholly in cash.
The bonus payable will be determined based on the performance of the Group and of the individual over the relevant period, and the circumstances of the Directors loss of office.
All other reasons including voluntary resignation No bonus will be paid for the financial year.
Deferred bonus shares Resignation or dismissal for cause Awards normally lapse.
All other reasons e. g. injury, disability, death, Awards will normally vest in full i. e. not pro-rated for At the normal vesting date, unless the Committee redundancy, retirement, or other such event as the time unless the Committee determines that time decides that awards should vest earlier e. g. in the event Committee determines pro-rating should apply.
Change of control Awards will normally vest in full i. e. not pro-rated for On change of control.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
LTIP awards Resignation or dismissal for cause Awards normally lapse.
All other reasons e. g. injury, disability, death, Awards will normally be pro-rated for time unless At the normal vesting date, unless the Committee redundancy, retirement, or other such event as the the Committee exercises discretion to disapply time decides that awards should vest earlier e. g. in the event Committee determines pro-rating and will vest based on performance over the of death.
original performance period unless the Committee decides to measure performance to the date of cessation.
Change of control LTIP awards will normally be pro-rated for time unless On change of control.
the Committee exercises discretion to disapply time pro-rating and will vest subject to performance over the performance period to the change of control.
LTIP awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
Transition awards Resignation or dismissal for cause Awards normally lapse.
All other reasons e. g. injury, disability, death, Unvested awards will normally be pro-rated for time At the normal vesting date, unless the Committee redundancy, retirement, or other such event as the unless the Committee exercises discretion to disapply decides that awards should vest earlier e. g. in the event Committee determines time pro-rating.
Change of control Unvested awards will normally vest in full.
Unvested awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
In addition to awards to be made under the above incentives, the Executive Directors hold ConvaTec Group Plc shares following the exchange on Listing of units held under the Management Equity Plan, a legacy scheme used pre-IPO.
Some of these shares remain subject to forfeiture in certain circumstances, and will be treated on cessation of employment as follows: Reason for cessation Treatment of awards subject to forfeiture Equity awards granted under legacy pre-IPO scheme that remain subject to forfeiture Dismissal for cause, or resignation other than for good reason during the Shares may be forfeited on cessation of employment during the Forfeit Period.
applicable period the Forfeit Period.
All other reasons, or following the end of the Forfeit Period.
Shares cease to be subject to forfeiture on cessation of employment.
Change of control during the Forfeit Period.
Shares cease to be subject to forfeiture on change of control.
116 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OverviewIFC Strategic report05 Governance72 Financial statements124 Additional information180 Approach to remuneration on recruitment External appointments In cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all existing components of remuneration set out in the Policy table, up to the disclosed maximum opportunities where applicable.
When determining the remuneration package for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors based on the circumstances at that time to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
This may include factors such as the experience and skills of the individual, internal comparisons and relevant market data.
The Committee may also make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, i. e. over and above the maximum limits on incentive opportunities set out in the Policy table.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the time over which they would have vested.
The intention is that the expected value of any buy-out award would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements, and that the structure will replicate as far as reasonably possible that of the awards being forfeited.
The Committee may consider it appropriate to structure buy-out awards differently from the structure described in the Policy table, exercising its discretion under the LTIP rules to structure awards in other forms including market value options, restricted shares, forfeitable shares or phantom awards and the discretion available under UKLA Listing Rule 9.4.
2R where necessary to make a one-off award to an Executive Director in this context.
Internal promotion Where a new Executive Director is appointed by way of internal promotion, the Policy will be consistent with that for external appointees, as detailed above other than in relation to buy-out awards.
Any commitments made prior to an individuals promotion will continue to be honoured even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the Policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled, although the Group may, where appropriate, seek to revise an individuals existing service contract on promotion to ensure it aligns with other Executive Directors and good practice.
Disclosure on the remuneration structure of any new Executive Director, including details of any buy-out awards, will be disclosed in the RNS notification made at the time of appointment and in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year in which recruitment occurred.
External appointments held by Executive Directors Executive Directors may accept up to one external appointment subject to approval by the Board, there being no conflicts of interest and the appointment not leading to deterioration in the individuals performance.
Executive Directors may retain the fees paid for such roles.
Details of external appointments and the associated fees received will be included in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employees as part of its broader employee engagement strategy, considers pay practices across the Group and is mindful of the salary increases applying across the rest of the business in relevant markets when considering any increases to salaries for Executive Directors.
However, the Committee does not currently consult with employees on its executive remuneration policy.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee will take into consideration all shareholder views received during the year and at the Annual General Meeting each year, as well as guidance from shareholder representative bodies more broadly, in shaping the Groups implementation of its Remuneration Policy, as well as any future changes to Policy.
It is the Committees intention to consult with major shareholders in advance of making any material changes to remuneration arrangements.
Remuneration Policy for the Non-Executive Directors Details of the Policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Performance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity measures Non-Executive Director fees To attract and retain Non-Executive The fees of the Chairman are determined by the Committee.
The fees paid to Fee increases will be n a Directors of the highest calibre with Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Chairman and Executive Directors.
applied taking into broad commercial and other Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director and for chairing account the outcome experience relevant to the Group.
or being a member of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration Committee of the annual review.
and any other Board committee.
Fee levels are reviewed annually with any increases normally effective 1 April, taking The maximum into account external advice on best practice and competitive levels, in particular at aggregate annual fee other FTSE companies of comparable size and complexity.
Time commitment and for all Non-Executive responsibility are also taken into account when reviewing fees.
Directors including the Chairman as Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees are paid in cash.
provided in the Groups Articles of The Committee reimburses the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for Association is reasonable expenses in performing their duties and may settle any tax incurred in 1,500,000. relation to these expenses.
For any Non-Executive Director that is based overseas, the Group will meet travel and accommodation expenditure as required to fulfil their Non-Executive duties.
The fees paid to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to join the Groups pension, incentives or share schemes or to participate in any of the Groups other benefit arrangements.
In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will use the Policy set out above.
117 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy report continued Non-Executive Director letters of appointment None of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract with the Group.
They do have letters of appointment, and will be submitted for re-election annually.
The dates relating to the appointments of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors who served during the reporting period are as follows: Date of letter of Director Role Date of appointment appointment Date of election Sir Christopher Gent Non-Executive Chairman 31 October 2016 18 October 2016 10 May 2018 Steve Holliday Deputy Chairman 31 October 2016 14 October 2016 10 May 2018 Jesper Ovesen Independent Non-Executive Director 31 October 2016 14 October 2016 10 May 2018 1 1 Rick Anderson Independent Non-Executive Director 31 October 2016 12 October 2016 10 May 2018 2 Kasim Kutay Non-Executive Director 28 March 2017 31 March 2017 10 May 2018 Dr Ros Rivaz Independent Non-Executive Director 21 June 2017 20 June 2017 10 May 2018 Dr Regina Benjamin Independent Non-Executive Director 11 August 2017 15 August 2017 10 May 2018 Margaret Ewing Independent Non-Executive Director 11 August 2017 17 August 2017 10 May 2018 3 Sten Scheibye Non-Executive Director 3 July 2018 3 July 2018 N A 1.
Rick Andersons letter of appointment was amended on 8 November 2018 to reflect his increased fee following his appointment as Interim CEO.
Stepped down from the Board on 3 July 2018.
Joined the Board replacing Kasim Kutay as the representative of Novo Holdings A S. Directors shareholdings audited The table below sets out details of the current shareholdings of each Director and any relevant connected persons as at 31 December 2018 or the date of leaving.
For Executive Directors, the current shareholding is compared to their shareholding guideline.
Shares Options Owned outright or vested Unvested and Unvested and Unvested and Current Shareholding 2 31 December 31 December not subject to subject to Vested but not not subject to shareholding guideline 1 Director 2017 2018 performance performance exercised performance % salary % salary Paul Moraviec 4,972,509 4,884,263 134,538 201,807 1,188% 400% Frank Schulkes 100,000 165,000 709,776 9,782 62.52% 300% Sir Christopher Gent 150,000 150,000 Steve Holliday 88,889 88,889 Jesper Ovesen 88,889 133,889 Rick Anderson 72,934 149,475 Kasim Kutay N A N A 3 Dr Ros Rivaz 9,729 9,729 Dr Regina Benjamin N A N A Margaret Ewing N A N A Sten Scheibye N A 25,000 1.
Unvested awards not subject to performance reflect the third tranche of the Transition Awards granted on 11 November 2016, which vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continued employment.
Executive Director shareholdings calculated using a share price of 162.92p, being the average share price during the last three months of the 2018 financial year.
The shareholding for Ros Rivaz was incorrectly stated within the 2017 Annual Report as 13,224.
The correct figure which should have been disclosed is 9,729.
No further shares were acquired by the Directors between 31 December 2018 and 14 February 2019, being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Annual Report.
118 ConvaTec Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
