84 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee As detailed in the annual report on Dear shareholder, remuneration, a substantial majority of both As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, financial and non-financial targets set by the I am pleased to present the Directors Committee for the 2018 bonus were remuneration report, including details of the achieved.
However, this year we did not Directors and Non-Executive Directors pay, achieve our bonus threshold levels for our for the year ended 30 September 2018. customer metric NPS and Cost:Income Ratio.
Therefore, the Committee approved Our Directors remuneration policy the an outcome of 42% for the element of bonus Policy was approved by shareholders in linked to company performance.
No 2017 and no changes to the approved policy allowance was made for the acquisition of are proposed for 2019.
Virgin Money on determining the Company This statement and the accompanying performance element.
Details of the element report demonstrate the framework in of bonus linked to personal performance for which decisions have been made, the the Executive Directors can be found on outcomes for the 2018 performance year pages 102 and 103 of this report.
and how the Committee plans to approach the year ahead.
The Committee continues Changes to the Board Debbie Crosbie, Group Chief Operating to ensure the Groups The successful acquisition of Virgin Money Officer, stepped down from the Board and and what this means for the future of the remuneration arrangements from her role as an Executive Director on Group is an important consideration for the support delivery of its 19 November 2018.
She will remain in her Committee as we look to the coming year.
strategic priorities for role as Group Chief Operating Officer for a As we integrate the two businesses it is period of time to facilitate an orderly 2019 and onwards.
critical that we retain and motivate our handover with a leaving date to be agreed.
Executive Leadership Team and colleagues Details of her remuneration arrangements to execute the Groups strategy.
on departure are detailed on page 98.
2018 review Considerations for the year ahead During 2018 the Group has maintained The Committee will continue to operate momentum in delivering against its strategic within the existing approved Directors priorities.
These priorities and commitments remuneration policy in 2019 and will will remain unchanged for the combined continue to focus on ensuring the Group, providing sustainable customer remuneration policy remains in line with the growth, efficiency and capital optimisation market and compliant with regulatory delivered by a strong customer-focused requirements.
Our continuing strategy will culture, all within a framework of prudent align the interests of the Executive risk management and governance.
Following the framework will once again be reflected in acquisition of Virgin Money, the continuing our remuneration arrangements and will be uncertainty over the pending exit of the UK supported by the implementation of our from the EU and the relatively high inflation remuneration policy for 2019. figures, the Committee will also focus on Underlying profit is up 13% and underlying ensuring the Group is able to attract, retain CIR has improved by 4% from 67% to 63%.
and motivate key talent at all levels of the Overall underlying costs for the year of organisation, in a challenging market.
Balance sheet The Remuneration Committee recognises growth continued based on a prudent risk that value creation for shareholders will be appetite with core loans increasing by 4.7% delivered through the successful as mortgage balances increased by 4.5% and implementation of the long-term strategy.
core SME balances grew by 5.6%.
Therefore, in conjunction with advisors, the Following the success of the demerger and Remuneration Committee initiated a full IPO, we continued a programme of review of our Policy against that of other delivering cost efficiencies throughout 2018. financial services companies to determine Against this backdrop of change, our whether the current arrangements will be colleague engagement increased to 76, a sufficient to retain our talented team who rise of four percentage points.
The results have delivered well and who are considered show an increase across a number of essential to the next phase of the Groups categories and our scores remain strong.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 general technical design of both our bonus Based on the findings of that review we The new fee structure has sought to ensure and LTIP, as we believe our current intend to evolve how we implement the that Non-Executive Directors fees are framework continues to provide high levels Policy for 2019.
We propose to introduce reflective of the additional responsibilities of alignment between the interests of our certain adjustments to the implementation of and time commitment in the combined customers, regulators, shareholders and our compensation arrangements that are Group.
Details of the new Non-Executive the Group.
However, whilst we remain permitted by the prevailing European Directors fees including that of the committed to the synergy savings we Banking Authoritys EBA regulations, can be Chairman approved by the Committee, are detailed in the prospectus for the delivered by our approved Policy and that are detailed on pages 106 and 107. acquisition of Virgin Money we will not be common across the financial services sector Pay and employment conditions of other in a position to confirm the quantitative in the UK.
Please note that in reviewing the colleagues in the Group were taken into metrics, targets and weightings in this total compensation arrangements for account when considering these outcomes.
years Implementation Report and until we Executive Directors our focus is on increases Building an improved colleague proposition are able to integrate both the financial and to variable pay, 60% of which will be delivered across CYBG has been a key area of focus non-financial performance indicators for over the long term and vest over three to and for 2018 this included the introduction the Combined Group.
seven years with an additional one-year of private medical insurance and Group holding period.
More detail on the income protection as core benefits for all Consideration of shareholders views implementation of our Policy this year is colleagues across the Group.
Shareholders have an essential role to play detailed in the Implementation Report on in guiding responsible pay practices.
The pages 99 to 104 of this report.
Variable pay Committee received feedback from our The Committee will set appropriate and major shareholders ahead of the 2017 Executive Directors salaries and stretching annual variable reward targets Annual General Meeting AGM, and took Non-Executive Directors fees for the year ahead based on the new account of these views when formulating It is the Committees intent that Executive combined Groups key financial, risk, our Policy, which was reflected in the high Director salary increases remain aligned to customer and culture objectives.
The levels of support for resolutions relating to those applied to colleagues generally across Remuneration Committee is committed to remuneration.
For each subsequent year the Group.
However, as per our Policy, the providing transparency in decision making we have continued to engage directly with Committee reserves the right to provide in respect of the Groups incentive plans.
It our main shareholders both here in the UK increases that are greater than those applied will disclose when available, targets and and in Australia.
across the Group where there is a strong measures: together with information rationale to do so.
relating to performance against those On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to This year the CEO and CFO will receive an targets, except to the extent that the recommend this statement to increase in line with those applied to Group Board deem these to be commercially shareholders, ahead of the 2019 AGM.
colleagues of 2%, effective from 1 October sensitive, in which case it will disclose this 2018.
This will be the first time since joining information once it is deemed not to be the Group in 2015 that the CEO has seen sensitive.
The COOs salary will The new Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP increase, for the first time since 2016, by award for our Executive Directors, awarded 5.6% to 475,000.
This was approved prior Adrian Grace in respect of performance in the financial to her resignation and will be paid from Chair, Remuneration Committee year ended 30 September 2018, is subject 1 October 2018 until her employment to a three-year performance period ceases.
1 October 2018 to 30 September 2021 and a threeto seven-year deferral period.
CYBG Non-Executive Directors fees were This report has been prepared in This ensures a significant proportion of set in November 2015 in preparation for accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large Executive Directors remuneration and payable from listing of CYBG in and Medium-sized Companies and continues to be deferred and delivered in February 2016 and whilst they have been Groups Accounts and Reports shares and that Executive Directors reviewed annually they have not changed Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, remuneration is aligned with the delivery of since.
From 15 October 2018, being the the provisions of the UK Corporate our combined Groups long-term strategy point the Scheme of Arrangement in Governance Code 2016 and the and the long-term interests of relation to CYBGs offer for Virgin Money Listing Rules.
became effective, the CYBG Non-Executive On behalf of the Board Directors have been appointed NonHowever, as you will be aware the Executive Directors of Virgin Money.
There acquisition of Virgin Money has only just are additional Board Committee roles for completed.
The timing of the acquisition some Non-Executive Directors.
presents several additional considerations Therefore, following review it is the intention when it comes to the application of our Adrian Grace of the CYBG Board to change the rates for Policy for 2019 and the development of Chair, Remuneration Committee fees payable to Non-Executive Directors our variable pay arrangements for the 26 November 2018 for the year ending 30 September 2019. coming year.
We intend to maintain the
