86 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy abridged Directors remuneration policy and principles The current Directors remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the AGM on 31 January 2017 remains in force.
The Committee will consider the remuneration policy annually to ensure that it remains aligned with business needs and is appropriately positioned relative to the market.
There is no intention to revise the Policy more frequently than every three years, unless amendments to the Policy are required in the interim, in which case appropriate shareholder approval will be sought.
An abridged version of the Policy which includes the remuneration tables for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors is included in the following pages for reference.
This does not replace or override the full approved policy which is available on pages 106 to 115 of the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts available at: www.
com investor-centre annual-reports Details on how the policy will be applied in 2019 are included on pages 99 to 104 of the report.
In applying this policy the Group remuneration approach remains to: provide competitive, transparent and fair rewards, benefits and conditions: reward achievement of shortand long-term individual objectives and business strategy: align the interests of colleagues and shareholders through colleague share ownership: deliver outcomes over shortand long-term horizons with appropriate performance and risk adjustments, ensuring performance assurance principles are applied: support the RMF with regard for the risk appetite of the Group: and attract, recognise, motivate and retain high performers.
Remuneration arrangements are fully compliant with, and will be operated in line with, all regulatory requirements, including the PRA Remuneration Code and are in line with UK listed financial services sector best practice.
Our peer group companies The CYBG comparator peer group was reviewed by the Committee and is defined as other UK-based banks and wider financial services firms of a comparable size, divisional heads in larger UK banks and other FTSE companies reflecting our market capitalisation.
Elements of package fixed remuneration The policy in relation to each element of Executive Directors remuneration is set out in the following tables.
Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Recruit, reward, retain and recognise leadership position and responsibility for delivering strategy.
Operation Base salaries are paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year and are reviewed annually.
When determining and reviewing base salaries, the Committee considers: Group and individual performance: the skills, experience and responsibilities of the Executive Director and their market value: the scope and size of the role: base salary increases for colleagues throughout the Group: and external benchmarks data for peer banks, the divisional heads of larger UK banks and FTSE data reflecting our market capitalisation.
Maximum potential The Committee will seek to limit pay increases for Executive Directors, where there is no change in role, to those applied to colleagues generally across the Group.
However, where an Executive Director is relatively new in role the Committee reserves flexibility to provide increases that are greater than those applied across the Group to bring the individuals salary into line with the market and reflect the gaining of experience.
Other colleagues The approach takes into account affordability, economic factors, external market data, business and personal performance.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Pension Purpose and link to strategy Recruit, reward, retain key talent and contribute towards individuals funding for retirement.
Operation Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Group defined contribution pension scheme or may receive a cash allowance in lieu of some, or all, of the employer pension contribution.
The Groups defined benefit pension scheme closed to new entrants in 2004 and closed to future accrual of benefits for the majority of colleagues from 31 July 2017.
Maximum potential The maximum cash allowance for Executive Directors will be set at 20% of an Executive Directors base salary.
Only one Executive Director was a member of the Groups defined benefit scheme prior to it closing to future accrual in 2017 and they ceased to accrue benefits from 31 July 2017 in line with the majority of other colleagues.
For members of the Leadership Team who are affected by the Annual and Lifetime Allowances for pension saving, the Bank introduced two options in addition to participation in the defined contribution pension scheme under the standard terms.
The two options are a cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions from the Bank or a combination of pension contributions and cash of an equivalent value.
Other colleagues All new colleagues are automatically enrolled in the Groups defined contribution pension scheme.
In line with pensions legislation the minimum colleague contribution is 2% of pensionable salary.
The Group operates a contribution matching scheme with contributions ranging from a minimum 8% based on the 2% minimum colleague contribution up to a maximum of 13% based on an employee contribution of 7%.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide benefits consistent with role.
Operation The Group provides a range of benefits which can include private medical insurance, health assessments, life assurance and car allowance car.
The Committee retains the discretion to provide additional benefits as may be reasonably required.
These may include relocation benefits such as but not limited to accommodation, family relocation support and taxable travel.
The Executive Directors are entitled to a maximum of 30 days holiday in addition to applicable bank public holidays.
Maximum potential The CEO has a cap of 250,000 on his benefits, including pension contributions and any cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
For the other Executive Directors, the maximum value of benefits is set by the nature of the benefits and the cost of providing them.
Other colleagues The Group provides a range of benefits based on colleagues roles, which include flexible benefits allowances, private medical insurance, health assessments, life assurance and car allowance car.
Colleagues receive between 25 and 30 days holiday annually depending on their role.
88 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy abridged continued Elements of package variable remuneration Bonus Purpose and link to strategy The annual bonus is designed to reward Group and personal performance in line with strategic objectives.
Operation Annual bonuses are discretionary and are based on Group and individual performance within the year.
The measures, their weighting and targets are set annually with awards determined by the Committee at the end of the financial year.
The annual bonus may be delivered in cash and shares, which, in combination with the LTIP awards and any relevant awards under the all-employee Share Incentive Plan SIP will be structured in line with the requirements on the deferral of variable pay under the PRA Remuneration Code.
The equity-based element of the award will be made as rights to CYBG shares or other instruments, which are released at the end of the required holding period.
The mechanism for making these awards will be the Deferred Equity Plan DEP.
The amount and deferral period for bonus will be determined in line with regulatory requirements and to the extent that the LTIP award does not fully meet the deferral requirements.
Dividends or dividend equivalents accrued on deferred annual bonus shares are paid on vesting, subject to the extent permitted under the relevant remuneration regulations.
For the 2019 performance year dividend equivalents will not accrue on deferred annual bonus shares.
Discretion may be exercised by the Committee to ensure that the bonus outcomes are a fair and accurate reflection of the business and individual performance and consider any risk-related issues but may not exceed the maximum opportunity.
The Group can, in specific circumstances, apply malus and or clawback to all or part of any bonus award.
Maximum potential Taken together with the LTIP awards, total variable remuneration is limited by the 2:1 ratio of variable pay to fixed pay, subject to the LTIP award being at least half of the total variable pay award.
Performance conditions Performance measures are set by the Committee each year and are set out in the Annual Report on remuneration, normally this would be: 80% of the annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is based on performance of the Group against key financial and non-financial measures: and 20% is based on personal performance and behaviours.
When determining the outcome of the performance measures, the Remuneration Committee will seek the advice of the Risk Committee to ensure all relevant risk factors are identified and the bonus pool and or individual awards adjusted accordingly.
Specific measures, targets and weightings will be set by the Remuneration Committee annually and disclosed on a retrospective basis.
Other colleagues All colleagues within the Group below Leadership Team level are in a single Group-wide scheme with target opportunities ranging from 8% to 50% of salary depending on role.
For Leadership Team members below Executive Director target opportunities range from 52% to 57% of salary depending on role.
Awards will be funded from a bonus pool reflecting the same financial and non-financial measures that apply to Executive Directors.
When determining the outcome of the performance measures the Remuneration Committee will seek the advice of the Risk Committee to ensure all relevant risk factors are identified and the bonus pool and or individual awards are adjusted accordingly.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose and link to strategy Delivery of the Groups strategy and growth in shareholder value.
Operation Awards are based on a three-year performance period reflecting a basket of business and shareholder measures aligned with strategic goals.
Awards will vest a minimum of three years after being awarded, or longer, for example where required by the PRA Remuneration Code.
Where a period of deferral extends beyond three years, awards will only be subject to service requirements for the first three years, thereafter awards will only be subject to forfeiture for reasons of gross misconduct or malus.
The value of awards for the purposes of determining total variable remuneration will be in line with the rules set by the Regulator.
The Committee, in its absolute discretion, will determine the level of the LTIP awards made under the LTIP after taking account of an Executive Directors individual performance and business performance.
Any LTIP award, when combined with any deferred element of the annual bonus, will meet the deferral requirements under the PRA Remuneration Code.
Malus and clawback also apply to the whole of the LTIP award in line with the requirements of the PRA Remuneration Code.
Awards are made as conditional rights to CYBG shares, or other instruments, which will be released at the end of the holding period or later where required under the PRAs Remuneration Code.
Dividends or dividend equivalents accrue on the LTIP awards and, to the extent that the award vests, are paid on vesting, subject to the extent permitted under the relevant financial services remuneration regulations.
For the 2018 award dividend equivalents will not accrue.
Maximum potential Taken together with the bonus award, the total variable remuneration is limited by the agreed 2:1 ratio of variable pay to fixed pay, subject to the LTIP award being at least half of the total variable pay award.
Performance conditions Service and performance conditions must be met over a three-year period.
Measures aligned with strategic goals are proposed for all LTIP awards: Sustainable Customer Growth: Efficiency: Capital Optimisation: and Prudent Risk Management and Governance.
The weighting of metrics will be determined before each award with 25% of the maximum vesting for each measure for threshold performance.
The measures reflect a balanced approach between financial and non-financial.
The Committee has discretion to vary the weighting of performance metrics, or to substitute the metrics over the life of this Directors remuneration policy.
Shareholders will be consulted should the metrics themselves be varied.
In determining the outcome, the Remuneration Committee will seek the advice of the Risk Committee to ensure all relevant risk factors are identified and the level of vesting adjusted accordingly.
Other colleagues Members of the Executive Leadership Team and other senior managers are eligible to participate in the LTIP with awards made solely at the discretion of the Committee.
90 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy abridged continued Shareholding requirement Purpose and link to strategy To align Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
Operation Executive Directors Executive Directors are expected to build up a specified holding of CYBG shares equivalent to a percentage of salary.
60% of the shares vesting after settling tax and National Insurance liabilities from CYBG share plans must be retained until the shareholding requirements are met.
Executive Director Shareholding requirement % of salary CEO 200% CFO and COO 150% When assessing an Executive Directors shareholding against the requirement, vested awards which are held as rights rather than shares will be included based on the anticipated net number of shares that would be released to the Executive Director at the end of the holding period.
Other colleagues Additionally, members of the Leadership Team below Executive Director are expected to build up a holding of CYBG shares equivalent to 100% of salary.
50% of the shares vesting after settling tax and National Insurance liabilities from CYBG share plans must be retained until the shareholding requirement is met.
Performance measures The Committee selects the shortand long-term performance measures to ensure an appropriate balance between shortand long-term strategic goals and aligning the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders.
Targets are set each year having regard to the strategic plan and consensus forecasts.
Measures and targets for both the bonus plan and LTIP are aligned to the strategic plan and are approved by the Board.
The Committee may apply discretion, in exceptional circumstances for example, if there is a major corporate event, to amend or vary targets or the weighting of performance metrics measures, or to substitute the metrics over the life of this Directors remuneration policy if these are no longer appropriate to ensure alignment with strategy and any risks within the business.
The Committee will consult with the Groups risk management and control functions to ensure changes are appropriate and do not inadvertently encourage irresponsible or inappropriate behaviour.
The Committee will consult with shareholders in advance of any change to performance metrics and retains discretion to adjust outcomes to ensure these are consistent with corporate performance.
Risk adjustments, malus and clawback For Material Risk Takers MRTs, which include the Executive Directors, bonus and LTIP awards may be reduced before they are released malus or may be subject to clawback where the Committee determines that an adjustment should apply.
Clawback may be applied up to seven years from the award date, or 10 years for those holding a senior management function where an investigation has commenced.
Malus may be applied where: there is evidence of colleague misbehaviour, misconduct, material error, where a colleague participated in conduct which resulted in losses for the Group or they failed to meet appropriate standards: any material failure of risk management at a Group, business area, division or business unit level: if the financial results at a Group, division or business unit level are restated: if the financial results for a given year do not support the level of variable remuneration awarded: or any other circumstances where the Committee consider adjustments should be made.
The Committee is supported in this by the Board Risk Committees and the CYBG Risk function.
Clawback may be applicable where there is reasonable evidence of colleague misbehaviour or material error, or there is material failure of risk management at a Group, business area, division or business unit level.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Other CYBG share plans The Executive Directors are invited to participate in all-employee share plans on the same basis as other Group colleagues.
These plans encourage share ownership, aligning colleagues interests with those of shareholders and allowing them to benefit from the long-term success of the Group.
The CYBG SIP provides for the purchase of shares, in line with HMRC participation level rules, on a monthly basis from gross pay and is also the vehicle used to allow for awards of free or matching shares.
Each Executive Director received 256 free shares following the demerger March 2016 and a further 159 free shares in November 2017.
The CFO participates in the monthly purchase of shares through the SIP.
If operated in the future, Executive Directors will also be eligible to participate in any employee share plans operated by the Group.
Legacy arrangements Awards granted under the NAB Share Plans were retained by colleagues of the Group following the demerger and IPO on 8 February 2016.
Awards remain subject to their existing terms and performance conditions, with service requirements based on employment by Clydesdale Bank PLC.
Detailed below are the rights under the NAB LTIP held by the COO.
Neither the CEO, nor the CFO received any NAB LTIP awards.
Debbie Crosbies 1 NAB LTIP awards Vesting date Release date Performance period if applicable NAB performance rights 2 FY2013 LTIP 20 Dec 17 20 Jun 18 11 Nov 13 to 11 Nov 17 10,161 2 FY2014 LTIP 21 Dec 18 21 Jun 19 10 Nov 14 to 10 Nov 18 13,380 1 Reflects the end of the six months post vesting holding period.
2 Awards that do not vest at the end of the first performance period will be retested after 12 months.
The level of vesting for these awards is determined by the NAB Board, and in 2017 the NAB Board determined that the 2012 NAB LTIP should be lapsed in full.
The 2013 LTIP was due to be released in June 2018 and 2014 LTIP award is due to be released in June 2019.
Both are based on NABs relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance with half measured against the S&P ASX Top 50 Index peer group and half against a selection of financial companies in the ASX Top 200 peer group.
In line with the terms of the awards those that do not vest at the end of the first performance period will be retested after 12 months.
The 2013 LTIP award did not vest in December 2017 and will therefore be retested after the 12 months have elapsed.
The final decision on the level of vesting will be taken by the NAB Board, with value at the date of vesting included in the Directors single table figure in the year they vest.
As the COO stepped down from the Board on the 19 November 2018 the treatment of the awards in the future will be determined by NAB in accordance with rules of the NAB share plans.
92 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy abridged continued Illustration of the application of remuneration policy The chart below illustrates the potential remuneration of the Executive Directors based on the policy in the following three scenarios: minimum remuneration based on fixed elements of package only including salary, pension, and cash benefits i. e. Fixed Pay : target outcome assumes the actual bonus award is 50% of the maximum opportunity with 60% of the LTIP vesting: and maximum outcome which assumes the actual bonus award is 100% of the maximum opportunity and 100% vesting of the LTIP.
The amounts do not allow for share price appreciation but include implementation of the European Banking Authoritys EBA discount factor.
Salary figures are as at 1 October 2018.
Full details on the bonus and LTIP opportunities for the CEO and CFO can be found on page 100.
The figures for the COO are limited to fixed pay i. e. salary, car cash allowance, cash in lieu of pension benefit funding based on the circumstances of her departure and until her employment with the Company ceases.
More information on the remuneration arrangements for her departure can be found on page 98.
Potential 2019 remuneration outcomes David Duy CEO Minimum 100% 1,237k Target 42% 21% 37% 2,922k Maximum 29% 28% 43% 4,246k Ian Smith CFO Minimum 100% 615k Target 42% 21% 37% 1,452k Maximum 29% 28% 43% 2,109k Debbie Crosbie COO Maximum 100% 569k Fixed pay Bonus LTIP Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Service contracts and policy on payments for loss of office Standard provision Provision Details Election All Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Notice periods within Executive 12 months notice from Company.
Executive Directors may be required to work Directors service contracts during the notice period, unless determined 12 months notice from Executive Directors.
Confidentiality Six-month post-termination restrictive Executive Directors are subject to a covenants.
confidentiality undertaking without limitation in time, as well as to six-month posttermination restrictive covenants covering non-competition: non-solicitation of and non-dealing with clients: non-interference with suppliers or contractors and nonsolicitation of colleagues.
Compensation for loss of office Payment in lieu of notice of no more than Payable monthly and subject to an obligation 12 months salary.
on the Executive Director to mitigate their loss such that payments will either reduce or cease completely if the Executive Director obtains alternative employment.
In the event of redundancy, the Executive Director shall be entitled to receive statutory redundancy pay, together with outplacement and legal support.
Treatment of annual bonus on With the exception of good leavers, where The Committee has discretion to reduce the termination participants leave before 1 December they entitlement of a good leaver in line with will not be eligible for an award.
performance and the reason for leaving.
Treatment of unvested deferred bonus With the exception of good leavers, awards Awards to good leavers will be retained in full, on termination lapse where participants leave in the three with no change to vesting or release dates.
years following the award being made.
With the exception of gross misconduct and malus, service provisions end three years from the date of award.
Treatment of unvested LTIP awards on With the exception of good leavers, awards Awards to good leavers will be prorated, termination lapse where participants leave in the three unless the Committee decides otherwise, to years following the award being made.
reflect the period worked in the three years following the award.
The award will vest, unless the Committee decides otherwise, on the normal vesting date to the extent that any performance condition has been met.
Outside appointments Executive Directors may accept outside The Chair is required to approve appointments in other listed companies with appointments in advance.
Agreement from Executive Directors retaining any fees the Board must be sought before Executive received.
Directors accept any additional NonExecutive roles outside of CYBG.
Procedures are in place to ensure that regulatory limits on the number of directorships held are complied with.
Details of the directorships held can be found in the biographies section of the Corporate governance report.
94 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy abridged continued The Committee retains the discretion to determine whether an Executive Director is to be treated as a good leaver.
Unless determined otherwise, an Executive Director will be treated as a good leaver in cases where their employment ends due to death, injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement, or the Company being transferred out of the CYBG Group and any other reason except for dishonesty, fraud, misconduct or dismissal.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith and are required to discharge legal obligations or are due to the breach of such obligations.
The notice periods and dates of their service contracts are shown below.
Executive Directors Notice period Date of service contract Debbie Crosbie 12 months 24 November 2015 David Duffy 12 months 25 November 2015 Ian Smith 12 months 3 December 2015 Considerations of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Pay and employment conditions generally in the Group are considered when setting Executive Directors remuneration.
The Committee is provided with regular updates on overall pay and conditions, including negotiated pay increases for the broader colleague population, has oversight of significant changes in the provision of benefits including pension provisions and approves the colleague bonus pool.
During the year the Committee considered the following in relation to colleagues other than Executive Directors: remuneration packages of Executive Leadership Team members: design of the annual bonus plan for Executive Leadership Team and all colleagues: measures and targets for the 2019 annual bonus pool: identification and bonus awards for MRT: non-regulatory bonus deferral for MRT and other colleagues: annual inflation linked salary increases for all colleagues: changes to the performance management approach for all colleagues: policy in relation to pension arrangements for Executive Leadership Team members and other colleagues impacted by the pension Life Time Allowance Annual Allowance: design of the 2018 LTIP and awards to members of the Executive Leadership Team and other Group senior colleagues based on role : and commencement and termination payments made to MRTs.
The Committee does not specifically invite colleagues to comment on the Directors remuneration policy but any comments made by colleagues are taken into account.
Consideration is given to feedback provided by colleagues through the annual MyVoice colleague engagement survey.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy abridged The table below sets out the Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy which applies to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are engaged through letters of appointment which are for an initial period of three years, subject to threemonths notice by the Non-Executive Directors or the Group.
The Chairman has a six-month notice period.
All Non-Executive Directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM and are subject to early termination without compensation if he or she is not reappointed at a meeting of shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors packages Purpose and link to strategy To ensure the Group is able to engage and retain highly skilled and experienced individuals.
Operation Fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee, while the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board annually.
The fees reflect a base fee with additional fees payable for being members of, or chairing, Board committees and a separate fee is payable to the Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term and will normally serve two terms, exceptionally three.
The fees are set at a rate that reflects the value to the Group and expected time commitment given the added regulatory complexity within the financial services sector.
In exceptional circumstances, incremental fees may be paid for additional duties and time commitment, to reflect increased workload.
From time to time, new Board committees may be established and or responsibilities distributed between committees, at which point fees for committee membership and Chair may be reviewed.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for expenses incurred in performing their duties and any tax arising on such reimbursed expenses is borne by the Group.
For individuals based outside of the UK this will include travel to and from the UK.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
Maximum potential The maximum aggregate value of fees payable to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors is capped at 2.5m under the Articles of Association.
Performance conditions There are no performance conditions attached to the fees payable to the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors.
The dates of current Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are shown below: Non-Executive Directors Clive Adamson 19 May 2016 David Bennett 23 November 2015 Paul Coby 19 May 2016 Adrian Grace 11 November 2015 Fiona MacLeod 8 September 2016 Jim Pettigrew 11 November 2015 Teresa Robson-Capps 11 November 2015 Tim Wade 8 September 2016 Geeta Gopolan 15 October 2018 Darren Pope 15 October 2018 Amy Stirling 15 October 2018 96 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration Remuneration Committee Membership and meetings The Current members of the Committee are: Adrian Grace, Chair Jim Pettigrew David Bennett Fiona MacLeod Appointed 5 November 2018 All members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors who serve on the Committee for a minimum three-year term and a maximum of six years.
The Committee is chaired by Adrian Grace and it held six scheduled meetings during the financial year.
Two ad hoc meeting were arranged for decisions required outside scheduled meetings.
The table below shows the Committee members during the year to 30 September 2018 and their attendance at scheduled Committee meetings.
David Browne retired from the Board and the Committee on 30 June 2018.
Fiona MacLeod has been appointed as a member of the Committee with effect from 5 November 2018.
Number of scheduled Number of scheduled Committee meetings Committee meetings eligible to attend attended Committee Chair Adrian Grace 6 6 Committee members David Bennett 6 5 Jim Pettigrew 6 5 Former Committee members David Browne 4 4 By invitation, other attendees will include: the Chief Executive Officer: the Group Human Resources Director: the Head of Reward and Pensions and the Group Chief Financial Officer, except when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
 LLP PwC the Committees independent remuneration adviser also attend meetings where invited.
The Company Secretary attends meetings to record minutes.
In addition, representatives from the Risk Committee may attend where appropriate to provide the Remuneration Committee with detailed risk assessments.
Committee role and responsibilities During the year, the Committee revised its Charter which sets out the role and responsibilities of the Committee.
The Charter of the Committee can be found on the Companys website www.
com about-us corporate-governance Committee performance evaluation During the year the Committee made progress on key findings of the in-depth Board performance evaluation carried out in 2017 which included an assessment of the Committees effectiveness.
The Committee has adopted a continuous improvement approach to its performance evaluation and considers at the end of each meeting the effectiveness of the meeting and the quality of the reports that were presented.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Matters considered and actions taken by the Committee The significant matters addressed by the Committee during the financial year ended 30 September 2018 and in evaluating the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts are described below: Role of the Committee Key matters considered Actions taken Fixed and variable pay issues 2018 short and 2017 longConsidered and approved discretionary incentives, term incentive arrangements performance measures and structures for delivery 2018 total remuneration Approved variable remuneration awards for Executive outcomes Directors, other senior management, MRT and all colleagues for 2018 financial year.
Approved the release of deferred bonus awards.
Approved forfeiture of bonus for the COO upon stepping down from the Board.
All colleague 2017 and 2018 Considered all colleague pay and executive pay pay mandate and Executive arrangements.
Recommended change to COOs base Directors Pay salary.
Chairmans fee Considered external market insight and recommended change.
MRT termination and Considered all commencement awards and termination commencement awards payments made during 2018, including that of the COO.
Delegated authority to approve awards and release payments below a fide minimis level to Group Human Resources Director and CEO.
Non-regulatory bonus deferral Removal of the requirement for non-MRT and MRT below the fide minimis threshold to defer bonus.
Governance, risk and other matters MRTs Reviewed and approved changes and confirmed MRT population throughout the year.
Regulatory developments Considered regulatory remuneration requirements and approved compliance review.
Implementation of the Approved the implementation of the Policy for 2019.
Remuneration policy 2018 risk adjustments Approved the Groups approach to risk and control adjustments for incentive arrangements and periodic review thereof.
2018 performance assessment Reviewed Executive Director and Executive Leadership CEO, CFO, COO & LT Team individual scorecards.
Scheme rules and terms of the Approved the terms of the DEP and LTIP plans for 2017 DEP & LTIP and 2018.
Annual remuneration Approved the submission of the remuneration policy disclosures statement to the PRA and FCA.
Approved the 2017 Directors remuneration report including Pillar 3 requirements.
Investors and regulator Considered investor feedback and AGM outcomes and feedback any impact on future structure of Executive Directors remuneration.
Pension arrangements Considered retirement arrangements for members of the Leadership Team and other colleagues impacted by the pension Life Time Allowance Annual Allowance.
98 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Advisers to the Committee Following a selection process carried out by the Remuneration Committee prior to the IPO of the Group, the Committee engaged the services of PwC as independent remuneration adviser.
During the financial year, PwC advised the Committee on all aspects of the Directors remuneration policy for members of the Executive Leadership Team.
PwC also provide professional services in the ordinary course of business including assurance, advisory, tax and legal advice.
The Committee is notified of other remuneration work that is undertaken by PwC.
In addition, there are processes in place to ensure no conflict of interest exists in the provisions of these services.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group, whose voluntary code of conduct is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
Fees of 198,000 excluding VAT 2017: 139,000 were paid based on the time spent on advice provided to the Remuneration Committee in respect of Directors remuneration for the financial year.
The increase in fees in 2018 reflects additional time spent as a result of activity related to the acquisition of Virgin Money.
Statement of voting at general meeting The proposals in relation to the Groups remuneration policy, which were effective during 2018, were detailed within the Directors remuneration report for 2016 and were approved at the AGM on 31 January 2017.
The implementation of remuneration policy and the remuneration offered to Executive Directors for 2018 were detailed in the 2017 Directors remuneration report and were approved at the AGM on 31 January 2018.
The shareholder votes submitted at the meeting, either directly, by mail or by proxy, were as follows: Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Number of shares % of votes Number of shares % of votes Number of shares Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 AGM 594,488,715 99.23% 4,592,820 0.77% 1,524,064 Directors Remuneration Report 2018 AGM 605,457,056 98.88% 6,862,295 1.12% 552,298 Changes to the Board - Group Chief Operating Officers remuneration arrangements on departure Debbie Crosbie stepped down from the Board with effect from 19 November 2018 and after a handover period will be placed on gardening leave until her employment with the Company ceases on a date to be agreed.
In line with her contractual arrangements and the circumstances of her termination, she will not receive any compensation for loss of office.
From her departure date she will be paid in lieu of notice for the balance of her 12-month notice period until 18 November 2019 or such earlier dates as may be agreed.
She will receive her salary, car cash allowance, cash in lieu of pension and benefit funding as detailed on page 99, including her increase effective 1 October 2018, up to her departure date.
Service contracts for Executive Directors include express provisions for the use of monthly phased payments, with a requirement for the departing Executive Director to seek to mitigate any loss and a reduction in amounts paid if they obtain alternative paid employment.
No other remuneration payments will be made in connection with her departure.
In accordance with the rules of the 2018 Bonus Plan and the 2018 Long Term Incentive Plan, she will forfeit her bonus and she will not receive an LTIP award for the performance year 2018.
In addition, as per the rules of the CYBG DEP and CYBG LTIP, approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, Debbies outstanding 2017 deferred bonus, 2015 Demerger Award, 2016 LTIP and 2017 LTIP will lapse on her departure from the Company.
Her right to receive an award in relation to the legacy 2013 and 2014 NAB Executive Long Term Incentives Performance Rights Grant, detailed on page 91, will be determined by the NAB Board in accordance with the plan rules and any remuneration she may receive will be detailed in next years Directors remuneration report 2019 alongside her single total figure of remuneration for the year ending 30 September 2019.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Implementation of the policy in 2019 At a glance Executive Directors remuneration structure in 2019 summary For the 2019 performance year the annual incentive award bonus will be up to 118 % of salary for the CEO and 117% for the CFO.
Executive Directors will also be eligible to receive a LTIP award of up to 177% CEO and 176% CFO of salary in respect of the 2018 performance year.
The COO will not be entitled to either award as her employment will terminate before the performance year end.
The level of LTIP vesting will be based on performance measured over financial years 2019, 2020 and 2021 the period 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2021.
In combination, bonus and LTIP will not exceed the regulatory ratio between variable to fixed pay, when discounted using the EBA Discount Factor.
Ian Smith 510,000 2% increase aligned with all colleagues.
Benefits and allowances Benefits and allowances include: pension, car, medical cover and life assurance arrangements David Duffy 216,351.
FY19 Annual incentive bonus Maximum 118% CEO and 117% CFO of salary and linked to the delivery of 2019 business strategy.
At least 50% delivered in shares.
PerformAwarded Vesting Potential share deferral and phased release ance 50% in Part of the bonus may be deferred to ensure that, in combination with the period shares 50% cash LTIP award, regulatory requirements for deferral are met.
FY18 LTIP Maximum 177% CEO and 176% CFO of salary and linked to the delivery of business strategy over the financial years 2019 to 2021.
It is expected that awards will be granted in December 2019.
Award deferred for a total of seven years, with vesting in equal tranches Awarded Performance period Vesting Deferral and phased release over years three to seven with one year additional holding requirement.
Award subject to 12-month holding period in line with regulatory requirements.
The following sets out how the Directors remuneration policy will be applied in 2019.
The remuneration policy will be operated as set out above.
In particular: a salary change for the COO is intended from 1 October 2018 and was approved prior to her resignation.
This will be paid until her departure: the 2019 annual bonus and the 2018 LTIP opportunities for Executive Directors for the financial year 2019 increase as we evolve aspects of the way we implement our approved Policy this year.
The differences in quantum for each Executive Director can be attributed to the different proportion of their fixed pay salary plus pension and car allowances used to calculate the regulatory cap: for the purpose of calculating the ratio between the variable and fixed components of remuneration for Executive Directors we will use the European Banking Authoritys EBA Discount Factor: Non-Executive Directors fees for 2019 have been reviewed and will increase for the first time since 2016.
This reflects the changes in the nature of a Non-Executive Directors role and responsibilities as a result of the acquisition of Virgin Money: and dividends will not accrue on deferred bonus and LTIP awards made in relation to FY2019.
The number of deferred bonus shares LTIP awards granted may be based on a share price discounted by reference to the expected dividend yield over the vesting period.
100 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued FY2019 annual bonus Opportunity 118% CEO and 117% CFO of salary 2017: 100% of base salary.
In line with policy 80% of the award will be based on the performance of the Group against key financial and non-financial measures and 20% will be based on personal performance and behaviours.
Performance measures and targets The Committee has yet to determine the final measures, weightings and targets for 2019 plan.
The timing of the acquisition presents several additional considerations when it comes to the application of our Policy for 2019 and the development of our variable pay arrangements for the coming year.
We intend to maintain the general technical design of our Bonus again this year but are not in a position to confirm the quantitative metrics, and weightings of the plan at this time and until we are able to integrate both the financial and non-financial performance indicators for the combined Group.
We expect that the metrics will remain largely the same as in previous years and that we will maintain a similar mix of financial and non-financial items aligned with our strategic priorities.
We will take the same approach to calibration and set stretching targets aligned with our new medium-term performance targets once these are finalised and communicated to the market.
The Committee will provide the targets alongside the level of payout relative to the performance achieved in next years Directors remuneration report.
FY2018 long-term incentives Opportunity LTIP awards will be granted over shares worth 177% CEO and 176% CFO of salary 2017: 100% of salary.
Performance measures and targets The Committee has yet to determine the final measures, weightings and targets for 2018 plan.
As per the annual bonus plan the timing of the acquisition means that until we are able to integrate both the financial and non-financial performance indicators for the combined Group we will not be in a position to confirm the quantitative metrics, weightings and targets of the plan.
We expect that our approach to LTIP will continue to be based on a balanced scorecard approach that will include the same metrics as we currently have in the four areas of sustainable customer growth, efficiency, risk and compliance and customer focused culture.
We will replace the IRB metric from the 2017 plan as IRB Accreditation was achieved in 2018.
Again we will take the same approach to calibration and set stretching targets aligned with our new medium-term performance targets once these are finalised and communicated to the market.
We will provide a robust set of metrics and targets on a combined Group basis and we commit to consulting with our investors on these measures in the early part of 2019.
We intend to make the award as normal in December, as we believe that the current framework continues to provide high levels of alignment between the interests of our Executive Leadership Team and investors and continues to act as a significant reward and retention tool for our Executive Directors.
Vesting terms The performance period will be the three years commencing 1 October 2018.
An assessment of individual performance in the financial year preceding the date of the grant will be taken into account before awards are made.
We anticipate that we will make the grant in November 2019.
To the extent that the performance conditions are met, awards will release from the third anniversary of the date of grant and are released annually in equal tranches to the seventh such anniversary.
At each release date the resultant number of shares post taxation will be subject to a further 12 month regulatory retention period.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Outcomes for 2018 Executive Directors single total figure of remuneration audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of the financial year to 30 September 2018.
David Duffy Ian Smith Debbie Crosbie 000s 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Salary 1,000 1,000 500 460 450 450 Benefits and allowances 32 56 9 11 8 10 1 Pension and pension allowance 180 180 94 87 81 100 Total fixed remuneration 1,212 1,236 603 558 539 560 2 Annual bonus 620 820 310 377 369 3 LTIP vesting in year 4 Other awards 1 1 1 Total remuneration 1,833 2,056 914 935 540 929 1 David Duffy, Ian Smith and Debbie Crosbie opted out of the Groups defined contribution pension scheme and receive a cash allowance in lieu of the Groups pension contributions for 2018.
2 Includes the cash, upfront retained and deferred bonus elements.
3 No CYBG PLC LTIP awards or legacy NAB LTIP awards vested during 2017 or 2018.
4 Each of the Executive Directors also received 500 of free shares in November 2017.
Debbie Crosbies free shares will lapse upon her termination date.
Former Executive Directors and payments to past Directors audited No Executive Directors left during the year.
Executive Directors payments for loss of office audited No payments were made during this or the previous year.
Total pension entitlements audited David Duffy, Ian Smith and Debbie Crosbie have each opted out of the Groups defined contribution pension plans and receive cash allowances in lieu of pension contributions.
Debbie Crosbie participated in the Groups defined benefit scheme until 31 July 2017, when the plan was closed to future accrual, Details of the pension accrued in the Groups defined benefit pension scheme by Debbie Crosbie in respect of qualifying services are shown below.
The value of the pension is calculated using the HMRC method.
dditional value Pension value Pension value Accrued Normal of pension in the year in the year pension at Retirement on early from the from cash year end Date retirement DB Scheme allowance Total Values relating to DB Scheme 000 000 000 000 000 Debbie Crosbie 42 30 March 2035 81 81 Taxable benefits audited Executive Directors receive private medical cover, health assessment and life assurance.
The CEO receives an annual car cash allowance of 30,000 and the other Executive Directors each receive an annual allowance of 6,840.
A 102 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Annual bonus The following annual bonus awards were made in respect of the 2018 financial year: these were agreed by the Committee having reviewed the Groups results.
Details of the targets used to determine annual bonus in respect of the 2018 financial year and the extent to which they were satisfied are shown in the table below.
These figures are used for determining part of the Group element of Executive Directors bonus awards and are included in the single figure table on the previous page.
No allowance was made for the acquisition of Virgin Money on determining the company performance element.
Award as Executive Directors 2 % salary Underlying performance measures Weighting Threshold Target Stretch Actual audited 1 Sustainable returns Underlying PBT 16.00% 318m 352m 384m 331m 6% Customer lending growth 13.34% 4.6% 5.6% 6.6% 4.7% 5% NPS 5.34% 14.0% 15.5% 17.0% 10.0% 0% Digital adoption 5.34% 41.5% 43.5% 45.5% 46.5% 5% Efficiency Total costs 8.00% 650m 640m 630m 635m 6% Underlying CIR 8.00% 62.0% 60.0% 58.0% 63.1% 0% Capital optimisation Underlying RoTE 16.00% 8.90% 9.25% 9.50% 10.6% 16% Customer-focused culture Colleague engagement 8.00% 72% 77% 82% 76% 4% 80% 42% 1 The underlying profit before tax PBT excludes exceptional items which have reduced the statutory PBT by 495m a reconciliation of underlying profit before tax to statutory profit before tax is provided in the Financial results section.
The reduction is largely driven by legacy conduct issues in respect of PPI.
The underlying PBT was not adjusted by the incremental year on year change in the prudent valuation adjustment PVA figure for 2018.
The PVA figure reduced by 0.7m year on year from 4m in 2017 to 3.3m in 2018.. 2 Following the assessment by the Boards Risk Committee of ex ante and ex post risks the Remuneration Committee did not consider it necessary to make a risk adjustment to the arithmetic outcome of the award.
Personal Awards 20% weighting David Duffy Under Davids strong leadership CYBG has continued to focus on the strategy and transformation of the business delivering a strong underlying performance for 2018 underpinned by sustainable, above-market customer lending growth in both mortgages and SME.
The majority of financial targets have been met with costs ahead of plan at 635m and the achievement of a double-digit Return on Tangible Equity.
The Groups strong performance enabled the Board to recommend a significant year on year increase in the ordinary dividend, with CYBG now on the path to delivering a sustainable return on equity for shareholders.
Our digital transformation has also continued at pace, with the new iB platform now being fully leveraged to improve the customer experience with c, 2m retail customers migrated to the platform and SME customers in progress.
It is Open Banking ready and delivering innovations in the marketplace that will stand out in the marketplace.
The Groups execution of its strategy and consistent delivery against all the targets it has set has enabled the Group to undertake the acquisition of Virgin Money.
The successful completion of the transaction with c. 99% shareholder approval on both sides enables the Group to embark on its next phase of growth.
This transaction, the UKs first major bank acquisition since the financial crisis, has also been executed while continuing to deliver the demanding organic strategy and targets.
The Cultural transformation continues at pace underpinned by the Groups Values which are now deeply embedded in all aspects of the colleague life cycle.
When compared to other organisations going through similar levels of transformation Transitional Companies norm our colleague engagement scores continue to outperform this norm on seven of the ten comparable categories and on questions measuring how we lead ourselves through change we exceed the norm significantly.
Against a backdrop of ongoing, considerable change this is a significant achievement.
Strength and depth of succession plans and leadership capability continue to be an area of focus and improvement.
This has enabled ambitious inorganic growth and delivered the first major public bank acquisition since the financial crisis.
The reputation of the Company has also been enhanced through Davids appointment by the UK Government as Fintech Envoy for the north of England which aligns well to our ambition to support the Northern Powerhouse strategy.
2018 Final outcome: 20% out of a maximum 20% Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Personal Awards 20% weighting Ian Smith Ian has played a critical role in the delivery of the strategic and financial goals of the business.
The business has delivered a strong performance with underlying profit growth of 13% in the year and cost savings ahead of guidance at 635m.
In addition, following a further year of progress on the IRB project, a critical strategic milestone was achieved in October 2018, with the delivery of IRB Accreditation for the Groups Mortgage and SME portfolios.
The strong underlying performance provided the capacity for the Board to recommend a significant year on year increase in the ordinary dividend 3.1p vs 1p in 2017, with CYBG now on the path to delivering a sustainable return on equity for shareholders.
The financial delivery over the past few years has positioned the Group for its next phase of growth and enabled the acquisition of Virgin Money to be undertaken.
The successful acquisition of Virgin Money, the UKs first major bank acquisition since the financial crisis, has also been executed while continuing to deliver a very busy BAU agenda.
A critical strategic milestone has been achieved in the delivery of IRB Accreditation for both mortgages and SME.
The financial control environment remains strong as attested to by both audit and external review.
2018 Final outcome: 20% out of a maximum 20% Personal Group Total award award Award Total Executive Director audited % salary % salary % salary award David Duffy 20% 42% 62% 620,000 Ian Smith 20% 42% 62% 310,000 1 Debbie Crosbie 1 In line with the rules of the CYBG bonus plan, Debbie will not receive a bonus this year.
In assessing the Groups performance, the Committee reviewed a report from the Chair of the Risk Committee on any risk issues within the business and determined that no adjustments were required to the individual bonus awards for Executive Directors.
Deferral of bonus audited In line with regulatory requirements, a portion of the bonus award is subject to deferral to the extent to which the required deferral is not fully met by the LTIP award.
Half of the upfront and deferred elements are also subject to a retention period.
As such the Executive Directors awards were made as follows.
David Duffy Ian Smith Debbie Crosbie Upfront cash 310,000 155,000 2 Upfront shares 310,000 155,000 Deferred shares Total 620,000 310,000 2 Awarded as conditional rights to CYBG PLC shares which will be released at the end of the 12-month retention period.
104 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued LTIP awards 2018 LTIP The following awards will be made to Executive Directors to reflect their performance in 2018 and align their interests with those of shareholders.
Percentage Percentage Type of End of receivable for receivable for Percentage Face value interest performance threshold target 1 2 2 2018 LTIP award of salary of award awarded period performance performance David Duffy 177% 1,770,000 Conditional 30 Sep rights to CYBG Ian Smith 176% 880,000 TBC TBC 2021 3 PLC shares Debbie Crosbie 1 The award is based on a percentage of salary as at 30 September 2018 which takes account of the EBA discount factor.
2 Vesting for threshold and target performance will be confirmed once metrics, relative weightings and targets are established.
3 As Debbie Crosbies employment will terminate she will not receive an award for 2018.
The award will vest based on the performance of the Group over the period 1 October 2018 to 30 September 2021 2019 to 2021 financial years.
As previously outlined on page 100 of this report, we expect that our approach to the design of the LTIP will continue to be based on a balanced scorecard approach that will include the same metrics as we currently have in the four areas of sustainable customer growth, efficiency, risk and compliance and customer focused culture.
We will replace the IRB metric as that has been successfully delivered in 2018.
We believe that this framework continues to provide high levels of alignment between the interests of our Leadership Team, customers and investors and continues to act as a significant reward and retention tool for our Executive Directors.
Past LTIP awards As a result of the recent acquisition of Virgin Money, the Committee has given consideration to the impact of this on the performance targets of the existing incentive awards i. e. the LTIP awards granted in March 2017 and November 2017.
However, due to the timing of the acquisition, it has not been possible to determine the extent to which the performance targets should be adjusted to take account of the Combined Group at this time.
At the point the Committee determines the LTIP metrics in respect of the 2018 LTIP, the Remuneration Committee will, at that stage, determine the extent to which any adjustments are necessary to the performance targets of the existing incentive awards.
In determining any adjustments, the underlying principle will be that any revised targets are no more or less stretching than the original targets.
The Committee is committed to consulting with investors at this time, with full disclosure of any adjustments being made in the 2019 Annual Report.
For information, the original measures and performance targets determined at the time of grant for each of the March 2017 and November 2017 LTIP awards have been detailed below.
2017 LTIP awards audited Percentage Percentage Type of End of receivable for receivable Percentage Face value Number of interest performance threshold for target 1 2 3 4 2017 LTIP award of salary of award shares awarded awarded period performance performance David Duffy 100% 1,000,000 319,284 Conditional 30 Sep Ian Smith 100% 460,000 146,871 rights to CYBG 21% 67% 2020 PLC shares Debbie Crosbie 100% 450,000 143,678 1 The award is based on a percentage of salary as at 30 September 2017.
2 The award price of 3.132 was calculated based on the average middle-market share price over the three days before grant.
3 21% reflects nine of the measures vesting at 25% for threshold performance and two vesting at 0%.
4 67% reflects nine of the measures vesting at 60% for target performance and 20% vesting at 100% for target performance.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 The award was granted in 24 November 2017 and will vest based on the performance over the 2018 to 2020 financial years as set out below.
Underlying performance measures Weighting Threshold Target Stretch Sustainable customer Retail NPS 8.33% 21 24 27 growth Customer lending growth 8.33% 4.0% 5.0% 6.0% Digital adoption 8.33% 50.0% 52.5% 55.0% 2 Efficiency CIR 20.0% 58.0% 55.0% 52.0% 2 3 5 RoTE 20.0% 10.0% 11.0% 12.0% 1 IRB accreditation 10.0% Achieved 1 Risk and compliance Bad and doubtful debt average loans 6.67% 30bps 4 Cumulative operational risk losses 6.67% 30m 25m 20m Complaints per 1,000 6.67% 3.7 3.5 3.3 Customer-focused Colleague engagement 2.5% 72 77 82 culture Senior leadership diversity 2.5% 38% 40% 42% 1 IRB accreditation based on the full roll out and bad and doubtful debt average loans are all or nothing measures with 100% vesting if achieved for these elements.
2 CIR and RoTE are targeted on an underlying basis.
5 CET1 ratio has been removed as a measure for 2018, but will underpin RoTE.
CET1 must achieve 12% before the RoTE element is assessed.
In line with regulatory changes to deferral periods the LTIP awards to Executive Directors will be released over three to seven years from the date of grant, with each release subject to a further holding period.
2016 LTIP awards audited Percentage Percentage Type of End of receivable for receivable Percentage Face value Number of interest performance threshold for target 1 2 3 4 2016 LTIP award of salary of award shares awarded awarded period performance performance David Duffy 100% 1,000,000 375,897 Conditional 30 Sep Ian Smith 100% 460,000 172,912 rights to CYBG 20% 68% 2019 PLC shares Debbie Crosbie 100% 450,000 169,153 1 The award is based on a percentage of salary as at 30 September 2016.
2 The award price of 2.6603 was calculated based on the average middle-market share price over the three days before grant.
3 20% reflects 80% of the measures vesting at 25% for threshold performance and 20% vesting at 0%.
4 68% reflects 80% of the measures vesting at 60% for target performance and 20% vesting at 100% for target performance.
The award was granted in 9 March 2017 and will vest based on the performance over the 2017 to 2019 financial years as set out below.
Performance over the period will be assessed against the following measures: 2016 LTIP measures Weighting Threshold Target Maximum Sustainable customer Growth Clydesdale and Yorkshire Bank NPS 10% 22.5% 25.0% 27.5% Digital adoption 10% 45.0% 50.0% 55.0% 2 Efficiency CIR 25% 60.0% 57.5% 55.0% 1 2 Capital optimisation CET1 ratio 10% 12% 2 RoTE 30% 8.0% 9.0% 10% 1 IRB accreditation for mortgage book 5% Achieved 1 3 Prudent risk management and Bad and doubtful debt average loans 5% 25bps% 4 governance Cumulative operational risk losses 5% 25m 20m 15m 1 CET1 ratio, IRB accreditation for mortgage book and bad and doubtful debt average loans are all or nothing measures with 100% vesting if achieved for these elements.
106 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued 2015 demerger LTIP award audited Following the demerger from NAB an award was made to recognise the Executive Directors contribution to the success of the demerger, with performance measured against a cumulative underlying PBT target over 2016 to 2018.
Details of the underlying PBT targets will be disclosed alongside details of the value at vesting in the 2019 Directors remuneration report.
The PBT outcome will be adjusted by the incremental year on year change in the prudent valuation adjustment figure during this period.
Percentage Percentage Type of End of receivable for receivable for 2015 demerger Percentage Face value Number of interest performance threshold target 1 2 3 LTIP of salary of award shares awarded awarded period performance performance David Duffy 150% 1,500,000 768,560 Conditional 30 Sep rights to CYBG Ian Smith 100% 450,000 230,568 0% 100% 2018 PLC shares Debbie Crosbie 100% 450,000 230,568 1 The award was based on a multiple of salary as at 30 September 2015.
2 The award price of 1.9517 was calculated based on the average middle-market share price over the three days before grant.
3 Awards will vest in February 2019.
The final decision on the level of vesting will be taken by the CYBG Board, with value at the date of vesting included in the Directors single table figure in the year they vest.
Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director for the year ending 30 September 2018.
2 Richard Gregory retired from the Board on 10 January 2017.. Non-Executive Directors annual fees The following fees are payable to Non-Executive Directors for the year ending 30 September 2019 in line with the rates approved by the CYBG Board in October 2018.
The Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for expenses they incur in performing their duties.
Any tax arising on such reimbursed expenses is borne by the Group.
CYBG CYBG 2019 2018 1 Chairman 375,000 350,000 Non-Executive Director 75,000 70,000 Deputy Chairman 60,000 60,000 Senior Independent Director 30,000 30,000 Chair Audit Committee 35,000 30,000 Chair Risk Committee 35,000 30,000 Chair Remuneration Committee 35,000 30,000 Member Audit Committee 15,000 10,000 Member Risk Committee 15,000 10,000 Member Remuneration Committee 15,000 10,000 Chair Governance and Nomination Committee 35,000 5,000 Member Governance and Nomination Committee 15,000 5,000 1 Paid as a combined fee for the role as Chairman and Chair of the Governance and Nomination Committee.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 CYBG Non-Executive Directors fees were set in November 2015 in preparation for and payable from listing of CYBG in February 2016 and whilst they have been reviewed annually they have not changed.
From 15 October 2018, being the point the Scheme of Arrangement in relation to CYBGs offer for Virgin Money became effective, the CYBG Non-Executive Directors have been appointed Non-Executive Directors of Virgin Money plc.
There are additional Virgin Money plc Board Committee roles for some Non-Executive Directors.
To recognise the additional responsibilities and time commitment required from Non-Executive Directors in relation to Virgin Money plc, Non-Executive Directors will be paid an additional fee for a transitional period.
The following fees are payable to Non-Executive Directors in relation to Virgin Money plc roles for the year ending 30 September 2019 in line with the rates approved by the Board in October 2018.
2019 Chairman 20,000 Non-Executive Director 10,000 Chair Audit Committee 25,000 Chair Risk Committee 25,000 Member Audit Committee 10,000 Member Risk Committee 10,000 Former Non-Executive Directors and payments to past Non-Executive Directors audited Richard Gregory retired from the Board on 10 January 2017.
David Browne retired from the Board on 30 June 2018.
No additional fees were paid to either Director by the Group for their services to the Group upon termination.
Non-Executive Directors payments for loss of office audited No payments were made during the current or previous year.
Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited Executive Directors are required to build up a holding of the Groups shares to the value of 150% of base salary 200% for the CEO.
To support this, Executive Directors are required to retain 60% of the net shares received from variable pay awards after the payment of tax and National Insurance until the shareholding requirement is met.
Detailed below are the beneficial holdings of ordinary shares as at 30 September 2018 for each Executive Director, together with details of their vested and unvested awards under the CYBG PLC share plans.
Maximum Expected Unvested Unvested total value 7 Ordinary Vested DEP Vested LTIP LTIP shares and net of tax 1 2 3 4 6 5 6 Director shares awards awards awards awards awards 000 David Duffy 213,438 168,975 849,019 695,181 1,757,638 3,341 Ian Smith 138,158 267,541 319,783 725,482 1,455 Debbie Crosbie 140,771 266,774 312,831 720,376 1,450 1 Ordinary shares beneficially owned, vested awards during the year and holdings of connected persons.
This includes shares held via the CYBG plc SIP David Duffy 415, Ian Smith 1,306 including 526 shares purchased through the partnership scheme during the year ending 30 September 2018 and Debbie Crosbie 415.
Since the year ending 30 September 2018 Ian Smith purchased 47 partnership shares on 1 October 2018 and 54 Partnership shares on 1 November 2018.
At the date of the Report he held at total of 1,407 shares in the CYBG PLC SIP.
2 Includes CHESS Depositary Interests CDIs which represent interests in ordinary shares beneficially owned by David Duffy 4,080 and Ian Smith 4,502.
Values are based on 30 September 2018 closing price of AUS$27.810 1499.17p and the average exchange rate on the day AUS$:GBP 0.5532.
3 Gross number of conditional rights awards which have vested net shares from this award are included in ordinary shares total.
4 Includes the 2015 Demerger LTIP awarded under the DEP and 2017 Deferred Bonus.
Unvested bonus awards are subject to continued employment with no business performance conditions.
The 2015 Demerger LTIP is subject to business performance conditions and continued employment.
5 Includes the 2016 LTIP and 2017 LTIP awards.
These are subject to continued employment and the achievement of business performance conditions.
6 The unvested 2015 demerger LTIP awarded under the DEP, 2016 LTIP and 2017 LTIP awards have been included at 100% of their face value in line with current accounting assumptions.
Values are based on 30 September 2018 closing price of 323.8p.
7 Assumes 47% is deducted from unvested rights to reflect the tax and National Insurance due on the release of shares.
108 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued The chart below shows the Executive Directors current shareholdings and net number of shares they would receive if all the unreleased rights vested and unvested shown above vested in full against their shareholding requirements applicable for Executive Directors: David Duy CEO 691k 2,000k 3,341k Ian Smith CFO 447k 750k 1,455k Debbie Crosbie COO 456k 675k 1,450k beneficially owned Holding requirements Rights held net of tax For the purpose of assessing the Executive Directors holdings against the shareholding requirements at 30 September 2018 unvested awards are excluded.
Requirement Shares Shareholding as % of and vested requirement 1 2 Director Base salary base salary rights Face value met?
2 Values are based on 30 September 2018 closing price of 3.238p, One Executive Director Ian Smith purchases shares via the SIP and currently purchases 150 worth of shares per month.
Non-Executive Directors shareholding audited The beneficial interests of the Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons who held office at 30 September 2018 in the shares of the Group and as at 30 September 2017 are shown below: Ordinary shares beneficially owned Ordinary shares beneficially owned at 30 September 2018 or date at 30 September 2017 or date Non-Executive Directors of appointment if later of cessation if earlier Clive Adamson David Bennett 16,386 16,334 Paul Coby Adrian Grace 16,220 16,220 Fiona MacLeod 7,000 7,000 Jim Pettigrew 50,000 50,000 Dr Teresa Robson-Capps Tim Wade 20,000 None of the Non-Executive Directors holds any awards under the CYBG PLC share plans 2017: none.
One Non-Executive Director Tim Wade bought shares on 22 November 2017.
David Bennett had an automatic reinvestment of dividends of 52 shares on 21 February 2018.
One Non-Executive Director Jim Pettigrew bought 50,000 shares 22 November 2018 between 30 September 2018 and the date of this report.
None of the other Non-Executive Directors, or their connected persons, bought or sold shares between 30 September 2018 and the date of this report.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Executive Directors shareholdings under each of the Groups share plans The Group operates four share plans which were approved prior to the demerger, being: Deferred Equity Plan DEP : Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP : Share Incentive Plan SIP : and Save As You Earn Plan SAYE.
As CYBG is no longer part of the NAB Group, no details of outstanding NAB awards are included within this section.
DEP and LTIP Awards were made to Executive Directors under the DEP and LTIP.
2 The 2015 Demerger LTIP awarded under the DEP is due to vest in 2019.
3 The value of awards granted under the DEP and LTIP were based on the three-day mid-market closing price over the preceding three days.
LTIP An award was made on 24 November 2017 in relation to the 2017 LTIP.
SIP An award of 159 shares was made on 24 November 2018 to each of the Executive Directors through the SIP.
One Executive Director Ian Smith currently participates in the monthly purchase of shares through the SIP.
SAYE No offers under the CYBG PLC SAYE plan have been made 2017: none.
110 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration continued Total Shareholder Return TSR performance The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Groups shares since listing, compared with the total returns of the FTSE 250 Index.
The graph shows the TSR generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Committee considers the FTSE 250 as representative of the current market capitalisation of the Group.
170 160 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 8 Feb 16 30 Sep 16 30 Sep 17 30 Sep 18 CYBG TSR FTSE 250 Source PwC CEO historic remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive Officer over 2018: Chief Executive Officer 2018 2017 Total single figure 000 1,833 2,056 Annual short-term incentive payment level achieved % of maximum opportunity 62% 82% 1 Long-term incentive vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity 1 No CYBG LTIP awards vested during 2016, 2017 or 2018.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2018 financial year: Disbursements Disbursements from profit from profit in 2018 financial in 2017 financial year year Overall spend m m 1 Dividend 44 9 2 Overall spend on pay including Executive Directors 223 166 1 The Directors have recommended a final dividend in respect of the year ended 30 September 2018 of 3.1p per ordinary share in the Company 2017: 1p to be paid subject to approval of shareholders at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
2 2017 and 2018 figures as per note 2.4 of the consolidated financial statements.
Change in the CEOs remuneration compared with colleagues The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration for the CEO between 2017 and 2018 compared with the percentage change in the average remuneration of colleagues.
3 Salary Benefits Bonus Remuneration compared with colleagues 2017 to 2018 2017 to 2018 2017 to 2018 1 CEO 0% -43% -24% 2 Colleagues 1.7% 5% -16% 1 Reflects annual salary at 30 September and average for respective years.
2 Reflects average annual FTE salary of colleagues employed at both 30 September 2017 and 30 September 2018 and average bonus awards for 2017 and 2018.
3 Taxable benefits and other allowances excluding employer pension contributions.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Other remuneration disclosures Our remuneration policy for all colleagues The Group has implemented a firm-wide remuneration policy that is designed to attract and retain high-calibre individuals who will promote the delivery of our long-term strategy in line with our business, values and risk appetite.
While the levels and elements of the remuneration may differ from that of the Executive Directors, they are based on the same principles, aligning remuneration, which shall not be excessive, and ensuring that variable pay is appropriate, balanced and calibrated for any impact of risk.
Element Objective Operation Base salary Recruit, reward, retain and Base salaries are reviewed annually and reflect Group and recognise scope of role.
individual performance, skills, experience and the scope of the role.
Benefits To provide benefits consistent The Group provides access to a range of benefits which may vary with role.
Pension To provide benefits consistent The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme for with role.
The defined benefit scheme closed to new entrants in 2004, with the Scheme closing to future accrual on 31 July 2017 for the majority of colleagues.
Bonus The annual bonus is designed to The Group has a single firm-wide short-term incentive plan.
This reward Group and personal is discretionary and is based on Group performance.
For certain performance in line with strategic more senior colleagues and leadership team members below objectives.
Executive Director level individual performance within the year is also a factor.
The determination of measures and their weighting are set annually and awards are determined by the Remuneration Committee at the end of the financial year.
LTIP Delivery of the Groups strategy In line with Executive Directors, the Groups Executive and growth in shareholder value.
Leadership Team is able to influence the Groups performance and they are incentivised to do so through eligibility to equitybased compensation.
Awards are based on a three-year performance period reflecting a basket of business and shareholder measures aligned with strategic goals.
Awards will vest a minimum of three years after being awarded, or longer where required by the PRA Remuneration Code.
Awards may be subject to a discount in determining total variable remuneration under the rules set by the PRA and European Banking Authority.
Other share plans Offers opportunity to acquire As well as the DEP and LTIP, the Group operates: shares in CYBG.
a SIP under which colleagues may purchase Partnership Shares and the Group may offer free shares: and the Group may in the future offer a SAYE plan.
Commencement, retention Buy-out of unvested equity from The amount, timing and performance hurdles are based on those and guaranteed awards a previous employer.
being forfeited and satisfactory evidence.
Guaranteed incentives or bonus are not provided to existing colleagues.
112 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Other remuneration disclosures continued Total reward consists of both fixed and variable components: fixed remuneration provided as cash and benefits including employer pension : and variable remuneration reflects both individual and business performance.
The mix of fixed and variable reward is balanced to ensure that fixed remuneration provides a sufficient level of remuneration so that the variable reward components can be fully flexible, including the possibility of paying no variable reward.
The remuneration mix at target is based on market information and practices.
In any year, the actual mix may vary from target, given the overlay of business performance and individual performance where applicable.
All variable pay awards to MRTs are subject to malus and clawback in line with regulatory requirements.
Control functions Colleagues engaged in control functions i. e. Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance colleagues are critical to effective management of risk across the Group.
Independence from the business for these colleagues is assured through: setting the reward mix so that variable reward is not significant enough to encourage inappropriate behaviours, while remaining competitive with the external market: and scorecards which are specific to the function.
The Committee reviews remuneration structures for control function colleagues.
Risk adjustment In addition to the Committees review of ex ante and ex post risks that impact on the level of the bonus pool and the application of malus and clawback as outlined above, individual bonus awards are also subject to meeting all compliance requirements and awards made can be reduced to nil where these are not met, or where colleagues are subject to disciplinary sanction.
Deferral arrangements Variable rewards bonus, LTIP and retention awards are subject to deferral and retention for all MRTs in line with UK regulation: at least 60% of total variable reward will be deferred where the total variable reward is 500,000 or more: and at least 40% of total variable reward will be deferred where the MRT does not meet fide minimus conditions.
The period of deferral ranges from one to three years to three to seven years depending on role in line with UK legislation.
The tables below set out the deferral arrangements for those roles classed as MRTs under Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the European Banking Authority Guidelines.
These have been grouped under the three classifications within Strengthening Individual Accountability in Banking: Senior Manager Function SMF roles under the Senior Manager Regime.
This includes Executive Directors, SMF Non-Executive Directors Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and the Chairman of Remuneration, Risk, Audit and Nomination Committees and other SMF leadership team members and senior managers: Risk Manager roles which includes but not exclusively Leadership Team members not classified as SMF, the senior management responsible for material business units, for management of specific risk categories such as liquidity, operational or interest rate risk, and for control functions who are responsible for the day-to-day management of the business, its risks, or its control functions: and other MRT which are roles considered to have material impact on the risk profile of the Group.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Year 0 Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Year 7 Year 8 Financial year 2019 Award-2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 Senior managers Vesting Minimum 60% of 2019 variable remuneration Risk managers Performance Year of year award Vesting Minimum 40% of 2019 variable remuneration Other MRT Vesting Minimum 40% of 2019 variable remuneration Award subject to additional holding period in line with regulatory requirements.
Remuneration of MRTs for 2018 This section discloses the remuneration awards made by the Group to 147 MRTs 2017: 157 in respect of the 2018 performance year.
Additional information summarising the Groups decision-making policies for remuneration are also provided.
These disclosures deliver the requirements of Capital Requirements Regulation CRR Article 450.
The following groups of individuals have been identified as meeting the criteria for MRTs including those who may have a material impact on the Groups risk profile: senior management, Executive Directors, members of the Executive Leadership Team: Non-Executive Directors: and other individuals whose activities could have an impact on the Groups risk profile.
Independent control Corporate 1 2 3 Aggregate remuneration of MRTs by business area Banking functions functions Total Number of MRTs 41 76 30 147 Total fixed remuneration m 5.6 12.3 4.3 22.2 1 Includes colleagues in the Customer Banking Division and the Customer Banking Director.
2 Includes Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and colleagues within Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance functions.
3 Includes Human Resources, Finance, Marketing, Products and other corporate functions.
Senior management Other MRTs Total 1 2 Total value of MRTs remuneration awards m m m Number of MRTs 22 125 147 3 Fixed remuneration 6.7 15.5 22.2 Variable remuneration cash 1.5 3.5 5.0 Variable remuneration shares 1.3 0.3 1.6 4 Deferred remuneration cash 5 Deferred remuneration shares 5 6 Long-term incentive shares 6.6 2.3 8.9 7 Total variable remuneration 9.4 6.1 15.5 Total remuneration 16.1 21.6 37.7 1 Includes the Executive Directors, members of the Executive Leadership Team and those holding a Senior Management Function under the Senior Management Regime.
2 Includes Non-Executive Directors, colleagues identified as MRTs under the FCA PRA criteria and any colleagues who the Group considers to have responsibility and accountability for activities that could have a material impact on the Groups business risk profile or credit exposure and colleagues in independent Risk, Internal Audit and Compliance function roles.
3 Excludes termination awards made under the Group redundancy policy together with Payment in lieu of notice PILON and any pension augmentation.
4 Deferred bonuses awarded in cash.
5 All awards are made as conditional rights to the Groups shares.
6 Reflects the face value of the 2018 LTIP award.
7 Includes current year commencement awards.
114 CYBG PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report Other remuneration disclosures continued Senior management Other MRTs Total Deferred remuneration m m m 1 Deferred remuneration at 30 September 2018 Outstanding vested 1.7 1.8 3.5 Outstanding unvested 12.7 5.4 18.0 2 Awarded during the financial year 6.5 4.3 10.7 3 Released paid out during the financial year 1.3 1.2 2.4 4 Reduced through performance adjustments 1 Value at date of award.
Figures including 2016 and 2017 deferred awards LTIP, Bonus and commencement plus 2018 awards.
2 Includes 2016 and 2017 deferred bonus awards, 2016 and 2017 LTIP and 2018 commencement awards.
3 Reflects deferred elements of 2016 and 2017 bonuses.
4 This figure does not include the adjusted value of awards which were forfeited by colleagues upon leaving the Group.
Senior Other remuneration management Other MRTs Total 1 Commencement awards m 0.2 0.2 Number of beneficiaries 2 2 Highest award to single beneficiary m 0.1 2 Termination awards m 0.6 0.6 Number of beneficiaries 4 4 Highest award to single beneficiary m 0.3 1 Current year commencement awards and prior year buyout awards granted in 2018.
2 Awards made under the Group redundancy policy together with PILON and any pension augmentation.
Senior 1 Remuneration band m management Other MRTs Total More than 3.5m 3.0m 3.5m 1 1 2.5m 3.0m 2.0m 2.5m 1.5m 2.0m 1m 1.5m 5 5 0.5m 1.0m 4 3 7 Less than 0.5m 12 122 134 1 Total remuneration has been calculated including fixed remuneration, allowances, variable remuneration including 2018 LTIP at face value in relation to the performance year, and fees for Non-Executive Directors.
Variable remuneration includes the annual short-term incentive award in respect of the 2018 financial year.
Bands have been converted using a rate of 1 GBP 1.1226 EUR, consistent with the European Commissions currency converter for September 2018.
