Governance Directors remuneration report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 71 Contents Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy 74 Annual report on remuneration 80 Single figure table 80 Long-term value for shareholders Annual incentive payouts for 2018 81 Long-term incentives vesting in 2018 82 and pay for performance is at the Pension benefits in 2018 83 Long-term incentives awards made in 2018 84 heart of our remuneration policy.
Outstanding share plan interests 85 Salary increases for year ahead 86 Incentives design for year ahead 86 TSR performance chart 87 Shareholding versus requirement 88 Non-Executive Director pay 89 Annual statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2018.
This report complies with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Account and Reports Regulations 2008 and contains: The current directors remuneration policy, which was approved at the AGM on 20 September 2017: and The annual remuneration report, describing how the remuneration policy has been put into practice during the year ended 30 June 2018, and how it will be implemented in the year ending 30 June 2019.
In this section you will find the remuneration principles that have guided the Remuneration Committee in their decision making throughout the year.
Fundamentally, this is about balance: ensuring that remuneration structures are designed in a way that enables the right outcomes for the business in line with its long-term strategy, making sure that we have the best people in place to deliver on that strategy and ensuring that executive pay is appropriate in the wider context in which the business operates.
Like many multinational companies, we source talent globally and we need to attract and retain the best people to lead our business in an increasingly competitive marketplace.
Remuneration is a key part of our offering and the significant market pay differential between executives in the United States and in the United Kingdom and the rest of Europe continues to be challenging.
This is particularly an issue for Diageo since a significant part of our business is based in the United States, and this is a critical talent market for our senior leadership group.
We continue to monitor external practices across our key strategic markets and set our remuneration policy and practices in a way that provides appropriate balance between risk and reward, delivering market competitive packages in return for high performance against the companys strategic objectives and stretching performance targets.
The key decisions that have been made by the Remuneration Committee during the past year in relation to pay outcomes for Executive Directors are highlighted in the at a glance table overleaf, together with an explanation of how each element of pay supports the business strategy, and a comparison of pay outcomes for the past year against the prior year.
You will note that strong performance against very stretching targets over the past three years has led to long-term incentive awards vesting at 60% of maximum for 2015 performance shares and 70% of maximum for 2015 share options 0% for both schemes last year, and this underlines our principle of pay for performance.
Diageos remuneration principles At Diageo, long-term value creation for shareholders and pay for performance is at the heart of our remuneration policy and practices.
The principles for setting executive remuneration are outlined below and in more detail in the remuneration policy on page 74.
1 2 3 4 Alignment with D elivery of business Sustainable, long-term Competitive total shareholder interests strategy performance remuneration Short and long-term A significant proportion Market competitive total Executives are required to build significant personal incentive plans reward the of remuneration is delivered remuneration with an shareholdings in Diageo to delivery of our business in variable pay linked to appropriate balance of reward strategy and performance business and individual encourage leaders of the and upside opportunity ambition.
Performance performance, focused on allows us to attract and retain business to think and act like owners.
Long-term incentives measures are reviewed consistent and responsible the best talent from all over are held for two years regularly and stretching drivers of long-term growth.
the world, which is critical to targets are set relative to the Performance against targets following vesting to provide our continued business Companys growth plans and is assessed in the context success.
Executive further focus on sustainable share price growth.
The of underlying business remuneration decisions are Committee seeks to embed performance and the quality made in the context of the simplicity and transparency of earnings.
broader all-employee and in the design and delivery of external climate.
72 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors remuneration report Remuneration in 2018 at a glance Key features Purpose and link to strategy Implementation in 2018 Implementation in 2017 Reviewed annually on 1 October Supports the attraction and retention Effective 1 October 2018: Effective 1 October 2017: of the best global talent with the Salaries take account of external CEO 2% increase to $1,613,036 CEO 2% increase to capability to deliver Diageos strategy market and internal employee context $1,581,408 CFO 2% increase to $1,061,208 CFO 2% increase to Supported by a comprehensive $1,040,400 review of total target remuneration versus the external market Salary increases are below the pay budget for the wider workforce Page 86 Provision of competitive benefits Provision of market competitive and Unchanged from prior year: Unchanged from prior year based on country cost-effective benefits supports CEOs company contribution CEO 30% of salary attraction and retention of talent Maximum company pension was reduced from 40% to 30% CFO 20% of salary contribution is 20% of base salary for effective 1 July 2016 new appointments Target opportunity is 100% of salary Incentivises delivery of Diageos annual F18 pay-out above target: F17 pay-out above target: and maximum is 200% of salary financial and strategic targets CEO 68% of maximum CEO 70% of maximum CFO 70% of maximum Paid out in cash after the Provides focus on key financial metrics CFO 72% of maximum end of the financial year and the individuals contribution to the Page 81 Discretion to apply clawback companys performance For F19, measures on net sales growth, operating profit and average working capital weighted equally, with remaining 20% on individual objectives Page 86 Opportunites are unchanged Annual grant of performance shares Rewards long-term consistent Vesting of 2015 performance shares Nil vesting of 2014 and share options performance in line with Diageos at 70% of maximum performance shares and business strategy options CEO award 500% of salary Vesting of 2015 share options Provides focus on delivering superior at60% of maximum CFO award 480% of salary long-term returns to shareholders Page 82 Performance measures, weightings and stretching targets are set annually No change to performance measures for 2018 awards as these 3-year performance period are appropriate in line with the 2-year retention period business strategy Malus and clawback provisions Targets for net sales growth and cumulative free cash flow adjusted upwards for 2018 awards Page 86 Opportunites are unchanged Minimum shareholding requirement Ensures alignment between the CEO shareholding 2115% of salary CEO shareholding 1696% within 5 years of appointment: interests of Executive Directors and of salary CFO shareholding 123% of salary shareholders CEO 500% of salary Page 88 CFO shareholding 123% of salary CFO 400% of salary Performance retention period 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 Salary Allowances and benefits Annual incentive plan Performance shares LTIP Share options Shareholding requirement Indicates a holding or clawback period Shareholding Annual Allowances Long-term incentives Salary requirement incentive and benefits Governance Directors remuneration report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 73 Performance against incentive plan measures Long-term incentives for the period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2018 We are pleased to report strong performance against our targets under both the annual and long-term incentive plans this year, as summarised below.
Organic net sales growth 25% weighting Cumulative free cash flow 25% weighting CAGR Threshold Midpoint Maximum Threshold Midpoint Maximum 6.0% Target 3.0% 4.5% Target 5,000m 6,000m 7,000m 4.0% 6,969m Actual Actual Adjusted earnings per share growth 25% weighting Relative TSR ranking vs peer group 25% weighting CAGR Threshold Midpoint Maximum Threshold Midpoint Maximum 9.0% 3rd Target 4.0% 6.5% Target 9th 6th 6.5% Actual Actual Annual incentive for the period 1 July 2017 to 30 June 2018 Net sales growth 25% weighting Operating profit 25% weighting Threshold Threshold Target Maximum Target Maximum 6.75% 12.3% 2.25% 4.1% Target 4.5% Target 8.2% 5.2% 8.5% Actual Actual Diageos share price growth over the Dividend distribution to shareholders in Average working capital 30% weighting period 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2018 year ended 30 June 2018 % net sales Threshold Target Maximum 210bps Target 30bps 120bps 46% 5% 220bps Actual 2722p 63.4p 2018 2018 1860p 2017 60.3p 2015 Total dividend of 181.2 pence per share paid.
The Committee remains confident that the mix of performance Looking ahead The remuneration policy was approved by 96% of shareholders at shares and share options is an appropriate long-term incentive for the AGM held on 20 September 2017.
There are no changes to the the leaders of the business, and the share options element provides remuneration policy proposed for the year ending 30 June 2019 and an additional stretch in that the share price has to grow materially the performance measures applicable to Executive Directors under in addition to the performance condition being achieved in order for both the annual and long-term incentive plans will remain the same the award to provide value for executives.
This further strengthens as the year before, with the only exception being that the weighting the alignment between the interests of executives and shareholders.
of financial performance measures under the annual incentive plan Share option plans remain majority practice within Diageos will be equalised in the year ended 30 June 2018, 30% of the annual international peer group, against which the company needs to incentive plan was based on average working capital performance remain competitive in order to attract and retain the highest and 25% on each of net sales growth and operating profit growth, calibre of talent.
with the remaining 20% based on individual business objectives.
The annual remuneration report will be put forward for your We will continue to operate executive remuneration consideration and approval by advisory vote at the AGM on arrangements in line with the approved remuneration policy.
Whilst 20 September 2018. arrangements that defer part of the annual bonus into shares are We were very pleased to receive a strong vote in favour of our common in the FTSE 100, the Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy and report last year.
I highly value the direct companys current annual bonus structure payable entirely in cash engagement and feedback from our shareholders and their remains appropriate.
The high shareholding requirement, which was representative bodies on Diageos remuneration policy and practices increased significantly last year as part of the policy review, the level and look forward to welcoming you and receiving your support of stretch in the performance targets under the long-term incentive again at the AGM this year.
plan, and the post-vesting holding period together provide appropriate alignment of executives with the interests of shareholders in fostering sustainable share price growth over the long term.
There are also robust clawback and malus provisions Lord Davies of Abersoch under both the annual and long-term incentive plans, which apply Senior independent Non-Executive Director and to all members of the Executive Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 74 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors remuneration report Directors remunerationpolicy This section of the report sets out the policy for Executive Directors remuneration.
The policy formally came into effect at the AGM on 20 September 2017, in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006, after being approved in a binding vote.
The policy approved in September 2017 can be found on the companys website at www.
Policy table Set out below is the remuneration policy for Executive Directors, which applied from the date of the AGM on 20 September 2017.
There have been no changes to the policy since last year, other than to update the number of employees during 2018 and the pay for performance scenario charts for the year ending 30 June 2019.
More detail on p86 More detail on p80 Base salary Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Supports the attraction and retention of the best global talent with Provides market competitive and cost effective benefits.
the capability to deliver Diageos strategy and performance goals.
Operation Operation The provision of benefits depends on the country of residence Normally reviewed annually or following a change in of the Executive Director and may include but is not limited to responsibilities with any increases usually taking effect from a company car or car allowance, the provision of a car and 1 October.
contracted car service or equivalent, product allowance, life insurance, accidental death & disability insurance, medical The Remuneration Committee considers the following cover, financial counselling and tax advice.
parameters when reviewing base salary levels: Pay increases for other employees across the group.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to offer additional Economic conditions and governance trends.
allowances, or benefits, to Executive Directors, if considered The individuals performance, skills and responsibilities.
These may include relocation Base salaries and total remuneration at companies of similar expenses, housing allowance and school fees where a Director size and international scope to Diageo, with roles typically is asked to relocate from his her home location as part of their benchmarked against the FTSE 30 excluding financial services appointment.
companies, or against similar comparator groups in other Opportunity locations dependent on the Executive Directors home market.
The benefits package is set at a level which the Remuneration Opportunity Committee considers: Salary increases will be made in the context of the broader Provides an appropriate level of benefits depending on the employee pay environment, and will normally be in line with role and individual circumstances: those made to other employees in relevant markets in which Is appropriate in the context of the benefits offered to the Diageo operates, typically the United Kingdom and the United wider workforce in the relevant market, and States, unless there is a change in role or responsibility or other Is in line with comparable roles in companies of a similar size exceptional circumstances.
and complexity in the relevant market.
Governance Directors remuneration report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 75 More detail on p83-84 Post-Retirement Provisions DIAGEO Long-Term Incentive More detail on p82-84 and 86-87 Plan DLTIP Purpose and link to strategy Provides cost-effective, competitive post-retirement benefits.
Purpose and link to strategy Provides focus on delivering superior long-term returns to Operation shareholders.
Provision of market competitive pension arrangements or a cash alternative based on a percentage of base salary.
Operation An annual grant of performance shares and or market price Further detail on current pension provisions for Executive share options which vest subject to a performance test and Directors is disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
continued employment normally over a period of three years.
Opportunity Measures and stretching targets are reviewed annually by the The maximum company pension contribution is 20% of base Remuneration Committee for each new award.
Details of the salary for any new external appointments to an Executive measures, weightings and targets applicable for the financial Director position.
year under review are provided in the annual report on Current legacy company contributions for Ivan Menezes and remuneration.
Kathryn Mikells in the year ended 30 June 2018 were 30% and Following vesting there is a further retention period of two 20% of base salary respectively.
At his request, Ivan Menezes years.
Executive Directors are able to exercise an option or sell company contribution was reduced from 40% to 30% sufficient shares to cover any tax liability when an award vests, effective 1 July 2016. provided they retain the net shares arising for the two-year retention period.
Notional dividends accrue on performance share awards to the More detail on p81 and 86 Annual Incentive Plan AIP extent that the performance conditions have been met, Purpose and link to strategy delivered as shares or cash at the discretion of the Incentivises year on year delivery of Diageos annual financial and Remuneration Committee at the end of the vesting period.
Provides focus on key financial metrics and the The Committee has discretion to reduce the number of shares individuals contribution to the companys performance.
which vest subject to HMRC rules regarding approved share Operation options, for example in the event of a material performance Performance measures, weightings and targets are set annually failure, or a material restatement of the financial statements.
Appropriately stretching There is an extensive malus clause for awards made from targets are set by reference to the annual operating plan and September 2014.
The Committee has discretion to decide that: historical and projected performance for the company and its the number of shares subject to the award will be reduced: peer group.
the award will lapse: retention shares i. e. vested shares subject to the additional The level of award is determined with reference to Diageos two-year retention period will be forfeited: overall financial and strategic performance and individual vesting of the award or the end of any retention period will performance and is paid out in cash after the end of the be delayed e. g. until an investigation is completed : financial year.
additional conditions will be imposed on the vesting of the The Committee has discretion to adjust the level of payment award or the end of the retention period: and or if it is not deemed to reflect appropriately the individuals any award, bonus or other benefit which might have been contribution or the overall business performance.
Any granted or paid to the participant in any later year will be discretionary adjustments will be detailed in the following reduced or not awarded.
years annual report on remuneration.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply up to delivery of shares The Committee has discretion to apply clawback to bonus, i. e. at the end of the retention period as opposed to the vesting the company may seek to recover bonus paid, in exceptional date.
The company also has the standard discretion to take circumstances such as gross misconduct or gross negligence account of unforeseen events such as a variation to share capital.
Opportunity Opportunity The maximum annual grants for the CEO and CFO are 500% For threshold performance, up to 50% of salary may be earned, and 480% of salary in performance share equivalents with up to 100% of salary earned for on target performance and respectively where a market price option is valued at one-third a maximum of 200% of salary payable for outstanding of a performance share.
Under the DLTIP no more than 375% performance.
of salary will be awarded in face value terms in options to any Executive Director in any year.
Performance conditions Annual incentive plan awards are based 70%-100% on financial Threshold vesting level of 20% of maximum with straight line measures which may include, but are not limited to, measures vesting up to 100% at maximum for attaining financial metrics of revenue, profit and cash and 0%-30% on broader objectives and a ranking profile for relative total shareholder return.
based on strategic goals and or individual contribution.
Details of the targets will be disclosed retrospectively in next years annual report on remuneration, when they are no longer deemed commercially sensitive by the Board.
76 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors remuneration report Performance conditions Chairman of the Board and The vesting of awards is linked to a range of measures which More detail on p89 Non-Executive Directors may include, but are not limited to: Purpose and link to strategy a growth measure e. g. net sales growth, profit before Supports the attraction, motivation and retention of world-class exceptional items and taxation PBET growth : talent and reflects the value of the individual, their skills and a measure of efficiency e. g. operating margin, cumulative experience, and performance.
free cash flow, return on invested capital ROIC : and a measure of Diageos relative performance in relation to Operation Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are normally its peers e. g. relative total shareholder return.
Measures that apply to performance shares and market price A proportion of the Chairmans annual fee is used for the options may differ, as is the case for current awards.
Weightings monthly purchase of Diageo ordinary shares, which have to be of these measures may vary year-on-year.
retained until the Chairman retires from the company or ceases The Remuneration Committee has discretion to amend the to be a Director.
performance conditions in exceptional circumstances if it considers it appropriate to do so, e. g. in cases of accounting Fees are reviewed in the light of market practice in the FTSE 30, excluding financial services companies, and anticipated policy changes, merger and acquisition activities and disposals.
Any such amendments would be fully disclosed and explained workload, tasks and potential liabilities.
in the following years annual report on remuneration.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the companys incentive plans nor do they receive pension contributions or benefits.
Their travel and All-employee share plans accommodation expenses in connection with the attendance of Board meetings and any tax thereon are paid by the Purpose and link to strategy company.
To encourage broader employee share ownership through locally approved plans.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are eligible to receive a product allowance or cash equivalent at the same Operation level as the Executive Directors.
The company operates tax-efficient all-employee share savings plans in various jurisdictions.
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
A summary of their terms and conditions of appointment is Executive Directors eligibility may depend on their country available at www.
The Chairman of the Board, Javier of residence, tax status and employment company.
Ferrn, was appointed on 1 January 2017, under a letter of Opportunity appointment for an initial three-year term, terminable on six Limits for all-employee share plans are set by the tax authorities.
months notice by either party or, if terminated by the company, The company may choose to set its own lower limits.
by payment of six months fees in lieu of notice.
Performance conditions Opportunity UK Freeshares: based on Diageo plc financial measures which Fees for Non-Executive Directors are within the limits set by may include, but are not limited to, measures of revenue, the shareholders from time to time, with an aggregate limit of profit and cash.
More detail on p88 Shareholding requirement Purpose and link to strategy Ensures alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
Operation The minimum shareholding requirement is 500% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 400% of base salary for any other Executive Directors.
Executive Directors are expected to build up their shareholding within five years of their appointment to the Board.
Executive Directors will be restricted from selling more than 50% of shares which vest under the long-term incentive plan excluding the sale of shares to cover tax on vesting and other exceptional circumstances to be specifically approved by the Chief Executive and or Chairman, until the shareholding requirement is met.
Governance Directors remuneration report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 77 contribution linked to our holistic performance whilst mindful not Notes to the policy table to over-pay.
It is driven by local market practice as well as level of seniority and accountability, reflecting the global nature of Illustrations of application of the remuneration policy Diageos business.
The graphs below illustrate scenarios for the projected total remuneration of Executive Directors at three different levels of Approach to recruitment remuneration performance: minimum, on-target and maximum.
Note that the Diageo is a global organisation operating in more than 180 countries projected values exclude the impact of any share price movements.
The ability, therefore, to recruit and retain the best These charts reflect projected remuneration for the financial year talent from all over the world is critical to the future success of the ending 30 June 2019. business.
People diversity in all its forms is a core element of Diageos global talent strategy and, managed effectively, is a key driver in Ivan Menezes delivering Diageos performance ambition.
The Remuneration Committees overarching principle for Minimum 100% Total $2,233 1,654 recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to 42% 29% 29% Total $5,460 4,044 On Target attract an Executive Director of the calibre required to shape and deliver Diageos business strategy in recognition that Diageo Maximum 16% 24% 60% Total $13,525 10,018 competes for talent in a global marketplace.
The Committee will 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 14,000 Thousands $ seek to align the remuneration package with Diageos remuneration policy as laid out above, but retains the discretion to offer a Kathryn Mikells remuneration package which is necessary to meet the individual Total $1,318 977 Minimum 100% circumstances of the recruited Executive Director and to enable the hiring of an individual with the necessary skills and expertise.
39% 31% 30% Total $3,398 2,517 On Target However, except as described below, variable pay will follow Maximum 15% 25% 60% Total $8,535 6,322 the policy.
On appointment of an external Executive Director, the Committee 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 Thousands $ may decide to compensate for variable remuneration elements the Salary, bene ts and pension Director forfeits when leaving their current employer.
In doing so, the Annual incentive Long-term incentives Committee will ensure that any such compensation would have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited, and would Basis of calculation and assumptions: generally be determined on a comparable basis taking into account The Minimum scenario shows fixed remuneration only, i. e. base salary for the year ending 30 June 2019, total value of contractually agreed benefits for 2019, and the factors including the form in which the awards were granted, pension benefits to be accrued over the year ending 30 June 2019.
These are the only performance conditions attached, the probability of the awards elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages which are not subject vesting e. g. past, current and likely future performance as well as to performance conditions.
Depending on individual circumstances at The On-target scenario shows fixed remuneration as above, plus a target pay-out of the time, the Committee has the discretion to determine the type 50% of the maximum annual bonus and threshold performance vesting for long-term incentive awards of 20% of maximum award.
of award i. e. cash, shares or options, holding period and whether or not performance conditions would apply.
The Maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration, plus full pay-out of annual and long-term incentives.
Any such award would be fully disclosed and explained in the following years annual report on remuneration.
When exercising its Performance measures and targets discretion in establishing the reward package for a new Executive Further details of AIP performance measures and DLTIP performance Director, the Committee will carefully consider the balance between measures and targets that will apply for awards made in September the need to secure an individual in the best interests of the company 2018, and how they are aligned with company strategy and the against the concerns of investors about the quantum of creation of shareholder value, are set out in the annual report on remuneration and, if considered appropriate at the time, will consult remuneration on pages 81-83. with the companys biggest shareholders.
The Remuneration Performance targets are set to be stretching yet achievable, and Committee will provide timely disclosure of the reward package take into account the companys strategic priorities and business of any new Executive Director.
The Committee sets targets based on a range of In the event that an internal candidate is promoted to Executive reference points including the corporate strategy and broker Director, legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, forecasts for both Diageo and its peers.
including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
Approach to remuneration for other employees The remuneration approach for Executive Directors is consistent with the reward package for members of the Executive Committee and the senior management population.
Generally speaking, a much higher proportion of total remuneration for the Executive Directors is linked to business performance, compared to the rest of the employee population, so that remuneration will increase or decrease in line with business performance and to align the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
The structure of the reward package for the wider employee population is based on the principle that it should be sufficient to attract and retain the best talent and be competitive within our broader industry, remunerating employees for their 78 DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors remuneration report Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office including takeover provisions Executive Directors have rolling service contracts, details of which are set out below.
These are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
Executive Director Date of service contract Ivan Menezes 7 May 2013 Kathryn Mikells 1 October 2015 Notice period The contracts provide for a period of six months notice by the Executive Director or 12 months notice by the company.
A payment may be made in lieu of notice equivalent to 12 months base salary and the cost to the company of providing contractual benefits excluding incentive plans.
The service contracts also provide for the payment of outstanding pay and bonus, if Executive Directors are terminated following a takeover, or other change of control of Diageo plc.
If, on the termination date, the Executive Director has exceeded his her accrued holiday entitlement, the value of such excess may be deducted by the company from any sums due to him her, except to the extent that such deduction would subject the Executive Director to additional tax under Section 409A of the Code in the case of Ivan Menezes.
If the Executive Director on the termination date has accrued but untaken holiday entitlement, the company will, at its discretion, either require the Executive Director to take such unused holiday during any notice period or make a payment to him her in lieu of it, provided always that if the employment is terminated for cause then the Executive Director will not be entitled to any such payment.
For these purposes, salary in respect of one day of holiday entitlement will be calculated as 1 261 of salary.
Mitigation The Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to require a proportion of the termination payment to be paid in instalments and, upon the Executive Director commencing new employment, to be subject to mitigation except where termination is within 12 months of a takeover, or within such 12 months the Executive Director leaves due to a material diminution in status.
Annual incentive Where the Executive Director leaves for reasons including retirement, death in service, disability, ill-health, injury, plan AIP redundancy, transfer out of the group and other circumstances at the Remuneration Committees discretion Good Leaver Reasons during the financial year, they are usually entitled to an incentive payment pro-rated for the period of service during the performance period, which is typically payable at the usual payment date.
Where the Executive Director leaves for any other reason, no payment will be made.
The amount is subject to performance conditions being met and at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee has discretion to determine an earlier payment date, for example on death in service.
Diageo 2014 longWhen an Executive Director leaves for any reason other than Good Leaver Reasons, all unvested awards generally term incentive plan lapse immediately.
In cases where Good Leaver Reasons apply, awards vest on the original vesting date unless the DLTIP Remuneration Committee decides otherwise for example in the case of death in service.
The retention period for vested awards continues for all leavers other than in cases of disability, ill health or death in service, unless the Remuneration Committee decides otherwise.
The proportion of the award released depends on the extent to which the performance condition is met.
The number of shares is reduced on a pro-rata basis reflecting the length of time the Executive Director was employed by the company during the performance period, unless the Committee decides otherwise for example in the case of death in service.
On a takeover or other corporate event, awards vest subject to the extent to which the performance conditions are met and, unless the Committee decides otherwise, the awards are time pro-rated.
Otherwise the Committee, in agreement with the new company, may decide that awards should be swapped for awards over shares in the new company: where awards are granted in the form of options then on vesting they are generally exercisable for 12 months or six months for approved options.
Awards may be adjusted on a variation of share capital, demerger or other similar event.
The Remuneration Committee may amend the plans, except that any changes to the advantage of participants require shareholder approval, unless the change relates to the administration, or taxation of the plan or participants, or is needed to ensure that the plans operate effectively in another jurisdiction.
Details of existing awards are set out in the annual report on remuneration.
Repatriation In cases where an Executive Director was recruited from outside the United Kingdom and has been relocated to the United Kingdom as part of their appointment, the company will pay reasonable costs for the repatriation of Good Leavers.
Governance Directors remuneration report DIAGEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 79 Consideration of shareholder views Non-Executive Directors unexpired terms of appointment All Non-Executive Directors are on three-year terms which are The Committee values the continued dialogue with Diageos expected to be extended up to a total of nine years.
The date of initial shareholders and engages directly with them and their appointment to the Board and the point at which the current letter representative bodies at the earliest opportunity to take their views into account when setting and implementing the companys of appointment expires for Non-Executive Directors are shown in the table below.
Philip G Scott stepped down from the Board on remuneration policies.
This year, the company has engaged with 20 September 2017. shareholders and their proxy advisers on the base salary proposals for 2018, short and long-term incentive plan design and target setting Date of appointment to Current letter of Non-Executive Directors the Board appointment expires for long-term incentive awards to be made in 2018.
Javier Ferrn 22 July 2016 AGM September 2019 Peggy B Bruzelius 24 April 2009 AGM September 2018 Lord Davies of Abersoch 1 September 2010 AGM September 2019 Betsy D Holden 1 September 2009 AGM September 2018 Susan Kilsby 4 April 2018 AGM September 2021 Ho KwonPing 1 October 2012 AGM September 2018 Nicola S Mendelsohn 1 September 2014 AGM September 2020 Alan JH Stewart 1 September 2014 AGM September 2020 Payments under previous policies The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of the payment were agreed i under a previous policy, in which case the provision of that policy shall continue to apply until such payments have been made: ii before the policy or the relevant legislation came into effect: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the company.
For these purposes, payments include the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to awards of shares, the terms of the payment which are agreed at the time the award is granted.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the company When reviewing and determining pay for Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the level and structure of remuneration as well as salary budgets for other employees in the group.
More specifically, the Committee reviews annual salary increase budgets for the general employee population in the United Kingdom and United States as well as the remuneration structure and policy for the global senior management population.
Diageo employs c. 30,000 employees and operates in more than 180 countries around the world.
Diageo runs annual employee surveys which give employees the opportunity to give feedback and express their views on a variety of topics, including remuneration.
Any comments relating to Executive Directors remuneration are fed back to the Remuneration Committee.
