Dominos Pizza Group plc 66 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report Chairmans summary statement Dear shareholder, I am pleased to present, on behalf of the target.
Over the performance period, Board, the Directors remuneration report underlying EPS grew by 35.90% and the for the year ended 30 December 2018.
Companys share price performance was below median relative to the constituents In this report, we review the Groups of the FTSE 250 Index excluding performance in the year and explain the investment trusts.
Accordingly the pay which resulted for the Directors.
Kevin Higgins performance conditions for the award I also explain the changes that we will be Committee Chairman were met partially and will result in making to our policy for the Directors 15.32% of the awards vesting, subject remuneration for 2019 and beyond.
to continued employment to the vesting COMMITTEE MEMBERS PERFORMANCE AND date.
David Wild and David Bauernfeind Helen Keays Steve Barber REMUNERATION FOR 2018 did not participate in this award cycle.
Rachel Osborne was eligible to receive a 2018 was a year of steady progress in pro-rata award following her departure the Groups established markets and from the Company see below.
progress in developing the operating model for our newer markets, to lay Tranche 1 of the awards granted to the foundations for longer-term growth David Wild under the 2016 LTIP became potential.
We saw a steady rate of provisionally eligible to vest based on growth in our core UK market, opening earnings per share growth and relative 58 new stores, and completing our total shareholder performance to investment in our new Supply Chain 30 December 2018.
However, as the Centre in Warrington which opened in absolute TSR underpin associated with April 2018 and is now supplying over these awards has yet to be achieved, no 300 of our UK stores and providing awards have vested under this plan at additional capacity to support our the date of this report.
In our other During the year, Rachel Osborne, international markets there has been our former Chief Financial Officer progress but we have experienced left the Company and we appointed some short-term operational challenges David Bauernfeind to the Board resulting in losses that were greater following a successful period as interim than anticipated.
Details of the remuneration Reflecting on 2018s trading arrangements for Rachel Osborne performance, the Groups underlying associated with her departure from PBT for the year was below the threshold the Company were determined in target level for profit-related annual accordance with the policy and are bonuses to be paid to the CEO and set out on page 85.
Additionally, the annual bonus was appointed on a salary of 325,000 plan for the CEO and CFO requires that and an LTIP award over 95,121 shares, the Groups underlying PBT must be at details of which are set out on page or above the threshold target level to 83.
No additional awards were made in qualify for payment against individual connection with his appointment.
Accordingly, no The Committee is satisfied that the annual bonus payments will be awarded remuneration outcomes and payments to the CEO and CFO for 2018. for the 2018 financial year are fair and The awards granted in 2016 under the reasonable, in light of the business 2012 LTIP were based on performance performance during the year, and are in to 30 December 2018 and were subject the best interests of the Company and to stretching performance targets, with shareholders.
50% of the award being subject to EPS growth and 50% subject to a relative TSR Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 67 INTRODUCTION This report sets out the Companys policy on Directors remuneration as well as information on remuneration paid to IMPLEMENTATION OF previous level.
Bonuses continue to Directors in the financial year ended REMUNERATION FOR 2019 be based on stretching PBT targets 30 December 2018.
The report complies with 25% based on individual strategic The Companys current remuneration with the requirements of the Large and targets for the CEO and 20% based policy was approved by shareholders at Medium-sized Companies and Groups on individual strategic targets for the the 2016 AGM and, as required under Accounts and Reports Amendment CFO.
One-third of any bonus earned the regulations, a new policy will be put Regulations 2013 the Regulations will be deferred in shares.
to shareholders for approval at the 2019 and has been prepared in line with the the CEO and CFO will receive an AGM.
Overall, we believe that the existing recommendations of the Code and the award under the 2012 LTIP with a policy works well for the business, UK Listing Authority Listing Rules the face value of 175% and 125% of salary encouraging strong and sustainable Listing Rules.
The grant level for the earnings growth and aligning the interests CEO is consistent with that in place The report has been divided into of our Directors with our shareholders, prior to his participation in the 2016 two sections: employees and other stakeholders.
LTIP and the grant level for the CFO Directors remuneration policy Following a review of the policy by is unchanged from previous years.
which will be put to shareholders for the Committee, certain changes are These awards shall vest subject to approval at the 2019 AGM and, once being made to ensure that it continues stretching EPS and TSR performance approved, is expected to apply for a to support the strategy and align with targets measured over three years three year period until re-approval by shareholder expectations for the next and any shares vesting will be subject shareholders in 2022. three-year period.
The most substantial to a further two-year post-vesting change is that David Wild, the Chief Annual report on remuneration this, holding requirement.
Executive Officer, who previously together with the Chairmans annual The rules of the annual bonus and longparticipated in a separate incentive plan statement, will be subject to a single term incentive plan have been updated the 2016 LTIP which covered the period advisory vote at the 2019 AGM.
The to provide the Remuneration Committee 2016-2018, will now be remunerated report sets out the remuneration paid with the discretion to override formulaic in accordance with the standard or payable in relation to the year outturns in accordance with the revised remuneration policy, as was the case ended 30 December 2018 and how UK Corporate Governance Code.
Other minor changes to we intend to implement the policy In addition, we have reviewed and the policy have been made to reflect the for the year ahead.
strengthened the clawback and malus revised UK Corporate Governance Code Those parts of the report which have provisions in the incentive plans under and changing shareholder expectations been audited by Ernst & Young LLP are the new policy.
and these are summarised on page 68. clearly identified.
SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS The new policy will be implemented as follows in 2019: The Committee continues to take an active interest in shareholders views and the CEO and CFOs base salaries looks forward to maintaining an open and will be increased to 520,200 per transparent dialogue in the future.
The annum and 331,500 per annum Committee consulted with the Companys respectively.
These changes major shareholders earlier this year in represent a 2% salary increase respect of the policy changes.
We look which is in-line with increases forward to your support at the 2019 AGM to other colleagues: and welcome any feedback from the the annual bonus opportunity will be Companys shareholders.
150% of salary for the CEO increased from 100% in 2018 and 125% of salary for the CFO unchanged.
The Kevin Higgins CEOs annual bonus opportunity was Chairman of the Remuneration reduced from 150% to 100% of salary Committee for the duration of the 2016 LTIP.
As 11 March 2019 the CEO will now be remunerated under the standard remuneration policy from 2019 onwards, his annual bonus opportunity will revert to the Dominos Pizza Group plc 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report This part of our Directors remuneration POLICY OVERVIEW report sets out the remuneration policy In setting the remuneration policy for the Company.
The previous policy for the Executive Directors, the was approved by shareholders at the Remuneration Committee took AGM on 20 April 2016.
As required under into account the following: the Regulations, the Company will be the need to set appropriate re-submitting the remuneration policy to remuneration policies and packages shareholders for approval at the AGM on which will attract, retain and motivate 18 April 2019.
The policy, once approved, Executive Directors and senior will take effect from that date.
management acting in the long-term In many respects the new policy is interests of the Company but avoid consistent with that previously approved.
paying more than is necessary: The most substantial change is that the setting base salary at or below Chief Executive Officer, who previously comparable market rates but participated in a separate incentive weighting a significant proportion of plan the 2016 LTIP which covered total remuneration towards variable the period 2016-2018, will now be pay with an above-market incentive remunerated in accordance with the opportunity linked to the delivery of standard remuneration policy.
Other truly exceptional performance: minor changes to the policy have been having demanding short and long-term made to reflect the revised UK Corporate performance targets that are specific, Governance Code and changing measurable and aligned fully with market practice and governance the Companys business objectives developments.
Namely: to provide strong linkage between To increase the share ownership remuneration and performance: requirement for Executive Directors to internal relativities and the pay 200% of salary and introduce a policy and employment conditions of on post-cessation shareholdings: our employees: To expand the clawback and malus creating a strong alignment between provisions under the annual bonus and the interests of senior Executives and long-term incentive plan to cover a the delivery of value to shareholders: material downturn in the financial or avoiding creating excessive risks in operational performance of the Group, the achievement of performance corporate failure or a failure of risk targets: and management and or an instance of regulatory non-compliance: conducting periodic external comparisons to examine current To introduce a provision to the annual market trends and practices and bonus and long-term incentive plan to equivalent roles in similar companies, enable the Remuneration Committee taking into account their size, business to override formulaic out-turns: complexity, international scope and To amend the rules for the annual relative performance.
bonus plan, so that future deferred share awards will ordinarily vest on the normal vesting date for good leavers rather than on the date of cessation of employment : and To reduce the pension contribution for Executive Directors to 10% of salary.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 69 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR POLICY TABLE Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base Reflects the Salaries will typically be reviewed Salaries will typically be eligible for n a salary responsibility level annually increases on an annual basis with the and complexity of rate of increase in percentage terms Set in the context of pay and the role typically linked to those of the wider employment conditions in the workforce Reflects skills and Group and internal relativities experience over time If there are significant changes in Salary levels take periodic account responsibility, a change of scope in a Provides an of pay levels in companies with role, a material sustained change in the appropriate level of similar characteristics and sector size and or complexity of the Company basic fixed income comparators or very strong performance may merit avoiding excessive Salaries will typically be targeted at base salary increases beyond those of risk arising from or below the relevant market rate the wider workforce over-reliance on variable income If pay is set at a discount to the Companys normal policy on appointment, it may be appropriate to phase an individual towards an appropriate rate using increases above those of the wider workforce based on performance and experience Pension Provides marketDefined contribution or Employer contribution to a pension n a competitive, yet cash supplement arrangement or payment of a cash cost-effective allowance in lieu of a pension up to HMRC-approved salary sacrifice retirement benefits 10% of basic salary arrangement salary sacrifice for Opportunity for employee contribution Executives to contribute to their own retirement plan Other Provide costBenefits are provided through thirdThere is no maximum limit specified n a benefits effective insured party providers and include family but the Committee reviews the overall benefits to support level private medical and up to four cost of the benefits on a periodic basis.
the individual and times salary life insurance cover The value of insured benefits will vary their family from year to year, based on the cost Company cars or cash from third-party providers Access to company equivalents provided car to facilitate Participation in an HMRCeffective travel registered savings-related share option scheme on the same terms as other UK based employees The Committee may offer Executive Directors other benefits from time to time on broadly the same terms as provided to the wider workforce or, as appropriate, to enable them to effectively fulfil their duties.
Relocation benefits may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable Any business related expenses including tax thereon may be reimbursed Dominos Pizza Group plc 70 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR POLICY TABLE CONTINUED Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Annual Incentivise Up to two-thirds of the annual The maximum Bonuses will be subject to a combination of performance annual delivery bonus is paid in cash and onebonus financial and strategic targets that are set by the bonus of financial and third deferred into shares that opportunity Committee on an annual basis operational will vest after two years and is 150% of The majority of the bonus will be measured goals linked to are subject to forfeiture salary with against financial metrics e. g. underlying the Companys the exception Dividend equivalents which PBT with a graduated scale set around strategy of the CFO accrue on vested shares may the target who has a be payable A minority of the bonus may be set based on maximum Not pensionable strategic targets which are aligned to the key bonus objectives from year to year Clawback and malus opportunity of provisions apply A minority of each element will be payable 125% of salary for achieving the threshold performance Stretching targets drive level.
In relation to financial targets, 20% of operational efficiency and this part of the bonus becomes payable for influence the level of returns achieving the threshold performance target.
that should ultimately be In relation to any strategic or individual delivered to shareholders measures used, it is not always practicable through share price to set a sliding scale for each objective.
and dividends Where it is, a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold performance level as for financial targets Details of the bonus measures and targets operated each year will be included in the relevant Directors remuneration report 2012 Long Aligned to Annual grant of performance Maximum Long-term incentive awards vest based Term main strategic shares which may be annual on three-year performance against a Incentive objectives structured as conditional opportunity challenging range of financial targets and Plan 2012 of delivering awards or nil cost options of 200% relative TSR performance set and assessed LTIP sustained of salary in by the Committee at its discretion Subject to performance profitable growth performance conditions measured over Different measures may be set for future shares Aids retention three years.
An additional awards but financial targets will determine of senior two-year post-vesting The normal vesting in relation to at least 50% of management holding period applies policy is to an award to awards granted to the grant annual Creates alignment A maximum of 15% of any award vests for Executive Directors.
awards of with shareholders achieving the threshold performance level performance and provides focus Clawback and malus with 100% of the awards being earned for shares at up on increasing the provisions apply maximum performance there is graduated to 175% of Companys share vesting between these points Dividend equivalents which salary to each price over the accrue during the vesting Executive medium term period and, where applicable, Director post-vesting holding period may be paid Share To provide Executives are expected to At least 200% n a ownership alignment between retain shares from the vesting of salary guidelines Executives and of options and awards on holding for shareholders an after-tax basis to build Executive and maintain a shareholding Directors To encourage equivalent to the guideline whilst in a focus on multiple of salary within five employment sustainable longyears of joining term performance Share awards under the Companys LTIPs and Deferred Share Bonus Plan, granted in respect of performance periods starting in 2019 onwards, will on vesting be placed into a nominee account until the required share ownership guideline has been met.
Shares will be released from the nominee account two years post-cessation Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 71 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR POLICY TABLE Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Reflects the value Chairmans fees are set by the The fee levels are reviewed on a n a Nonof the individuals Remuneration Committee.
Nonperiodic basis, with reference to executive skills and executive Directors fees are set by the time commitment of the role Director experience the Board and market levels in companies of fees comparable size and complexity Recognises Fees are reviewed periodically expected time The fee levels will be eligible for Takes into account periodic external commitments and increases during the three-year reviews against companies with responsibilities period that the remuneration policy similar characteristics and sector operates from the effective date to comparators ensure they appropriately recognise Set in the context of time the time commitment of the role, commitments and responsibilities increases to fee levels for nonA base fee is provided to all executive Directors in general and non-executive Directors with fee levels in companies of a similar supplemental fees payable for size and complexity chairing the sub-Committees, for Flexibility is retained to go over the holding the Senior Independent above fee levels, if necessary to Director position or to reflect any do so, to appoint a new Chairman additional responsibilities or duties or non-executive Director of an they are required by the Board to appropriate calibre undertake Non-executive Directors do not participate in any annual bonus, share incentive plans or pension arrangements Non-executive Directors shall be reimbursed for any expenses on a gross of tax basis incurred in the course of carrying out their role which are deemed to be taxable by HMRC or equivalent body Dominos Pizza Group plc 72 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued If certain events occur, such as a granted under the Deferred Share Bonus Remuneration policy material acquisition or the divestment Plan DSBP or the 2012 LTIP scheme report continued of a Group business, the original or the 2016 LTIP scheme.
In addition, all OPERATION OF THE ANNUAL BONUS performance conditions may no longer be arrangements previously disclosed in prior PLAN AND LTIP POLICY appropriate.
Therefore, the Remuneration years Directors remuneration reports will The Committee will operate the annual Committee retains the discretion to make remain eligible to vest or become payable bonus plan, the 2012 LTIP and the 2016 adjustments to the targets and or set on their original terms.
LTIP scheme in accordance with their different measures and alter weightings CLAWBACK AND MALUS PROVISIONS respective rules and in accordance with as they deem necessary to ensure The Company has the right to reduce the the Listing Rules and HMRC requirements the conditions achieve their original number of shares over which an award was where relevant.
purpose, are appropriate in the revised granted under the DSBP or LTIP where it circumstances and, in any event, are not Within these rules, the Remuneration is discovered that the award was granted materially less difficult to satisfy.
Committee is required to retain a number over too many shares as a result of a of discretions to ensure an effective Any use of the above discretions would, material misstatement in the Companys operation and administration of these where relevant, be explained in the accounts, when there has been an error or plans.
These discretions are consistent Directors remuneration report and may, reliance on misleading information when with standard market practice and where appropriate, be the subject of prior assessing the size of the award that was include but are not limited to : consultation with the Companys major granted, and or it is discovered that the shareholders.
participant could reasonably have been who participates in the plans: dismissed as a result of his her misconduct.
To comply with the new UK Corporate when awards are granted and or paid: In addition, for performance periods Governance Code, for awards granted the size of an award and or a payment beginning on or after 31 December 2018, in 2019 and beyond, irrespective of subject to the limits stated in the the Company may also scale back an award whether any performance condition has policy table above : where the Company suffers a material been achieved the Committee will have how to determine the level of vesting: downturn in its operational or financial discretion under the annual bonus plan and performance which is at least partly how to deal with a change of control or 2012 LTIP to scale back the level of pay-out attributable to management failure: where restructuring of the Group: or vesting that would otherwise result by the Company has suffered an instance of reference to the formulaic outcome alone.
how to determine a good bad leaver corporate failure: and or where this is a Such discretion would only be used in for incentive plan purposes: material failure of risk management and or exceptional circumstances and may be how to determine any adjustments regulatory non-compliance.
applied to take into account corporate required in certain circumstances e. g. and or personal performance.
The Company may also clawback cash rights issues, corporate restructuring, bonus awards or previously vested DSBP events and special dividends : and Share-settled incentive awards and any and LTIP awards in accordance with the arrangements agreed prior to the effective reviewing the performance conditions principles set out above to ensure that the date of this policy will remain eligible to range of targets, measures and full value of any overpayment is recouped.
vest or pay out based on their original weightings for the annual bonus plan In these circumstances the Committee award terms.
This includes any awards and LTIP from year to year.
ILLUSTRATION OF REMUNERATION SCENARIOS The chart below illustrates the total remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer based on the current policy under four different scenarios minimum, target, maximum and maximum plus share price growth Assumptions 3,000 Minimum comprises fixed pay being the value of 2019 base salary, 2018 benefits and a pension 2,500 contribution in line with the approved policy.
Target minimum plus a bonus pay-out of 50% of 50% 2,000 the maximum and threshold vesting under the LTIP.
36% Maximum minimum plus maximum bonus plus 1,500 full vesting of an LTIP with a face value of 175% of salary for David Wild and 125% of salary for David Bauernfeind.
12% 36% 27% 50% 1,000 29% Maximum plus share price growth as for 35% 10% maximum scenario above but adjusted to include 41% 500 29% 32% the impact of a 50% growth in the share price for 28% 53% 100% 21% 58% 32% the LTIP awards.
100% 21% 0 No account has been taken of any prospective Maximum Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum dividend equivalents to be paid on vested 50% share 50% share price growth price growth share awards.
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Fixed pay Annual Bonus Long-term incentives Fixed pay Annual Bonus Long-term incentives Remuneration 000s 586 1,113 2,277 2,732 377 646 1,205 1,413 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 73 remuneration, but the most recent of may apply clawback within two years of All incentives are capped, other than which indicated that most employees the payment of the cash bonus or date for the impact of share price, in order show high levels of engagement and feel of grant of a DSBP award or within three that inappropriate risk taking is neither that reward is an important attribute of years of the vesting of an LTIP award.
To comply with provision 5 of targets, a sliding scale is applied, with a BALANCE BETWEEN FIXED AND the new Corporate Governance Code, the very modest amount being payable for VARIABLE PAY Board has decided that engagement with threshold levels of performance.
The performance-related elements the workforce is best achieved through a A number of the Companys nonof remuneration are dependent upon designated non-executive Director.
financial strategic objectives have been the achievement of outcomes that are incorporated into the annual bonus for HOW THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS important drivers of sustainable growth Executive Directors and will be applied REMUNERATION POLICY RELATES for the business and therefore the on an individual basis for a minority TO THE GROUP creation of value for shareholders.
of the overall bonus opportunity.
The remuneration policy described above CHOICE OF PERFORMANCE METRICS These objectives will also be measured provides an overview of the structure that on a sliding scale of performance The Company is a growth business, operates for the most senior Executives where possible.
and our investments in supply chain, in the Group, with a significant element digital innovation and the customer of remuneration dependent on Company The Committee will review the continued experience are all designed to improve the and individual performance.
appropriateness of the annual bonus and, profitability of the overall system, reach if applicable, 2012 LTIP performance A lower aggregate level of incentive new customers and drive repeat business conditions on an annual basis to payment applies below Executive from existing customers.
However, neither ensure that they remain aligned to the Director level, driven by market system sales nor statutory revenue are Companys strategy.
The Committee comparatives, internal relativities and appropriate performance measures, will make necessary changes to the the potential impact of the role.
The because the former is significantly weightings of measures and or introduce vast majority of the Groups employees influenced by franchisees, and the latter new measures which they believe would participate in an annual bonus plan, with is affected by the volatility of food costs.
provide a closer link to the business the limits and performance conditions As a result, underlying profit before tax strategy within the confines of the policy varying according to job grade.
is used as the main performance metric detailed above.
Shareholder dialogue in the annual bonus plan, as this captures The Committee believes that broadwould take place, as appropriate, should both the growth and the efficiency of the based employee share ownership there be any material change of emphasis business.
A combination of relative TSR provides a key element in retention and in relation to current practices.
and growth in underlying EPS are used for motivation in the wider workforce.
LongHOW EMPLOYEES PAY IS TAKEN the 2012 LTIP, as we believe these are the term incentives are provided through the INTO ACCOUNT longer term performance metrics that are Groups discretionary share schemes to most relevant to shareholders.
Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group selected Executives and managers.
The were considered when finalising the Company also offers an HMRC-registered Underlying EPS measures the Companys current policy for the Executive Directors.
savings-related share option scheme success in delivering long-term profit In particular, the Committee is updated for all UK-based employees with more growth, a key contributor to the on salary increases for the general than six months service, including Companys valuation, and is considered employee population, Company-wide Executive Directors.
by the Committee to be the most benefit provisions, level of annual bonuses appropriate measure of long-term In the UK and Ireland, all newly appointed and staff participation in long-term financial performance.
It is also used employees, including Executive Directors, incentive schemes, so it is aware of how by the Board to determine success in are eligible to join a defined contribution the total remuneration of the Executive executing our strategy.
pension plan, whereby they make a Directors compares with the average total contribution to the nominated plan, with Relative TSR helps align managements remuneration of employees generally.
the Company typically contributing and shareholders interests, since the The Committee does not formally or double the amount paid by the employee.
Executives will only be rewarded to directly consult with employees on In other territories, pension provision the extent that the Company delivers a Executive pay but does receive periodic varies and can be contributions to state return to shareholders above the median updates from the Group HR Director.
schemes, occupational plans or personal company of comparable size, with full The Committee is also informed of pension arrangements in which the vesting on this measure requiring top the results of employee engagement employing company makes contributions.
surveys, which do not contain any specific questions related to Executive Director Dominos Pizza Group plc 74 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued HOW IS RISK MANAGED IN RELATION HOW SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS ARE the relevant group company may require TO SHORT AND LONG-TERM TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT the individual to continue to fulfil their INCENTIVES?
current duties or may assign a period of The Committee considers shareholder garden leave.
An Executive Directors The Committee believes that the feedback received around the AGM and service contract may be terminated consideration and management of risk analyses the votes cast on the relevant without notice and without any further is important when formulating and then items of business.
This feedback, plus payment or compensation, save for sums operating appropriate remuneration views received during meetings with accrued up to the date of termination, on structures notably the performance institutional shareholders and their the occurrence of certain events of gross criteria for senior management.
All representative bodies, is considered as misconduct.
If the Company terminates of the members of the Committee are part of the Companys annual review of the employment of an Executive Director also members of the Audit Committee, remuneration policy.
The Remuneration in breach of contract, compensation is whose Chairman is also a member of Committee also consults with its key limited to salary due for any unexpired the Remuneration Committee.
A notice period and any amount assessed Remuneration Committee has a good consultation exercise was undertaken by the Committee as representing the understanding of the key risks facing the during early 2016 with shareholders value of other contractual benefits which business and the relevance of these to the views being reflected in the current would have been received during the remuneration strategy, most particularly policy, which has been in effect since unexpired notice period.
when setting targets for performancethe 2016 AGM.
was undertaken during early 2019 with The service contract for David shareholders views being reflected Bauernfeind also includes the ability for In line with the Investment Associations in the revised policy, which is being the Company to make a payment in lieu of Guidelines on Responsible Investment put to shareholders for approval at notice.
Payments in lieu of notice may be Disclosure, the Remuneration Committee the 2019 AGM.
The Committee values made in monthly instalments and would ensures that the incentive structure feedback from its shareholders and reduce proportionately to the extent for Executive Directors and senior seeks to maintain a continued open that alternative employment income was management will not raise environmental, dialogue.
Investors who wish to discuss received i. e. phased payments, subject social or governance ESG risks by remuneration issues should contact the to mitigation.
inadvertently motivating irresponsible Company Secretary.
behaviour and remuneration design can David Wild, the Chief Executive Officer, be flexed to address ESG issues when SERVICE CONTRACTS AND has a rolling contract dated 30 April 2014. appropriate.
The Committee has due POLICY ON EXIT David Bauernfeind, the Chief Financial regard to issues of general operational The Committee reviews the contractual Officer, has a rolling contract dated 9 risk when structuring incentives.
terms for new Executive Directors to October 2018.
Both Executives contracts ensure that these reflect best practice.
are terminable on six months notice from The clawback provisions in respect of either party and include payment in lieu annual bonuses and long-term share Service contracts are normally entered of notice provisions as per the policy plans also provide the Committee with into on a rolling basis, with notice periods detailed on page 75. a mechanism to recover monies in given by the employing company limited certain circumstances, for example, if to 12 months or less.
Should notice be Payments in lieu of notice are not a misstatement of results is identified.
served by either party, the Executive pensionable.
In the event of a change Share ownership guidelines and the can continue to receive basic salary, of control of the Group, there is no design of the 2012 LTIP and 2016 LTIP benefits and pension for the duration of enhancement to contractual terms.
help to ensure that the Executive their notice period, during which time Directors have a strong personal focus on long-term sustainable performance, In summary, the contractual provisions for any new Executive Directors are as follows: heavily driven by the relative and absolute returns delivered to shareholders.
Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months or less Maximum termination Base salary plus benefits and pension, subject to mitigation payment for new Directors Remuneration A pro rata bonus may also become payable for the period entitlements of active service along with vesting for outstanding share awards in certain circumstances see page 75 In all cases performance targets would apply Change of control As on termination Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 75 Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director under the Companys LTIP schemes or bonus entitlement under the annual performance bonus will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
With regard to the circumstances under which the Executive Directors might leave service, these are described below with a description of the anticipated payments: Departure on agreed terms e. g. asked to leave due to revised Remuneration element Bad leaver e. g. resignation skill sets required for role Good leaver e. g. ill health, retirement Salary in lieu of Salary for proportion of Up to a maximum of 100% of salary notice period notice period served Pension and benefits Provided for proportion of Up to one years worth of pension and benefits notice period served e. g. redundancy Possible payment of pension and insured benefits triggered by the leaver event this would be governed by the terms of the benefits provided Where appropriate, medical coverage may continue for a period post cessation.
Bonus in year If resigns, reduced pro rata to Reduced pro rata to reflect proportion of reflect proportion of bonus bonus year elapsed provided performance year employed provided conditions met performance conditions met at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
If dismissed for cause, none payable Treatment will normally Bonus deferred Lapse Will ordinarily vest on the normal vesting fall between good leaver shares date or date of cessation in respect of and bad leaver treatment, awards granted prior to April 2019. subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Long-term incentive Lapse Up to full vesting, based on performance tested Committee and the entitlements over the full performance period or to the date terms of any termination 2012 LTIP of cessation at the discretion of the Committee agreement Where awards are granted as market value options, the award may also be reduced pro rata at the discretion of the Committee to reflect the proportion of the performance period elapsed to the date of cessation Where awards are granted as performance shares, awards will be subject to a pro rata reduction unless the Committee determines otherwise Long-term incentive Lapse Awards will normally continue to be capable of vesting subject to performance measured entitlements 2016 LTIP at the normal calculation date or until the absolute TSR condition has been satisfied prior to the awards expiry and a pro rata reduction by reference to the proportion of the relevant three, four and five-year performance periods that have expired, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, on an exceptional basis Other payments None The Committee may pay reasonable outplacement and legal fees where considered appropriate.
The Committee may also pay any statutory entitlements or settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination of employment, where considered in the best interests of the Company.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 76 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Remuneration policy report continued NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION The non-executive Directors are not employed under service contracts and do not receive compensation for loss of office.
With the exception of Colin Halpern, who is nominated to the Board pursuant to a contractual agreement, each of the non-executive Directors is appointed for a fixed term of three years, renewable for a further three-year term if agreed and subject to annual reelection by shareholders.
The following table shows details of the terms of appointment for the non-executive Directors: Expected date of expiry Appointment date Date most recent term commenced of current term Stephen Hemsley 1 January 2008 as Executive Chairman 30 March 2016 as non-executive Chairman 30 March 2020 Colin Halpern 15 November 1999 Rolling annual n a Helen Keays 20 September 2011 20 September 2017 20 September 2020 Ebbe Jacobsen 31 January 2014 31 January 2017 31 January 2020 Kevin Higgins 8 September 2014 8 September 2017 8 September 2020 1 Steve Barber 1 July 2015 1 July 2018 18 April 2019 1 Steve Barber will be standing down from the Board with effect from the 2019 AGM.
RECRUITMENT AND PROMOTION POLICY When facilitating an external recruitment or an internal promotion the Committee will apply the following principles: Remuneration element Policy Base salary Salary levels will be set based on the experience, knowledge and skills of the individual and in the context of market rates for equivalent roles in companies of a similar size and complexity.
The Committee will also consider Group relativities when setting base salary levels.
The Committee may set initial base salaries below the perceived market rate with the aim to make multi-year staged increases to achieve the desired market position over time.
Where necessary these increases may be above those of the wider workforce, but will be subject to continued development in the role.
Benefits Will be as provided to current Executive Directors.
and pension The Committee will consider meeting the cost of certain reasonable relocation expenses and legal fees as necessary.
Annual bonus The annual bonus would be operated in line with that set out in the policy table for current Executive Directors.
For a new joiner, the bonus would be pro-rated for the period of service.
Due to the timing or nature of the appointment, the Committee may determine it necessary to set different modified performance conditions for the first year of appointment.
Long-term Participation will be in accordance with the information set out in the policy table.
incentives Awards may be made shortly after an appointment, subject to prohibited periods.
Different performance conditions may be set as appropriate.
Any new appointment would be eligible to participate in the all-employee share option arrangements on the same terms as all other employees.
For internal promotions, existing awards will continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
Additional The Committee will assess whether it is necessary to buy out remuneration which would be forfeited from a incentives on previous employer.
appointment The Committee will, where possible, seek to offer a direct replacement award taking into account the structure, quantum, time horizons and relevant performance conditions which would impact on the expected value of the remuneration to be forfeited.
The Committee will use the existing remuneration plans where possible, although it may be necessary to grant outside of these schemes using exemptions permitted under the Listing Rules.
EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS The Committee recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become non-executive Directors in other companies and that these appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the benefit of the Company.
Subject to pre-agreed conditions, and with prior approval of the Board, each Executive Director is permitted to accept one appointment as a non-executive Director in another listed company.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any fees paid for such service.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 77 Annual report on remuneration ROLE AND MEMBERSHIP The Committee is responsible for the Chairmans and the Executive Directors remuneration and also oversees the remuneration packages of other senior Executives.
The remuneration and terms of appointment of the non-executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of relevant senior Executives and, when appropriate, are invited by the Remuneration Committee to attend meetings but are not present when their own remuneration is considered.
The Company Chairman and other non-executive Directors may also attend meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is set out in its terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and can be found on the Groups website, https: investors.
The Remuneration Committee normally meets up to four times in each year and additionally as circumstances dictate.
During the year, the members of the Remuneration Committee and their attendance at the meetings were: Name Member since Attendance Kevin Higgins Chairman 22 September 2014 6 Helen Keays 22 September 2014 5 1 Steve Barber 16 September 2015 6 1 Steve Barber will be standing down as a non-executive Director at the 2019 AGM.
EXTERNAL ADVISERS Wholly independent advice on executive remuneration and share schemes is received from the Executive Compensation practice of Aon plc.
Aon is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct.
During the year, Aon did not provide any other services to the Company except in relation tosenior management remuneration matters.
Fees charged by Aon for advice provided to the Committee for 2018 amounted to 69,485 excluding VAT 2017: 42,368.
WHAT HAS THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DONE DURING THE YEAR?
The Remuneration Committee met six times during the year to consider and, where appropriate, approve key remuneration items including the following: A Management of individual remuneration reviewed and approved Executive Directors and senior management base salaries and benefits: reviewed year-end business performance and performance-linked rewards in order to determine annual bonus pay-outs and vesting of long-term incentives: approved long-term incentive awards made in 2018 under the 2012 LTIP: and determined the leaver terms for the outgoing CFO and agreed the remuneration package for the incoming CFO.
B Governance of the remuneration programme monitored guidance from institutional shareholder bodies on executive pay and considered the application of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code: reviewed the existing Directors remuneration policy and devised the new policy to be put to shareholders at the 2019 AGM: Engaged with major shareholders on the new remuneration policy.
reviewed and approved the Directors remuneration report: Dominos Pizza Group plc 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2019 Base salary The base salaries for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer will be increased by 2% to 520,200 and 331,500 per annum respectively from 1 April 2019.
The rate of increase is in line with the average workforce increase.
Annual performance bonus APB The maximum bonus opportunity for the CEO for 2019 will be 150% of salary.
The CFOs maximum bonus will be 125% of salary.
The APB provides a focus on the delivery of the stretching targets that are set by the Committee following consideration of the Companys annual operating plan by the Board each year and there is a threshold level of performance below which no award is paid.
The performance conditions for the APB for the 2019 financial year will be based both on achieving and exceeding the Groups underlying PBT growth targets set by the Board 75% of bonus for the CEO and 80% of bonus for the CFO and on achieving individual business objectives 25% of bonus for the CEO and 20% of bonus for the CFO which support the business plan.
The underlying PBT measure is based on internally set targets and pays out 20% at threshold 95% of target rising on a pro rata basis to 50% pay-out at target with full payment only due if we achieve 110% of target.
For 2019, strategic objectives will be set by the Committee linked to the Companys strategic goals.
None of the strategic element of the bonus may be earned unless a threshold level of Group underlying PBT has been achieved.
Where appropriate, individual objectives are also set on a sliding scale based around a target.
The Committee considers that the performance targets in relation to the APB are commercially sensitive and therefore will not be disclosed on a prospective basis, but intends that the targets and outcomes are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report once they are no longer considered sensitive, as has been its practice in recent years.
For both the CEO and CFO, two-thirds of any bonus payments will be made in cash, with the remaining third deferred into Company shares, which will vest after two years during which time they remain subject to forfeiture.
Long-term incentives It is intended that the CEO and CFO will receive an award of performance shares under the 2012 LTIP with a face value of 175% of salary for the CEO and 125% of salary for the CFO.
Awards will vest after three years subject to two independent performance metrics.
70%: earnings per share growth Vesting % of EPS part Three-year underlying EPS growth over 2018 base year of award Below 25% 0% 25% 10% 55% 100% Straight-line vesting in between the performance points above The above underlying EPS targets are considered to be appropriately demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed, current market expectations of the Company and internal long-term planning.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 79 30%: relative TSR performance The remaining 30% of the award will vest in accordance with the following vesting schedule based on the Companys TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index, excluding investment trusts, over three financial years.
Vesting % of TSR part Ranking of the Companys TSR of award Below median 0% Median 15% Upper quartile or higher 100% Straight-line vesting in between the performance points above In choosing underlying EPS and TSR as the metrics, the Committee has sought to provide a balance between incentivising delivery against our key measure of success in delivering profitable growth underlying EPS and aligning the CEO and CFO and senior management with shareholders through a TSR measure.
Benefits and pension Benefits in kind provided for Executive Directors are principally Company car provision or an allowance in lieu of Company car, mobile telephone, life insurance cover and private health cover for Executive Directors and their family.
The Executive Directors receive a 10% of salary pension allowance.
Non-executive Directors fees Non-executive Directors fees are reviewed biennially and the last review was carried out in January 2018.
Therefore, the fees below remain unchanged from last years remuneration report.
The fee structure for the Chairman and other non-executive Directors for 2019 is as follows: Chairman 230,000: Non-executive Director base fee 50,000: Audit Committee Chairman fee 10,000: Remuneration Committee Chairman fee 10,000: Nomination Committee Chairman fee 5,000: and Senior Independent Director fee 10,000.
Statement of shareholder voting at AGM The voting results for the last vote on the annual report on remuneration at the 2018 AGM and policy report at the 2016 AGM were as follows: Annual report on remuneration Remuneration policy 1 Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast For 373,159,593 99.59% 117,297,203 92.36% Against 1,548,410 0.41% 9,704,133 7.64% Total votes cast for and against 374,708,003 100% 127,001,336 100% 2 Votes withheld 5,678,599 639,659 Total votes cast including withheld votes 380,386,602 127,640,995 1 T he number of shares stated as voting in respect of the Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM are prior to the three-for-one share sub-division which occurred on 27 June 2016 2 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast For and Against a resolution.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2019 CONTINUED Single total remuneration figure for each Director audited 52 weeks ended 30 December 2018 Fixed pay Performance-related pay Total 1 Benefits and LTIP DSBP remuneration 4,5 3 000 Salary supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus vesting vesting Subtotal Other in 2018 Executives David Wild 510 21 51 582 117 117 699 2 David Bauernfeind 74 2 7 83 83 Former Executive Rachel Osborne 238 16 35 289 17 17 93 399 Non-executives Stephen Hemsley 235 2 237 237 8 Colin Halpern 140 31 171 171 Helen Keays 60 60 60 Ebbe Jacobsen 50 50 50 Kevin Higgins 60 60 60 Steve Barber 60 60 60 Total 1,427 72 93 1,592 134 134 93 1,819 53 weeks ended 31 December 2017 Fixed pay Performance-related pay Total 1 Benefits and LTIP DSBP remuneration 6,7 000 Salary supplements Pension Subtotal Bonus vesting vesting Subtotal in 2017 Executives David Wild 510 14 51 575 260 548 11 819 1,394 Rachel Osborne 325 17 49 391 168 22 190 581 Non-executives Stephen Hemsley 230 2 232 232 Colin Halpern 140 31 171 171 Helen Keays 54 54 54 Ebbe Jacobsen 47 47 47 Kevin Higgins 57 57 57 Steve Barber 57 57 57 Total 1,420 64 100 1,584 428 570 11 1,009 2,593 9 Prior Year Reported Total 1,208 50 62 1,320 479 3,622 5 4,106 5,426 Notes: 1 T he value of benefits relates primarily to the provision of a company car allowance and, if applicable, health cover.
Where relevant, they also include the fair value of share awards made under the Savings Related Share Option Plan.
On 26 April 2018, David Wild was awarded an option under the Savings Related Share Option Plan over 6,923 shares with a fair value of 7,131.
The benefit value for Rachel Osborne includes 3,000 for legal fees as disclosed on page 85.
2 D avid Bauernfeind was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer with effect from 9 October 2018 on an annual salary of 325,000 and is eligible to receive benefits and a pension and participate in the incentive plans in line with the prevailing remuneration policy.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 81 3 R achel Osborne stood down from the Board on 11 June 2018 and ceased employment with the Company, following a period of garden leave, on 11 September 2018.
She received 93,437 consisting of salary and pension allowance as a payment in lieu of the remainder of her contractual notice period from 11 September to 11 December 2018 which has been shown in the Other column.
Full details of the remuneration arrangements associated with her departure are set out on page 85.
4 R achel Osborne received an award under the 2012 LTIP on 13 October 2016.
The performance conditions applying to this award were partially met please refer to details on page 82.
In accordance with the legislation, these awards have been valued at 17,543 using the three month average share price to 30 December 2018 263.61p.
Of this figure 17,543 relates to the underlying award and nil to share price growth.
5 T he first tranche of the 2016 LTIP award granted to David Wild on 22 April 2016 has not yet vested as the performance test for the absolute TSR underpin is still to be achieved.
The 2014 LTIP award for David Wild vested in 2017 but has not yet been exercised.
Under the terms of the 2012 LTIP, dividend equivalent awards continue to accrue until the award is exercised.
Accordingly, a further dividend award equal to 95,665 has been included.
6 T he 2012 LTIP award to Rachel Osborne made on 13 October 2016, over 8,486 ordinary shares partially vested on 1 June 2018.
In the 2017 Directors remuneration report, the vested element of the award was estimated to be 25,332 using the three month average share price to 31 December 2017 of 328.26p.
The actual vested value was 22,325 using the mid-market share price on the 21 December 2018 of 289.30p.
Of this figure 22,325 relates to the underlying award and nil to share price growth.
7 T he 2015 LTIP conditional share award for David Wild partially vested on 21 December 2018.
In the 2017 Directors remuneration report, the vested element of the award was estimated to be 679,701 using the three month average share price to 31 December 2017 of 328.36p.
The actual vested value was 476,450 using the mid-market price on 21 December 2018 of 230.1p.
Of this figure 476,450 relates to the underlying award and nil to share price growth.
David Wild was, on vesting, entitled to receive a dividend equivalent award of 53,355 which was settled in cash of which 32,994 had been included in the emoluments table in 2017.
8 C olin Halpern is not remunerated by the Company and for the 2018 financial year a management fee of 140,000 was paid to HS Real Company LLC in respect of his services.
A further benefit of 31,000 relating to life insurance premiums was also paid to HS Real Company LLC during the year.
9 A s required by the regulations, this row sets out the total reported in the remuneration report for the prior year.
The reported value of LTIP vesting has been increased by 133,000 to reflect the value of an award over 37,482 shares awarded to Rachel Osborne on 13 October 2016 and which vested on 1 November 2017 and was valued using the mid-market share price at award of 353.5p.
This disclosure was omitted from the remuneration report in 2016.
10 A s discussed more fully in note 2 on page 107 : Judgements, a provision of 11m was recorded in relation to potential employment tax liabilities of the Group arising from historic share-based compensation arrangements, the beneficiaries of which include the Chairman and certain former Directors.
The estimated components of this provision that relate to the Chairman and to certain former directors are some 3m and 3.5m respectively.
Defined contribution pensions audited Executive Directors receive pension contributions to a personal pension fund or in cash.
In the year ended 30 December 2018 David Wild and David Bauernfeind received pension contributions of 10% of salary which totalled 51,000 and 7,400 respectively: and Rachel Osborne received pension contributions of 15% of salary which totalled 34,669.
DETAILS OF VARIABLE PAY EARNED IN THE YEAR Annual bonus plan The incentive for the financial year ended 30 December 2018 was in the form of a bonus based on performance against a combination of financial targets, specifically a significant increase in the Groups underlying PBT, and non-financial targets, incentivising a number of the Companys strategic priorities.
David Wild CEO and David Bauernfeind CFO had bonus opportunities of up to 100% and 125% of salary, respectively, for the 2018 financial year pro-rated in respect of David Bauernfeind.
Of this opportunity, 70% in respect of the CEO and 80% in respect of the CFO was linked to Group underlying PBT and operated on a banded basis, commencing at 20% for threshold levels of profit performance, 50% of bonus at target, with the full 100% only payable at stretch performance levels, being materially in excess of budget.
The CFOs bonus for the period 9 October 2018 to 30 December 2018 was based on Group underlying PBT only.
The Groups underlying PBT for 2018 was 93.4m.
1 Targets set for year Actual performance Resulting Resulting Performance hurdle underlying PBT achieved bonus out-turn bonus payable Growth in underlying profit before tax of between Threshold: 94.24m Actual underlying 0% CEO: nil PBT was 93.4m of maximum 95% of target 20% pay-out and 110% or more Target: 99.2m CFO: nil full pay-out.
Graduated scale operates between Maximum: 109.12m performance points As reported on page 66 the Groups underlying PBT was below the bonus threshold target of 94.24m.
David Wild made good progress against the individual objectives set in respect of 2018 but bonuses are not payable for personal performance during 2018.
The Committee notes the importance of enabling shareholders to understand the basis of bonus outcomes and will provide expanded disclosure in respect of any bonuses paid against personal objectives in future years.
Rachel Osborne did not receive a bonus for 2018.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued DETAILS OF VARIABLE PAY EARNED IN THE YEAR CONTINUED 2012 LTIPs Rachel Osborne received a long-term incentive award under the 2012 LTIP on 13 October 2016.
The Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to allow the award to continue to vest but the number of shares was subject to a pro-rata reduction from 68,953 originally granted to 43,440 to reflect time served.
The awards, which will vest on 13 October 2019, were based on performance over the three-year period ending on 30 December 2018 as follows: 50%: EPS performance Half of the award vests subject to growth in the Companys adjusted EPS on the following basis: Actual EPS performance % of award Metric performance condition Maximum vesting Three-year adjusted 35.90% growth 30% growth 40% growth 50% growth 60% growth 30.64% earnings per share EPS 10% vesting 45% vesting 80% vesting 100% vesting Straight-line vesting in between the performance points.
50%: TSR performance The remaining half of the award vests based on the following vesting schedule based on the Companys TSR performance measures against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over three financial years: Actual % of award 1 Metric performance Threshold Maximum vesting Ranking of the Companys TSR 127th of 182 Median Upper quartile 0% 15% vesting 100% vesting 1 Median ranking was 91.5 and upper quartile ranking was 46 Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
For reporting purposes the awards were valued using the three-month average share price to 30 December 2018 of 263.61p.
2016 LTIP David Wild was granted an award under the 2016 LTIP on 22 April 2016.
Tranche 1 534,000 shares was based on earnings per share and relative total shareholder performance to 30 December 2018, in addition an absolute TSR underpin applies.
The performance targets for Tranche 1 were as follows: One third: Stretch EPS performance % of award Actual EPS performance provisionally Metric performance condition Maximum eligible to vest Three-year cumulative 35.90% growth 30% growth 40% growth 50% growth 60% growth 30.64% growth in earnings per 10% vesting 45% vesting 80% vesting 100% vesting share EPS One third: Super-stretch EPS performance % of award Actual EPS performance provisionally Metric performance condition Maximum eligible to vest Three-year cumulative 35.90% growth 60% growth 70% growth 80% growth 0% growth in earnings per 0% vesting 50% vesting 100% vesting share EPS Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 83 One third: TSR performance % of award Actual provisionally 1 Metric performance Threshold Maximum eligible to vest 1 Ranking of the Companys TSR against the constituents of 126th of 181 Median Upper quartile 0% the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over three 15% vesting 100% vesting financial years 1 Median ranking was 91.0 and upper quartile ranking was 53 Based on performance against the above targets approximately 10.214% of Tranche 1 54,541 shares became provisionally eligible to vest.
An underpin mechanism applies which only permits the release of the vested awards if TSR has increased in absolute terms, with awards released on a proportionate basis e. g. if TSR has increased by 20%, 20% of the vested awards will be released.
Awards will only be released in full if absolute TSR has increased by 100%.
As at 30 December 2018, absolute TSR was -15% and therefore no part of the award was eligible to vest.
The absolute TSR underpin is assessed at the end of the relevant performance period and every six months thereafter until the expiry of the award shortly after its seventh anniversary of grant, in 2023.
Share awards granted during the year audited Deferred Share Bonus Plan For Rachel Osborne, the bonus in respect of 2017 performance was settled two-thirds in cash and one-third in shares, the receipt of the latter being deferred for two years.
The award granted in 2018 represents one-third of the gross bonus due to Rachel Osborne for the financial year ended 31 December 2017.
DSBP Basis of award Face value Number of shares Vesting date Rachel Osborne 33.33% of ABP value 55,969 17,253 11 09 18 Based on a share price of 324.4p per share, being the average mid-market price of the Companys shares on 15 March 2018.
The 17,253 awards granted to Rachel Osborne under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan on 16 March 2018 and the 6,779 awards granted to her on 17 March 2017 in respect of the 2016 bonus did not lapse on cessation of employment following the exercise by the Remuneration Committee of the discretion conferred to it under the plan.
In accordance with the rules of the plan, the outstanding shares vested in full on 11 September 2018.
LTIP awards Details of the grant made under the 2012 LTIP on 25 October 2018 to David Bauernfeind are summarised below: Number Face value of Vesting of awards Face value award as a % % at Performance Executive Date of grant Type of award granted of award of salary threshold Performance period conditions David 25 October Conditional 95,121 251,976 75% 1015% Three financial 50%: EPS 2018 award of shares years from 2018 to Growth Bauernfeind 2020 50%: TSR Based on the mid-market price of the Companys shares on 25 October 2018 of 264.9p T he award was reduced to 75% of base salary from 125% of base salary to reflect the fact that the performance period from the Executives date of appointment is approximately 27 months rather than 36 months.
The awards for David Bauernfeind are based on the following: 50%: earnings per share growth Three-year underlying EPS growth over 2016 base year Vesting % of EPS part of award Below 30% 0% 30% 10% 40% 45% 50% 80% 60% 100% Straight-line vesting in between the performance points above The above underlying EPS targets are considered to be appropriately demanding given the quantum of the awards proposed, current market expectations of the Company and internal long-term planning.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued DETAILS OF VARIABLE PAY EARNED IN THE YEAR CONTINUED Share awards granted during the year audited CONTINUED 50%: relative TSR performance The remaining half of the award will vest in accordance with the following vesting schedule based on the Companys TSR performance against the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index, excluding investment trusts, over three financial years.
Ranking of the Companys TSR Vesting % of TSR part of award Below median 0% Median 15% Upper quartile or higher 100% Straight-line vesting in between the performance points above In choosing underlying EPS and TSR as the metrics, the Committee has sought to provide a balance between incentivising delivery against our key measure of success in delivering profitable growth underlying EPS and aligning the CEO and CFO and senior management with shareholders through a TSR measure.
Share option grants On 26 April 2018, David Wild received an award under the Companys Savings-related Share Option Plan.
An option was awarded over 6,923 ordinary shares of 24 58 pence each in the Company at a price of 260 pence per share.
In accordance with the rules of the Plan, the option price represents a 20% discount to the closing middle market price of the Companys shares on 3 April 2018.
Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to the achievement of performance conditions and continued employment.
DSBP and Sharesave awards vest subject to continued employment only.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 85 Dilution limits The Company operates within best practice guidelines published by the Investment Association.
These broadly provide that where new issue shares are used to satisfy awards made under employee share schemes, the aggregate number of shares placed under award disregarding any awards which have lapsed across all such schemes operated by the Company should not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital in any ten-year rolling period.
Termination payments audited As announced on 12 June 2018, Rachel Osborne, the former Chief Financial Officer, left her post with the Company and as a member of the Board of Directors on 11 June 2018.
She was on a period of garden leave for the first 3 months of her 6 months notice period and her employment with the Company ended on 11 September 2018.
She received 93,437 as a payment in lieu of the remainder of her contractual notice period consisting of base salary and pension cash allowance only from 11 September 2018 to 11 December 2018.
She received no bonus in respect of 2018.
The Remuneration Committee elected to treat her as a good leaver in respect of her outstanding share awards under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP and Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
In accordance with the rules of the respective plans, the outstanding awards under the DSBP 2017 and 2018 grants vested in full on cessation of employment and the outstanding awards under the LTIP 2016 and 2017 grants will be eligible to vest on the normal vesting dates subject to performance and a time pro-rata reduction between 37% and 65% to reflect time served.
In addition, she was eligible to receive contributions towards outplacement services and legal fees capped at 20,000 and 3,000 respectively.
Directors shareholdings audited To reinforce the linkage between senior Executives and shareholders, the Company has adopted a shareholding policy that applies to Executive Directors under its long-term incentive arrangements.
The Executive Directors are required to retain sufficient shares from the vesting of awards to build up and retain a personal shareholding worth an equivalent of a minimum of 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 150% of base salary for Chief Financial Officer increasing to 200% subject to approval of the new policy.
It is expected that the required shareholding will be built up over a maximum of five years.
The Committee has discretion to waive the shareholding requirement in exceptional circumstances.
Once attained, a subsequent fall below the required level may be taken into account by the Committee when determining the grant of future awards.
The Committee has decided that vested but unexercised LTIP awards and awards made under the DSBP shall count assuming the sale of sufficient shares to fund the employees tax and NI obligations towards this target.
Share options Conditional not or no longer Legally owned Legally owned shares subject subject to shares at shares at to performance performance 30 December 2018 31 December 2017 conditions conditions Market value of or earlier date or earlier date 2012 LTIP 2012 LTIP DSBP shareholding 1 of cessation of cessation and 2016 LTIP Sharesave as a % of salary Executive Directors David Wild 131,596 13,650 1,602,000 1,061,912 315.84% Rachel Osborne 19,821 95,714 David Bauernfeind 8,000 95,121 5.74% Non-executive Directors 2 Stephen Hemsley 1,800,000 1,800,000 n a 3 Colin Halpern 1,673,700 1,673,700 n a Helen Keays n a Ebbe Jacobsen n a Kevin Higgins n a Steve Barber n a Notes: 1 B ased on a share price of 233.2p prevailing at the end of the financial year and the number of shares in which the Director has a beneficial interest and calculated on the annual salary for the year.
2 1, 800,000 Ordinary shares 2017: 1,800,000 are held by The Stephen Hemsley No.
5 Trust, a discretionary trust of which Stephen Hemsley and his family are potential beneficiaries.
HS Real LLC is owned by a discretionary trust, the beneficiaries of which are the adult children of Colin and Gail Halpern.
Rachel Osborne ceased to be a Group employee on 11 September 2018 David Bauernfeind was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 9 October 2018 There were no changes in the Directors shareholdings between 30 December 2018 and 11 March 2019.
Dominos Pizza Group plc 86 Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued DETAILS OF VARIABLE PAY EARNED IN THE YEAR CONTINUED External appointments During the year, David Wild acted as Senior Independent Director at Ten Entertainment Group plc and was an independent nonexecutive Director of The Bankers Trust plc until 21 February 2018.
David Wild retained fees from his external appointments which amounted to 54,044 2017: 62,424.
David Bauernfeind is an independent non-executive Director of Gooch and Housego plc and retained fees from this external appointment which amounted to 10,389.62.
CEO remuneration Total remuneration Annual bonus LTIP vesting Year ended Chief Executive Officer 000 % of max % of max 30 December 2018 David Wild 699 0% 31 December 2017 David Wild 1,394 50.91% 90.95% 1 25 December 2016 David Wild 4,482 81% 100% 27 December 2015 David Wild 1,243 87.5% 28 December 2014 David Wild 864 58.6% 2 29 December 2013 Lance Batchelor 532 0% 30 December 2012 Lance Batchelor 852 50% 25 December 2011 Lance Batchelor 256 60% 25 December 2011 Chris Moore 630 60% 100% 1 T he first LTIP awards granted to the current CEO that become capable of vesting based on performance ending in FY16 were in 2014 and these have been included in the above table.
2 L ance Batchelor resigned as CEO on 16 March 2014.
David Wild assumed the position of Interim CEO on 31 January 2014 and his appointment as the Groups CEO was formally confirmed on 30 April 2014.
For comparative purposes the total remuneration shown for the year ended 28 December 2014 includes remuneration received in both roles.
Total shareholder return The graph below illustrates the Companys TSR performance over the nine financial years to 30 December 2018, plotted against the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the same period.
TSR reflects movements in the share price, adjusted for capital events and assuming all dividends are reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
The FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts has been selected for this comparison because i this is the index in which the Companys shares have been quoted since admission to the Official List and ii it forms the comparator group for the TSR performance condition used in the Groups 2012 LTIP and 2016 LTIP.
The graph shows the value, at 30 December 2018, of 100 invested in the Company on 28 December 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at the relevant financial year ends.
800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 December December December December December December December December December December December 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Dominos Pizza Group plc FTSE 250 excl.
Investment Trusts Source: FactSet Value rebased Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 0107 0847 4892 93172 87 Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer 2018 % Chief Executive Officer Salary 0.0% Benefits 0.0% Bonus 100 % Average employee on a per capita basis Salary 22.9 % Benefits 43.5 % Bonus 29.7 % The table above shows the percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and previous financial year, and compares this to the equivalent year-on-year changes averaged across all Group employees and expressed on a per capita basis.
Pay for Group employees includes material proportions paid in Group functional currencies, and the translation into pounds for the purposes of this year-on-year comparison includes exchange effects.
Reported changes in average employee salaries, benefits and bonuses reflect the fact that the Groups subsidiaries in Iceland, Norway and Sweden and the Groups UK corporate stores, were consolidated for a full twelve months in 2018.
As reported last year, this increased the number of people employed in corporate stores which generally receive lower salaries and benefits than those in Group franchising operations.
Relative importance of spend on pay % 2018 2017 change 1 Staff costs m 81.8 62.3 31.3% of which Directors pay m 1.7 1.9 10.5 % Dividends and share buybacks m 107.9 76.6 40.9% Underlying PBT m 93.4 96.2 2.9 % 1 Excluding non-underlying items Underlying PBT was chosen as a comparator as it reflects the profit generated by the Groups continuing operations, virtually the whole of which leads to cash generation.
This therefore creates the opportunity for the Board to reinvest in the Groups business, or make distributions to shareholders, or both.
It is the same comparator as used in prior years remuneration reports.
On behalf of the Board Kevin Higgins Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 11 March 2019
