Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT ROLE OF THE COMMITTEE The Committees principal responsibilities are to: keep under review the Remuneration Policy as last approved by shareholders in April 2018: Management had a recommend to the Board the remuneration strategy and framework for the executive directors and members of the successful year, both Executive Committee: in terms of business determine, within that framework, the individual remuneration results and advancing packages for the executive directors and members of the Executive Committee: the Groups strategy.
approve the design of annual and long-term incentive arrangements for executive directors and members of the Tony Thorne Executive Committee, including agreeing the annual targets Chair and payments under such arrangements: determine and agree the general terms and conditions of COMMITTEE MEMBERS service and the specific terms for any individual within the Tim Cobbold Committees remit, either on recruitment or on termination: Philip Cox determine the policy for, and scope of, executive pension David Lindsell arrangements: and David Nussbaum oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures Nicola Hodson appointed 12 January 2018 throughout the Group and review remuneration trends across Vanessa Simms appointed 19 June 2018 the Group.
ATTENDING BY INVITATION REMUNERATION COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES IN 2018 Group Chief Executive Officer Considered and approved the: Group People Director annual report of the Committee on remuneration for 2017: External remuneration advisers remuneration of executive directors and members of the Executive Committee: NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD IN 2018: 5 amendments to the termination provisions applying to Dorothy Thompson, reducing payments made during 2018: The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee.
remuneration terms for the incoming CFO.
This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in Reviewed: accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized the salary increases and aggregate bonuses paid in the three Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations businesses and corporate functions: 2008, as amended the Regulations and the provisions of the design and progress in implementation of the new the Code.
Group-wide employee remuneration policies being implemented by management with due regard for coherence with the remuneration of the executive directors: ATTENDANCE IN 2018 the salaries and bonuses for senior staff below the Executive Maximum No.
of % of Committee Date appointed possible meetings meetings Committee : member a member meetings attended attended the commencement of the comparison of the Groups Tim Cobbold 27 September 2010 5 5 100 Remuneration policy with the new Corporate Governance Code.
Philip Cox 22 April 2015 5 5 100 Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 5 3 60 David Lindsell 1 December 2008 5 5 100 David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 5 5 100 Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 3 3 100 Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 5 5 100 Nicola Hodson was unable to attend two meetings as a result of pre-existing commitments.
However she received the meeting papers and fed back comments in advance of the meeting.
TERMS OF REFERENCE The Committees terms of reference are reviewed regularly by the Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 75 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued ANNUAL STATEMENT TO SHAREHOLDERS Safety was generally good throughout the Group, with an improvement in the Total Recordable Injury Rate to 0.22 2017: 0.27.
Dear shareholders This report reviews the key matters considered by the It was note-worthy the degree to which the executive directors Remuneration Committee in the past year and the matters involved themselves in the process improvements and we expect to consider in the future.
With two clarifications determination of additional investment to reduce the chances to address shareholders concerns, highlighted below, the of a repeat of the explosion experienced on the biomass rail Committee has operated in line with the revised 2017-2019 unloading facilities at the end of 2017.
Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders, at the April 2018 AGM.
The Group continues to be committed to paying a competitive and fair salary and benefits package that is consistent with our I leave the Board in June 2019, having served nine years as employees roles and the external market.
To provide the basis for a non-executive director, six as Chair of the Remuneration a common approach to valuing roles and thus setting salary and Committee.
I am delighted to say that Nicola Hodson will replace benefits across the Group, management carried out a Group-wide me as Chair.
During 2019 Nicola will lead a full review of the job evaluation and external benchmarking exercise in 2017.
Remuneration Policy, with the results of this review incorporated In addition, employee feedback has been sought on employee into a new policy which will be compliant with the new Corporate benefits provisions and, relevant changes to this provision will Governance Code, for consideration by shareholders at the be implemented during 2019.
The Gender Pay Gap report 2020 AGM.
demonstrated, consistent with the industry, that there are significantly fewer women at senior level.
It is recognised that this REVIEW OF 2018 needs to change and our aim is to have 40% of the senior roles Management had a successful year, both in terms of business filled by women by the end of 2020 27% as at 31 December 2018. results and advancing the Groups strategy.
This success has been reflected in the Groups share price which was up by over 30% ANNUAL ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE IN 2018 over the year.
Our strategic objectives are reflected in our Group The Committee determines the remuneration of the executive Scorecard which drives performance across all our employees directors and members of the Executive Committee against and are taken into account in determining both the short-term the strategic objectives and priorities of the Group.
Principally and long-term remuneration outcomes for the executive this is done through an assessment of performance against the directors.
In terms of performance against our key objectives targets set in the Group Scorecard, with the Remuneration I am pleased to note the following highlights: Committee using its discretion to adjust the result where the numeric outcome does not reflect properly Group or individual Adjusted EBITDA at 250 million increased by 9% compared performance.
Executive pay is therefore closely aligned to the prior year, with the Group benefiting from good availability to business performance with a high proportion of total in the Power Generation business, better electricity prices and remuneration delivered through variable pay, rewarding a substantial uplift in output in Pellet Production.
In B2B Energy achievement of short-term and long-term targets.
In 2018 Supply margin grew, and market share increased by 1%, but the changes to the Remuneration Policy were approved by business faced a challenging market for customers and higher shareholders at the 2018 AGM, which included removing the than expected bad debt provisioning.
A significant step in the personal element in the determination of executive director acceleration of our strategy was the December 2018 acquisition bonuses.
This fully aligns the approach to bonus across all levels of ScottishPowers generation assets, but there were also of the Group with the executive directors and members of the important strategic moves in the conversion of Unit 4 to biomass Executive Committee earning bonus only where this is merited and bringing the LaSalle pellet plant on stream, ahead of schedule.
by the Groups performance against pre-determined metrics set by the Committee.
Management continued to extend our capabilities in the utilisation of biomass fuel and the sustainability of alternative There is a detailed review of performance against the low carbon energy sources.
Draxs own programme has been Scorecard on pages 92 and 93.
Components within the Scorecard reinforced by the sustainability criteria set out in the 2018 can be scored between 0 and 2, a score of 1 representing European Union Directive on biomass.
Mindful of the overall objectives of the designed to test the efficacy of Draxs reporting of biomass Group and taking account where considered appropriate of sustainability data enabled us to demonstrate the veracity of our the representations of the executive directors, the Committee own analysis of biomass sustainability as a genuine alternative to sets stretching targets at the beginning of the year.
This is important, as the data is crucial the year there are two formal reviews giving the Committee for the payments to be made under the ROC and CfD regimes.
the opportunity to discuss with and, challenge management on the progress made and likely Scorecard outcomes.
76 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Committee determines the final Scorecard result in February BASE PAY INCREASES of the following year and reports to Shareholders on the outcome Will Gardiner was promoted from CFO to CEO effective in the annual report for the year in which the bonus is paid.
In 1 January 2018, with an appropriate uplift in pay from 400,000 2018 there were no changes to the targets within the year.
No separate uplift was applied to reflect the salary the financial year 2018, the Committee determined the overall increases applied to other executive directors or the wider performance at 1.05 which was marginally above target workforce.
Prior to her departure, Wills predecessor was paid a performance.
The Committee assessed that this fairly reflected salary of 588,318.
There was an interim CFO in place for 2018 the Groups performance and that there was no need to apply not appointed as a statutory director.
discretion to the outcome of the Scorecard.
Drax Power CEO Andy Kosss salary was reviewed and he received The above score results in annual bonuses of 53% of the an increase of 3.8%, effective from 1 April 2018, this increase maximum being paid to executive directors.
The Committee being aligned with the wider workforce.
believes that this bonus outcome fairly reflects the performance of each of the executive directors.
Further detail on this outcome For the 2019 pay review, where an increase has been applied for is set out on page 94. executive directors, increases will be in line with those applied to the wider Group workforce and will take effect in April 2019.
The above score is applied to both the annual bonus and the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Details of the outcomes are SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT set out on page 94.
During 2018 we engaged with each of the largest 12 shareholders plus four proxy agencies, with an explanation of the proposed LONG-TERM ASSESSMENT OF PERFORMANCE revisions to the 2017-19 policy.
There were follow ups with a Under the current remuneration policy the Long-Term Incentive number of these and good discussions around not only the Plan LTIP is delivered through a Performance Share Plan PSP proposed changes but also their feedback on specific aspects in respect of which the first grants were made in 2017.
These discussions will be used in shaping the for vestings which will take effect in 2018, the relevant award 2020-2022 policy, which will go out for consultation with the to test is the share award granted in 2016, made under the major shareholders, prior to it being finalised.
Additionally, there 2014-2016 Remuneration Policy which operated a Bonus were a number of discussions with the proxy agencies on the 2017 Matching Plan BMP.
remuneration report, specifically in regard to the termination arrangements for the previous CEO.
Again, these discussions Share awards made in 2016 under the BMP were tested at the provided valuable feedback.
end of 2018 through two measures: Total Shareholder Return TSR accounted for up to 50%, and the three-year average of Including abstentions, the level of shareholder support at the the Group Scorecard, which also accounted for up to 50%.
2018 AGM was 93% for the revised policy and 92% for the remuneration report.
This was a significant and pleasing The Companys TSR over the period was between the median and improvement on the previous policy at the 2017 AGM where upper quartile of the comparator group, leading to 89.5% vesting the level of support was 77.03%.
of the 50% related to relative TSR.
The average Corporate Scorecard outcome over the same period was 1.06 leading to APPLICATION OF POLICY 25.76% of vesting.
By combining the above vesting percentages, During the year we applied the revised 2017-19 executive it creates an overall vesting of 57.63% of the 2016 share awards.
remuneration policy that was approved by shareholders in 2018 at the AGM, subject to two amendments: The Committee determined that the vesting outcome was consistent with the Groups and executive directors performance Firstly, we amended the pensions provision for executive directors and did not exercise discretion in determining the final outcome to allow the employers contribution to be up to 20% as opposed for the 2016 share awards.
Consistent with this revision, the Committee determined that the contribution to the pension for CEO TOTAL REMUNERATION Andy Skelton at the time of his appointment as CFO would be 16%, At 1.9 million Will Gardiners 2018 total remuneration is above which is the same level paid to members of the Executive that of his predecessors 2017 total remuneration of 1.2 million.
Committee and other senior staff.
Wills base pay and bonus earned are both lower than his predecessors while the earnings under the BMP matching award, Secondly, in respect of the termination of an executive director, made in 2016 following Wills recruitment, are higher, primarily for whatever reason, we have removed any obligation on the reflecting better relative and absolute share price performance.
Committee to consider the departing executive for an annual Based on the financial performance of the Group in the year, Wills bonus for any unworked period of notice.
The removal of this contribution to the performance of the Group over the period obligation was achieved through each executive director since he joined and the TSR and Scorecard performance, the agreeing to vary long standing contractual terms.
As previously Committee has determined that the vesting of the award is agreed with shareholders there is now no such obligation in the appropriate.
Further details on the vested shares is shown on executive directors contracts of employment so the Committee page 94. saw it appropriate to clarify the policy and wishes to thank the executive directors for their agreement.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 77 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Feedback from shareholders, emerging best practice and APPOINTMENT OF NEW CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Committee judgement is reflected in the outcomes to the Andy Skelton was appointed Group CFO effective 2 January 2019, following areas addressed in the year: with a salary of 355,000, an annual on-target bonus potential of 70% of salary maximum 140% and a potential award of shares i treatment of the outgoing Group CEO, Dorothy Thompson, under the Performance Share Plan of 175% of salary.
Consistent taking into account the agreed termination arrangements, with the Group-wide pay review process and, as a result of his the remuneration policy, and her service agreement: start date, Andys salary will not be reviewed again until April ii remuneration package for the incoming Group CFO, balancing 2020.
Andy will receive cash in lieu of pension, at 16% of salary.
the need to remunerate a high-quality individual competitively This is below the level of 20% for the other executive directors with the objective to stop the ratcheting up of remuneration: but in line with members of the Executive Committee and other and senior staff.
The lower pension contribution as compared to the iii pay outcomes for the year in the context of performance other executive directors, reflects general shareholder concerns achieved.
over executive pension contributions and the Committees aim to lower fixed remuneration, where appropriate.
No additional In addition to the above, the Committee reviewed the progress provisions or buy outs, beyond the package detailed above, have made across the Group in implementing the changes made to been put in place as part of Andys remuneration.
The grant of performance management and the ongoing work with regards shares to Andy under the PSP is expected to be made in the to benefits alignment across the UK businesses.
It also approved period following announcement of the results of the 2018 the new approach to remuneration governance to be put in place financial year.
COMPARISON WITH DRAX REMUNERATION POLICY AND UPDATE ON TERMINATION ARRANGEMENTS FOR THE NEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CODE PREVIOUS CEO The existing Drax Remuneration Policy is considered to be broadly As noted in the 2017 Remuneration Report page 84, we compliant with the new Code on Corporate Governance although announced in September 2017 that Dorothy Thompson had we expect, during 2019, to implement further changes to given notice of her intention to stand down as Group CEO and practices to enable us to comply with the Code.
We will of course to leave the Drax Group.
It was agreed that she would leave report on this within the annual report for 2019.
The 2019 review on 31 December 2017 prior to the completion of her 12-month will also consider the Terms of Reference of the Committee.
Highlighted below are certain matters which are under review.
Details of related remuneration were included in the 2017 report Remuneration Committee Remit and Employee Voice: The and, as part of this, it was noted that Dorothy was entitled to Committee sets the remuneration of the executive directors and salary, pension and other benefits for the unworked period of the next level, being the members of the Executive Committee.
notice from January 2018 to September 2018.
Phased payments Periodically or when there is a change of personnel at senior level, in respect of this unworked notice were made in March 2018, the Committee will externally benchmark the salaries against June 2018 and, the final payment was made in September 2018. an agreed comparator group of companies.
Salary increases Considering Dorothys commencement of alternative for executive directors and Executive Committee members are employment during 2018, the final payment for unworked notice made only after the Committee has reviewed increases for the was reduced by the amount she earned in her new appointment wider workforce.
which took effect during her notice period.
Annually the Committee reviews the individual salaries, bonuses In addition, the termination arrangements for Dorothy meant and LTIP awards to other senior managers across the Group below she was eligible to be considered for a bonus for the unworked the Executive Committee, comprising approximately 20 persons.
period of her notice, this being January to September 2018.
It also reviews the trends in salaries and bonuses each year, This reflected the terms set in connection with Dorothy standing including the average salary increase and the range of increase down and mindful of the terms of her prevailing service for the workforce, within the three businesses units and the agreement.
Following Dorothy being appointed to a significant corporate office.
external role, the Committee determined that she had forfeited the right to be considered for a bonus.
Therefore, no bonus for 2018 will be paid to Dorothy.
These adjustments were made in line with the terms of her service agreement and verified by external advisers.
78 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In 2018 the Group People Director reported twice to the Pensions: There are a wide range of pension arrangements Committee to update on progress with regard to the impact on across the Group including both Defined Benefit and Defined the workforce of a number of ongoing Group-wide remuneration Contribution plans.
Detailed information was shared with the Committee which had the opportunity to raise questions and challenge the Executive directors remuneration has historically included a 20% approach.
Topics covered included, but were not limited to, company contribution, either as a contribution to pension or cash employee benefits provision, remuneration governance, updates in lieu of same, with members of the Executive Committee and to the implementation of changes made to employee bonus senior managers not in the Defined Benefit scheme eligible for arrangements, gender pay gap reporting and, annual outcomes up to 16%.
As mentioned on page 77, we have made changes for employee pay and bonus reviews.
The Committee was also to this element of the Policy and the incoming Group CFOs updated on the implementation of the previously agreed remuneration package includes a company contribution of 16% approach to performance management, which supported which reflects the broader intent to align with the updated Code.
cultural change across the Group.
Information provided to the Committee included the results of employee surveys.
The pension arrangements for executive directors will form a part of the 2019 remuneration policy review.
There are a number of existing channels designed to capture the views of the workforce on a wide range of issues including NEW REPORTING REQUIREMENTS remuneration.
Feedback from these is included in the CEO pay ratios: We recognise the requirement for UK quoted presentations by the Group People Director.
Nevertheless, as part companies, with more than 250 employees, to publish the pay of the 2019 review, the Committee will consider whether these ratio between their CEO and the average UK employee for 2019, existing channels are enough to make sure that employees views i. e. in 2020.
Given that the review of UK employee benefits, which are sufficiently understood by the Committee to inform its will impact significantly on the reporting values, will only be decisions or whether there is a need to reinforce the existing finalised in 2019, the Committee decided to continue with the structures.
The Committee believes that its approach to existing format see page 81 for the 2018 reporting year.
executive remuneration does align with the wider company pay Therefore, the first report from the Drax Group, under this policies but, in the 2019 review, it will need to consider how best requirement, will be made as part of the 2019 Annual Report.
to explain this to the wider workforce.
SUMMARY LTIP vesting period and post-termination shareholding Along with the other members of the Committee, I am satisfied requirement: The structure of the Groups LTIP the Performance that the 2018 remuneration outcomes for the executive directors Share Plan with a three-year performance period and a further fairly reflect the corporate performance, provide a fair and two years post-vesting holding period meets the criteria specified consistent approach to remuneration across the Group, and by the Code.
It also applies to leavers as seen in the termination remain in shareholders interests.
The planned review, in 2019, arrangements for the previous CEO.
of the current remuneration policy will allow the provisions of the revised Code to be incorporated whilst also taking into account The current share ownership guideline is 200% of salary in the feedback received from shareholders and other stakeholders.
Drax shares to be accumulated over five years although we recognise that some of our shareholders would like to see a higher requirement.
It is worth noting that Will Gardiner made a substantial purchase of shares in 2018 to further align his interests with those of shareholders.
The 2019 review will also develop a policy around how the share ownership guideline will apply post termination and the processes required to implement this.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 79 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Remuneration at a glance Below is a top line summary of the remuneration earned by each of our executive directors during 2018.
This shows the alignment between our remuneration framework, the Companys performance and how the payments to directors in 2018 link to this.
WILL GARDINER GROUP CEO 000s Total 2018 530 106 417 838 21 1,912 Total 2017 397 79 294 20 790 Will was Group CFO during 2017 and this is reflected in the remuneration summary noted above.
Will commenced as Group CEO on 1 January 2018.
ANDY KOSS CHIEF EXECUTIVE, DRAX POWER 000s Total 2018 327 65 242 147 25 806 Total 2017 316 63 234 19 632 Base salary LTIP Pension Other benefits and Sharesave Annual bonus Bonus is the total value of the annual bonus payable in respect The performance conditions for the BMP Matching Awards of performance in the relevant year, including the cash bonus awarded in March 2016 and due to vest in March 2019 were and the value of bonus deferred which is paid in shares after 50% Relative TSR and 50% Group Scorecard.
three years subject only to continued service.
BONUS EARNED FOR 2018 The resulting bonus outcomes as a percentage of base salary were: Bonus earned for Group CEO Group CEO 79% of salary out Target bonus Group score of a maximum of 150% salary X 75% 1.05 Bonus earned for other executive directors Executive directors 74% of salary Target bonus Group score out of a maximum of 140% salary X 70% 1.05 80 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information BONUS EARNED FOR 2018 The table below sets out the bonuses earned and the split between cash and deferred elements Of which paid Of which deferred Bonus in cash into shares 2018 bonus earned 65% of bonus 35% of bonus Executive director as % base salary 000 000 000 Will Gardiner, Group CEO 79% 417 271 146 Andy Koss, CEO, Generation 74% 242 158 84 ANNUAL BONUS INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR 2018 Score Area Weighting Outcome Financial 62.5% 0.68 Overall Group score maximum 2 1.05 Group Business Units Bonus outcome as % of maximum 53% Range of bonus outcomes as % of salary 74%-79% Operations 32.5% 0.33 Strategy 5% 0.04 Development Implementation LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP For BMP awards granted in March 2016, vesting was conditional upon two performance measures with up to 50% of shares vesting subject to TSR performance and up to 50% of shares vesting subject to Group Scorecard performance as below: Total shareholder return TSR 50% Company Scorecard 50% TSR performance over three years relative to FTSE 51150 Group Scorecard performance averaged over the three-year as follows: performance period as follows capped at 1.5 : Below median 0% vesting Score 1 0% vesting At median 15% vesting threshold Score 1 15% vesting threshold score Upper quartile 100% vesting Score 1.5 100% vesting The outturn for the vesting of awards in 2019 is: BMP Weighting Score Outcome Vesting outcome Overall vesting 2016 scorecard 16.6% 1.30 2017 scorecard 16.6% 0.84 2018 scorecard 16.6% 1.05 Average scorecard maximum 1.5 50% 1.06 25.76% 12.88% Relative TSR performance 50% Rank of 26 out of 90 89.50% 44.75% BMP outcome as a % of maximum 57.63% The Committee considered the circumstances surrounding the outturn for 2019 and following discussion chose not to exercise discretion.
PAY RATIOS 2018 As noted on page 79, the first reporting of values under the new CEO pay ratio reporting requirements will be made in the 10.9 : 1 remuneration report for 2019.
The ratio included here shows the ratio of pensionable pay between the executive directors and 2017 the wider UK workforce.
The equivalent ratio between the CEO and the wider UK workforce is 13.4:1.
12.8 : 1 In addition, following the initial submission of gender pay gap reports, in respect of 2017, the 2018 gender pay gap data will be submitted and published in line with the mandated deadline.
As with the 2017 reports, the submissions will re-emphasise the Groups commitment to significantly reducing the currently identified gender pay gaps.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 81 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors Remuneration Policy The current remuneration policy was effective from 25 April 2018.
Normally it would be binding on the Group for three years but, as detailed in our 2017 Remuneration Report, the Committee intends to review the policy in 2019 and incorporate the results of this review in a new policy to be presented to shareholders at the 2020 AGM.
It is intended to undertake consultation with shareholders in the summer of 2019.
The 2017-19 Remuneration Policy was revised in 2017 and, voted BASE SALARY on last year when we received high levels of shareholder support.
Base salary is set in order to attract, reward and retain the right The principal change from that of the previous policy was to calibre of executive to deliver the leadership and management remove the personal element in calculating the executive directors needed to execute the Groups vision and Business Plan.
annual bonus, thereby ensuring alignment with the changes being made across the wider workforce.
The policy will be reviewed to PRACTICAL OPERATION ensure that it remains fit for purpose at Drax and is consistent Base salary reflects the role, the executives skills and experience, with the new Corporate Governance Code and investor sentiment and market level.
It is paid in 12 monthly instalments.
in 2019 with the results of this review incorporated into a new three-year remuneration policy to be presented to shareholders To determine the market level, the Committee reviews at the 2020 AGM.
remuneration data on executive positions at companies which the Committee considers to be appropriate comparators.
In the meantime and, as outlined in the Chairs letter, the current executive directors no longer have a clause in their contracts The comparator companies are selected, with advice from the requiring the Committee to consider whether to pay a bonus Committees remuneration advisers, taking into account factors pertaining to any unworked notice for the financial year in which such as, but not limited to, sector, size, and international presence.
Although this change has already taken effect, the revised policy to be put to shareholders at the On appointment, an executive directors base salary is set at 2020 AGM will also incorporate this change.
the market level, or below if the executive is not fully experienced at this level.
The core principles of the current remuneration policy are set out below: Where base salary on appointment is below market level to reflect experience, it will be increased over time to align with making sure that executive remuneration is linked strongly to the market level, subject to performance.
performance and the achievement of strategic objectives: ensuring transparency in executive pay reporting through Base salaries of all executive directors are generally reviewed simplification in design and appropriate reporting: once each year, with increases applying from April.
Reviews securing and retaining top talent and incentivising strong cover individual performance, experience, development in the performance: role and market comparisons.
maintaining flexibility, to recognise the uncertain business environment, whilst ensuring that remuneration outcomes are MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE aligned to shareholder interests: and The base salaries of executive directors in post at the start of bonuses earned solely for the delivery of stretching corporate the policy period, and who remain in the same role throughout and divisional related financial, strategic and operational targets, the policy period, will not usually be increased by a higher as measured through the Group Scorecard.
percentage than the average annual percentage increase in salaries of all other Group employees.
The Committee retains the overall discretion to adjust the bonus if the Group Scorecard outcome is not reflective of corporate or Exceptions to this, subject to performance and development, individual performance in the year.
are where: The following is an overview of our remuneration framework i An executive director has been appointed at below market under the policy.
Under this scenario, increases will be capped at 5% above the average annual percentage KEY COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION increase in salaries of all other Group employees.
The remuneration policy for executive directors has been designed to support the delivery of strong business performance and the ii An executive director has been promoted internally and creation of shareholder value.
We set out below the key their salary is below market level.
Under this scenario, components of the remuneration policy for executive directors, and increases will not be capped and the Committee can in the notes following the table we comment on differences increase base salary to the market level within an between the policy and the remuneration of employees generally.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES No performance measures apply.
82 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information ANNUAL BONUS The award of annual bonus is linked directly to achieving the annual Business Plan targets.
The aim of the deferred portion of annual bonus is to further align executives to shareholders interests, by linking share-based reward to long-term sustainable performance.
Practical operation Maximum potential value 65% of annual bonus earned is paid in cash, normally three Maximum bonus potential months after the end of the financial year to which it relates.
Role % of base salary 35% of annual bonus earned is deferred in nil cost awards over Chief Executive 150% shares under the Deferred Share Plan DSP, which vest after Other executive directors 140% three years subject to continued employment or good leaver termination provisions.
There is no payment for below threshold performance.
The DSP was introduced in 2017, as a vehicle for deferring the relevant proportion of annual bonus in shares.
Performance measures Group score is based on performance, against the Group Annual bonus earned subject to the maximum opportunity is: Scorecard, of strategic and Business Plan targets set, each year, Target bonus x Group score.
by the Committee, in conjunction with the Board.
Performance measures include financial, operational and strategic objectives.
Target bonus is 50% of maximum.
Typically, across the Group and Business Units, around 40% of the Score ranges from zero to 2.0.
Scorecard is based on financial objectives, 3040% on strategic goals with the balance on operational issues.
The Committee Each measure in the Group scorecard is assigned a weighting and has the discretion to vary the weightings from year to year.
three performance levels low, target and stretch.
The score is zero if performance is below the low target, one if performance The Scorecard is amended each year, in line with business is at target and two for stretch performance.
Dividends in respect of the deferred shares are reinvested in In exceptional circumstances such that the Committee believes additional shares, which vest when the deferred shares vest.
the original measures and or targets are no longer appropriate, the Committee has discretion to amend performance measures In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply clawback and targets during the year.
to any annual bonus awards, as set out in the notes to the policy table.
Summary scorecard and performance results are published in the annual report on remuneration.
The Committee will review the formulaic outcome of the annual bonus and has the discretion to amend the final outcome to make sure that bonus payments reflect overall performance.
The use of such discretion will be explained fully in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 83 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued DRAX 2017 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN PSP The PSP is the Companys long-term incentive plan implemented following shareholder approval at the 2017 AGM.
It replaces the legacy BMP and links long-term share-based incentives to TSR and to the achievement of Business Plan strategic targets.
Practical operation Maximum potential value The PSP was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The maximum annual grant is 175% of base salary.
Under the PSP, executive directors receive an annual grant Performance measures of nil cost conditional awards over shares.
There are two performance measures which apply to PSP awards, as follows: Shares vest on the third anniversary of the grant, subject to continued service or good leaver termination provisions, and the i TSR performance over three years relative to FTSE 350 achievement of performance conditions over a three-year period comparator group 50% of award, vesting as follows: determined by the Committee.
Vested awards are subject to Below Median 0% a further holding period of two years.
At Median 25% Dividends or dividend equivalents which may assume notional Upper Quartile 100% reinvestment are paid on PSP awards.
ii Average corporate scorecard as described in the annual The Committee will include an override provision in each grant bonus over three financial years 50% of award, vesting under the PSP.
This will give the Committee discretion to as follows: determine that no vesting shall occur, or that vesting shall be Average Score 0.75 0% reduced, if there are circumstances relating to the Companys Average Score 1 50% overall performance or otherwise which make vesting when Average Score 1.5 100% calculated by reference to the performance conditions alone inappropriate.
While each annual corporate score can range from zero to 2.0, the three-year average corporate score is capped at 1.5.
In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply malus or For illustration: clawback to unvested vested awards, as set out in the notes to the policy table.
Year 1 Score 1.8 Year 2 Score 0.9 The Committee reserves discretion to: Year 3 Score 1.2 i amend the performance conditions targets attached to Average corporate score 1.3 outstanding awards granted under this policy, in the event Straight line vesting occurs between performance levels for of a major corporate event or significant change in economic both conditions.
circumstances, or a change in accounting standards having a material impact on outcomes: and ii adjust the vesting of PSP awards and or the number of shares underlying unvested PSP awards, on the occurrence of a corporate event or other reorganisation.
In the event of a change of control, the treatment of long-term incentives will be determined in accordance with the relevant plan rules.
84 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information PENSION Pension provision is one of the components to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of executive, to ensure delivery of the leadership and management needed to execute the Groups vision and Business Plan.
Practical operation Maximum potential value Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of the Maximum is 20% of base salary.
Groups defined contribution pension plan.
The employers contribution Performance measures for executive directors is a maximum of 20% of base salary.
Note As No performance measures apply.
explained on page 77, following consultation with shareholders in 2018, the percentage employer contribution was revised to allow for a maximum of 20% of salary to executive directors previously the policy stated a set 20% of salary.
Alternatively, at their option, executive directors may either have contributions of the same amounts made to their personal pension schemes, cash in lieu of pension subject to normal statutory deductions, or a combination of pension contributions and cash in lieu of pension.
BENEFITS Benefits are provided to be market competitive as an integral part of directors total remuneration.
Practical operation Maximum potential value Executive directors receive a car allowance, life assurance four times Benefits are set at a level appropriate to the individuals salary, the opportunity to participate in all-employee share plans on the role and circumstances.
same basis as other employees, annual private health assessment and The maximum opportunity will depend on the type annual private medical cover.
of benefit and cost of its provision, which will vary Additional benefits may be provided if the Committee considers them according to the market and individual circumstances.
Performance measures Relocation expenses and or second base expenses are paid, where No performance measures apply.
Directors relocation expenses are determined on a case-by-case basis.
The policy is designed to assist the executive director to relocate to a home of similar standing.
SHARE OWNERSHIP GUIDELINE The Groups share ownership guidelines align the interests of executives with shareholders.
Practical operation Maximum potential value The share ownership guideline is that all executive directors should retain N A shares to the value of 200% of base salary, to be accumulated over five Performance measures years.
Until this level is reached, directors who receive shares by virtue of N A any share plan award or who receive deferred bonus shares must retain 50% of the shares received net i. e. after income tax and national insurance contributions.
Only shares that have actually vested count towards the threshold.
ELEMENTS OF PREVIOUS POLICY THAT WILL CONTINUE BMP AWARDS MADE IN 2015, 2016 AND 2017 Remuneration component and link to strategy Practical operation Performance measures Bonus Matching Plan deferred awards made in Vesting is subject to the achievement of Vesting of conditional awards is subject to relative 2015, 2016 and 2017 and conditional awards made performance conditions conditional awards and TSR and average Group Scorecard outcome over in 2015 and 2016. continued service or good leaver termination three years.
provisions deferred and conditional awards.
Links long-term share-based incentives to TSR and to the achievement of Business Plan Further details of the terms of the awards were strategic targets.
included in the Annual remuneration reports for the respective years.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 85 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND APPROACH TO SETTING TARGETS The measures for elements of variable pay are: Group Scorecard, consisting of strategic and Business Plan targets set by the Committee each year in conjunction with the Board.
The Group Scorecard aligns incentives of executive directors with achievement of key business goals.
Relative TSR, which aligns executive director remuneration with creation of long-term shareholder value.
The Committee sets targets for the performance measures each year, taking into account market conditions, the Business Plan and other circumstances as appropriate.
A summary of the Group Scorecard targets that apply for the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH MALUS OR CLAWBACK MAY APPLY Malus and or clawback may be applied to incentive awards under the following circumstances: Clawback for the annual bonus the Committee may require a director to repay any amount of annual bonus payment it considers appropriate, in circumstances of financial misstatement, or misconduct, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
Malus and clawback for the BMP if a repayment of bonus is required see annual bonus above the Committee shall reduce the number of shares that may vest under the BMP by an appropriate amount in respect of an award made pursuant to the annual bonus payment subject to the clawback.
The Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a BMP award in circumstances of financial misstatement, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
Malus and clawback for the PSP and DSP the Committee may also reduce the number of shares under a PSP and or DSP award in circumstances of financial misstatement, or if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information, or in other circumstances that the Committee considers to justify the operation of the clawback provision.
COMMITTEES JUDGEMENT AND DISCRETION In addition to assessing and making judgements on the meeting of performance targets and the appropriate incentives payable, the Committee has certain operational discretions it can exercise in relation to executive directors remuneration.
These include, but are not limited to: reviewing the formulaic outcome of the annual bonus and applying discretion to amend the final outcome, to ensure that bonus payments reflect overall performance or an individual executives performance: deciding whether to apply malus or clawback to an award: and determining whether a leaver is a good leaver.
Where such discretion is exercised, it will be explained in the relevant directors remuneration report.
REMUNERATION SCENARIOS The composition and value of the executive directors remuneration packages at low, target and stretch performance scenarios under the Drax Group remuneration policy are set out in the charts on page 87.
The assumptions used in the charts are provided in the following table: BASE SALARY, PENSION AND BENEFITS Description Scenario Annual bonus Determined on base salary PSP Salary is the rate payable to each Low None None director from 1 January 2018 The value of benefits is taken from Target 50% of the maximum bonus TSR: 62.5% vesting midpoint between threshold the single figure for the year ended and maximum Scorecard: 50% vesting 31 December 2018 Pension is the value of the pension Stretch Maximum bonus 150% of salary for Group Maximum PSP opportunity 175% of salary with payable on the salary rate used Chief Executive, 140% of salary for other no allowance for share price appreciation or executive directors dividend equivalents 86 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information WILL GARDINER ANDY SKELTON ANDY KOSS GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE GROUP CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OF DRAX POWER, 000, 000, 000 1800 2500 1,600 2,380 1,454 1,549 1500 2000 39% 1,200 40% 40% 1200 1,577 971 1500 1,029 33% 900 800 33% 34% 1000 33% 32% 32% 600 25% 24% 657 24% 415 431 400 500 300 100% 42% 28% 100% 42% 28% 100% 43% 28% 0 0 0 Low Target Stretch Low Target Stretch Low Target Stretch Fixed elements Annual variable Multi-period variable APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION The Committee will apply the core principles on page 82 and the components set out in the table on pages 82 to 86 to determine the remuneration of newly appointed directors.
Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the director being appointed.
Where this is below the market level, it will be adjusted over time to align with the market level, subject to performance.
The incentive provision for a new executive director will include annual bonus up to 150% of salary and a PSP award of up to 175% of salary.
In relation to directors appointed from outside the Group, where the Committee considers it to be necessary to secure the appointment of the director, the Committee may: pay compensation for loss of benefits on resignation from a previous employer, such as loss of long-term share incentives subject to the right to phase any payment to reflect performance, the requirement to mitigate loss and the Companys right to claw back any amount which is subsequently paid to the executive by the former employer, and to claw back an appropriate proportion of the payment if the executive leaves soon after appointment : and make appropriate payments in circumstances where a director is relocated from outside the UK.
SERVICE AGREEMENTS AND COMPENSATION ON LOSS OF OFFICE Executive directors service agreements are of indefinite duration, terminable at any time by either party giving 12 months notice.
Element Details Notice periods Executive directors may be required to work during the notice period or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period.
Under each of the executive directors service agreements, the Company has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice of termination, the amount of that payment being the salary and benefits that would have accrued to the executive director during the contractual notice period.
Compensation for loss If an executive directors employment is brought to an end by either party and if it is necessary to determine a termination payment, of office the Committees policy, in the absence of a breach of the service agreement by the director, is to determine a directors termination payment in accordance with his her service agreement.
The termination payment will be calculated based on the value of base salary and contractual benefits that would have accrued to the director during the contractual notice period.
The Committee will seek mitigation to reduce the amount of any termination payment to a leaving director when appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances and the law governing the agreement.
It may, for example, be appropriate to consider mitigation if the director has secured another job at a similar level.
Mitigation would not apply retrospectively to a contractual payment in lieu of notice.
In addition, the director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his her statutory rights.
The Group may pay reasonable fees for a departing director to obtain independent legal advice in relation to their termination arrangements and nominal consideration for agreement to any contractual terms protecting the Companys rights following termination.
No service agreement includes any provision for the payment of compensation upon termination.
Any compensation payable in those circumstances would need to be determined at the time and in the light of the circumstances.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 87 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued Element Details Treatment of annual All bonus payments are discretionary benefits.
The Committee will consider whether a departing director should receive an annual bonus on termination bonus in respect of the financial year in which, and or immediately preceding which, the termination occurs, pro-rated to reflect the period of the performance year completed at the date of termination.
The Committee will take into account performance: cooperation with succession: any breach of goodwill, and adherence to contractual obligations restrictions.
If the employment ends in any of the following circumstances, the director will be treated as a good leaver and the director will be eligible for a bonus payment: redundancy: retirement: ill-health or disability, proved to the satisfaction of the Company: and death.
If the termination is for any other reason, a bonus payment will be at the Committees discretion and it is the Committees policy to ensure that any such bonus payment properly reflects the departing directors performance and behaviour towards the Company.
Therefore the amount of any such payment will be determined, taking into account i the directors personal performance and behaviour towards the Company and ii the Group performance.
If a bonus payment is made, it will normally be paid as soon as is reasonably practicable after the Group performance element has been determined for the relevant period.
There may be circumstances in which the Committee considers it appropriate for the bonus payment to be made earlier, for example, on termination due to ill-health, in which case, on-target Group performance score shall be assumed.
No payment will be made unless the director is employed on the date of bonus payment, except for good leavers as defined above.
Treatment of unvested The Committee will consider the extent to which deferred and conditional share awards held by the director under the BMP, DSP long-term incentive and and PSP should lapse or vest.
Any determination by the Committee will be in accordance with the rules of the BMP, DSP and PSP deferred share awards as approved by shareholders.
on termination In summary, the rules of the BMP and PSP provide that awards will vest pro-rated to the date of employment termination if employment ends for any of the following reasons long-term good leaver reasons : redundancy: retirement: ill-health or disability proved to the satisfaction of the Company: change of ownership: and death.
If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the BMP and PSP require the Committee to exercise its discretion.
In doing so, it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Companys performance: the directors performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance cycle of the relevant awards: and other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
The rules of the BMP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, deferred and conditional shares vest as soon as reasonably practicable following termination.
Awards, which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions, will be time pro-rated and will be phased over the performance cycle of the relevant awards.
The rules of the DSP provide that deferred bonus awards will vest in full if employment ends for any of the long-term good leaver reasons detailed above.
If employment ends for any other reason, the rules of the DSP require the Committee to exercise its discretion.
In doing so it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Companys performance: the directors performance and behaviour towards the Company during the performance cycle of the relevant awards: and a range of other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date.
The rules of the BMP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, they do so at the normal vesting date, unless the Committee exercises discretion to vest awards earlier.
Awards which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions will be time pro-rated.
Outside appointments Executive directors may accept external Board appointments, subject to the Chairs approval.
Normally only one appointment to a listed company would be approved.
Fees may be retained by the director.
88 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information CONSIDERATION OF CIRCUMSTANCES FOR LEAVERS The Committee will consider whether the overall value of any benefits accruing to a leaving director is fair and appropriate, taking account of all relevant circumstances.
Examples of circumstances in which the Committee may be minded to award an annual bonus payment and or permit the vesting of PSP awards include: the directors continued good performance up to and following the giving of notice: and the director accommodating the Company in the timing of his her departure and handover arrangements.
Conversely, the Committee may be minded not to allow such payments if the reason for the departure is: poor performance: or the director does not continue to perform effectively following notice.
REMUNERATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND CHAIR Remuneration component and link to strategy Practical operation Maximum potential value Fees The Chairs remuneration is determined by the Committee whilst that of the Overall aggregate fees paid to To attract a Chair and independent other non-executive directors is determined by the Chair and the executive all non-executive directors will non-executive directors who, together with directors.
These are determined in the light of: remain within the limit as stated the executive directors, form a Board with in the Companys Articles fees of chairmen and non-executive directors of other listed companies a broad range of skills and experience.
currently 1,000,000. selected for comparator purposes, on the same basis as for executive directors: the responsibilities and time commitment: and the need to attract and retain individuals with the necessary skills and experience.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed periodically against market comparators.
They were last reviewed in 2017.
Current fee levels are shown in the annual report on remuneration.
The Chair receives an annual fee.
Non-executive directors receive an annual base fee.
Additional annual fees are paid: to the Senior Independent Director which includes the fee for chairing a Board Committee other than the Audit Committee : to the Chair of the Audit Committee: to the Chair of the Remuneration Committee: and to the Chair of any other committee this is not paid to the Chair of the Nomination Committee if he or she is also the Chair of the Board.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any performance related remuneration arrangements.
Expenses Reasonable travel and accommodation expenses are reimbursed as applicable.
Non-executive directors do not receive any benefits in kind, nor are they eligible for any annual performance bonus, pension or any of the Groups share-based reward plans.
The Chairs notice period is six months whilst the other non-executive directors have a notice period of one month.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 89 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued Directors Remuneration Policy continued DIFFERENCES BETWEEN THE POLICY AND THE REMUNERATION OF EMPLOYEES GENERALLY The following differences apply between the remuneration of directors and the arrangements for the remuneration of employees generally: executive directors and a number of senior employees are eligible for PSP awards, although there are differences in terms of levels of grant: annual bonus levels vary across the workforce, but the requirement to defer a portion of annual bonus applies only to executive directors: employees in the collective bargaining unit have a contractual right to receive an annual bonus subject to Company performance and continued employment, whereas directors and all other UK-based employees participate in a discretionary bonus scheme: and in some cases hourly paid employees qualify for overtime payments.
CONTEXT Wider employee population In determining executive remuneration, the Committee also takes into account the level of general pay increases within the Group.
The Committees policy is that annual salary increases for executive directors should not exceed the average annual salary increase for the wider employee population unless there is a particular reason for a higher increase, such as a change in the nature or scope of responsibilities or if an executive director has been appointed at a salary below market level reflecting experience in the role.
The Committee has considered a number of comparison metrics when determining its approach to executive remuneration, including the ratio of Group Chief Executive to median employee pay.
Environmental, social and governance issues The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
Specific measures can be included in the balanced Group Scorecard.
The Committee is also able to consider these issues in determining whether to exercise its discretion to adjust the overall score, and in considering the performance conditions override under the PSP, as described on page 86.
90 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report on Remuneration The relevant sections of this report have been audited as required by the Regulations and, in accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 17 April 2019.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION FOR EACH DIRECTOR AUDITED INFORMATION The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration and the breakdown for each executive director for 2018, together with comparative earnings for 2017: Long Term 1 2 3 4 Salary Fees Other benefits Bonus Incentives Pension Other Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Name 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Will Gardiner 530 397 21 20 417 294 838 106 79 1,912 790 Andy Koss 327 316 19 19 242 234 147 65 63 6 806 632 Notes: 1 Other benefits include car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance, permanent health insurance and dependents pension.
2 B onus is the cash value of the annual bonus payable in respect of performance in the relevant year which is paid in March of the following year e. g. 2018 bonus is paid in March 2019, including the value of bonus deferred and paid in shares after three years subject only to continued service.
3 R epresents the value of BMP matching awards vesting in March 2019, together with the dividend shares in relation to those vested shares.
The value is calculated based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2018, which was 3.857.
4 Represents the value of the Sharesave Awards granted in 2018 based on the share price on grant 2.750 less the exercise price 2.105.
BASE SALARIES The base salaries of the executive directors as at 31 December 2018, together with comparative figures as at 31 December 2017, are shown in the following table: Base salary as at Base salary as at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Percentage 000 000 increase Will Gardiner 530 400 32.5% Andy Koss 330 318 3.8% The base salary for Andy Koss was reviewed with effect from 1 April 2018.
In line with policy, the salary was reviewed and increased by 3.8%.
This was aligned with the wider workforce increase of 3.8%.
Will Gardiners salary was increased to 530,000 as at 1 January 2018 on his appointment as Group CEO.
The figure shown for 2017 refers to his previous role of CFO.
ANNUAL FEES Fees at Fees at 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 Percentage 000 000 increase Chair 250 250 0% Non-Executive Director base fee 55 55 0% Senior Independent Director 10 10 0% Audit Committee Chair 10 10 0% Remuneration Committee Chair 10 10 0% 1 Nomination Committee Chair 7.5 7.5 0% Note: 1 This is not paid if the Chair of the Nomination Committee is also the Chair of the Board.
From 1 January 2019 David Nussbaum is donating his gross fees to charity.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 91 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued The table below Audited Information sets out the single figure of remuneration and breakdown for each non-executive director for 2018 together with comparative figures for 2017: Additional fee for Additional fee Senior Independent for chairing a Base fee Director committee Total 000 000 000 000 Philip Cox Chair of the Board and Chair of Nomination Committee 2018 250 250 2017 250 250 Tim Cobbold 2018 55 55 2017 55 55 David Lindsell Senior Independent Director and Chair of Audit Committee 2018 55 10 10 75 2017 55 10 10 75 David Nussbaum 2018 55 55 2017 23 23 1 Nicola Hodson 2018 53 53 2 Vanessa Simms 2018 29 29 Tony Thorne Chair of Remuneration Committee 2018 55 10 65 2017 55 10 65 Note: 1 Appointed 12 January 2018.
DETAILS OF PERFORMANCE AGAINST METRICS FOR VARIABLE PAY AWARDS Annual bonus plan outcome A summary of the Committees assessment in respect of the 2018 Group Scorecard is set out in the following table: Weighting Low target Target Stretch target Outturn Score Safety Total recordable injury rate 10% 0.27 0.22 0.15 0.22 1.0 Finance Group Adjusted EBITDA m 30% 229 251 289 250 1.0 Group net debt m 5% 422 400 362 319 2.0 Progress on delivering strategy Performance vs plan 10% Approaching Plan On Plan Ahead of Plan Ahead of Plan 1.3 Sustainability People, reputation & responsibility Performance vs plan 5% Approaching Plan On Plan Ahead of Plan Approaching Plan 0.9 Pellet Production 1 Fines at Disport % 7.5% 7.5% 6.5% 5.5% 8.0% 0.0 2 Cost of production $ GJ 7.5% 10.90 9.82 8.35 9.37 1.2 Power Generation 3 Biomass unit technical availability % 5% ND ND ND 90.7% 2.0 Value from Flexibility m 5% 63 78 93 79 1.0 B2B Energy Supply Cost to serve customers MPAN 5% ND ND ND ND 2.0 Quality of business MWh 5% ND ND ND ND 0.0 Growth in market share % 5% 0.6% 0.9% 1.2% 0.8% 0.8 Total weighting Score 100% 1.05 Notes: The targets were aligned with the Groups strategy and 2018 Business Plan and reviewed regularly by the Board as part of their ongoing scrutiny of business and executive performance.
It is considered that the disclosure of detailed performance against these metrics would be commercially sensitive.
It would therefore not be appropriate to disclose these figures.
2 E xcludes one off write offs and exceptional costs.
3 U nit 4 is not included, only Units 1-3 of our Biomass Generation facilities.
92 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Outlined below is a brief synopsis of the KPIs used and their strategic rationale: Group Safety is the first priority for the business.
The Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR is defined as the number of incidents per 100,000 hours worked.
We continue to target upper quartile safety performance.
Financial performance metrics for 2018 were based on underlying adjusted EBITDA, net debt and progress on delivering strategy.
The weighting given to adjusted EBITDA, at 30%, reflects the priority given to a strong Group financial performance.
Being a sustainable business means driving long-term, profitable growth while achieving a positive economic, social and environmental impact.
Ensuring that our staff are fully engaged and regard Drax as an employer they would recommend is an important part of this impact.
Pellet quality impacts both Drax Biomass and Drax Power.
The fines metric is used to drive pellet quality, from own supply, which in turn minimises downstream supply chain costs.
Developing strong in-house pellet supply capability, and lowering pellet production costs have a direct impact on gross margins available from Generation.
The value available to the Group from biomass generation is a key driver of gross margins.
Biomass unit technical availability reflects the value that can be derived from maximising biomass unit output.
The value from flexibility captures the value available from fully supporting the grid.
Further details of how these individual metrics support the business strategy and drive both shareholder value and performance can be found on pages 1 to 49.
The Committee made an in-depth review of the score for each of the performance measures, ensuring these were individually supportable, and then reviewed the overall outcome, to determine whether to exercise its discretion and adjust the final score.
Additional consideration of the appropriateness of the overall Group Scorecard result was also reviewed by the Committee.
The independently verified Total Recordable Injury Rate for the 2018 financial year was 0.22 which was on target and represented an improvement on the score for the 2017 financial year 0.27.
Adjusted EBITDA achieved for the 2018 financial year of 250 million, included the impact of the Governments suspension of Capacity Payments.
The Committee determined this qualified as in line with the target of 251 million.
Net debt at the year-end had reduced to 319 million against a stretch target of 362 million, reflecting managements strong focus in this area for further information, see page 40 of the Group Financial Review.
In respect of delivery of strategy, separate objectives were set addressing a combination of operational efficiency, cost reduction and transitioning to new technology platforms, each of which are important drivers for future development and which contain commercially sensitive information.
The Committee set thresholds at the beginning of the financial year and after considering the performance against each objective, the Committee determined an outcome of 1.3.
In the three areas shown in the table, the Committee set specific objectives which constituted part of the Groups 2018 sustainability plan.
In determining performance, the Committee reviewed quantitative outcomes, for example analysis included assessment prepared by an external agency tracking reputation.
The quantitative outcome for the year was below target at 0.9.
In reviewing this outcome the Committee decided, that despite progress in this important area over the year, it would not adjust the score.
Fines a measure of wood pellet quality and cost of production are key measures for assessing operational efficiency.
Fines failed to achieve the minimum threshold whilst cost of production was scored at 1.2.
Further information can be found on page 7 of the CEO report.
Biomass technical availability defined on page 192 is a key metric relating to our ability to operate when needed and is considered by the Board regularly as part of overall operational performance.
The Committee considered performance to have exceeded target.
Value from flexibility is used by management to assess Draxs support to balancing the electricity grid.
The Committee determined that performance was on target.
Each of the three targets adopted by the Committee are used by management and reported to the Board as part of tracking business performance.
Quality of business was below the minimum threshold.
Growth in market share satisfied the low threshold whilst cost to serve customers was judged to have satisfied the stretch target.
Further information on each target can be found on page 8 of the CEO report.
The Committee approved the Group Scorecard result for 2018 at its meeting on 20 February 2019, subject to the final approval of the financial results and annual report and accounts by the Directors on 25 February 2019.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 93 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued BONUS EARNED FOR 2018 The resulting bonus outcomes as a percentage of base salary were: Bonus earned for CEO Bonus earned for other executive directors Target bonus Corporate score Target bonus Corporate score X X 75% 1.05 70% 1.05 The table below sets out the bonuses earned and the split between cash and deferred elements.
Of which Of which deferred paid in cash into shares 2018 bonus Bonus earned 65% of bonus 35% of bonus Executive director as % base salary 000 000 000 Will Gardiner, Chief Executive Officer 79% 417 271 146 Andy Koss, Chief Executive, Drax Power 74% 242 158 84 No discretion was exercised by the Committee in determining the bonus outcome.
DETAIL OF BMP INCENTIVE OUTCOMES AUDITED INFORMATION The vesting outcome for matching awards granted in 2016 under the BMP, which were subject to performance conditions and will vest in 2019, are provided in the tables below.
Performance for Performance Proportion threshold vesting for maximum Performance measure of award 15% vesting Actual performance Vesting Relative TSR vs FTSE 51150 50% Median Upper Rank of 26 out of 90 44.75% constituents quartile 89.50% Average Corporate Score 50% Average Average Scores of 1.30, 0.84 and 1.05 12.88% for 2016, 2017 and 2018 score of 1 score of 1.5 Average of 1.06 25.76% 57.63% No discretion was exercised by the Committee in determining the BMP outcome.
The table provides the resulting awards due to vest based on this vesting result.
Value based on average share price in last Dividend Total shares quarter of 2018 3.857 Executive director Awards granted Awards vesting shares earned due to vest 000 Will Gardiner, Chief Executive Officer 353,504 203,724 13,487 217,211 838 Andy Koss, Chief Executive, Drax Power 61,999 35,729 2,361 38,090 147 PSP AWARDS GRANTED DURING 2018 AUDITED INFORMATION The table below shows the conditional awards granted under the PSP to executive directors on 5 March 2018.
Face value of Award as % Number of Awards 1 Executive director of salary shares granted Will Gardiner 175% 363,725 927,500 Andy Koss 175% 218,063 556,063 Note: 1 T he number of shares awarded was based on the average share price in the three day period prior to grant, which was 255.2 pence.
In accordance with the PSP rules, dividend shares are awarded at the time and in the event that awards actually vest.
No dividend shares are awarded where the initial awards lapse.
94 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The performance conditions that apply to the PSP awards granted in 2018 are set out below.
Performance Vesting at for 50% vesting Proportion Performance for threshold Corporate Performance for Performance measure of award threshold vesting performance Scorecard only maximum vesting Relative TSR vs FTSE 350 constituents 50% Median 25% Upper quartile Average Corporate Score 50% Average 0% Average Average score of 0.75 score of 1 score of 1.5 Straight line vesting occurs between performance levels for both conditions.
Performance for both conditions is measured over three financial years to 31 December 2020.
DSP DEFERRED AWARDS GRANTED DURING 2018 AUDITED INFORMATION The table below shows the deferred share awards granted under the DSP to executive directors on 5 March 2018 in respect of bonus earned for performance in 2017.
Awards will vest after three years subject to continued service only.
Value of deferred bonus Number of 1 Executive director shares granted Will Gardiner 102,836 40,327 Andy Koss 81,741 32,055 Note: 1 T he number of shares awarded was based on the average share price in the three day period prior to grant, which was 255 pence.
In accordance with the DSP rules, dividends in respect of the deferred shares are reinvested in additional shares, which vest when the deferred shares vest.
SHARESAVE AWARDS GRANTED DURING 2018 A total of 8,551 Sharesave awards were granted to Andy Koss on 28 March 2018.
The exercise price was 210.5 pence which represents a 20% discount to the prevailing share price at the time of offer.
The face value of the awards was 23,515 which is based on the share price of 275 pence on 28 March 2018.
The awards will vest after three years subject to continued service only.
TOTAL PENSION ENTITLEMENTS FOR DEFINED CONTRIBUTION SCHEMES AUDITED INFORMATION Executive directors are entitled to non-contributory membership of the Groups defined contribution pension plan, with either an employer contribution of up to 20% of base salary, or contributions to a personal pension, or cash in lieu of pension, or a combination of any of these up to a maximum contribution of up to 20% of base salary.
No director was a member of the defined benefit pension scheme.
In line with the broader Group-wide review of colleague benefits, the current arrangements afforded to Executive Directors will be reviewed during 2019.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS AUDITED INFORMATION Dorothy Thompson stood down as an executive director of the Group with effect from 31 December 2017.
Pursuant to the terms of her service agreement, and reflecting an adjustment in respect of the final instalment following the exercise of discretion by the Committee, payments were made to Dorothy in January 2018 278,963 : June 2018 139,482 : and September 2018 78,861.
These were in respect of pay and contractual benefits for the period of unworked notice.
The payments are in addition to any payments relating to the vesting of Drax long-term incentive awards granted prior to her final date of employment.
In addition with the exception of the final instalment, the payments are in accordance with the arrangements noted in the 2017 Annual Report.
As noted on page 78, adjustments were made to the final values which were in line with the terms of Dorothys service agreement and verified by external advisers.
No separate payments were made in respect of Dorothys termination arrangements.
As reported in the 2017 Remuneration Report, Dorothy is entitled to pro-rata vesting of BMP and PSP Awards made in 2016 and 2017.
A total of 95,417 shares, including dividend shares, are due to vest in March 2019 in respect of the BMP Awards made in 2016, based on the resulting vesting of 57.63%.
Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 95 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED INFORMATION The shareholding guidelines require executive directors who receive shares by virtue of share plan awards, or who receive deferred bonus shares under the cash bonus plan, to retain 50% of the shares received net i. e. after income tax and national insurance contributions until the value held is equal to at least 200% of salary.
As at 31 December 2018, the shareholding guidelines had not been met, as detailed in the table below: DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES Number Value at Shareholding as a Shareholding 1 Name of shares year end percentage of salary guideline Will Gardiner 144,488 518,712 98% 200% Andy Koss 57,746 207,308 63% 200% 1 Based on the mid market quotation on 31 December 2018 of 3.59.
There are no awards remain vested but unexercised.
1 The vesting date shown reflects the three year anniversary but the Committee reserves the right to change the vesting date by a period not exceeding 30 days.
2 Based on the mid market quotation on 31 December 2018 of 3.59.
There is no shareholding requirement for non-executive directors.
The table below shows the shareholdings of the non-executive directors and their connected persons and the value as at 31 December 2018, when the share price was 359 pence per share.
Number Value at of shares year end Tim Cobbold 1,000 3,590 Philip Cox 60,000 215,400 Nicola Hodson nil David Lindsell 7,500 26,925 David Nussbaum nil Vanessa Simms nil Tony Thorne 7,500 26,925 As at the date hereof there have been no changes to the shareholdings or share interests since 31 December 2018.
96 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SERVICE AGREEMENTS The following table shows, for each director of the Company at 25 February 2019, or those who served as a director of the Company at any time during the year ended 31 December 2018, the start date and term of the service agreement or contract for services, and details of the notice periods.
Unexpired term Notice period by Notice period at the date of the Company by the director Director Contract start date Contract term years publication months months Tim Cobbold 27 September 2016 3 years 7 months 1 1 Philip Cox 1 January 2018 3 years 1 year and 10 months 6 6 Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 3 years 1 year and 10 months 1 1 Andy Koss 1 January 2016 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 David Lindsell 1 December 2017 17 months 1 month 1 1 David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 3 years 1 year and 6 months 1 1 Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 3 years 2 years and 4 months 1 1 Andy Skelton 2 January 2019 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Tony Thorne 29 June 2016 3 years 4 months 1 1 DRAX TEN-YEAR TSR DATA TO 31 DECEMBER 2018 The graph below shows how the value of 100 invested in both the Company and the FTSE 350 Index on 31 December 2008 has changed.
This index has been chosen as a suitable broad comparator against which the Companys shareholders may judge their relative returns given that, in recent years, the Company has been a member of the FTSE 350 Index.
The graph reflects the TSR determined according to usual market practice for the Company and the index referred to on a cumulative basis over the period from 31 December 2008 to 31 December 2018.
300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 18 Drax FTSE 350 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS PAY IN LAST TEN FINANCIAL YEARS Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Chief Executives total single figure 000 903 1,155 1,196 1,406 3,360 1,854 1,248 1,581 1,236 1,912 Bonus % of maximum awarded 77% 100% 100% 100% 100% 73% 46% 88% 53% 53% BMP Matching Award % of maximum vesting 40.52% 21.66% 15.43% 0% 57.63% Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 97 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REMUNERATION COMPARED WITH THE WIDER EMPLOYEE POPULATION The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group CEOs salary, benefits and bonus between 2017 and 2018 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for a group of employees.
The Committee has selected all Group employees below executive director level based in the UK, as these are the vast majority of Group employees and provide the most appropriate comparator.
Bonus Salary Taxable benefits 000 Percentage Percentage increase increase 2017 2018 % increase 1 Chief Executive Will Gardiner 2018 Dorothy Thompson 2017 -9.4% -70.0% 463.3 417.4 -9.9% Average for UK employees 3.8% 2.75% 4.3 4.0 -7.0% Note: 1 B ecause of the change in CEO with effect from 1 January 2018, the figures above note the change in remuneration between the outgoing and incoming CEO although, as a consequence, do not reflect a like for like comparison.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared to other disbursements from profit, namely distributions to shareholders and capital expenditure.
These were the most significant outgoings from the Company in the last financial year, other than normal operating costs.
STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2019 The remuneration policy was implemented following its approval by shareholders at the AGM in April 2018.
The Committee will review salaries in accordance with the Policy and will take account of the increase in base pay of the collective bargaining group and other salary reviews in the Group.
98 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information GROUP SCORECARD The Group Scorecard measures and targets for 2019 have been established for the Group and for each Group business.
Details of performance against the measures will be disclosed in the 2019 Annual Report on Remuneration so far as possible, whilst maintaining commercial confidentiality.
The following table sets out the categories and a description of the measures.
Target Reason for use GROUP Safety TRIR The same basis for assessing performance as in previous years, focused on reducing the number of safety-related incidents.
Finance & strategy Group Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is our principle financial metric, combining the underlying performance of each business including the acquired ScottishPower assets to give a Group outcome.
The targets assume that the Government resumes capacity payments in full, within the year.
In the event it did not, the Remuneration Committee will determine the appropriate adjustment to the targets.
Average Net Debt A structural reduction in debt is a key objective for the Group with progress assessed against average net debt targets.
Progress on This element will assess progress in the integration of the acquired ScottishPower assets, comparing delivering strategy actual performance against the acquisition case approved by the Board.
Sustainability People, reputation Sustainability is assessed under the three elements of people, reputation and the sustainability & responsibility of our biomass fuel combining performance against three KPIs into a single score.
Pellet Production KPI Fines at disport Our focus remains on improving the quality of biomass pellets, measured as the percentage of fines dust in each shipment unloaded at UK ports.
Cost of production Reducing the cost of biomass production will make a positive contribution to the Groups financial performance in the medium term and beyond 2027.
Power Generation KPI Commercial availability Availability of our generating assets is a key determinant of our ability to deliver earnings.
Value from flexibility Financial value is created by providing flexible support services to the UK electricity grid.
B2B Energy Supply KPI Cost to serve customers By reducing cost to serve we increase the efficiency and effectiveness of our energy supply operations.
Value created as gross margin Gross margin is the key driver of value for our energy supply business.
SMART meter installation By increasing the volume of smart meters installed, we expect to increase profit and to meet regulatory requirements.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES Non-executive directors fees will be reviewed by the Chair and executive directors in November 2019.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING The table below shows the voting outcome for the remuneration policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration at the AGM on 25 April 2018.
For Against Total Votes withheld Name Shares % Shares % Shares % Shares Approval of the directors 343,764,260 93.62 23,420,963 6.38 367,185,223 100 5,601 remuneration policy Approval of the annual report on remuneration 336,956,748 92.40 27,713,350 7.60 364,670,098 100 2,520,725 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018 99 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT continued COMMITTEE ACTIVITY AND KEY DECISIONS IN 2018 Matters considered and decisions reached by the Committee in 2018 are shown in the table below: Considered the 2017 balanced Group Scorecard and decided not to exercise its discretion to adjust the score.
Adopted the 2018 Group Scorecard for the purpose of determining relevant aspects of 2018 remuneration.
Approved executive director and senior staff personal scores and annual bonus awards for 2017.
Approved the vesting of the 2015 BMP awards.
Considered and approved the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration.
Approved the operation of the all-employee Sharesave Share Plan in 2018.
Approved the Deferred Share Plan and Performance Share Plan awards for 2018.
Approved the Performance Share Plan awards for 2018 for senior management below Board.
Reviewed 2017 Gender Pay Gap reporting.
Approved the proposed remuneration package for the Chief Financial Officer.
Noted the bonus awards to senior management below Executive Committee member level.
Approved a proposal for members of the Executive Committee and senior staff salary review.
Received an update on shareholder engagement.
Agreed the revised termination payment for the former CEO, Dorothy Thompson.
Approved the remuneration package for the new Chief Transformation Officer.
Received an update from the Group People Director on pay and benefits in the wider workforce.
Reviewed the fees paid to  LLP PwC as, the Committees remuneration adviser, together with fees paid by the Group to PwC for other matters, and reviewed PwCs independence.
Reviewed fees for the Chair and Non Executive Directors.
Approved in principle the operation of share plans in 2019.
Reviewed year to date progress on the 2018 scorecard and likely impact on remuneration outcomes for Executive Directors and wider workforce bonus and LTIP.
In 2018, the members of the Remuneration Committee were Tony Thorne, Chair of the Committee: Tim Cobbold: Philip Cox: David Lindsell: and David Nussbaum, Nicola Hudson from January 2019 and Vanessa Simms from June 2018, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Group Company Secretary was Secretary to the Committee.
The Group CEO was invited to attend meetings of the Committee, except when his own remuneration was discussed.
ADVISER TO THE COMMITTEE The adviser to the Committee for the year was PwC.
PwC is an independent adviser appointed by the Committee in October 2010, following a competitive tender process, to advise on market practice and remuneration of executive and non-executive directors.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to its Code of Conduct.
In addition, the Committee has satisfied itself that the advice it receives is objective and independent as PwC has confirmed there are no conflicts of interest.
From time to time the Group engages PwC to provide financial, taxation and related advice on specific matters.
The Committee will continue to monitor such engagements in order to be satisfied that they do not affect PwCs independence as an adviser to the Committee.
PwC was paid 100,300 during 2018 in respect of advice given to the Committee.
The Committee also considers the views of the Group Chief Executive regarding the performance and remuneration of the other executive directors and senior staff.
During 2018, the Committee has also been advised by the Group Company Secretary and, Group People Director.
OTHER MATTERS Remuneration received from external appointments No remuneration was received by the executive directors for service as a non-executive director elsewhere.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Tony Thorne Chair of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2019 100 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2018
