Remuneration Report How Our Policy is linked to Our Strategy GROUP STRATEGY DELIVER SHAREHOLDER VALUE THROUGH LONG TERM, SUSTAINABLE, PROFITABLE GROWTH REMUNERATION STRATEGY REMUNERATION STRUCTURE z Pay fairly for an individuals role and responsibilities z Base pay and benefits at median or below z Reward strong performance z Annual bonus at median z Focus on long term value creation z Long Term Incentive Plan at upper quartile z Align Executives with shareholders through z Two thirds of variable pay retained in shares for share ownership duration of employment and half of these for a further two years Our binding Remuneration Policy was last updated in 2017, and approved by shareholders at the AGM on 21 November 2017 with 99.4% of votes in favour of it.
The principles behind, and the reasons for, the overall remuneration structure that we have adopted for our Executive Directors are directly related to our long term strategic goal of delivering shareholder value through the profitable growth of a quality business.
Since the flotation of the Company our Executive remuneration has been structured specifically: z To pay fairly and appropriately for an individuals role and responsibilities z To reward strong performance z To be focused on long term value creation z To align Executives strongly with shareholders through share ownership The majority of the Executive Directors potential remuneration is variable and performance-related in order to encourage and reward superior business performance and shareholder return.
Discretion is allowed in certain circumstances to ensure rewards are appropriate and overall levels of pay are analysed carefully each year.
This is consistent with the creation of long term, sustainable growth in shareholder value through delivery of the objectives set out in our corporate strategy, which are all long term in nature: namely to become the customers number one choice for helping consumers create homes they love: famous for style, value and quality, and the best multichannel retailer in terms of convenience and customer experience.
Our approach is also in keeping with the family origin of the business, and is important to the Adderley family who remain our majority shareholders.
It is our intention to maintain a simple and transparent remuneration structure for the benefit of all parties.
com Stock code: DNLM 70 Governance The Annual Report on Implementation sets out how the Introduction policies approved in November 2014, 2015 and 2017 have This Directors Remuneration Report is divided into three been applied during the financial year being reported on sections: the Letter from the Chair of the Remuneration and how policy will be applied in the coming year.
This Committee, set out on page 68 to 69: the Policy Report: and report will be put to shareholders for approval at the Annual the Annual Report on Implementation.
General Meeting in November 2018, although the vote on the implementation report is advisory.
The Policy Report sets out the 2017 Remuneration Policy which has been in force since 21 November 2017, when it was This report complies with the provisions of the Companies approved by shareholders at the AGM with a vote of 99.4% Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized in favour of it.
No changes to our Policy are being put forward Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations this year.
2013 as amended, as well as the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Policy Report Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 The policy set out below the 2017 Policy is the policy approved by shareholders at the AGM on 21 November 2017, and applied from that date.
The information contained in this report is unaudited unless specifically stated as being audited.
Future policy table The following table sets out the structure of remuneration for Directors of the Company.
Executive Directors BASE SALARY Purpose and link to z Fixed remuneration for the role strategic objectives z To attract and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy z Reflects the size and scope of the Executive Directors responsibilities Operation z Normally paid monthly z Base level set in the context of: Pay for similar roles in companies of similar size and complexity in the relevant market Scale and complexity of the role z Should comprise a minority of potential remuneration Maximum z Reviewed annually, with percentage increases in line with the Company-wide review unless other opportunity circumstances apply, such as: A significant change in the size, scale or complexity of the role or of the Companys business Development and performance in role for example on a new appointment base salary might be initially set at a lower level with the intention of increasing over time z The Committee does not consider it to be appropriate to set a monetary limit on the maximum base salary that may be paid to an Executive Director within the terms of this policy Performance z None, although performance of the individual is considered at the annual salary review metrics z No recovery provisions apply to base salary DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 71 Remuneration Report CONTINUED RETIREMENT BENEFITS Purpose and link to z To provide a competitive post-retirement benefit strategic objectives z To attract and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy Operation z Contribution equivalent to a percentage of base salary made to a defined contribution plan or paid as a cash allowance Maximum z Up to 15% of base salary for Executive Directors appointed from November 2017 onwards.
For opportunity Executive Directors appointed prior to that the maximum is 20% of base salary.
No element other than base salary is pensionable Performance z None metrics z No recovery provisions apply to retirement benefits BENEFITS Purpose and link to z To provide a competitive benefits package strategic objectives z To attract and retain the high-calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the business strategy Operation z A range of benefits are provided, which may include car or car allowance: private health insurance for the individual and their family: permanent health cover: life assurance: mobile phone: use of a car and driver in connection with the role: colleague discount z Additional benefits, such as relocation expenses, housing allowance and school fees may also be provided in certain circumstances if considered reasonable and appropriate by the Committee z For non-UK Executives none at present the Committee may consider additional allowances in accordance with standard practice Maximum z Current benefits provided are described in the Annual Report on Implementation on page 83. opportunity z The Committee reserves the right to provide such benefits as it considers necessary to support the strategy of the Company z The Committee does not consider it to be appropriate to set a maximum cost to the Company of benefits to be paid Performance z None metrics z No recovery provisions apply to benefits corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 72 Governance ANNUAL BONUS AWARDS TO BE MADE TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OTHER THAN WILL ADDERLEY, WHO HAS REQUESTED THAT HE NOT BE CONSIDERED FOR ANNUAL BONUS.
Purpose and link to z Rewards and incentivises delivery of annual financial, strategic and personal targets strategic objectives Operation z Paid in cash, after the results for the financial year have been audited, subject to performance targets having been met z Two-thirds of bonus earned must be invested in Dunelm shares after tax and National Insurance obligations have been met Maximum z Maximum opportunity 125% of base salary per annum opportunity z For on-target performance 40% of maximum opportunity z For threshold performance 5% of maximum opportunity Performance z Stretching performance targets are set each year.
Performance targets for the Executive metrics Directors are typically based on financial and strategic objectives set by the Remuneration Committee annually z Financial objectives include, but are not limited to, budgeted PBT for the financial year taking into account market consensus and individual broker expectations z The strategic objectives will vary depending on the specific business priorities in a particular year z Typically, the majority of the annual bonus for Executives is subject to financial objectives z Awards are subject to recovery provisions malus at the discretion of the Committee if there has been a misstatement of results for the year in respect of which the bonus is paid, or if there has been an error in calculating performance, or in the case of gross misconduct z The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to claw back the bonus up to three years after payment in the above circumstances and in cases of fraud, the Committee can apply malus and clawback for an unlimited period of time DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 73 Remuneration Report CONTINUED LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS TO BE MADE TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OTHER THAN WILL ADDERLEY, WHO HAS REQUESTED THAT HE NOT BE CONSIDERED FOR LTIP AWARDS.
Purpose and link to z Supports delivery of strategy by targeting EPS growth, which the Committee believes to be strategic objectives closely aligned to the drivers of growth in the business over the long term z Rewards strong financial performance and sustained increase in shareholder value over the long term z Aligns with shareholder interests through the delivery of shares, the majority of which after payment of tax liabilities are retained Operation z Conditional awards are made annually which can take the form of a conditional award, nil-cost option or nominal value option, with vesting subject to performance over three financial years z Two-thirds of all shares vesting must be retained by the Executive after sale of shares to meet tax and National Insurance obligations Maximum z For awards to be made in respect of the FY18FY20 performance period, the maximum annual opportunity award is 110,000 shares for the Chief Executive Officer and 60,000 shares for the Chief Financial Officer, subject in either case to such adjustment as the Committee determines to take account of any variation in the Companys share capital z For awards to be made in respect of the FY19FY21 performance period and awards to be made in future years, the maximum annual award for Executive Directors is shares with a value up to 200% of salary, calculated by reference to the market price of Dunelm shares on the date preceding the date of grant z For threshold performance: 10% of the award will vest z For maximum performance: 100% of the award will vest z Straight-line vesting between the threshold and maximum levels will apply for performance between threshold and maximum points z Dividend accruals may be made in respect of special dividends paid during the performance period applicable to an award and up to the vesting date.
Payment would only be made in respect of shares vesting after applying performance criteria.
This will apply to all awards vesting after the 2017 Policy comes into effect Performance z Growth in fully diluted EPS over the three year performance period compared with growth in the metrics index of retail prices RPI over the same period z The Remuneration Committee considers the target annually taking into account market consensus and individual broker expectations z For information, the target applicable to awards to be made are: No part of the award will vest until compound annual EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 3% For awards to be made in respect of the FY18FY20 performance period, 10% of the award vests at compound annual EPS growth in excess of RPI plus 3%.
100% of the award vests at compound annual EPS growth in excess of RPI plus 15% For awards to be made in respect of the FY19FY21 performance period, and for awards made in future years, 10% of the award vests at compound annual EPS growth in excess of RPI plus 3%.
100% of the award vests at compound annual EPS growth in excess of RPI plus 12% Between those figures the award will vest on a straight-line basis z Awards are subject to recovery provisions malus at the discretion of the Committee if there has been a misstatement of results for the performance period to which the award relates, or if there has been an error in calculating performance or in the case of gross misconduct z The Remuneration Committee also has the discretion to claw back vested awards for up to three years from vesting in these circumstances and in cases of fraud, the Committee can apply malus and clawback for an unlimited period of time corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 74 Governance LIFETIME LOCK-IN AND PERSONAL SHAREHOLDING TARGETS Purpose and link to z Aligns with shareholder interests through shareholding and promotes long term thinking strategic objectives Operation z Executive Directors are required to build a beneficial holding of shares equal to 100% of salary after three years and 200% of salary after five years from appointment z A personal investment in Dunelm shares should be made on appointment as an Executive Director subject to closed periods z Two-thirds of amounts earned under the annual bonus and the LTIP after payment of tax and National Insurance must be retained in Dunelm shares z These shares must be held during employment and at least 50% of them retained for at least two years after employment ends z The Remuneration Committee retains the right to waive this requirement in exceptional circumstances, such as death, divorce, ill health or severe financial hardship Maximum z Not applicable opportunity Performance z Not applicable metrics ALL EMPLOYEE SHARE PLAN SHARESAVE Purpose and link to z Promotes share ownership by all eligible colleagues including Executive Directors strategic objectives Operation z All UK employees with a minimum service requirement are eligible to join the UK tax approved Dunelm Group Savings Related Share Option Plan the Sharesave z Monthly savings are made over a period of three years linked to the grant of an option over Dunelm shares at a discount of up to 20% of the market price or such other amount as permitted by law at the date of invitation to join the plan z Invitations are normally issued annually at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, which also has discretion to set the minimum service requirement, maximum discount, maximum monthly savings and any other limits such as scaling back within the terms of the scheme rules Maximum z Maximum participation limits are set by the UK tax authorities.
Currently the maximum limit is opportunity savings of 500 per month Performance z None metrics DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 75 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Non-Executive Directors FEES Purpose and link to z To attract and retain a high calibre Chairman and Non-Executive Directors by offering competitive strategic objectives fee levels Operation z Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
No Director participates in any decision relating to his or her own remuneration z The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities z The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee, with supplemental fees for additional Board responsibilities z The level of fee reflects the size and complexity of the role and the time commitment z Fees are reviewed annually and increased in line with the Company-wide increase.
In addition, there will be a periodic review against market rates and taking into account time commitment and any change in size, scale or complexity of the business z Flexibility is retained to increase fee levels in certain circumstances, for example, if required to recruit a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director of the appropriate calibre z With the exception of colleague discount, no benefits are paid to the Chairman or the NonExecutive Directors, and they do not participate in any incentive scheme Maximum z Maximum fees to be paid by way of fees to the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the opportunity Companys Articles of Association z Fees paid to each Director are disclosed in the Annual Report on Implementation Performance z None metrics The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration Performance measures and how payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding targets are set that they are not in line with the policy, where the terms of the The Remuneration Committee selects performance measures payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or that it believes are: ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director z Aligned with the Groups strategic goals of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming z Unambiguous and easy to calculate a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments z Transparent to Directors and shareholders includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable Annual bonus remuneration, and in relation to an award over shares, the terms of payment are agreed at the time the award is For the financial year 2018 19, 80% of the annual bonus is granted.
This includes the satisfaction of the Joining Award linked to PBT and 20% to personal and strategic objectives.
granted to Keith Down on 7 December 2015 to compensate Each Directors annual bonus is therefore linked primarily to him for deferred shares earned with his previous employer delivery of Group financial performance, but also to personal which were forfeited when he resigned.
performance and contribution to the strategic progress of the Group.
The PBT target is set by the Remuneration The Committee may also make minor changes to this policy Committee each year, taking into account market consensus which do not have a material advantage to Directors, to aid and broker expectations.
Personal and strategic objectives its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder are set at the commencement of the year and assessed by the approval, but taking into account the interests Remuneration Committee.
com Stock code: DNLM 76 Governance The Committee reserves the right to adjust the financial Illustrative performance scenarios performance target or change the performance condition The following graphs set out what Will Adderley and Nick if justified by the circumstances, for example if there was a Wilkinson, the Executive Directors in office at the date of this major capital transaction.
report, could earn in the financial year 2018 19 under the following scenarios: For future years, the Committee will determine the financial measures and the weighting of financial and non-financial measures based on specific business priorities in a particular year.
Nick Wilkinson Will Adderley LTIP 2,595k The EPS target for the LTIP is based on growth in fully diluted EPS compared to the increase in the Index of Retail Prices 47% RPI over each performance period.
The targets that apply to 1,668k awards are set out in the Policy table on page 74.
41% The Remuneration Committee considered the use of EPS 28% as a performance measure carefully when the Company 18% 676k was floated in 2006, and has discussed it with shareholders 440k regularly.
EPS is believed to be closely aligned to the 100% 41% 26% drivers of growth for the business and in the long term, EPS 21k 21k 21k performance is expected to be reflected in shareholder Minimum Minimum In line with In line with Maximum Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum value.
EPS is a more suitable performance measure for expectations expectations expectations Dunelm than for many other companies and it is therefore LTIP Annual bonus Fixed pay considered appropriate to use it as a single measure for the LTIP.
The use of EPS as a primary measure for Dunelms LTIP is considered appropriate because of the low level of leverage in the business and because the capital expenditure controls The following assumptions have been made in respect of the exercised by the Board are sufficiently rigorous to avoid EPS scenarios above: accretion by means of ineffective investment of capital.
Minimum performance below threshold Fixed pay comprising base salary, benefits and pension only with no The number of shares comprised in an award or the vesting under the annual cash bonus or LTIP see table below.
performance target which applies may be adjusted by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with the plan rules Pension if justified by the circumstances, for example, if there were a Base Benefits 10% of major capital transaction.
Any amendment and the reason for last known as in single last known salary figure table salary it would be fully disclosed.
A copy of the plan rules is available 000 000 000 from the Company Secretary on request.
Will Adderley 21 1 Nick Wilkinson 591 31 54 1 10% of salary reflecting pension provision for 2018 19 DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 77 Total remuneration '000 Total remuneration '000 Remuneration Report CONTINUED In line with expectations Fixed pay plus annual cash bonus Clawback may be operated at the discretion of the at on-target performance of 40% of maximum opportunity Remuneration Committee against all variable awards in the i. e. 50% of salary and vesting of 59% of the award of shares above circumstances, for up to three years from payment or under the LTIP.
vesting as appropriate: and in cases of fraud the Committee can apply malus and clawback for an unlimited period of time.
Maximum performance Fixed pay plus 100% of maximum annual bonus opportunity i. e. 125% of salary and 100% of In recent years, it has become best practice for malus and shares vesting under the LTIP.
clawback to apply in a wider set of circumstances.
Therefore, in respect of bonus and LTIP awards made from the date of Please note that two-thirds of performance pay earned by this report onwards, the Remuneration Committee will have Nick Wilkinson after payment of tax and National Insurance discretion to apply malus and clawback as stated above in the liability must be invested in Dunelm shares pursuant to the following circumstances: Lifetime Lock-in.
z a material misstatement of any Group companys Will Adderley has requested that his annual salary be financial results: maintained at 1 per annum, and he has waived his z a material error in assessing a performance condition entitlement to receive an LTIP award.
applicable to the award or in the information or assumptions on which the award was granted or vests: It should be noted that the illustrative performance number is likely to be different to the actual pay that is earned by Nick z a material failure of risk management in any Group Wilkinson during the year: company or a relevant business unit z Actual pay will reflect Company and personal performance z serious reputational damage to any Group company or over the relevant performance period a relevant business unit z We are required to show the value of the LTIP awards that z serious misconduct or material error on the part of are expected to be made in the year, not those which will the Participant actually vest.
This valuation is based on the expected face z a material corporate failure as determined by the Board: or value at the date of grant without making any assumptions z any other circumstances which the Committee in its for share price growth, and assuming that the award vests discretion considers to be similar in their nature or effect to in full at the end of the three year performance period.
The those set out above value of the LTIP award to be made is based on the grant to Nick Wilkinson of an award over shares to the value of Salary, pension, benefits and Sharesave options are not 200% of salary subject to recovery.
z No adjustment is made for payment of special dividend Service contracts and loss equivalents as the level of these cannot be determined at the date of this report of office payments All of the Executive Directors have service contracts.
The Recovery notice period for termination for Will Adderley is 12 months There is provision for recovery of variable pay, as highlighted from either party, and for Nick Wilkinson and Laura Carr when in the policy table.
she joins is six months from either party.
If the Company terminates the employment of the Executive Director it For bonus and LTIP awards made prior to the date of this would honour its contractual commitment.
Any payment of report, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, salary on termination is contractually restricted to a maximum recovery malus may be made against any unpaid cash bonus of the value of salary plus benefits for the notice period.
If or unvested LTIP options in the following circumstances: termination was with immediate effect, a payment in lieu of z performance to which a bonus or LTIP award relates notice may be made.
The Remuneration Committee may proves to have been misstated or apply mitigation in respect of any termination payment.
z there has been a miscalculation in the extent to which The Remuneration Committee has discretion to make a performance conditions have been met in respect of payment in respect of annual bonus, provided that it is proprevious awards made to the individual that have vested rated to service.
and been exercised or z there has been gross misconduct on the part of the individual corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 78 Governance The limited circumstances in which unexercised LTIP Committee would only use this discretion in exceptional awards might be exercised following termination of an circumstances such as death or ill health retirement, or Executive Directors service contract are set out below.
If at its discretion for a good leaver the Remuneration Committee exercises its discretion to z If early exercise is permitted, the Remuneration allow exercise of an unvested LTIP award, it may make a Committee may apply an adjustment to take into cash payment in lieu of the anticipated value of the award, account the amount of time that has elapsed through calculated at the date of the payment taking into account the performance period and the extent to which any prorating of the award and the extent to which performance performance criteria have been met criteria may apply, as appropriate.
In all cases, unexercised LTIP awards would be subject to Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The recovery malus in the relevant circumstances.
In respect of term is for an initial period of three years with a provision for LTIP awards made after 1 July 2014, clawback may also apply termination on one months notice from either party, or three to vested awards.
months notice from either party in the case of Andy Harrison, Sharesave the Chairman.
Letters are renewed for up to two additional If a participant leaves the Group, options granted under the three year terms, and then renewed annually.
The letter of Sharesave will normally lapse, but may be exercised within appointment will terminate without compensation if the six months from the cessation of employment due to injury, Director is not reappointed at the AGM.
disability, retirement, or redundancy or 12 months in the The Directors service contracts and letters of appointment case of death, or the employing company leaving the Group are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys or, provided that the option has been held for at least three registered office.
years, cessation for any other reason apart from dismissal by the Company.
Exercise of LTIP and Sharesave options following termination of employment Change of control and other LTIP corporate events If a participant leaves the employment of the Group, the LTIP following provisions apply to options granted under the LTIP: The following provisions apply to awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan in accordance with the Plan rules if z Options that have vested but have not yet been exercised there is a change of control or winding up of the Company: may be exercised within six months of cessation of employment 12 months in the case of death z Any vested but unexercised options may be exercised z Except in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct, z Any options in respect of which the performance period options which have not yet vested, but where the has elapsed and to which the performance condition has performance period has elapsed for example if been applied will vest and may be exercised cessation of employment occurs during the deferral z Any options in respect of which the performance period period applicable to LTIP options granted to David Stead has not elapsed may be exercised at the discretion of the former Finance Director from 2013 onwards, may be Remuneration Committee, subject to any adjustment to exercised within six months of the relevant vesting date take into account the amount of time that has elapsed or 12 months in the case of death, to the extent that the through the performance period and the extent to which performance condition has been met.
The Remuneration any performance criteria have been met Committee has discretion to allow earlier exercise but z The Executive Director may agree that his or her awards would only use this in exceptional circumstances such are rolled over into shares of the acquiring company as as death or ill health retirement, or at its discretion for a an alternative good leaver If the Company has been or will be affected by any demerger, z If the participant leaves the Group before an option dividend in specie, special dividend or other transaction has vested and before the performance period has which will adversely affect the current or future value of any elapsed, the option will usually lapse.
Except in the case awards under the LTIP, the Plan rules allow the Remuneration of dismissal for gross misconduct, the Remuneration Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, to determine the Committee has the discretion to allow the exercise extent to which any awards should vest and the period within of options for which the performance period has not which Options may be exercised.
elapsed at the date of cessation of employment, within six months of the relevant vesting date or 12 months in A copy of the Plan rules is available from the Company the case of death.
The Remuneration Committee also Secretary on request.
has discretion to allow earlier exercise.
The Remuneration DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 79 Remuneration Report CONTINUED z From June 2018 the Committee has formally approved the Sharesave remuneration of the Company Secretary and all members Sharesave options may be exercised within six months of the Executive Board following a change of control or winding up of the Company, using savings in the participants account at the date of z From October 2018, in at least one of her twice yearly exercise.
The participant may agree that his or her awards Board updates, the People Director will provide are rolled over into shares of the acquiring company as information about workforce policies and practices an alternative.
The base salary of Executive Directors may be increased If the Company has been or will be affected by a annually in line with the Company-wide award unless other capitalisation, rights issue, subdivision, reduction, circumstances apply, as set out in the policy table.
consolidation, special dividend or other variation in respect The Committee does not formally consult with colleagues of which HMRC will allow the variation of options, the Plan specifically in relation to executive pay.
However, through the rules allow the Remuneration Committee, with the consent new processes introduced in the financial year, members of of HMRC, to vary the number and or nominal value of the National Colleague Council have the opportunity to raise shares covered by an option or the option price to be varied any concerns directly with Marion Sears, the Non-Executive proportionately.
Director who has been designated to consider colleague A copy of the Plan rules is available from the Company views.
Marion attends two National Colleague Council Secretary on request.
meetings each year and Council members are also invited annually to attend a Board meeting.
Colleagues may also raise Executive pay and the pay of any concerns via the People Director, or anonymously through other colleagues our engagement survey.
To date, executive pay has not been raised as a concern.
The principles set out on the Remuneration Strategy on page 70 are applied consistently to pay throughout the Group.
Shareholder views Pay for all colleagues is set at a level that is fair for the role and The Board is committed to ongoing engagement with responsibilities of the individual, and is designed to attract shareholders in respect of all governance matters, including and retain high calibre talent that is needed to deliver the executive remuneration.
Groups strategy, without paying too much.
In addition to this, the Company holds a Corporate The remuneration of Executive Directors is more heavily Governance Day, usually every two years, hosted by the weighted towards variable pay than other colleagues, Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and the other Non-Executive so that a greater part of their pay is linked to successful Directors, to which all major shareholders are invited.
This delivery of strategy and aligned with shareholders.
They are enables both parties to discuss governance topics informally, also required to retain two-thirds of post-tax performance including remuneration.
In addition, the Chairman and pay in Dunelm shares to be held for the duration of Non-Executive Directors usually attend results presentations employment and beyond, and are subject to higher personal and a selection of shareholder meetings.
The last Corporate shareholding targets.
Governance Day was in January 2018, and a copy of the presentation is on our website corporate.
The remuneration of colleagues below the Board reflects the seniority of the role, market practice and the ability of the Formal feedback on shareholder views is given to the Board individual to influence Company performance.
twice per annum by the Companys brokers and financial public relations advisers.
The AGM reports issued by the All eligible colleagues are encouraged to participate in the Investment Association IA, the Pension and Lifetime Savings Sharesave plan, which enables them to become shareholders Association, ISS and Pensions Investment Research Council at a discounted rate.
Participation is usually offered annually at PIRC are also considered by the Board.
the maximum price discount permitted currently 20%, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
All Directors usually attend the Annual General Meeting, and the Chairman and the Chair of the Remuneration Committee In setting the policy for the Executive Directors remuneration, may be contacted via the Company Secretary during the year.
the Committee takes note of the overall approach to remuneration in the Group.
In previous years, the Committee If any significant change to policy were proposed, the had formal oversight of the remuneration of Executive Board Committee would consult with major shareholders in members.
In accordance with the Governments corporate advance.
Shareholders were consulted prior to putting governance reform: forward both the 2015 Policy and the 2017 Policy for approval.
com Stock code: DNLM 80 Governance Examples of remuneration decisions that the Committee may Approach to recruitment remuneration make are set out below: The Remuneration Committee will apply the principles set z It may be appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, with out below when agreeing a remuneration package for a a series of increases to reach the desired salary over a new Director whether an external candidate or an internal period of time, subject to performance promotion.
These have been applied in the recruitment of Nick Wilkinson who joined the Board on 1 February 2018 z A longer notice period of up to a maximum of 24 months and of Laura Carr who will join on 29 November 2018. might be offered, reducing by one month for every month Further details of their remuneration are set out in the served until the policy position is reached Implementation Report.
z The Committee may also alter the performance criteria z The package must be sufficient to attract and retain the applicable to the initial annual bonus or LTIP award so high calibre talent necessary to develop and deliver the that they are more applicable to the circumstances of Companys strategy the recruitment z No more should be paid than is necessary z An internal candidate would be able to retain any outstanding variable pay awarded in respect of their z Notwithstanding the approved policy, the maximum previous role that pays out in accordance with its terms pension entitlement or cash allowance for a newly of grant appointed Executive Director will be 10% of salary z Appropriate costs and support will be provided if the z Remuneration should be in line with the policy recruitment requires the relocation of the individual approved by shareholders set out above: however, the Committee reserves the discretion to make appropriate The maximum level of variable pay that could be awarded remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to to a new Executive Director in the first year of employment, meet the individual needs of the recruitment provided the excluding any buyout arrangements, would normally be Committee believes the relevant decisions are in the best in line with the policy table set out on pages 72 to 76.
The interests of the Company Committee would explain the rationale for the remuneration package in the next annual report of the Company.
These circumstances might include: z Where an interim appointment is made on a short term In addition, on hiring an external candidate the Committee basis, including where the Chairman or another Nonmay make arrangements to buy out remuneration that the Executive Director has to assume an executive position individual has forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards z Where employment commences at a time in the year when and payments on a comparable basis to remuneration it is inappropriate to provide a bonus or share incentive arrangements forfeited.
These awards or payments are award as there is insufficient time to assess performance, excluded from the maximum level of variable pay referred the quantum for the subsequent year might be increased to in the policy tables: however, the Committees intention is proportionately instead that the value awarded or paid would be no higher than the z An executive is recruited from a business or location expected value of the forfeited arrangements.
that offered benefits that the Committee considers it appropriate to buy out but cannot do so under the In order to implement the arrangements described, the specific terms of the Regulations, or which the Committee Committee may rely on the exemption in Listing Rule 9.4.
2, considers it appropriate to offer which allows for the grant of share or share option awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
The Committee does not intend to use any discretion in this section to make a non-performance related incentive payment for example a golden hello.
On the appointment of a new Chairman the fee will be set taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual and pay for similar roles in companies of similar size and complexity in the market.
All other Non-Executive Directors receive the same base and Committee chair fees, which are set at median or below.
No share incentives or performance related incentives would be offered.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 81 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Annual Report on Implementation This section of the report sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders on 21 November 2017 has been applied in the financial year being reported on.
Committee membership and meetings The following Directors served on the Remuneration Committee during the year: Table 1 Committee membership MEMBER PERIOD FROM: TO: William Reeve Chair from 22 November 2017 1 July 2015 To date Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 To date Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 To date Peter Ruis 10 September 2015 To date Rachel Osborne 1 April 2018 28 August 2018 Simon Emeny Chair until his retirement on 21 November 2017 25 June 2007 21 November 2017 The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Six meetings were held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
Table 2 Attendance at Committee meetings MEMBER MEETINGS ATTENDED: William Reeve Chair 6 6 Liz Doherty 5 6 Andy Harrison 6 6 Peter Ruis 6 6 Rachel Osborne 2 2 Simon Emeny 2 2 Liz Doherty received the papers and fed back comments to the Committee Chair in advance of the meeting No Director ever participates when his or her own remuneration is discussed.
Advisers The Committee uses Deloitte for general advice in relation to executive remuneration on an ad hoc basis.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily operates under a code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Deloitte does not have any other ongoing business relationship with the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice that they have received from Deloitte in the year has been objective and independent.
Total fees paid to Deloitte for remuneration related work in the year were 8,150 2017: 10,780.
The Chief Executive Officer attends Committee meetings by invitation to make recommendations as to the remuneration payable to below Board executives.
The People Director attends all meetings by invitation to advise on remuneration related issues and provide details of the remuneration applied throughout the Group so that a consistent approach can be adopted.
com Stock code: DNLM 82 Governance Single figure for total remuneration audited information The following table sets out total remuneration for Directors for the period ended 30 June 2018: Table 3 Directors remuneration single figure table 6 3 4,7 2 5 Salary fees Benefits Bonus LTIP awards Pension Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Director 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Executive Nick Wilkinson 221 28 37 22 308 1,2 Keith Down 327 357 20 21 62 172 66 49 54 568 560 Will Adderley 21 21 21 21 1,2 John Browett 347 510 13 21 89 69 102 429 722 Non-Executive Andy Harrison 208 204 208 204 Marion Sears 50 49 50 49 1 Liz Doherty 64 55 64 55 1 William Reeve 56 49 56 49 Peter Ruis 50 49 50 49 1 Rachel Osborne 12 12 1 Simon Emeny 26 61 26 61 Total 1,361 1,334 82 63 37 151 172 66 140 156 1,792 1,770 1 John Browett stepped down from the Board on 29 August 2017, Simon Emeny retired on 21 November 2017 and Keith Down stepped down from the Board on 24 May 2018.
Rachel Osborne joined the Board on 1 April 2018.
Liz Doherty was appointed the Senior Independent Director and William Reeve was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 22 November 2017.
Basic salary fee, SID fees and Committee Chair fees for Simon Emeny, Rachel Osborne, Liz Doherty and William Reeve, and salary, pension and benefits for John Browett and Keith Down are pro rated over the year.
The total figure for John Browett includes 322,120 in respect of salary and benefits paid for his six month notice period.
2 As John Browett and Keith Down stepped down during the year neither of them qualified for bonus in respect of FY18 and all LTIP and Sharesave options have lapsed.
The sum for 2018 LTIP paid to Keith Down relates to the second tranche of his Joining Award over 26,488 shares which was exercised on 19 September 2017.
The closing mid market share price of Dunelm shares on vesting date 15 September 2017 was 650p.
3 Benefits include the cost to the Company of a car allowance and private health insurance for the individual and their family.
Nick Wilkinson is also entitled to an allowance of 5% of his annual salary towards the cost of travel from home to Leicester: and a relocation allowance of 50,000, partially in the form of Dunelm store credit, plus a contribution of 1,500 per month towards the cost of temporary accommodation for the first 12 months of employment.
4 Annual bonus is the amount earned in respect of FY18.
Details of how this was calculated are set out below.
5 Pension is 20% of salary for John Browett, 15% of base salary for Keith Down and 10% for Nick Wilkinson.
Will Adderley waived his entitlement to pension from 1 July 2015.
6 From 1 July 2018, Nick Wilkinsons base salary was increased by 2%, in line with the Company-wide award for monthly paid colleagues.
Will Adderleys base salary is held at 1 per annum.
The fee for the Chairman and the base fee for the other Non-Executive Directors, the SID fee and the Committee fees were also increased by 2%.
7 Nick Wilkinson was awarded an annual performance-related cash bonus for FY18 with a maximum potential payment of 125% of salary.
The performance conditions which applied to the bonus were those set in September 2017 for Keith Down this was prior to Nicks appointment on 1 February 2018.
The performance condition was linked to PBT versus budget 80%, and performance against personal and strategic objectives 20%.
Although not exercised this year, the Committee has the ability to apply judgement to increase or decrease the amount payable by application of the formula, although no more than the maximum potential opportunity would be paid.
Will Adderley has asked that he not be considered for a bonus award.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 83 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Financial target 80% of bonus opportunity For the period ended 30 June 2018, budget PBT was 125.0m, pre-exceptional items of 7.0m.
The financial target set was such that no bonus would be paid until PBT reached 118.75m and maximum bonus would be paid at 131.25m.
Between those numbers, bonus would be payable calculated on a straight-line basis.
Market consensus for 201718 PBT at the date the target was set in early September 2017 was 121.9m.
In considering performance against targets for the purposes of the annual bonus, the Remuneration Committee has decided that PBT pre budgeted exceptional items should apply.
However, this made no difference to the overall bonus outcome in 2017 18.
PBT for 201718 was 93.1m, and pre exceptional items was 102.0m.
There was no payment in respect of this PBT element of the bonus.
Strategic and personal objectives 20% of bonus opportunity Assessment was made by reference to personal performance and implementation of strategy as a whole, including progress against the eight Business Plans agreed by the Board in May 2017 and set out in last years annual report, as well as a number of specific measurable objectives.
Performance against these specific objectives was assessed as follows: TARGET PERFORMANCE Combine Dunelm and Worldstores into one business Achieved Integrate worldstores.
com to one website Progress made completion expected February 2019 Open 10 new stores 2 relocations and 10 refits, hitting Achieved financial targets Improve colleague engagement score Achieved Launch instore ordering with meaningful sales Progress made, completion expected October 2019 Launch click & collect service with meaningful sales Progress made, completion expected February 2019 Taking all of the above into account, it was determined that 67% 2017: 70% of this element of the bonus had been earned, giving rise to a payment of 36,879 to Nick Wilkinson 2017: nil, pro-rated to service during the year.
As John Browett and Keith Down stepped down from the Board during the year, neither was entitled to a bonus payment.
Will Adderley has asked not to be considered for bonus entitlement.
Total bonus earned is set out in the table below: Table 4 Annual bonus earned in respect of 201718 performance Bonus Percentage awarded of maximum award Nick Wilkinson 36,879 13.3% John Browett Nil N A Keith Down Nil N A Will Adderley waived entitlement N A corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 84 Governance LTIP awards earned in respect of performance in 201618 The only LTIP award which is due to mature in respect of 201618 performance is that granted to the former Chief Financial Officer, David Stead in 2015, who retired on 31 December 2015.
The Remuneration Committee determined that as a good leaver, David would be entitled to receive part of this award, subject to performance criteria, and pro-rated by time served over the performance period the three financial years ended 30 June 2018.
In the case of the award maturing on 15 October 2018, and exercisable from 15 October 2020, this would equate to a maximum of 7,350 shares.
The performance criteria applicable to this award was based on growth in fully diluted EPS over the performance period.
For further information please see the policy report on page 74.
Over the three year performance period which ended on 30 June 2018, reported fully diluted EPS declined at a compound annual rate of -5.4%.
This is 8.2% below the compound annual growth in RPI over the same period.
Accordingly, the award granted to David Stead in October 2015 will lapse.
Table 5 LTIP awards earned in respect of performance in 201618 Percentage Shares of maximum vesting award David Stead 0 0% Will Adderley waived his entitlement to receive an LTIP award in 2015.
Awards granted to John Browett and Keith Down have lapsed.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 85 Remuneration Report CONTINUED LTIP awards made to Directors during 201718 LTIP awards were made on 18 October 2017 to Keith Down, and on 28 February 2018 to Nick Wilkinson as set out below.
Keith Down stepped down from the Board on 24 May 2018, his award has lapsed.
Table 6 LTIP awards made to Directors during 201718 % vesting Face value at Number at date of Performance threshold Name Award of shares award Performance condition period Vesting date performance 1 Nick Nil cost 110,000 642,400 Growth in fully diluted EPS over July 2017 to 28 February 10% Wilkinson option the three year performance June 2020 2021 under period compared with growth LTIP in the index of retail prices RPI over the same period.
No part of the award will vest until compound annual EPS growth exceeds RPI growth by 3%.
10% of the award vests when compound annual growth in EPS exceeds RPI growth by 3%.
100% of the award vests when compound annual growth in EPS exceeds RPI by 15%.
Between those figures the award will vest on a straight-line basis.
Two-thirds of shares vesting after payment of tax and National Insurance must be held for the duration of employment, and 50% of these retained for two years following termination 2 Keith Down Nil cost 60,000 451,500 As for Nick Wilkinson July 2017 to Lapsed 0% option June 2020 under LTIP 1 Based on the closing share price on 28 February 2018 of 584.0p per share.
2 Based on the closing share price on 17 October 2017 of 752.5p per share.
Joining award made to Keith Down in 2015 Following approval by shareholders at the AGM on 24 November 2015, and as noted in the 2016 annual report, a joining award was made to Keith Down on 7 December 2015 over 33,958 shares in the form of a nil cost option, under the terms of the Share Award Agreement approved by shareholders on 24 November 2015.
The market value of the award was 335,000 based on the closing share price on 4 December 2015, of 986.5p per share.
7,470 22% of these shares vested on 15 September 2016, and 26,488 78% of these shares vested on 15 September 2017. corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 86 Governance Payments to past Directors and for loss of office audited David Stead David Stead retired from the Board on 31 December 2015.
David received his salary, benefits and pension allowance as usual until his leaving date of 31 December 2015, at the rate set out in the Annual Report for 2014 15.
At 31 December 2015, David had three outstanding awards under the LTIP: Table 7 David Steads LTIP awards at his retirement date 31 December 2015 : No.
of shares to Award Performance Normal pro-rated to vest after applying No.
of shares date period vesting date 31 December performance 2015 condition 7 October 2013 FY14FY16 7 October 2018 49,216 40,976 18,029 9 October 2014 FY15FY17 9 October 2019 53,922 27,035 Nil 15 October 2015 FY16FY18 15 October 2020 44,592 7,350 n a Includes two year holding period following the end of the three year performance period.
The Remuneration Committee determined that as a good John Browett leaver with 12 years service during a time of substantial John Browett resigned from his position as Chief Executive growth in shareholder value, David may exercise the above Officer and stepped down from the Board on 29 August awards, subject to time pro-rating, and after applying the 2017.
In accordance with the Dunelm Remuneration Policy applicable performance criteria over the full performance approved on 24 November 2015 which was current at that period.
The maximum possible vesting, if performance date, and in line with his contractual arrangements John was conditions are fully met, is set out in the table above column paid salary, pension and benefits to date of termination of headed No.
of shares pro-rated to 31 December 2015. his employment at the rates set out in Dunelms 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, and 322,120 in respect of salary, The awards may be exercised within six months of the normal pension and benefits for the six month notice period under vesting date specified above.
This was paid in six monthly instalments The above arrangements are fully in line with the on the last day of the month, commencing 31 October Remuneration Policy approved at the AGM in November 2017.
John also received a payment of 89,250 in respect of 2015.
The LTIP award made to David Stead in October 2015 bonus earned for the financial year to 1 July 2017, following was disclosed in the 2015 and 2016 remuneration reports application of performance criteria.
This was paid on which were approved by shareholders.
Committees decision reflects the service provided by Payment of bonus earned in respect of the financial year to David over the financial years covered by the applicable 1 July 2017 was considered to be fair and reasonable given performance periods and has been pro-rated according to that John was Chief Executive Officer for the period to which that service over those periods.
No bonus was paid in relation to the No further payments have been or are being made to period of his employment during the financial year to 30 June David Stead in respect of loss of office or the termination of 2018 and all options granted under the Long Term Incentive his employment.
Plan and the Sharesave Plan lapsed.
The arrangements set out above were considered carefully by the Remuneration Having retired on 31 December 2015, on 16 April 2018, at the Committee in consultation with its advisors and reflect the fact request of the Board, David Stead entered into a new shortthat John was a good leaver.
term service contract with the Company to provide interim support to on a part time basis pending the appointment No further payments have been or are being made to of a permanent CFO to replace Keith Down.
David was not John Browett in respect of loss of office or the termination of appointed as a director of Dunelm Group plc or any other his employment.
Details of payments made to David in the year can be found in Note 26 to the Financial Statements.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 87 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Simon Emeny Statement of Directors Having completed 10 years service on the Board, Simon share interests audited Emeny retired from his position as Senior Independent Executive Directors are subject to a shareholding target Director and Chair of the Remuneration Committee and which requires them to build a beneficial holding of Dunelm stepped down from the Board on 21 November 2017. shares with a value of 1 salary after three years and 2 salary Simon continued to receive a fee for his role on the Board after five years measured by reference to share price at the up to and including 21 November 2017 at the rate set out financial year end.
In addition, they are required to make in Dunelms 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
He did not a personal investment in Dunelm shares on appointment receive any payment in lieu of notice or for loss of office.
As subject to Company close periods : and to invest two-thirds a Non-Executive Director, Simon Emeny was not entitled to of any annual bonus paid and LTIP awards earned after participate in the Companys bonus, employee share plans or payment of tax and national insurance liability on exercise in pension arrangements and no further payments have been or Dunelm shares.
are being made to Simon Emeny in respect of loss of office or the termination of his employment.
Will Adderley complies with this requirement at the financial year end.
Keith Down Nick Wilkinson was appointed on 1 February 2018.
Keith Down resigned from his position as Chief Financial Officer and stepped down from the Board on 24 May 2018.
Table 8 and Table 9 show the interests of the Directors in He was paid salary, pension and benefits to that date at the shares of the Company at 30 June 2018. rate set out in Dunelms 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Table 8 Directors beneficial shareholdings He did not receive any payment in lieu of notice or for loss audited of office.
As Keith left the Company during the financial year, he has no entitlement to bonus in respect of the financial At 30 June At 1 July 2018 2017 year, and all options under the Long Term Incentive Plan and 1p Ordinary 1p Ordinary Sharesave scheme have lapsed.
No further payments have Shares Shares been or are being made to Keith Down in respect of loss of Will Adderley 54,161,779 54,161,779 office or the termination of his employment.
Andy Harrison 416,480 202,932 Marion Sears 105,000 105,000 Nick Wilkinson 38,855 William Reeve 12,500 7,000 Liz Doherty 2,500 2,500 Peter Ruis Rachel Osborne corporate.
com Stock code: DNLM 88 Governance Between the financial year end and the date of this report Directors have purchased shares as follows: Total beneficial holding Date of following Director purchase No.
purchased Price purchase Nick Wilkinson 20 July 2018 48,876 508.95 87,731 Table 9 Directors interests in options at the period end audited Share options at End of Market price Date of Nature of 30 June performance Option of shares at Director award award 2018 period price date of award Will Adderley Nil Nick Wilkinson Feb 2018 201820 LTIP 110,000 June 2020 Nil 584.0p The LTIP award above granted to Nick Wilkinson is subject to the performance condition noted in Table 6 above.
Share options and dilution The Remuneration Committee considers the provisions of the Investment Associations Guidelines on Executive Remuneration when determining the number of shares over which share scheme incentive awards may be made.
At the date of this report, over the last 10 year period options have been granted over 0.6% of the Companys issued share capital adjusted for share issuance and cancellation.
The Group does not hold any shares in an employee benefit trust.
Service contracts In accordance with the Groups policy, the service contracts of the Executive Directors have no fixed term, the notice period for termination is 12 months from either party for Will Adderley, and six months for Nick Wilkinson.
Service contracts for the executives include a non-compete arrangement.
Payments on termination are restricted to a maximum of the value of base salary and benefits for the notice period.
The Remuneration Committee may apply mitigation in respect of any termination payment.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment for an initial period of three years with a provision for termination of one months notice from either party, or three months notice from either party in the case of Andy Harrison, the Chairman.
Table 10 Directors service contracts Start Date Unexpired Notice under contract term period Will Adderley 28 September 2006 n a 12 months Nick Wilkinson 1 February 2018 n a 6 months Marion Sears 22 July 2004 10 months 1 month Liz Doherty 1 May 2013 7 months 1 month Andy Harrison 1 September 2014 23 months 3 months William Reeve 1 July 2015 33 months 1 month Peter Ruis 10 September 2015 36 months 1 month Since Marion Sears has now served 14 years on the Board 12 of which are post flotation of the Company in 2006, her contract is renewed for one year terms rather than three, with the notice period referred to above.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 89 Remuneration Report CONTINUED Relative TSR performance The graph below shows the Groups performance over nine years, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the FTSE General Retail Index and the FTSE 250.
The Remuneration Committee has chosen these indices for comparison because they provide a range of comparator companies which have similar market capitalisation, which are in the same sector and which face similar market and economic challenges in the long term.
Table 11 Total shareholder return performance graph rebased to 2 July 2009 100 The shares traded in the range 505.0p to 753.5p during the year and stood at 505.0p at 30 June 2018.
com Stock code: DNLM 90 Share price rebased to Dunelm Governance Table 12 Historic Chief Executive Officer pay The table below sets out the prescribed remuneration data for each of the individuals undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer during each of the last nine financial years: CEO Single Annual bonus payment Long term incentive vesting figure of total against maximum rates against maximum remuneration opportunity opportunity 000 % % 5 FY17 18 Nick Wilkinson 308 13.3% n a 5 FY17 18 John Browett 429 n a n a FY16 17 John Browett 722 14.0% n a 1 FY15 16 John Browett 489 57.7% n a 1 FY15 16 Will Adderley 10 n a n a 2 FY14 15 Will Adderley 507 5% n a 2 FY14 15 Nick Wharton 110 n a n a 3 FY13 14 Nick Wharton 1,509 22.5% 77.5% FY12 13 Nick Wharton 1,292 97.0% 86.7% FY11 12 Nick Wharton 853 100.0% n a 4 FY10 11 Nick Wharton 429 6.0% n a 4 FY10 11 Will Adderley 1,413 4.0% 100.0% FY09 10 Will Adderley 1,366 100.0% 100.0% 1 Will Adderley was succeeded by John Browett as Chief Executive Officer on 1 January 2016.
The data for each Director for 2015 16 is pro-rated by time of service as Chief Executive Officer.
Will Adderleys base salary was reduced to 1 on 1 July 2015.
2 Will Adderley was reappointed Chief Executive Officer on 11 September 2014, following the resignation of Nick Wharton on 10 September 2014.
The data for each Director for 2014 15 is pro-rated by time of service as Chief Executive Officer.
3 Nick Whartons first LTIP award vested and was exercised in December 2013.
No LTIP awards have vested to John Browett since his appointment.
4 Will Adderley was Chief Executive Officer until he was succeeded by Nick Wharton on 1 February 2011.
The data for each Director for 2010 11 is pro-rated by time of service as Chief Executive Officer.
5 John Browett left the Group on 29 August 2017.
He was succeeded by Nick Wilkinson on 1 February 2018.
The data for each Director for 2017 18 is pro-rated by time of service as Chief Executive Officer.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 91 Remuneration Report CONTINUED The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the Chief Executive and that of our other colleagues.
Table 13 Relative change in Chief Executive Officer pay Change in Change in % change in % change in base salary benefits Bonus earned Bonus earned bonus earned bonus earned 2016 17 2016 17 as % of salary as % of salary 2016 17 to 2015 16 to to 2017 18 to 2017 18 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 2 Chief Executive Officer 11.4% 95.2% 6.5% 17.5% 58.6% 75.3% 1 1 All colleagues per capita 1.8% 11.3% 6.0% 5.4% 101.9% 55.3% 1 Bonus percentage has been calculated in relation to only those employees receiving a bonus in the period as this is considered a more appropriate comparator group.
2 John Browett left the Group on 29 August 2017.
Nick Wilkinson was appointed on 1 February 2018.
Chief Executive Officer figures used in the above calculation include both John Browett and Nick Wilkinson and are as per the Single Figure Table Table 3.
These therefore include 322,120 in respect of John Browetts salary and benefits paid for his six month notice period and one off benefits for Nick Wilkinson, and do not reflect the annual salary increase of Nick Wilkinson on 1 July 2018 of 2% and the bonus earned for FY18 which was lower than that of his predecessor in FY17.
Table 14 Relative spend on pay The table below shows the all employee pay cost and returns to shareholders by way of dividends including special dividends and share buyback for 201718 and 201617.
2017 18 2016 17 m m % Increase Total spend on pay 139.8 129.3 8.1% Ordinary dividend to shareholders 53.4 51.6 3.7% Distributions to shareholders via treasury share purchases 4.2 100% Special distributions to shareholders n a Total distributions to shareholders 53.4 55.8 4.1% This information is based on the following: Total spend on pay total employee costs excluding car allowances and bonuses from note 6 on page 126.
Dividends taken from note 9 on page 128.
Share buyback taken from Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity on page 116.
Executive Director external Board appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold one external appointment as a Non-Executive Director or similar advisory or consultative role, subject to the Board being satisfied that there is no conflict of interest and that the position will not impact negatively on the Executives commitment to their Dunelm role.
The Board may allow the Executive to retain any remuneration received in respect of the appointment.
Will Adderley does not hold any external PLC Board appointments.
John Browett was a Director of Octopus Capital Limited and Octopus Investments Limited effectively one external role during the period.
He retained his Director fees 7,945 pro rated to 29 August 2017.
Keith Down was a Non-Executive Director of Topps Tiles plc during the period until he stepped down on 24 May 2018.
He retained his Director fees 39,154.
Nick Wilkinson was a trustee of Age UK.
com Stock code: DNLM 92 Governance Senior Executive remuneration The Remuneration Committee provides formal approval of the remuneration of the Company Secretary and Executive Board members.
The package for new appointments is formally presented to the Committee for approval.
In conducting its assessment of Executive Board remuneration, the Committee pays particular regard to whether any individual is incentivised to take risks inappropriate to their role and responsibilities.
Members of the Executive Board and Senior Management Team are eligible for awards under the LTIP.
All members of senior management who receive share awards are also subject to shareholding targets as follows: Executive Board and certain other senior Executives 1 base salary to be acquired over time Other Executives 0.5 base salary to be acquired over time Gender pay disclosures At the end of March, Dunelm published its Gender Pay report.
We are committed to paying men and women equally for roles of the same size and scale.
We are proud that 67% of our colleagues are female.
However, in common with many other retailers, 80% of our colleagues are employed in our retail operations, and these roles tend to be lower paid.
As a result, we have a significant gap in the pay between genders our mean gap is 17.4% and our median gap is 4.8%, very much in line with our peers in the UK retail sector.
We have made progress over the twelve months to improve, and we have more activity planned, including the launch of an Empowering Female Leaders programme, widening our internal mentoring programme, and looking at how we can reduce friction for women returning to work after maternity leave.
We are leading by example: 33% of our senior leadership roles are held by women, and following Laura Carrs appointment to the Board, three of our eight Board members, and half of our Executive Board will be female.
Engaging with our colleagues on pay Details of how we engage with our colleagues are set out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Statement of implementation of policy in the 2018 19 financial year Base salary, benefits and pension Base salary and benefits for each of the Executive Directors for 2018 19 are set out in the table below: Table 15 Base salary, benefits and pension for 2018 19 Increase to Increase to Increase to Base base salary benefits pension salary year on year Benefits year on year Pension year on year Nick Wilkinson 540,600 2% Car allowance: travel allowance of 5% of N A 54,060 2% salary: private health insurance for the individual and their family: permanent health cover: life assurance: mobile phone: colleague discount: relocation expenses Laura Carr 365,000 N A Car allowance: private health insurance N A 36,500 N A for the individual and their family: permanent health cover: life assurance: mobile phone: colleague discount : relocation expenses Will Adderley 1 Nil As above Nil Nil n a Basic salary increase for Nick Wilkinson is in line with the Company-wide award for monthly paid colleagues of 2%.
The pay of Laura Carr reflects the annual salary and benefits which will apply when she starts work on 29 November 2018 and has not been pro rated.
Will Adderley has asked that he not be considered for a pay increase.
DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 93 Remuneration Report CONTINUED In order to secure their services we needed to agree Annual bonus certain joining arrangements.
These were fully in line with Nick Wilkinson has been awarded a bonus opportunity of up our Remuneration Policy.
Dunelm has a very conservative to 125% of base salary.
The performance conditions attached approach to executive remuneration with long term to the bonus are: commitment and alignment through shareholding 80% linked to achievement of Budget PBT: underpinning our approach.
We are never happy about making any additional payments of this nature.
We 20% linked to achievement of strategic and personal targets, considered the proposed joining arrangements very aligned to the Group strategy.
carefully, and took professional advice from Deloitte in The Budget PBT is set taking into account market consensus relation to each Directors remuneration package as a whole.
In view of the strength of the Nominations Committees and broker expectations.
The actual financial and strategic targets have not been disclosed at this time as they are recommendation, and the need to secure a permanent candidate of calibre, the Committee decided that these commercially sensitive.
The targets and an assessment of the extent to which they have been achieved will be disclosed in joining arrangements were acceptable and in the interests of Dunelm.
Details are set out below: next years remuneration report.
Nick Wilkinson On her appointment, Laura Carr will be entitled to receive a bonus of up to 125% of salary, with 80% linked to Budget PBT We asked Nick to relocate his family from London to and 20% to strategic and personal targets.
This will be pro Leicester: we have therefore agreed to award Nick a travel rated to service over the financial year.
allowance of 5% of salary, and to pay up to 50,000 by way of relocation costs.
We have also agreed to pay a temporary Nick Wilkinson and Laura Carr have committed that twoaccommodation allowance of up to 1,500 per month for up thirds of the bonus earned after payment of income tax and to 12 months.
National Insurance will be invested in Dunelm shares, to be held for the duration of employment, with 50% of these We were not asked to compensate Nick for any shares to be retained for two years following cessation remuneration foregone.
Laura Carr Will Adderley has asked that he not be considered for a Laura will be financially disadvantaged by leaving her current bonus award.
role after a relatively short tenure to join Dunelm.
We have also asked her to relocate her family to Leicestershire.
We LTIP have therefore agreed that we will partially compensate her.
An award is expected to be made to Nick Wilkinson in The exact amounts have not been finalised at the date of October 2018 and Laura Carr shortly after she joins in this report, but the maximum will be similar to the joining November 2018 under the Long Term Incentive Plan over arrangements put in place for her predecessor, Keith Down, shares to the value of 200% and 160% of salary respectively.
in 2015: and the majority of the payment, after deduction of tax and national insurance, must be invested in Dunelm shares The award will vest, subject to continued employment, on which are subject to the Lifetime Lock-in.
If Laura voluntarily the third anniversary of the grant date, to the extent that leaves the business or is lawfully dismissed within two years performance conditions have been met.
Two-thirds of vested of commencing her employment with the Company, she will shares after sale to cover tax and national insurance liability be liable to repay the gross amounts paid to her by way of on exercise must be retained for the duration of employment, joining arrangements set out above.
All payments to be made and 50% of these must be retained for two years following are within our agreed Remuneration Policy, and full disclosure cessation of employment.
will be made in the FY19 annual report.
Will Adderley has asked that he not be considered for an LTIP award.
Sharesave An invitation will be issued in October 2018 to all eligible Joining arrangements employees, to apply for options to be granted under the We recruited both Nick Wilkinson and Laura Carr during Sharesave scheme at a 20% discount to the closing market FY18.
Both Directors were offered remuneration packages in price of Dunelm Group shares on the dealing day preceding line with that of their predecessors, except that their pension the issue of the invitation.
The maximum monthly savings entitlement 10% of base salary is lower, reflecting our desire will be 500 per month.
Executive Directors employed at the to align this better with workforce entitlement previous eligibility date may apply for Sharesave options, subject to the entitlements 20% for CEO and 15% for CFO.
com Stock code: DNLM 94 Governance Non-Executive Director fees for 2018 19 Fees to be paid to Non-Executive Directors are as set out in the table below: Table 16 Non-Executive Director Fees Increase in Increase in Committee base fee year Committee fee Position Base Fee SID Fee on year year on year Comment Andy Harrison Chairman 212,160 Nil 2% n a Liz Doherty Audit and Risk Committee Chair 50,938 10,200 2% 2% Senior Independent SID fee applied from Director 6,369 2% 2% 22 November 2017 William Reeve NonExecutive Director 50,938 10,200 2% n a Committee chair fee applied from 22 November 2017 Peter Ruis NonExecutive Director 50,938 Nil 2% n a Marion Sears NonExecutive Director 50,938 Nil 2% n a Base fee, Senior Independent Director SID fee and Committee Chair fee increases with effect from 1 July 2018 were in line with the Company-wide increase of 2%.
Statement of shareholder voting At the Annual General Meeting on 21 November 2018, the total number of shares in issue with voting rights excluding treasury shares was 201,709,777.
Details of voting on remuneration related resolutions are set out below: Table 17 Voting on remuneration related resolutions at the 2017 AGM % of Votes % of Votes Votes for % withheld Resolution votes cast against votes cast withheld Approve 2017 Remuneration Policy 180,477,797 99.40% 1,086,936 0.60% 115,469 0.06% Approve Annual Remuneration Report 180,381,216 99.64% 648,496 0.36% 650,490 0.36% Approve changes to LTIP rules 180,248,756 99.28% 1,314,385 0.72% 117,061 0.06% Approved by the Board on 12 September 2018.
William Reeve Chair of the Remuneration Committee DUNELM GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 30 JUNE 2018 95
