DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Annual statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the PERFORMANCE AND REWARD OUTCOMES  report the Report for the year IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR ended30 September 2018.
The 2018 Report sets out details Despite the challenges facing the business and the ofthe remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive industryasa whole, easyJet has delivered a strong trading Directors, describes how the remuneration policy is performance in 2018 across the business.
This good financial implemented and discloses the amounts paid relating to performance is reflected in the annual bonus outcome for theyear ended 30 September 2018, and explains how it theyear.
In contrast, performance for the three-year period willbeimplemented for the 2019 financial year.
to30September 2018 was impacted by more difficult trading conditions in earlier years resulting in no vesting under the LTIP CHANGES TO THE BOARD this year.
Performance against our targets for both the bonus As announced in last years Annual Report, Johan Lundgren plan and LTIP are summarised in the Remuneration at a was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2017 as our new Glance section on page 89.
Johans base salary was set at appointment at 740,000, which reflected the competitive market rate for the BONUS role at a company of similar size and complexity to easyJet.
Annual bonus payments are based on a combination of key However, underpinning the Companys commitment to equal financial and operational targets, with a minority element pay and equal opportunity at all levels, Johan requested in based on personal objectives.
January 2018 that his base salary be reduced to 706,000 A very positive financial performance in the year meant that going forward, in line with that paid to the previous Chief the maximum headline profit before tax target was significantly Executive before she left the Company.
The Committee was exceeded, however performance against the headline cost per pleased to endorse this decision.
All other elements of Johans seat excluding fuel and on-time performance measures fell package remain in line with our approved remuneration policy, just below the threshold targets set.
Customer satisfaction and and with the package of his predecessor.
personal performance were both above target and as a result Andrew Findlay stepped up during the transitional period a bonus of 146% of salary was payable to the Chief Executive between Carolyn McCalls resignation and the appointment pro-rated for the portion of the year served and a bonus of ofJohan Lundgren, taking on a number of additional 132% of salary was payable to the Chief Financial Officer.
responsibilities and leading the Companys acquisition of One-third of the bonuses earned is subject to compulsory partof Air Berlins operations at Tegel Airport.
In recognition deferral into shares for three years.
ofhis contribution to the success of the business during this LTIP period, the Committee approved an additional grant under As noted above, awards made under the LTIP in December theCompanys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP in June 2018.
2015 to the Chief Financial Officer and other members of This grant was made to the value of 50% of salary, taking the senior management did not meet the threshold performance total value of awards made in the year to the permitted policy requirements for either return on capital employed ROCE or maximum of 250% of salary.
This top-up award is subject to relative total shareholder return TSR set.
No awards will vest the same challenging performance conditions as the annual in December 2018. grant made in December 2017, and if these are achieved will vest on the third anniversary of grant in June 2021.
com GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REVIEW OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Bonus The Committee has set bonus targets reflecting the POLICY AND IMPLEMENTATION IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR opportunities and challenges that the Company is likely to facein the coming year, based on headline profit before tax The Committee undertook a thorough review of the Groups remuneration policy in 2017, and a revised policy was approved and key operational, financial and personal targets.
One-third of any bonus earned will continue to be subject to compulsory by shareholders at the AGM in February 2018.
The Committee believes that the policy provides an appropriate framework deferral into shares for three years.
which aligns the interests of the company and shareholders, LTIP and focuses Executive Directors on the delivery of the In line with the approach adopted in 2017, LTIP awards will Companys strategic objectives.
begranted to Executive Directors in December 2018 with a combination of EPS, ROCE and TSR performance measures.
As disclosed in last years Annual Report, the Committee The Committee has determined that these measures remain carried out a thorough consultation with major shareholders aligned with the strategic plan described on pages 8 to 9 and and shareholder advisory groups regarding the introduction the targets set have taken into consideration the challenging ofan earnings per share EPS measure in the LTIP, to trading environment and market consensus.
operatealongside the existing ROCE and TSR measures, to increase the focus of the plan on the sustainable growth of the RECOVERY AND WITHHOLDING business.
Shareholders were supportive of this approach and In line with emerging best practice, and in light of several accordingly LTIP awards were made in December 2017 with a high-profile cases which have highlighted the importance combination of ROCE 40% of the award, EPS 40% of the ofrecovery and withholding provisions, the Committee has award and TSR 20% of the award performance measures.
carried out a thorough review of how these provisions are operated within the Group.
To ensure that they remain fit for IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE 2019 FINANCIAL YEAR purpose, and to increase protection for the Group, a number of changes were made to the annual bonus and LTIP plan We will take the following approach to implementation ofthe remuneration policy for the year ending 30 September2019.
rules, which will apply in the 2019 financial year and thereafter.
Additional triggers have been introduced allowing the Salary Company to recover payments in case of serious personal As described above, Johan Lundgren voluntarily reduced his misconduct or instances of corporate failure.
salary in January 2018, while Andrew Findlay received the On behalf of the Committee I thank you for your continued second of two planned phased increases to bring his salary support.
We trust that you will find the Report informative and, to the level agreed on appointment, effective 1 January 2018. as always, I welcome any comments you may have.
Executives base salaries are reviewed annually and any changes are normally in line with the average increase for 19 November 2018 the wider workforce.
The Committee has therefore agreed an increase of 2% for both Executive Directors, effective 1 January 2019.
CHARLES GURASSA Chair of the Remuneration Committee WHAT IS IN THIS REPORT?
This Report sets out easyJets remuneration policy for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, describes the implementation of that policy and discloses the amounts earned relating to the year ended 30 September 2018.
TheReport complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and supporting regulations.
The Report has beenprepared in line with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
The Directors remuneration policy set out on pages 91 to 97 was approved by shareholders in a binding vote at the AGMin February 2018 and became effective on that date.
The Annual Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee set out on pages 87 to 88 and the Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 97 to 105 will together be subject to an advisory vote at the forthcoming AGM.
88 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration at a glance REWARD PRINCIPLES The Remuneration Committees primary objective is to design a remuneration framework which promotes the long-term success of the Group.
To this end, we are guided by the following reward principles which remain unchanged: Principle Application in remuneration framework Simple & costTo establish a simple and cost-effective reward package in line with our low-cost and efficient business effective model.
For example, our Executive Directors do not receive the level of benefits that can be found in the majority of listed companies and instead are aligned with those in the wider employee population.
Aligned with business To support the achievement of our business strategy of growth and returns, performance is assessed strategy against a range of financial, operational, and longer-term targets.
This ensures that value is delivered to shareholders and that Executive Directors are rewarded for the successful and sustained delivery of the key strategic objectives of the Group.
Pay for performance Total remuneration closely reflects performance and is therefore more heavily weighted towards variable pay than fixed pay.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the amount paid to our Executive Directors.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION 000 Johan Lundgren Chief Executive 2018 631 869 1,500 N A 2017 1,453 Andrew Findlay Chief Financial officer 1,176 2018 526 650 1,108 2017 483 528 97 1,262 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 Fixed Bonus LTIP ANNUAL BONUS AND LTIP OUTCOMES Annual bonus performance for the 2018 financial year Achieved % of Maximum Threshold On-Target Maximum Metrics Weighting % of max bonus achieved Headline profit before tax 551 at budgeted constant currency 60% 100% 60% 298 341 406 m 74.9% On-time performance 10% 0% 0% 75% 76.5% 78% 71.2% Customer satisfaction 10% 57% 5.7% 69.5% 71.0% 72.5% 44.25 Headline cost per seat at 10% 0% 0% budgeted constant currency 43.43 43.01 42.59 Based on the above and including individual departmental performance, a total bonus of 146% of salary was payable to the Chief Executive pro-rated for the portion of the year served and a bonus of 132% of salary was payable to the Chief Financial officer.
LTIP performance for the 2018 financial year Target Actual Target Actual 0% of ROCE LTIPs 100 20% Upper and 0% of TSR quartile LTIPs vested 75 50 18% 25 Below 0% 13.8% Median 15% Threshold vesting ROCE TSR Overall 70% weighting 30% weighting 89 www.
com GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION POLICY AT A GLANCE Element Policy Implementation of Policy for the 2019 financial year Base salary Increase normally up to the Johan Lundgrens salary was reduced, at his request, to 706,000 averageworkforce level though effective 1 February 2018. may be increased at higher rates Both Johan Lundgrens and Andrew Findlays salaries will be increased incertain circumstances, for by2%, in line with the increase offered to the wider workforce.
Their example where salary is set below base salaries effective 1 January 2019 will therefore be 720,120 and market on recruitment and is being 510,000, respectively.
transitioned to a competitive level in a series of planned stages.
Benefits and Modest pension and benefit Pension of 7% of salary: plus modest benefits.
pension provision, at similar levels as the wider UK workforce.
Annual bonus Maximum opportunity is 200% of Maximum will remain at 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and at salary Chief Executive and 175% 175% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer.
Performance measures and of salary Chief Financial Officer.
weightings are as follows: One-third of bonus is deferred into Annual bonus performance weighting shares for three years.
Majority based on financial measures.
Withholding and recovery provisions apply.
Personal 10% On-time performance 10% Customer satisfaction 10% Cost per seat 10% profit before tax 60% Long-term Normal maximum awards of 250% Award to the Chief Executive of 250% of salary and award to the incentive plan of salary Chief Executive and ChiefFinancial Officer of 200% of salary.
200% of salary Chief Financial The performance targets for the 2019 awards will be disclosed in full at Officer.
Up to 300% of salary in the date of grant.
Three-year performance period plus two-year post-vesting holdingperiod.
Based on financial and relative TSRtargets.
Share ownership 200% of salary Chief Executive 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 175% of salary for the Chief guidelines and 175% of salary Chief FinancialOfficer: in line with policy.
Requirement to retain 50% of post-tax LTIP vesting and 100% ofpost-tax deferred bonus sharesuntil guideline is met andmaintained.
90 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors remuneration policy This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out In setting remuneration for the Executive Directors, the easyJets Directors remuneration policy.
This policy was Committee takes note of the overall approach to reward for approved by shareholders in a binding vote at the AGM on employees in the Group.
Salary increases will ordinarily be in 8February 2018, and became effective on that date.
The percentage of salary terms no higher than those of the wider Committees current intention is that the current policy will workforce.
The Committee does not formally consult directly operate for the three-year period to the AGM in 2021. with employees on executive pay but does receive periodic updates from the Group People Director.
A copy of the Directors remuneration policy can be foundonline, within the Annual Report and Accounts, at The Committee also considers developments in institutional http: corporate.
investors best practice expectations and the views expressed by shareholders during any dialogue.
ROLE OF OUR REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for CONSIDERING THE VIEWS OF determining remuneration for the Executive Directors and SHAREHOLDERS WHEN DETERMINING theChairman of the Board.
The Committee also reviews THE REMUNERATION POLICY theremuneration of the Groups most senior executives in easyJet remains committed to shareholder dialogue and takes consultation with the Chief Executive.
The Committee takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
We consult extensively into account the need to recruit and retain executives and with our major shareholders when setting our remuneration ensure that they are properly motivated to perform in the policy or when considering any significant changes to our long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders, remuneration arrangements.
The Committee also considers whilepaying no more than is necessary.
shareholder feedback received in relation to the Directors remuneration report each year following the AGM.
This, plus CONSIDERATIONS WHEN DETERMINING any additional feedback received from time to time, is then THE REMUNERATION POLICY considered as part of the Committees annual review of The primary objective of the Groups remuneration policy isto remuneration policy and its implementation.
promote the long-term success of the business throughthe operation of competitive pay arrangements whichare structured so as to be in the best interests of shareholders.
When setting the policy for Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee takes into account total remuneration levels operating in companies of a similar size and complexity, the responsibilities of each individual role, individual performance and an individuals experience.
Our overall policy, having given due regard to the factors noted, isto weight remuneration towards variable pay.
This is typically achieved through setting base pay at a competitive level, offering very modest pension and benefits, and giving the potential to earn above-market variable pay subject to the achievement of demanding performance targets linked to the Groups strategicobjectives.
com GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SUMMARY OF THE REMUNERATION STRUCTURE The table below sets out the main components of easyJets remuneration policy: Framework used to assess Element, purpose and link performance and provisions to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable forthe recovery of sums paid Salary Base salaries are normally reviewed annually, with changes typically The Committee considers effective from 1 January.
individual salaries at the To provide the core appropriate Committee reward for the role.
Salaries are typically set after considering salary levels in companies meeting each year after of a similar size and complexity, the responsibilities of each individual having due regard to the Sufficient level to recruit role, progression within the role, individual performance and an factors noted in operating and retain individuals of individuals experience.
Our overall policy, having given due regard to the salary policy.
the necessary calibre to the factors noted, is normally to target salaries at a broadly market execute the Companys competitive level.
No recovery provisions business strategy.
Salaries may be adjusted and any increase will ordinarily be no higher than those of the wider workforce in percentage of salaryterms.
Increases beyond those granted to the wider workforce inpercentage of salary terms may be awarded in certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility orexperience, progression in the role, or a significant increase in thescale of the role, size, value or complexity of the Group.
Benefits Executive Directors receive benefits provisions at similar levels as Not applicable.
Benefits will typically include, for example, In line with the Companys No recovery provisions modest death in service cover.
The cost to the Company of policy to keep remuneration apply to benefits.
providing these benefits may vary from year to year depending on simple and consistent.
the level of the associated premium.
Executive Directors typically receive no other conventional executive company benefits, but will be eligible for any other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
Other benefits such as relocation allowances and other incidental associated expenses may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Executive Directors can pay for voluntary benefits, where Company purchasing power may provide an advantage to employees.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in any allemployee share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as for other eligible employees.
Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of thosetypically provided in their country of residence e. g. it may beappropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to the unique circumstances of such an appointment as opposed to providing the benefits detailed above.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Company business are reimbursed so that Executive Directors are not worse off on a net of tax basis as a result of fulfilling Company duties.
Pension Defined contribution plan with the same monthly employer Not applicable.
contributions as those offered to eligible employees in the wider To provide employees No recovery provisions UKworkforce i. e. up to 7% of base salary : or a cash alternative withlong-term savings apply to employer pension tothe equivalent value less employers National Insurance viapension provisions in contributions.
line with the Companys strategy to keep easyJet operates a pension salary sacrifice arrangement whereby remuneration simple individuals can exchange part of their salary for Company-paid andconsistent.
Where individuals exchange salary this reduces employer National Insurance contributions.
easyJet credits half of this reduction currently 6.9% of the salary exchanged to the individuals pension plan.
92 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Element, purpose and link Framework used to assess performance to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable and provisions for the recovery of sums paid Share ownership The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Not applicable.
Officer are expected to build and maintain To ensure alignment between aholding equivalent to 200% and 175% of the interests of Executive salary respectively over a period of five years Directors and shareholders.
Executive Directors are expected to retain 50% of the post-tax shares vesting under the LTIP and 100% of the post-tax deferred bonus shares until the guideline is met and keep it maintained thereafter.
Annual bonus Maximum opportunity of 200% of salary for Bonuses are based on stretching financial, Chief Executive and 175% of salary for other operational, and personal or departmental To incentivise and recognise Executive Directors.
performance measures, as set and assessed execution of the business by the Committee in its discretion, with strategy on an annual basis.
One-third of the pre-tax bonus earned is performance normally measured over a Rewards the achievement of subject to compulsory deferral into shares one-year period.
Financial measures e. g. annual financial and orequivalent, typically for a period of headline profit before tax will represent the operational goals.
threeyears, and is normally subject to majority of the bonus, with other measures continued employment.
A graduated scale Compulsory deferral provides of targets is set for each measure, with 10% alignment with shareholders.
The remainder of the bonus is paid in cash.
of each element being payable for achieving Dividend equivalent payments may be the relevant threshold hurdle.
madeon the deferred bonus at the time of Safety underpins all of the operational vesting, and may assume the reinvestment activities of the Group and the bonus ofdividends.
planincludes a provision that enables the All bonus payments are at the discretion of Remuneration Committee to scale back the the Committee, as shown following this table.
bonus earned including to zero in the event that there is a safety event which it considers warrants the use of such discretion.
The annual bonus plan includes provisions which enable the Committee in respect of both the cash and the deferred elements of bonuses to recover or withhold value in the event of certain defined circumstances.
LTIP Performance Each year LTIP awards may be granted LTIP awards currently vest based on Share Award subject to the achievement of performance performance against a challenging range targets.
Awards normally vest over a threeoffinancial targets and relative TSR To incentivise and recognise year period.
performance set and assessed by the execution of the business Committee in its discretion.
Financial targets strategy over the longer term.
The maximum opportunity contained within currently determine vesting in relation to Rewards strong financial the plan rules for Performance Share Awards atleast 50% of awards.
The selection of performance and sustained is 250% of salary with awards up to 300% measures and weightings may be varied for increase in shareholder value.
ofsalary eligible to be made in exceptional future award cycles as appropriate to reflect circumstances, such as recruitment.
the strategic priorities of the business at thattime.
The normal maximum face value of annual awards will be 250% of salary for the Chief Performance is normally measured over a Executive and 200% of salary for other three-year period.
A maximum of 25% of each element vests for Dividend equivalent awards may be made on achieving the threshold performance target LTIP awards that vest, and may assume the with 100% of the awards being earned for reinvestment of dividends.
A holding period applies to share awards The LTIP includes provisions which enable the granted in the financial year ended 30 Committee to recover or withhold value in the September 2015 and beyond.
The holding event of certain defined circumstances.
period will require the Executive Directors toretain the after-tax value of shares for 24months from the vesting date.
com GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DISCRETION RETAINED BY THE COMMITTEE PERFORMANCE METRICS AND TARGET SETTING IN OPERATING THE INCENTIVE PLANS The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and LTIP annual bonus plan reflect the Committees belief that any according to their respective rules or relevant documents incentive compensation should be appropriately challenging and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The and tied to the delivery of a blend of key financial, operational Committee retains discretion, consistent with market practice, and personal targets.
These targets are intended to ensure in a number of regards to the operation and administration of that Executive Directors are incentivised to deliver across these plans.
These include, but are not limited to, the following ascorecard of objectives for which they are accountable.
in relation to the LTIP and annual bonus deferred in shares: Financial measures e. g. headline profit before tax will be used for the majority of the bonus and will be selected in order to the participants: provide a clear indication of how successful the Group has the timing of grant of an award: been in managing operations effectively overall e. g. in maximising profit per seat whilst maintaining a high load factor.
the size of an award: The remainder of the bonus will be based on key operational the determination of vesting: e. g. on-time performance and customer satisfaction and the payment vehicle of the award payment: personal or departmental measures set annually.
discretion required when dealing with a change of control Since safety is of central importance to the business, the or restructuring of the Group: award of any bonus is subject to an underpin that enables determination of the treatment of leavers based on the theRemuneration Committee to reduce the bonus earned rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: including to zero in the event that there is a safety event adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights thatit considers warrants the use of such discretion.
issues, corporate restructuring events and special LTIP awards are earned for delivering performance against an dividends : and appropriate balance of key long-term financial e. g. headline the annual review of performance measures and weighting, ROCE and headline EPS and relative TSR targets.
These seek and targets for the LTIP from year to year.
to assess the underlying financial performance of the business while maintaining clear alignment between shareholders and In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee retains Executive Directors.
Targets are set based on a sliding scale discretion over: that takes account of relevant commercial factors.
the participants: Only modest awards are available for delivering threshold the timing of grant of a payment: performance levels, with maximum awards requiring the determination of the bonus payment: substantial outperformance of challenging plans.
dealing with a change of control: The Committee has retained some flexibility on the specific determination of the treatment of leavers based on measures which can be used for the annual bonus plan and therules of the plan and the appropriate treatment the LTIP to ensure that they will be fully aligned with the chosen: and strategic imperatives prevailing at the time they are set.
the annual review of performance measures and weighting, No performance targets are set for Save As You Earn and targets for the annual bonus plan from year to year.
awardssince these are purposefully designed to encourage employees across the Group to purchase shares in the In relation to both the Groups LTIP and the annual bonus Company.
A measure of Group performance is used in plan, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets determining awards under the Share Incentive Plan.
and or set different measures if events occur which cause it todetermine that the conditions are no longer appropriate HISTORICAL AWARDS e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group All historical awards that were granted under any current or business, and the amendment is required so that the previous share schemes operated by the Company, and which conditions achieve their original purpose and are not remain outstanding, remain eligible to vest on the basis of their materiallyless difficult tosatisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the DIFFERENCES IN PAY POLICY FOR Annual Report on Remuneration and may be the subject of EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS COMPARED consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
TO OTHER EASYJET EMPLOYEES The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more The use of discretion in relation to the Groups Save As You heavily weighted towards variable and share-based pay Earn and Share Incentive Plans will be as permitted under thanfor other employees, to make a greater part of their HMRC rules and the Listing Rules.
payconditional on the successful delivery of business strategy.
Details of share awards granted to existing Executive Directors This aims to create a clear link between the value created for are set out on page 101.
These remain eligible to vest based on shareholders and the remuneration received by the Executive their original award terms.
However, in line with the Groups policy to keep remuneration simple and performance-based, the benefit and pension arrangements for the current Executive Directors are on the same terms as those offered to eligible employees in the wider workforce.
All employees have the opportunity to participate in the tax-advantaged share plans.
94 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The scenarios do not include any dividend assumptions.
It ILLUSTRATION OF HOW MUCH THE EXECUTIVE should be noted that since the analysis above shows what DIRECTORS COULD EARN UNDER THE could be earned by the Executive Directors based on the REMUNERATION POLICY remuneration policy described above ignoring the potential A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to impact of share price growth, the numbers will be different performance, particularly at maximum performance levels.
tothe values included in the table on page 99 detailing what Thecharts below show how much the Chief Executive and was actually earned by the Executive Directors in relation Chief Financial Officer could earn through easyJets remuneration tothe financial year ended 30 September 2018, since these policy under different performance scenarios in the 2019 values are based on the actual levels of performance achieved financial year.
The following assumptions have been made: to 30 September 2018 and include the impact of share price Minimum performance below threshold fixed pay only, growth in relation to share awards.
with no vesting under any of easyJets incentive plans EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF In line with expectations fixed pay plus a bonus at the EMPLOYMENT mid-point of the range giving 50% of the maximum The Groups policy is for Executive Directors to have service opportunity and vesting of 50% of the maximum under contracts which may be terminated with no more than 12 the LTIP months notice from either party.
Maximum performance meets or exceeds maximum The Executive Directors service contracts are available for fixed pay plus maximum bonus and maximum vesting inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
under the LTIP APPROACH TO LEAVERS Fixed pay comprises: If notice is served by either party, the Executive Director can Salaries salary effective as at 1 October 2018: continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the Benefits amount received in the 2018 financial year: duration of their notice period, during which time the business may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current Pension employer contributions or cash-equivalent duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
payments received in the 2018 financial year: and A payment in lieu of notice may be made and, in this event, Free and Matching Shares under the all-employee share incentive plan.
the Committees normal policy is to make the payment in up to 12 monthly instalments which may be reduced if alternative 1 Chief Executive Johan Lundgren employment is taken up during this period.
Below thr Below threshold eshold Bonus payments may be made on a pro-ratabasis, but only for the period of time served from the start of the financial 100% 100% 754,000 year to the date of termination and not for any period in lieu In line with expectations In line with expectations ofnotice.
Any bonus paid would be subject to the normal bonus targets, tested at the end of the financialyear.
32% 30% 38% 2,343,000 In relation to a termination of employment, the Committee Exceeds target Exceeds target may make any statutory entitlements or payments to settle 19% 36% 45% 3,931,000 orcompromise claims in connection with a termination of anyexisting or future Executive Director as necessary.
The Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Performance Committee also retains the discretion to reimburse reasonable 2 Chief Financial officer Andrew Findlay legal expenses incurred in relation to a termination of employment and to meet any outplacement costs if deemed necessary.
Below threshold The rules of the Companys share plans set out what happens 100% 535,000 to awards if a participant ceases to be an employee or Director In line with expectations of easyJet before the end of the vesting period.
Generally, any outstanding share awards will lapse on such cessation, 36% 30% 34% 1,473,000 exceptin certain circumstances.
Exceeds target If an Executive Director ceases to be an employee or Director 22% 36% 42% 2,410,000 of easyJet as a result of death, injury, retirement, the sale of Fixed pay Annual Bonus LTIP Performance the business or company that employs the individual, or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they 1 Were easyJets share price to increase by 50%, Johan Lundgrens total willbe treated as a good leaver under the relevant plans remuneration would increase to 4,820,000 under an exceeds target rules.
Under the deferred bonus, the shares for a good leaver scenario driven by the increased value of the LTIP awards will normally vest in full on the normal vesting date or on 2 Were easyJets share price to increase by 50%, Andrew Findlays total remuneration would increase to 2,910,000 under an exceeds target cessation of employment in the case of death and if the scenario driven by the increased value of the LTIP awards award is in the form of an option, there is a 12 month window in which the award can be exercised.
Awards structured as options which have vested prior to cessation can be exercised within 12 months of cessation of office oremployment.
com GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Under the LTIP, a good leavers unvested awards will vest The maximum level of variable pay that may be offered on either on the normal vesting date or the relevant date of anongoing basis and the structure of remuneration will be cessation, as determined by the Committee subject to inaccordance with the approved policy detailed above, i. e. at achievement of any relevant performance conditions, with anaggregate maximum of up to 450% of salary 200% annual apro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the vesting bonus and 250% Performance Shares under the LTIP, taking period served.
The Committee has the discretion to disapply into account annual and long-term variable pay.
This limit time pro-rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
A doesnot include the value of any buy-out arrangements.
Any goodleaver may exercise their vested awards structured incentive offered above this limit would be contingent on the asoptions for a period of 12 months following the individuals Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment cessation of office or employment, whereas unvested awards toits approved policy.
Different performance measures may may be exercised within twelve months of vesting.
be set initially for the annual bonus, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual, and the point in the financial In determining whether an Executive Director should be year that they joined.
LTIP awards can be made shortly treated as a good leaver, and the extent to which their following an appointment assuming the Company is not in awardmay vest, the Committee will take into account the aclosed period.
circumstances of an individuals departure.
The above policy applies to both an internal promotion to In the event of a takeover or winding-up of easyJet plc which theBoard or an external hire.
is not part of an internal reorganisation of the easyJet Group, in circumstances where equivalent replacement awards are In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out not granted all awards will vest subject to, in the case of incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be LTIPawards, the achievement of any relevant performance forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be conditions with a pro-rata reduction to reflect the proportion provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, of the vesting period served.
The Committee has discretion to timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any disapply time pro-rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
existing performance criteria of the remuneration being In the event of a takeover, the Committee may determine, forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted with the agreement of the acquiring company, that awards using easyJets share plans to the extent possible, although willbe exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
awards may also be granted outside these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
POLICY ON EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Executive Directors are permitted to accept appropriate In the case of an internal promotion, any outstanding outside Non-Executive Director appointments so long variablepay awarded in relation to the previous role will be astheoverall commitment is compatible with their duties paid according to its terms of grant adjusted as relevant to asExecutive Directors and is not thought to interfere with take into account the Board appointment.
Any fees received in respect of On the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive theseappointments are retained directly by the relevant Director, fees will be set taking into account the experience ExecutiveDirector.
and calibre of the individual.
Where specific cash or share APPROACH TO DETERMINING REMUNERATION arrangements are delivered to Non-Executive Directors, these ON RECRUITMENT will not include share options or other performanceBase salary levels will be set in accordance with easyJets relatedelements.
remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and The Board evaluation and succession planning processes calibre of the individual.
Where it is considered appropriate inplace are designed to ensure there is the correct balance tooffer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to achieve ofskills, experience and knowledge on the Board.
The the desired salary positioning may be given over the following activitiesofthe Nominations Committee overseeing these few years to reflect progression in the role, subject to matters are disclosed in the Nominations Committee report .
Benefits will normally be provided onpages 78 to79.
inline with those offered to other employees.
The Committee may provide an allowance and or reimbursement of any NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES reasonableexpenses in relation to the relocation of an The Non-Executive Directors receive an annual fee normally Executive Director.
easyJet may also offer a cash amount paid in monthly instalments.
The fee for the Non-Executive onrecruitment, payment of which may be staggered, to Chairman is set by the Remuneration Committee and the reflect the value ofbenefits a new recruit may have received feesfor the other Non-Executive Directors are approved by from a formeremployer.
the Board, on the recommendation of the Chairman and ChiefExecutive.
Should it be appropriate to recruit a Director from overseas, flexibility is retained to provide benefits that take account of TERMS OF APPOINTMENT OF THE those typically provided in their country of residence e. g. it NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS may be appropriate to provide benefits that are tailored to the The terms of appointment of the Chairman and the other unique circumstances of such an appointment.
Non-Executive Directors are recorded in letters of appointment.
The required notice from the Company is three months.
The Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on loss of office.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
96 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels where applicable Fees To attract and retain a high The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
calibre Chairman, Deputy The other Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with supplementary Chairman and Non-Executive fees payable for additional Board Committee responsibilities.
Directors by offering marketcompetitive fee levels.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Groups incentive arrangements.
Fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis, and may be increased, taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to exceed current fee levels if it is necessary to do so in order to appoint a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director of an appropriate calibre.
In exceptional circumstances, if there is a temporary yet material increase in the time commitments for Non-Executive Directors, the Board may pay extra fees to recognise the additional workload.
Necessary expenses incurred undertaking Group business will be reimbursed so that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not worse off, on a net of tax basis, as a result of fulfilling Company duties.
No other benefits or remuneration are provided to the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors.
Annual report on remuneration MEMBERSHIP OF THE BASE SALARY REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The current and proposed salaries of the Executive Members of the Committee serving during the year were: Directorsare: Change vs Charles Gurassa Chair 01 January 01 February 01 January 01 January 2019 salary 2018 salary 2018 salary 2018 Adle Anderson Johan Moya Greene DBE Lundgren 720,120 706,000 740,000 3% Andy Martin Andrew Julie Southern joined 1 August 2018.
Findlay 510,000 500,000 500,000 2% The responsibilities of the Committee are set out in the Johan Lundgrens salary was set at 740,000 from Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report on appointment on 1 December 2017, reflecting a marketpage86.
competitive rate for the role of Chief Executive.
However, as The Chairman and the Chief Executive attend meetings disclosed in a Regulatory News Service RNS statement dated 29 January 2018, in line with easyJets ongoing commitment byinvitation and assist the Committee in its deliberations asappropriate.
The Committee also receives assistance toequal pay, Johan requested that the Board reduce his basesalary to 706,000, in line with the salary paid to andadvice from the Chief Financial Officer, Group People Director and the Group Head of Reward.
Secretary & Group General Counsel acts as secretary to the Both Executive Directors were offered a salary increase of 2% Committee.
No Directors are involved in determining their effective 1 January 2019.
For comparison, the typical rate of ownremuneration.
salary increase to be awarded to employees in Group functions is 1% to 3%.
APPLICATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE 2019 FINANCIAL YEAR There will be no material changes to the remuneration policy or its implementation for the 2019 financial year.
easyJets remuneration policy has received consistently high levels of investor support in recent years and the Committee considers that it remains aligned with the best practice expectations of institutional investors.
com GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The performance measures and weightings will be as follows: ANNUAL BONUS IN RESPECT OF PERFORMANCE IN THE 2019 FINANCIAL YEAR Below Threshold On Target Maximum threshold 25% 50% 100% The maximum bonus opportunity remains at 200% of salary 0% vesting vesting vesting vesting for the Chief Executive and at 175% for the Chief Financial 3 year average Officer.
The measures have been selected to reflect a range headline ROCE offinancial and operational goals that support the key 40% of total strategic objectives of the Group.
award 11.0% 11.00% 13.00% 15.00% The performance measures and weightings will be as follows: 3 year As a percentage of aggregate maximum bonus opportunity headline EPS Measure CEO CFO 40% of total Headline profit before tax at award 383p 383p 414p 446p budgeted constant currency 60% 60% Below Threshold Maximum On-time performance 10% 10% threshold 25% 100% Customer satisfaction 10% 10% 0% vesting vesting vesting Headline cost per seat excluding fuel TSR 20% of Upper at budgeted constant currency 10% 10% total award Median Median quartile Personal and departmental The EPS and ROCE targets have been set under the accounting objectives 10% 10% standards used in the preparation of the financial statements contained elsewhere in this report.
New accounting standards The proposed target levels for the 2019 financial year have been set to be challenging relative to the business plan.
IFRS 15 and IFRS 16 will apply from this year onwards and theabove targets will be restated accordingly in the next The Committee is comfortable that the bonus targets for Annual Report.
bothExecutive Directors are appropriately demanding in light of their respective bonus opportunities.
Awards vest on a straight-line basis from threshold to ontarget and from on-target to maximum.
As with the awards The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2019 financial granted in the 2018 financial year, the ROCE targets are based year, are commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective on average headline ROCE over a three-year performance disclosure of the targets and performance against them will period, commencing on 1 October 2018.
The EPS targets are beprovided in next years remuneration report unless they based on aggregate headline EPS over the three financial remain commercially sensitive at that time.
The safety of years ending 30 September 2021. ourcustomers and people underpins all of the operational activitiesof the Group and the bonus plan includes a provision The TSR targets are based on relative TSR compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150 at the start of the performance that enables the Remuneration Committee to scale back the bonus awarded in the event that a safety event has occurred, period, where the average share price is calculated over three months at the start and end of the period.
In addition, in order which it considers warrants the use of such discretion.
Onethird of the pre-tax bonus earned will be deferred into for the TSR-based awards to vest, easyJet must have achieved positive absolute TSR over the performance period.
Targets sharesfor a period of three years and will be subject to continuedemployment.
are set taking account of managements strategic plan, market consensus and the Boards strong focus on driving value from Bonus payments may now be withheld or recovered if, within its increasing capital base.
aperiod of three years from the date of payment, there is: A post-vesting holding period requiring the Executive Directorsto acase of serious personal misconduct: a misstatement of accounts: an error in calculation of results: an instance of retain the post-tax value of any shares for two years from the vesting date will continue to apply to this and future awards.
corporate failure: or material damage to the Companys reputation as a result of a safety event.
LTIP payments may now be withheld or recovered if, within a LTIP AWARDS IN RELATION TO THE 2019 period of three years from the date of vesting, there is: a case of serious personal misconduct: a misstatement of accounts: FINANCIAL YEAR We intend to make awards to the Chief Executive of 250% an error in calculation of results: an instance of corporate failure: or material damage to the Companys reputation as a result of ofsalary and to the Chief Financial Officer of 200% of salary inrespect of the 2019 financial year.
As in 2017, awards made in December 2018 will be subject toacombination of headline ROCE, headline EPS and TSR performance measures, reflecting a balance between growth and returns, and aligning with the Groups strategic priorities over the medium term described on pages 8 to 9.
98 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors from 1 January 2019 will be as follows: Chairman 306,000 Basic fee for other Non-Executive Directors 61,200 1 Fees for Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director role 25,000 1 Chair of the Audit, Safety and Remuneration Committees 15,000 1 Chair of the Finance Committee 10,000 1 Supplementary fees The Board has agreed an increase to basic fees of 2% which will apply from 1 January 2019.
This increase is in line with that applied to Executive Directors and within the range awarded to employees in the wider UK Group functions.
These fees were last increased on 1 October 2013.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 The table below sets out the amounts earned by the Directors 000 audited 2018 2017 Fees and Fees and 6 7 8 9 6 7 10 9 000 Salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Executive Johan Lundgren 594 869 37 1,500 Carolyn McCall 2 DBE 118 7 125 706 2 49 757 Andrew Findlay 491 5 650 30 1,176 453 2 528 97 28 1,108 Non-Executive John Barton 300 300 300 300 Charles Gurassa 100 100 100 100 Adle Anderson 75 75 75 75 Dr Andreas Bierwirth 75 75 75 75 Keith Hamill 3 OBE 15 15 60 60 Andy Martin 70 70 70 70 Franois 4 Rubichon 48 48 Moya Greene DBE 60 60 12 12 5 Julie Southern 10 10 Total 1,908 5 1,519 74 3,506 1,899 4 528 97 77 2,605 2 Left the Board on 30 November 2017 but continued to be actively employed by easyJet until 31 December 2017, in order to assist with the transition tothe new Chief Executive.
Carolyn McCall received salary of 58,833 and pension contributions of 3,618 between 1 December and 31 December 2017.
3 Left the Board on 31 December 2017 4 Left the Board on 22 July 2017 5 Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2018 6 Benefits relate to the cost to the business of personal accident and life assurance cover and the value of shares awarded under the Share IncentivePlan 7 One-third of the bonus will be compulsorily deferred into shares for three years and subject to forfeiture 8 Andrew Findlay was granted LTIP awards in December 2015, vesting in December 2018 subject to Group performance measured to 30 September 2018.
9 Johan Lundgren, Carolyn McCall DBE and Andrew Findlay all received a cash alternative to pension contributions in the year equivalent to 6.15% ofsalary 10 This relates to the LTIP awards granted in November 2015 on recruitment which vested in December 2017 based on performance measured to 30September 2017.
For the purposes of the table in last years report, the awards were valued using the average share price over the three months to 30 September 2017 of 12.70.
The value has been updated in this table to reflect using the share price at the date of vesting of 14.16.
This compares to 17.14 at grant.
com GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL BONUS OUTTURN FOR PERFORMANCE IN THE 2018 FINANCIAL YEAR AUDITED Measure CEO & CFO Threshold On-Target Maximum Actual Payout 1 2 Headline profit before tax m 60% 388 431 496 551 100% 3 Customer satisfaction targets 10% 69.5% 71.0% 72.5% 71.2% 57% 4 On-time performance 10% 75% 76.5% 78% 74.9% 0% 1 2 Headline cost per seat ex.
fuel 10% 42.84 42.42 42.00 44.25 0% Personal and departmental objectives 10% n a 50% 100% Note 5 Note 5 1 At budgeted constant currency.
2 Targets were set prior to the acquisition of part of Air Berlins operations at Tegel.
This transaction took place after the targets had been concluded bythe Committee, and their associated costs and revenues have been excluded.
The impact of this adjustment is to reduce the headline profit before tax target ranges by 90 million such that the revised Threshold, On-Target and Maximum targets were 298 million, 341 million and 406 million respectively.
On the same basis, the Committee upwardly adjusted the headline cost per seat target ranges by 0.59 such that the revised Threshold, On-Target and Maximum targets were 43.43, 43.01 and 42.59 respectively.
Neither adjustment had an impact on the final bonus outcome as themaximum headline profit before tax target was significantly exceeded, whilst headline cost per seat performance was below the adjusted thresholdlevel.
3 Customer satisfaction measures the percentage of our passengers that are Quite satisfied, Very satisfied or Completely satisfied at last contact.
4 On-time performance measures the percentage of arrivals within 15 minutes of scheduled time, subject to flying 99.5% of programme excluding cancellations made 14 days in advance which do not attract EU compensation and those which affect the whole airline sector e. g. terrorist disruption.
5 Johan Lundgren and Andrew Findlay will receive payouts of 75% and 100%, respectively, of the maximum for this element.
Further detail of their performance against specific objectives is included below.
A sliding scale of financial and operational bonus targets was set at the start of the 2018 financial year.
10% of each element ispayable for achieving the threshold target, increasing to 50% for on-target performance and 100% for achieving maximum performance.
Achievements between these points are calculated on a straight-line basis.
The Company significantly exceeded the headline profit before tax target: whilst performance against the headline cost per seat target was below the adjusted threshold level.
Similarly, customer satisfaction scored just above the on-target level while on-time performance fell just below threshold level.
In recognition of the strong progress against Johan Lundgrens personal and corporate goals, which include maintaining easyJets outstanding safety record and procedures, successfully integrating the new Tegel operations into the wider easyJet network, reviewing and launching the new strategy and strengthening the senior team with a number of key appointments, the Committee awarded 75% of the maximum available under this element of the bonus.
In the case of Andrew Findlay, the Committee recognised his exceptional contribution in terms of successfully leading the Company during the transition to the new Chief Executive, completing the acquisition of part of Air Berlins operations at TegelAirport and achieving cash, fleet and Brexit objectives.
The Committee therefore agreed to award the maximum under thiselement.
Accordingly, bonuses of 73.2% and 75.7% of the maximum were payable, resulting in bonus pay outs of 869,022 and 649,588 forJohan Lundgren and Andrew Findlay, respectively.
One-third of the bonus is compulsorily deferred into shares for threeyears and subject to continued employment.
The Committee is satisfied with the overall payments in light of the level of performanceachieved.
LTIP AUDITED The awards vesting in respect of the performance year to 30 September 2018 were subject to a combination of performance conditions based on average reported ROCE including lease adjustments and relative TSR compared to FTSE 31-130 companiesmeasured over the prior three financial years.
The percentage which could be earned was determined using the following vesting schedule: Below threshold Threshold On Target 0% vesting 25% vesting 50% vesting Maximum 100% vesting ROCE awards 70% of total awards 15% 15% 18.0% 20% or above TSR awards 30% of total awards Below median Median Upper quartile These targets were set based on the Companys medium-term business plan which, at the time, did not include the acquisition ofpart of Air Berlins operations at Tegel Airport.
In order to ensure that the performance conditions reflected the original expectations of the Committee at the time of grant, the Committee determined that reported ROCE for the 2018 financial yearwould be calculated excluding the impact of the transaction.
Notwithstanding this adjustment, three-year average reportedROCE including lease adjustments to 30 September 2018 finished below the threshold required 13.8% and the Company did not meet the threshold TSR performance target.
No awards are therefore eligible to vest in December 2018.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AND PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED As disclosed in last years Annual Report, Carolyn McCall DBE resigned from her position as Chief Executive in July 2017.
She left the Board on 30 November 2017 but remained in employment with the Company until 31 December 2017, receiving salary of 58,833 and pension contributions of 3,618 during this one month period.
Under the leaver provisions set out in the policy, she was not eligible for an annual bonus for the 2017 or 2018 financial years, all unvested LTIP awards lapsed in full on her resignation, and any outstanding unvested deferred share bonus awards lapsed at the point of cessation.
No payments for loss of office or any other payments have been made to Carolyn McCall DBE or to any other past Directors during the year.
100 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHARE AWARDS OUTSTANDING AT THE FINANCIAL YEAR END AUDITED Details of share options and share awards outstanding at the financial year end are shown in the following tables: Johan Lundgren No.
of shares Shares Shares Shares No.
of shares Market price options at options options options options at 30 Exercise on exercise 30 September granted lapsed exercised September price date Date from which 1 1 Scheme 2017 in year in year in year 2018 Date of grant exercisable Expiry Date 5 A 134,350 134,350 19 Dec 2017 19 Dec 2020 19 Dec 2027 Andrew Findlay No.
Key: A Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Shares B Share Incentive Plan Performance Free Shares C Share Incentive Plan Matching Shares D Save As You Earn Awards SAYE Note 1: Number of share awards granted The number of shares is calculated according to the scheme rules of individual plans based on the middle-market closing share price of the day prior to grant.
As is usual market practice, the option price for SAYE awards is determined by the Committee in advance of the award by reference to the share price following announcement of the half year results.
Note 2: LTIP awards granted in November 2015 An award of 39,923 easyJet shares was made to Andrew Findlay in November 2015, to compensate for the forfeiture of the awards granted in August 2014 from his previous employer.
This award comprised an exchange of the maximum number of shares that could vest under his previous employers award which were then converted to easyJet shares on joining.
These shares vested subject to Andrew remaining in employment until 19 December 2017 being the ordinary vesting date for the easyJet award and later than the vesting date of the original award at his former employer and to meeting the performance targets applying to the 2014 easyJet LTIP award as provided below.
50% of vesting was based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2017 and 50% of vesting was based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 31-130.
Three-year average ROCE including lease adjustments was 16.2% and the Company did not meet the TSR performance metric, such that overall, 15.3% of awards vested.
On vesting, 774 dividend equivalent shares were granted, reflecting the value of dividends which would have been earned had Andrew Findlay held shares over the vesting period.
The following targets applied for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Vesting in December 2017 0% vesting 25% vesting 40% vesting Maximum 100% vesting ROCE awards 50% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.2% 20.0% TSR awards 50% of total award Median Median n a Upper quartile Note 3: LTIP awards granted in December 2015 70% of vesting was based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustments performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2018 and 30% of vesting was based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 31-130.
ROCE for the 2018 financial year has been calculated excluding the impact of the Air Berlin acquisition.
Three-year average ROCE including lease adjustments was 13.8% and the Company did not meet the threshold TSR performance target.
The following targets applied for these awards: Below threshold Threshold Target Vesting in December 2018 0% vesting 25% vesting 50% vesting Maximum 100% vesting ROCE awards 70% of total award 15.0% 15.0% 18.0% 20.0% TSR awards 30% of total award Median Median n a Upper quartile 101 www.
com GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Note 4: LTIP awards made in December 2016 70% of vesting is based on three-year average ROCE including lease adjustments performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2019 and 30% of vesting is based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150.
Headline ROCE for the 2018 and 2019 financial years will be calculated excluding the impact of the acquisition of part of Air Berlins operations at Tegel Airport.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Target Vesting in December 2019 0% vesting Threshold 25% vesting 50% vesting Maximum 100% vesting ROCE awards 70% of total award 9.0% 9.0% 11.2% 13.0% TSR awards 30% of total award Median Median n a Upper quartile In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
The face value of the award granted to AndrewFindlay was 924,995 200% of salary.
Note 5: LTIP awards made in December 2017 40% of vesting is based on three-year average headline ROCE including lease adjustment performance for the three financial years ending 30 September 2020, 40% is based on aggregate headline EPS over the three financial years ending 30 September 2020, and 20% is based on relative TSR performance compared to companies ranked FTSE 51-150.
The following targets apply for these awards: Below threshold Target Vesting in December 2020 0% vesting Threshold 25% vesting 50% vesting Maximum 100% vesting ROCE awards 40% of total award 9.0% 9.0% 11.2% 13.0% EPS awards 40% of total award 278p 278p 310p 335p TSR awards 20% of total award Median Median n a Upper quartile In addition, the TSR awards will not vest unless there has been positive TSR over the performance period.
The face value of the awards granted was 1,850,000 250% of salary to Johan Lundgren and 1,000,000 200% of salary to Andrew Findlay.
Note 6: LTIP awards made in June 2018 As described in the Chairmans statement, an additional LTIP award was made to Andrew Findlay on 4 June 2018, in recognition of his contribution to the business during the transitional period between the resignation of Carolyn McCall DBE and the appointment of her successor, as well as his leadership of the Air Berlin transaction process.
This award is subject to the same performance conditions as those awards made in December 2017 described in note 5 above, and will vest on 4 June 2021.
The face value of the award granted was 249,914 50% of salary.
Note 7: Buy As You Earn Participants buy Partnership Shares monthly under the Share Incentive Plan.
The Company provides one Matching Share for each Partnership Share purchased, up to the first 1,500 per year.
These Matching Shares are first available for vesting three years after purchase.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES IN THE 2019 FINANCIAL YEAR The shareholding guidelines will continue to operate on the same basis as last year, i. e. the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are expected to build up a shareholding of 200% and 175% of salary, respectively, over the first five years from appointment to the Board.
Until the guideline is met, Executive Directors are required to retain 50% of net vested shares from the LTIP and 100% of net vested deferred bonus shares.
Similarly, the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Board, are required to build up a shareholding of 100% of annual fees over a period of five years from appointment.
DIRECTORS CURRENT SHAREHOLDINGS AND INTERESTS IN SHARES The following table provides details on current Directors interests in shares at 30 September 2018.
Note that Carolyn McCall DBE and Keith Hamill OBE had both achieved 100% of the shareholding guidelines at the point of their departure during the financialyear.
Interests in share schemes Unconditionally Shareholding 3 4 5 6 7 owned shares guidelines achieved Deferred bonus SAYE LTIP SIP Total John Barton 34,000 100% Charles Gurassa 18,198 100% 1 Johan Lundgren 20,000 22% 134,350 134,350 Andrew Findlay 30,391 54% 17,774 1,608 225,512 506 245,400 Adle Anderson 5,114 100% Dr Andreas Bierwirth 5,251 100% Andy Martin 7,000 100% Moya Greene DBE 7,407 100% 2 Julie Southern 0% 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 December 2017 2 Appointed to the Board on 1 August 2018 3 Includes SIP Partnership Shares, vested SIP Performance Free Shares, vested SIP Matching Shares and any shares owned by connected persons 4 Based on unconditionally owned shares and post-tax value of share interests under the deferred bonus plan as per the Committees policy on shareholding guidelines.
Once the guideline has been met, the number of shares counting towards the guideline is fixed, regardless of any change inshare price, with the Director only needing to invest in additional shares to the value of any increase in salary or fees awarded during the year in order to maintain satisfaction of the guideline.
5 Andrew Findlays deferred bonus figure includes 12,789 awards granted in the year 6 LTIP shares are granted in the form of nil-cost options subject to performance.
Includes 134,350 and 87,206 LTIP awards granted in the year to JohanLundgren and to Andrew Findlay, respectively.
7 Consists of unvested SIP Performance Free Shares and unvested SIP Matching Shares 102 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 As at 20 November 2018, the unconditionally owned shares of Andrew Findlay had increased by 25 shares since 30September2018 to 30,416 shares.
Changes in share ownership levels throughout the year may be found on our corporate website, http: corporate.
Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the unvested shares held by the easyJet Share Incentive Plan and the easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust.
At 30 September 2018, ordinary shares held in the Trusts were as follows: Number of ordinary shares easyJet Share Incentive Plan Trust 1,630,995 easyJet plc Employee Benefit Trust 106,695 Total 1,737,690 POSITION AGAINST DILUTION LIMITS easyJet complies with the Investment Associations Principles of Remuneration with regard to dilution limits.
These principles require that commitments under all of the Companys share incentive schemes must not exceed 10% of the issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period.
Share awards under all current share incentive schemes LTIP, Save As You Earn and Share Incentive Plan will be satisfied with share purchases on the market and the Companys current position against its dilution limit is within the maximum 10% limit.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLAN PARTICIPATION A key component of easyJets reward philosophy is to provide share ownership opportunities throughout the Group by making annual awards of performance-related shares to all eligible employees.
In addition, easyJet operates a voluntary discounted share purchase arrangement for all employees via a Save As You Earn scheme and a Buy As You Earn arrangement with matching shares in the UK under the tax-approved Share Incentive Plan.
DETAILS OF DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment in place as at 30 September 2018 for Directors are as follows: Unexpired term at Date of appointment Date of current service contract 30 September 2018 John Barton 1 May 2013 3 May 2016 Letters of appointment fortheNon-Executive Charles Gurassa 27 June 2011 19 June 2017 Directorsdonot contain Johan Lundgren 1 December 2017 10 November 2017 fixedterm periods: Andrew Findlay 2 October 2015 10 April 2015 however, theyare Adle Anderson 1 September 2011 19 July 2017 appointed inthe expectation thatthey Dr Andreas Bierwirth 22 July 2014 19 July 2017 willserve fora maximum Moya Greene DBE 19 July 2017 19 July 2017 of nineyears, subjectto Andy Martin 1 September 2011 19 July 2017 satisfactory performance and re-electionatAGMs.
Julie Southern 1 August 2018 7 June 2018 REVIEW OF PAST PERFORMANCE The chart below sets out the TSR performance of the Company relative to the FTSE 250, FTSE 100 and a group of European 1 airlines since 2008.
The FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 were chosen as easyJet has been a member of both indices during the period.
700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 30 Sep 2008 30 Sep 2009 30 Sep 2010 30 Sep 2011 30 Sep 2012 30 Sep 2013 30 Sep 2014 30 Sep 2015 30 Sep 2016 30 Sep 2017 30 Sep 2018 easyJet FTSE 250 Index FTSE 100 Index Comparator Airlines This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2018, of 100 invested in easyJet on 30 September 2008, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Indices or a comparator group of airlines on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Overseas companies have been tracked in their local currency, i. e. ignoring exchange rate movements since 30 September 2008.
1 British Airways, Lufthansa, Ryanair, Air France-KLM and Iberia have all been included in the comparative European Airlines group.
British Airways and Iberia have been tracked forward from 2011 onwards as IAG 103 www.
com GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same 10-year period.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus and LTIP vesting percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Single total figure of remuneration 4 3 2 1 000 1,686 2,741 1,552 3,694 7,777 9,209 6,241 1,453 757 1,625 Annual Bonus % 89% 0% 63% 96% 87% 76% 66% 13% 0% 73% LTIP vesting % 0% 0% 0% 92% 100% 100% 100% 32% 0% 0% 1 Includes remuneration for the current Chief Executive, Johan Lundgren, of 1,500,000, and 125,000 paid to his predecessor, Carolyn McCall DBE 2 Includes 48,509 LTIP shares inclusive of dividend equivalents at the vesting date share price of 10.43, a decrease of 30% on the share price at grant of 14.99 3 Includes 266,899 LTIP shares vesting for the period, share price is 17.15 the actual share price at vesting an increase of 133% on the share price at grant of 7.37 4 Includes 445,575 LTIP shares vesting for the period, share price was 16.71 the actual share price at vesting an increase of 325% on the share price at grant of 3.93 CHANGE IN CHIEF EXECUTIVE PAY FOR THE YEAR IN COMPARISON TO THAT FOR EASYJET EMPLOYEES The table below shows the year-on-year percentage change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the year ended 30 September 2018 and the year ended 30 September 2017 for the Chief Executive, compared to the average earnings of all other easyJet UK employees.
3 4 Salary Benefits Annual bonus 1 Chief Executive 1% 0% 100% 2 Average pay based on all easyJets UK employees 3.5% 200% 21% 1 Chief Executive figures present actual FY2018 data for Johan Lundgren, annualised for the full financial year and compared against actual FY2017 data for Carolyn McCall DBE 2 UK employees are presented as the comparator as their salaries and benefits represent the most appropriate comparison.
Note that UK employees comprise over 50% of total employees 3 There was no change in the level of Chief Executive benefits received versus the prior year.
UK employee benefits increased in FY2018 against prior year levels as no SIP Performance Free Share award was granted in April 2017 4 No bonus was awarded to Carolyn McCall DBE in the prior year.
The average UK employee bonus increased as a result of easyJets achievement of stretch performance against its financial profit target in FY2018.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below shows the total pay for all of easyJets employees compared to other key financial indicators.
Year ended Year ended Change 1 30 September 2018 30 September 2017 % Employee costs m 847 717 18% Ordinary dividend m 233 162 44% Average monthly number of employees 13,104 11,655 12% Revenue m 5,898 5,047 17% Headline profit before tax m 578 408 42% 1 Additional information on the number of employees, total revenue and profit has been provided for context.
The majority of easyJets employees around 95% perform flight and ground operations, with the rest performing administrative and managerial roles.
104 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS Carolyn McCall DBE received fees of 13,333 in the year to 30 September 2018, up to the date of her departure from the Board, for her role as Non-Executive Director of Burberry plc.
Andrew Findlay received fees of 54,167 in the year to 30 September 2018 for his role as Non-Executive Director of Rightmoveplc.
STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS VOTING AT THE 2018 AGM Votes cast at the AGM in February 2018 in respect of the Companys Annual Statement by the Chairman of the  and Annual Report on Remuneration are given in the table below.
Policy Annual Report on Remuneration Votes cast in favour 299,660,093 99.06% 301,234,869 99.58% Votes cast against 2,831,491 0.94% 1,257,785 0.42% Total votes cast in favour or against 302,491,584 100% 302,492,654 100% Votes withheld 40,212 36,636 ADVISERS TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is advised by New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon plc.
NBS was appointed by theCommittee in 2004 following a tender process.
NBS advises the Committee on developments in executive pay and on theoperation of easyJets incentive plans.
Other than to the Committee, NBS also provides some associated advice to easyJet inrelation to, for example, legal implementation and the fees of the Non-Executive Directors.
Other than the provision of these services, NBS has no other connection with the Company.
However, a sister company in the Aon group also provides pension and flexible benefits administration services to the Company.
Total fees excluding VAT paid to NBS in respect of services to theCommittee during the 2018 financial year were 71,850, charged on a time and materials basis.
NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and any advice received is governed by that code.
The Committee has reviewed the operating processes in place at NBS and is satisfied that the advice it receives is independent and objective.
