GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT KEY ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR Assessed the level of performance in respect of the bonus for the 2017 financial year, and LTIP awards set in December 2014 and vesting in December 2017, to determine appropriate payouts Determined the bonus and LTIP targets for the 2018financial year after considering and debating alternative targets, investor expectations and internal business plans Reviewed and approved the new Chief Executives remuneration package as well as those of the new Group People Director and other AMB members CHARLES GURASSA Reviewed the salaries and service contracts of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee AMB and senior management Reviewed and approved a revised Board expenses policy PRIMARY ROLE To make recommendations to the Board on executive Considered the results and implications of gender remuneration packages and to ensure that remuneration policy pay gap reporting, and reviewed and commented and practices of the Company reward fairly and responsibly, onrecommendations to further enhance the with a clear link to corporate and individual performance.
Companys performance Reviewed and approved the payment of the The Committees terms of reference, reviewed and all-employee Performance Share Award in respect of approved annually, are available on the Companys website the 2017 financial year at http: corporate.
KEY RESPONSIBILITIES To set the remuneration policy for all executive The Board and the Committee are committed to ensuring Directors and the Companys Chairman thateasyJets remuneration framework is designed to supportthe strategy, providing balance between motivating To set the pay for the AMB and challenging senior management whilst also driving the To oversee remuneration and workforce policies and long-term success of the Group for its shareholders.
practices, and take these into account when setting the policy for Director remuneration The updated remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys 2018 AGM: it has been designed to be To approve the design of, and determine targets for, all straightforward and transparent, in alignment with the Groups employee share schemes operated by the Company principle of having a simple and .
To oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or Group During the year the Committee has received regular updates on the development of the new UK Corporate Governance To review and monitor the Groups compliance with Code.
Work is well under way to incorporate, in particular, the relevant gender pay reporting requirements new provisions to address and consider the employee voice.
MEMBERSHIP, MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE The Committee carefully considered and approved the new Charles Gurassa Chair Chief Executives remuneration package during the year, Adle Anderson alongwith a number of additional packages for new members Moya Greene DBE appointed to the AMB.
Remuneration arrangements have been designed to promote the long-term success of the Company.
Andy Martin Julie Southern The shareholding guidelines policy was also reviewed and approved during the year.
The guidelines have been structured All members of the Committee are independent Nonto encourage Directors and members of the AMB to acquire Executive Directors.
Member biographies can be found on and maintain shares in the Company to specified levels over a pages 61 to 63. five-year period in line with the external business environment.
Other key invitees including the Chief Executive, the Group Additional key activities of the Committee are detailed further People Director and external advisers attended as relevant.
inthe Directors remuneration report on pages 87 to 105.
Meeting attendance can be found in the table on page 70.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES UNDER THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE COMMITTEE CHANGES For additional disclosures under the UK Corporate Governance Julie Southern was appointed as a member of the Code in relation to the Remuneration Committees work and Committee on 1 August 2018. remuneration consultants, please refer to the Directors remuneration report.
86 easyJet plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
