Annual report & accounts 2018 Remuneration report Alexander Izosimov Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present our annual report on directors remuneration and to confirm that the Committee has taken decisions fully in line with our shareholder approved policy.
This policy is designed to deliver our sustainable business objectives and maximise long-term rewards to shareholders.
The Committees Terms of Reference have now been updated in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
This report has been prepared in Directors remuneration in FTSE100 directors salaries.
The benchmark accordance with the Companies Act comparison, conducted by Korn Ferry, indicated policy 2006 and Schedule 8 to the Large and that the median salary of the CEOs of FTSE Medium-sized Companies and Groups The current Remuneration Policy was approved 100 companies increased by around 15% Accounts and Reports Regulations by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting over this period.
This increase will also be 2008 as amended in 2013: the AGM in June 2017.
The Regulations require that in line with internal compensation dynamics Regulations.
It also meets the shareholders formally approve the policy every in the Company over the last decade.
The bonus relevant requirements of the Financial three years and therefore the next occasion opportunity for 2019 will remain unchanged.
Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules and will be at the AGM in 2020.
The CEO does not participate in the long-term describes how the Board has applied incentive plan or receive any pension benefits the principles of good governance as allowances.
set out in the UK Corporate Governance Annual remuneration report Code April 2016.
Based on performance against the pre-determined The second part of the report, the Annual KPIs and targets, the CEOs annual bonus payout This report contains both auditable Remuneration Report, sets out details for 2018 was 57.21% of the maximum.
The of remuneration paid in 2018 and how the Group details can be found on pages 124-127. information subject to audit by the intends to apply its Remuneration Policy Groups auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, in 2019.
This section will be put to an advisory The Remuneration Committees is set out in the Annual remuneration shareholder vote at the forthcoming AGM.
terms of reference were reviewed report and has been identified in the year and updated for the changes accordingly.
to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Key decisions taken during In line with its commitment to good corporate the year governance, the Group will continue to monitor As the CEO pay has not been changed investors views, best-practice developments since 2008, the Remuneration Committee and market trends on executive remuneration.
conducted a thorough review and decided These will be considered when deciding to increase the CEOs salary by 5%.
The logic on executive remuneration at EVRAZ to ensure for this decision stems from the pay dynamics that its Remuneration Policy remains appropriate inside the Company and also an awareness in the context of business performance of the movements over the last 10 years and strategy.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information Link with business strategy to performance through the annual bonus.
For 2018, the following five indicators, each Achievement within the annual bonus is based with an equal weighting of 20%, were considered EVRAZ fundamental success factors together on the Companys key quantitative financial, when determining the CEOs annual bonus: with actualised strategic priorities define operational and strategic measures to ensure LTIFR, EBITDA, Free Cash Flow adjusted the selection of KPIs for the CEO.
focus is spread across the key aspects for disposals higher than US$50 million, Cash of Company performance and strategy.
The Cost Index and Remuneration Committee These strategic priorities are reflected exact measures and associated weighting assessment of overall performance against in the Companys approach to executive are determined on an annual basis according strategic objectives.
The KPI are specific remuneration and a large proportion to the Companys strategic priorities for the year.
and focus on deliverables to support of the CEOs remuneration is linked the Companys strategy.
How business strategy aligns to overall reward at EVRAZ SUCCESS FACTORS CURRENT STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CEO KPIs Weighting Health, Human Customer Asset EVRAZ Debt Prudent Retention Development of Safety and Capital Focus Development Business Management CAPEX of Low-cost product Portfolio Environment System and Stable Position and Customer Dividends Base LTIFR 20% X X EBITDA 20% X X X X X X FCF 20% X X X X X X X Cash Cost 20% X X X X Index Strategic 20% X X X X X X X X Objectives POLICY REPORT The main terms of the Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee reserves performance.
The committee does not operate relating to executive and non-executive directors the right to make any remuneration payments clawback arrangements on directors are set out in the following section.
The full and payments for loss of office that are not in line remuneration on the basis that such text of the Policy approved by shareholders with the policy set out above where the terms arrangements would not be enforceable at the 2017 AGM is available at https: ar2017.
of the payment were agreed before the policy under the Russian Labour Code.
came into effect or at a time when the relevant will keep this under review and should individual was not a director of the Company the Russian Labour Code change, it will revisit The Remuneration Policys primary objectives and, in the opinion of the committee, the payment the inclusion of such provisions in the Groups are to attract, retain and reward talented staff was not in consideration of the individual variable remuneration plans in order to comply and management, by offering compensation becoming a director of the Company.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
that is competitive within the industry, motivates management to achieve the Groups The CEOs incentive arrangements are subject business objectives, encourages a high level to malus, under which the Remuneration of performance, and aligns the interests Committee may adjust bonus payments of management with those of shareholders.
downwards to reflect the Groups overall 121 Annual report & accounts 2018 Remuneration Policy Purpose and link to Element strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Executive director Base salary Provides a level of Normally reviewed annually, considering Generally, the maximum increase None base pay to reflect individual and market conditions, including: per year will be in line with the individual experience size and nature of the role: relevant market pay overall level of increases within the and role to attract levels: individual experience and pay increases Group.
and retain high for employees across the Group.
However, there is no overall calibre talent.
For the current CEO, base salary incorporates maximum opportunity as increases a directors fee paid to all directors of the may be made above this level at Company for participation in the work of the the committees discretion, to take Board committees and Board meetings account of individual circumstances see the section on Non-executive Director such as increases in scope and Remuneration Policy below.
responsibility and to reflect the individuals development and Where a salary is paid in a currency other than performance in the role.
US dollars, the committee may make additional payments to ensure that the total annual salary equals the level of annual salary in US dollars.
Benefits To provide a market Benefits currently include private healthcare.
The cost of benefits will generally None level of benefits, Other benefits including pension benefits be in line with that for the senior as appropriate may be provided if the committee considers management team.
However, the for individual it appropriate.
The current CEO does not cost of insurance benefits may vary circumstances, to participate in any pension scheme at this time.
from year to year depending on the recruit and retain individuals circumstances.
In the event that an executive director is executive talent.
required by the Group to relocate, or following The overall benefit value will be set recruitment, benefits may include but are not at a level the committee considers limited to a relocation, housing, travel and proportionate and appropriate to education allowance.
reflect individual circumstances, in line with market practices.
There is no total maximum opportunity.
Annual bonus To align executive The Company operates an annual bonus Up to 200% of base salary in The bonus is based on remuneration to arrangement under which awards are generally respect of any financial year of the achievement of the Groups key Group strategy delivered in cash.
quantitative financial, operational by rewarding the and strategic measures in the Targets are reviewed annually and linked achievement of year to ensure focus is spread to corporate performance based on annual financial and across the key aspects of Group predetermined targets.
strategic business performance and strategy.
The exact measures and associated weighting will be determined on an annual basis, according to the Groups strategic priorities, however at least 60% will be based on Group financial measures.
For achievement of threshold performance, 0% of maximum will be paid, rising straight line to 50% of maximum for target performance and 100% of maximum for outstanding performance.
The committee retains discretion to adjust bonus payments to reflect the Groups overall performance.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information Purpose and link to Element strategy Operation Maximum potential value Performance metrics Chairman and To provide Director fees are normally paid in the form of cash, but with the flexibility to forgo all or part of such fees after non-executive remuneration that is deduction of applicable income tax and social taxes to acquire shares in the Company should the non-executive director director sufficient to attract so wish.
Non-executive director fees are reviewed from time to time.
remuneration and retain high Non-executive directors receive an annual fee for Board membership.
calibre non-executive Additional fees are payable by reference to other Board responsibilities taken on by the non-executive directors for talent.
example, membership and chairmanship of the Board committees.
The chairman of the Board receives an all-inclusive annual fee.
Costs incurred in the performance of non-executive directors duties for the Company may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, including any tax due on the costs.
This may include travel expenses, professional fees incurred in the furtherance of duties as a director, and the provision of training and development.
In addition, the Company contributes an annual amount towards secretarial and administrative expenses of non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors may not participate in the Companys share incentive schemes or pension arrangements.
Total fees paid to non-executive directors will remain within the limit stated in the Articles of Association.
Executive Date of Notice period Performance measures and targets director contract months Annual bonus measures and targets Application of the remuneration policy, Alexander V. 31 December N A are selected to provide an appropriate balance US$ thousand Frolov 2016 between incentivising the director to meet financial objectives for the year and achieving 100% 0% Minimum key operational objectives.
The Remuneration The CEOs service contract does not provide 2,659 Committee reviews them annually for any specific notice period and therefore, 50% 50% In line with expectations to ensure that the measures and weightings in the event of termination, the applicable notice 5,284 are in line with the strategic priorities period will be as provided for in the Russian 34% 66% Maximum and needs of the business.
Labour Code from time to time where 7,909 the termination is at the Companys initiative, Base pay Annual bonus Remuneration arrangements the entitlement to pay in lieu of notice throughout the Group is currently limited to three months base salary.
This remuneration approach and philosophy The Remuneration Committee may determine is applied consistently at all levels, up Policy on recruitment of that a termination payment of up to 12 months to and including the executive director.
This base salary should be paid, taking into executive directors ensures that there is alignment with business consideration the circumstances of departure.
Remuneration In the event of hiring a new executive director, Going forward, all new executive directors arrangements below Board level reflect remuneration would be determined in line contracts will normally provide for a notice the seniority of the role and local market with the recruitment Remuneration Policy.
period of no more than 12 months and for any practices, and therefore the components This part of the Remuneration Policy has been compensation provisions for termination without and remuneration levels for different developed to enable the Company to recruit notice to be capped at 12 months base salary employees may differ in parts from the policy the best candidate possible who will be able and contractual benefits.
to contribute to the Groups performance and will help to reach its goals.
There is no automatic entitlement to annual For instance, in addition to a base salary, bonus and executive directors would a performance-related bonus calculated So far as practicable and appropriate, not normally receive a bonus in respect by reference to KPIs aligned with the Groups the Remuneration Committee will seek of the financial year of their cessation.
strategy and benefits, senior managers to structure pay and benefits of any new executive However, where an executive director leaves are also entitled to participate in a long-term directors in line with the current Remuneration by reason of death, disability, ill-health, or other incentive programme.
This is designed to align Policy.
However, the policy provides additional reasons that the Remuneration Committee the interests of these individuals to the delivery flexibility for example to structure pay differently may determine, a bonus may be awarded.
of long-term growth in shareholder value.
and to provide compensation for remuneration Any such bonus would normally be subject The current CEO already holds a substantial that would be forfeit on joining the Company.
to performance and time pro-rating, unless shareholding in the Group and therefore does the committee determines otherwise.
not participate in this plan.
Executive directors service Illustration of the application of the Non-executive directors contract and loss of office Remuneration Policy letters of appointment policy The chart on the right provides an indication of what could be received by an executive The CEO has a service contract with a subsidiary Each non-executive director has director under the Remuneration Policy.
a letter of appointment setting out the terms and conditions covering their appointment.
They are required to stand for election at the first 123 Annual report & accounts 2018 For 2019, the Remuneration Committee Key terms of non-executive directors appointment letters increased the CEOs salary by 5% to $2,625,000.
Non-executive directors Date of contract Notice period Alexander G. Abramov 14 October 2011 Three months Karl Gruber 14 October 2011 Three months Pension and benefits Alexander Izosimov 28 February 2012 Three months audited Sir Michael Peat 14 October 2011 Three months The CEO does not currently receive any pension Deborah Gudgeon 31 March 2015 Three months benefit or allowance.
Benefits consist principally Eugene Shvidler 14 October 2011 Three months of private healthcare.
Eugene Tenenbaum 14 October 2011 Three months Laurie Argo 8 August 2018 Three months Annual bonus AGM following their appointment and, subject Executive directors to the outcome of the AGM, the appointment The CEO is eligible for a performance-related remuneration is for a further one-year term.
Over and above bonus that is paid in cash following the yearthis arrangement, the appointment may be In 2018, the CEO, Alexander Frolov, was end, subject to the Remuneration Committees terminated by the director giving three months entitled to a base salary, a performance-related agreement and the Board of Directors approval.
notice or in accordance with the Articles bonus and provision of benefits.
As a member The bonus is linked to achieving performance of Association.
Letters of appointment do of the Board, he is also entitled to a directors conditions based on predetermined targets not provide for any payments in the event of loss fee US$150,000 and any applicable fees set by the Board of Directors.
The target bonus of office.
for participation in the work of the Board is 100% of base salary with a maximum potential committees as laid out in the section below of 200% of base salary.
All directors are subject to annual on non-executive director remuneration.
However, reappointment and, accordingly, each nonthe Remuneration Committee considers these fees executive director will stand for re-election to be incorporated in his base salary.
Alexander Annual bonus for 2018 at the AGM on 18 June 2019.
Frolovs current shareholding 10.33% of issued audited share capital as of 24 December 2018 provides Copies of the directors letters of appointment alignment with the delivery of long-term growth The bonus is linked to the Groups main or, in the case of the CEO, the service contract, in shareholder value.
As such, the committee does quantitative financial, operational and strategic are available for inspection by shareholders not consider it necessary for the CEO to participate measures during the year to ensure alignment at the Groups registered office.
in any long-term incentive plans or to impose formal with the key aspects of Group performance shareholding guidelines.
However, the committee and strategy.
For 2018, the following five Consideration of conditions elsewhere will continue to review this on an ongoing basis.
indicators, each with an equal weighting of 20%, in the Group were considered when determining the CEOs Management prepares details of all employee annual bonus: LTIFR, EBITDA, Free Cash Flow pay and conditions, and the Remuneration Single total figure of adjusted for disposals higher than US$50 million, Committee considers them on an annual Cash Cost Index and Remuneration Committee remuneration audited basis.
The committee takes this into account assessment of overall performance against when setting the CEOs remuneration.
However, it does not consider any direct comparison measures between the executive Key elements of the CEOs remuneration The Remuneration Committee reviews director and wider employee pay.
The Group package received in relation to 2018 the resulting bonus payout to ensure that does not formally consult with employees compared with the prior year it is appropriate considering the Groups overall on executive director remuneration.
Alexander V. 2018 US$ 2017 US$ Frolov Consideration of shareholder views In 2018, EVRAZ outperformed each Salary and 2,500,000 2,500,000 When determining the Remuneration Policy, of its threshold targets, resulting in an annual 1 director fees the committee considers investor body bonus payout of 57.21% of the maximum.
Benefits 33,506 25,803 guidelines and shareholder views.
Management effectively maximized the benefit Bonus2,860,378 2,990,750 from the positive market trends.
Other Total 5,393,884 5,516,553 contributers to the outperformance included ANNUAL tight control over operational efficiency and investments.
There was significant REMUNERATION Base salary outperformance of the EBITDA and Free Cash Flow stretch targets notwithstanding REPORT The Remuneration Committee approved the negative changes in working capital the CEOs current salary on 23 May 2008 over the year.
This section summarises remuneration paid at the level of US$2,500,000 which includes, out to directors for the 2018 financial year, for the avoidance of doubt, the directors fee, The Remuneration Committee determined that and details of how the Remuneration Policy fees paid for committee membership and any this level of payout is reflective of the Companys will be implemented in the 2019 financial year.
salary from subsidiaries of EVRAZ plc.
overall performance and commensurate with the shareholder experience.
1 The salary is paid in roubles and the amounts paid in the year are reconciled at the year-end so as to equal US$2,500,000.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information For reference, the fees payable Details of the targets set for each KPI, the actual achievement in the year, and total for the chairmanship of a committee include payout level for the 2018 bonus the membership fee, and any director elected as chairman of more than one committee Result measurement is generally entitled to receive fees in respect Planned level Bonus payout KPIs Threshold % of target Outstanding Actual 2018 % of max of one chairmanship only.
The fee for the chairman LTIFR 2.06x 1.72x 1.38x 1.91x 22.4% of the Board amounts to US$750,000 EBITDA US$1,747m US$2,184m US$2,621m US$3,777m 100% from 1 March 2012 this fee includes, Adjusted FCF US$704m US$881m US$1,057m US$1,602m 100% for the avoidance of doubt, directors fees and fees Cash cost index 110% 100% 90% 107% 13.7% paid for committee membership.
Discretion Remunertion Committee assessment See comment 50% below of overall performance against strategic Fees will remain unchanged for 2019. objectives Total 57.21% Aggregate directors Remuneration Committee targets to be commercially sensitive: however, they remuneration will generally be disclosed in the subsequent year.
assessment of overall In line with previous years, a malus arrangement The aggregate amount of directors remuneration performance will apply under which bonus payouts may be payable in respect of qualifying services EVRAZ Remuneration Policy stipulates that adjusted downwards to reflect the Groups overall for the year ended 31 December 2018 was the discretionary portion of the bonus should performance.
reflect the CEOs performance in relation to the Groups key strategic priorities, as well as his efforts to ensure its long-term success.
Non-executive directors Share ownership by the During the year, the business continued to deliver remuneration Board of Directors audited in relation to key strategic priorities and create long-term returns for shareholders.
Non-executive directors remuneration payable As set out earlier in this report, there are no formal in respect of 2018 and 2017 is set out in the table minimum shareholding requirements currently The Remuneration Committee determined that below.
in place, reflecting the CEOs current shareholding 2018 was an exceptionally successful year in EVRAZ.
and in recognition of this, the CEO received the full A non-executive directors remuneration amount of the discretionary 20% part of the bonus.
consists of an annual fee of US$150,000 The directors interests in EVRAZ shares as of 31 The key reasons for this are: and a fee for committee membership US$24,000 December 2018 were as follows.
The overall strong operating and financial or chairmanship US$100,000 for chairmanship performance in the year, which is also reflected of the Audit Committee and US$50,000 for other There have been no changes in the directors in the payment of a dividend, strong share committees.
interests from 31 December 2018 through price growth and remaining of EVRAZ shares 27 February 2019. in the FTSE 100 index: EBITDA reached the US$3.8 billion level significantly exceeding the stretch target set, Single total figure of remuneration audited coupled with strong FCF: 2018 US$ thousand 2017 US$ thousand Net Debt EBITDA 1.0 level achieved, 1 2 1 2 Non-executive director Total fees Admin Total Total fees Admin Total as of 31.12.2018 it stood at 0.9x: Alexander G. Abramov 750 30 780 750 30 780 Significant total shareholder return compared Alexander Izosimov 248 30 278 248 30 278 with the performance of FTSE 350 companies: Eugene Shvidler 174 30 204 174 30 204 Standard & Poors credit rating remained at BB Eugene Tenenbaum 150 30 180 150 30 180 level: Karl Gruber 238 30 268 248 30 278 Optimisation of the asset portfolio through Sir Michael Peat 224 30 254 224 30 254 the successful disposal of Evraz Dneprovsky Deborah Gudgeon 274 30 304 274 30 304 Metallurgical and the non-core asset of Delong 3 Laurie Argo 69 12 81 Holdings Limited, cost-cutting initiatives that delivered US$273 million and development of the EVRAZ Business System transformation.
Directors interest in EVRAZ shares as of 31 December 2018 The resultant bonus was 57.21% of the maximum.
Directors Number of shares Total holding, ordinary shares, % Alexander Abramov 298,625,541 20.69 Annual bonus for 2019 Alexander Frolov 149,118,167 10.33 Eugene Shvidler 42,877,492 2.97 For 2019, the bonus framework will be in line Alexander Izosimov 80,000 0.01 with 2018.
The Board considers forward-looking 1 Total fees include annual fees and fees for committee membership or chairmanship pro rata working days.
2 The Group contributes an annual amount of US$30,000 towards secretarial and administrative expenses of non-executive directors.
In addition to the amounts disclosed above, the Group reimburses directors travel and accommodation expenses incurred in the discharge of their duties.
125 Annual report & accounts 2018 The shares held by Alexander Izosimov were by the Remuneration Policy.
Variable pay cascades US$ million 2018 2017 acquired in 2012 when he was appointed down through the next tiers of management EBITDA 3,777 2,624 as an independent non-executive director.
with appropriate reductions in opportunity levels Shares buyback 0 0 based on seniority.
In addition, the Group operates Dividends 1,556 430 All shares held by directors are held outright pension arrangements in some of its businesses Total employee pay 1,326 1,364 with no performance or other conditions attached around the world, where this is relevant to the local to them, other than those applicable to all shares conditions.
The key element of remuneration For more information on the definition of the same class.
for those below senior management grades is base of EBITDA, please see page 261. salary and the Groups policy is to ensure that Other directors do not currently hold any shares base salaries are fair and competitive in the local in the Company.
General pay increases take into account Performance graph local salary norms, inflation and business conditions.
The graph below shows the Groups performance Policy on external measured by total shareholder return compared with the performance of the FTSE 350 Basic appointments Gender pay gap and CEO pay Resources Index since EVRAZ plcs admission The Remuneration Committee believes that to the premium listing segment of the London ratio the Group can benefit from executive directors Stock Exchange on 7 November 2011.
The FTSE holding approved non-executive directorships EVRAZ has no UK employees and does 350 Basic Resources Index has been selected in other companies, offering executive directors not therefore have any gender pay or CEO as an appropriate benchmark, as it is a broadthe opportunity to broaden their experience pay ratio to report under the Regulations.
based index of which the Group is a constituent and knowledge.
EVRAZ policy is to allow executive Over the coming year we intend to work out member.
directors to retain fees paid from any such what method of calculation of employee pay appointment.
The CEO does not currently hold for the CEO pay ratio would be most sensible The table below shows as a single figure a non-executive directorship of another company.
and practical for us to produce and informative the CEOs total remuneration over the past for shareholders to receive.
six years, along with a comparison of variable payments as a percentage of the maximum Engagement with the bonus available.
Relative importance of spend workforce on pay EVRAZ is committed to regularly engaging Percentage change with its workforce and realises the value The table on the right shows a comparison in remuneration in listening to and acting on employee views of the total cost of remuneration paid to all across the organisation.
These insights are vital employees between current and previous years The table on the next page sets out to attracting and retaining employees, which is key and financial metrics in US$ millions.
EBITDA was the percentage change in the elements to delivering and executing the Groups vision chosen for the comparison as it is a KPI which of remuneration for the director undertaking and strategy.
It also allows for informative decisions best shows the Groups financial performance.
the role of CEO compared with average figures to be made throughout the business.
Considering the views of the wider workforce has been in place at the Group for many years.
Employees participate Total shareholder return performance, % 200 in an annual employee engagement survey aimed at gathering wider workforce views on a number 150 of different topics.
The survey has historically been successful in driving a number of employee- 100 focused initiatives and helps to set key priorities for the forthcoming year, aimed at improving 50 the engagement of all employees.
0 The Board reviews the engagement data and has 07.11.2011 30.12.2011 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2014 31.12.2015 31.12.2016 31.12.2017 31.12.2018 appointed two non-executive directors to be envolved in town-hall meetings with employees FTSE 350 Basic Resources Index and is therefore aware of any trends, comments EVRAZ or concerns in relation to executive pay.
The Board also receives a quarterly summary report of complaints made on the EVRAZ employee telephone hot-line.
CEOs total remuneration paid in 2013-2018 CEO single figure of total Annual bonus payout as a % The Remuneration Committee also considers US$ remuneration of maximum opportunity executive remuneration in the context 2018 5,393,884 57.21% of the wider employee population and is kept 2017 5,516,553 59.82% regularly updated on pay and conditions across 2016 4,560,054 40.78% the Group.
The proportion of variable pay 2015 3,186,585 13.33% increases with progression through management 2014 5,808,752 77% levels with the highest proportion of variable 2013 4,894,286 50% pay at Executive Director level, as defined 126 www.
com Strategic report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business review Financial statements CSR report Additional information for Russia-based administrative personnel.
Role Oversee any major changes in employee This group of employees has been selected The Remuneration Committee is a formal benefits structures throughout the Group as an appropriate comparator, as they are based committee of the Board and can operate and report on what engagement has taken in the same geographic market as the CEO, with a quorum of two committee members.
It place with the workforce on executive pay and so are subject to a similar external is operated according to its Terms of Reference, environment and pressures.
which were reviewed and updated in the year During 2018, the committee met three times.
to reflect changes made to the UK Corporate The purpose of the meetings was to consider Governance Code.
A copy can be found and make recommendations to the Board on the Groups website.
in relation to the remuneration packages Percentage change in the elements of of the executive director and key senior managers: remuneration for the director undertaking the The Remuneration Committees main to approve the annual bonus for the 2017 results: role of CEO compared with average figures responsibilities are to: and to approve the 2018 long-term incentive plan for Russia-based administrative personnel Set and implement the Remuneration Policy LTIP awards for key senior management.
covering the chairman of the Board, the CEO, the company secretary and other senior Advisers Russia-based executives Korn Ferry Hay Group Limited KFHG administrative Take into account all factors that it deems are appointed by the committee and provide CEO personnel necessary to determine, such as framework independent remuneration consultancy Salary 0% 1% or policy, including all relevant legal services to the Group.
KFHG is a member Benefits 30% 2% and regulatory requirements, the provisions of the Remuneration Consultants Group Annual bonus 4 % 0% and recommendations of the UK Corporate and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code Governance Code and associated guidance of conduct in relation to executive remuneration Review and consider remuneration trends consulting in the UK.
The code of conduct can be Committee composition across the Group and the alignment found at www.
of incentives and rewards with culture when This section details the Remuneration setting the Remuneration Policy During the year, consultants advised the committee Committees composition and activities Review regularly the Remuneration Policys on developments in the regulatory environment undertaken over the past year.
appropriateness and relevance and market practice, and on the development Determine the total individual remuneration and disclosure of the Groups pay arrangements.
Committee members package of the chairman of the Board, The total fee for advice provided to the committee The Remuneration Committees composition the company secretary and other senior during the year was GBP37,660.
was unchanged during the year and its current executives, including pension rights, bonuses, members are: benefits in kind, incentive payments and share The committee is satisfied that the advice it has Alexander Izosimov options, or other share-based remuneration received has been objective and independent.
Deborah Gudgeon within the terms of the agreed policy Sir Michael Peat Approve awards for participants where existing Shareholder considerations share incentive plans are in place EVRAZ remains committed to ongoing shareholder No directors are involved in deciding their own Review and approve any compensation dialogue and takes an active interest in feedback remuneration.
The committee may invite payable to executive directors and other senior received from its shareholders and from voting other individuals to attend all or part of any executives in connection with any dismissal, loss outcomes.
committee meeting, as and when appropriate of office or termination whether for misconduct and necessary, in particular the CEO, the head or otherwise to ensure that such compensation Where there are substantial votes against of human resources and external advisers.
is determined in accordance with the relevant resolutions in relation to directors remuneration, contractual terms and Remuneration Policy, the Group shall seek to understand the reasons and that such compensation is otherwise fair for any such vote and will detail any actions and not excessive for the Group in response to these.
Actual voting results from the AGM, which was held, in respect of the previous remuneration report and Remuneration Policy Total votes as % of Number of votes For Against Withheld issued share capital To receive the Directors report and the accounts for the 1,275,870,686 2,144,970 391,765 88.55% 1 Company for the year ended 31 December 2017 99.83% 0.17% To approve the Annual Remuneration Report set out on pages 1,221,719,747 53,633,631 3,054,043 88.36% 128 to 135 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2017 95.79% 4.21% Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors, Alexander Izosimov Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2019 1 Percentage of votes cast.
