Experian plc 82 Governance Report on directors remuneration Introduction from the Chairman On behalf of the Remuneration Committee We noted the comments about the use of a the Committee, Im pleased to present the pro t metric throughout our incentive plans Report on directors remuneration the but, as detailed below, the Committee Report for the year ended 31 March 2018. continues to feel that we use a balanced range The following pages provide details of the of measures in our incentive plans, so no business performance of the Group and what changes have been proposed in this regard.
our executive directors were paid during the During the course of our consultation with year for achieving those performance levels.
shareholders, we had considerable The key decisions made by the Committee discussions about the appropriate comparator over the year are also detailed and we group of companies for a global business such highlight some key changes being proposed as Experian, where most of its people and to the executive pay structure in response Roger Davis revenues come from outside the UK.
We use to feedback received from some of our Chairman of the Remuneration Committee a comparator group of companies, as shown major shareholders.
below, that best re ects our unique product mix, size and the markets in which we operate, Members Review of our executive as well as featuring the companies with Roger Davis Chairman pay structure whom the analysts and brokers compare us.
Ruba Borno While the people talent market in which we 2017 AGM outcomes and shareholder Caroline Donahue compete includes these particular companies, Luiz Fleury consultation process our sources of new talent and the challenges Deirdre Mahlan to retaining our existing talent extend more At Experian, we have always had strong widely across the financial services and Mike Rogers relationships with our shareholders.
This is particularly true George Rose consulted with our major shareholders and for senior positions both within and outside institutional investor bodies in November 2016, Paul Walker the UK.
to discuss with them our plans for the year From 1 April 2018. ahead, and followed up with further written Acxiom US Fair Isaac US The Committees terms of reference can be communication in May 2017, communicating Alliance Data Systems US Moodys US found at www.
com about-us our final proposals.
corporate-governance board-committees CoreLogic US RELX UK At the 2017 AGM, we tabled two remunerationDun & Bradstreet US Thomson Reuters US related resolutions.
While we were pleased Equifax US TransUnion US Links to further that the voting outcome on the Annual report It is through the lens of this international information: on remuneration was 83.8% in favour, it was comparator group and the broader people disappointing that, at 75.5%, the vote on the talent agenda that the Committee assesses Page Directors remuneration policy the Policy our remuneration structure and quantum.
was lower than we had hoped for.
Following 82 Introduction from the Chairman During the shareholder meetings, we that AGM, we again met with some major 85 Our executive remuneration at a glance discussed this point and demonstrated that shareholders and institutional investor bodies 86 Annual report on remuneration both the structure and quantum of our to better understand the reasons behind the 96 Directors remuneration policy executive remuneration packages were voting outcome, since the policy contained only positioned appropriately against these very minor changes to the one that was organisations.
approved by over 85% of shareholders in 2014.
I am pleased to say that these meetings were All of the key themes emerging from the informative and provided us with helpful, shareholder meetings were discussed at constructive feedback, which we have taken length by the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee includes all my fellow non-executive directors, and this helps us to Some of the feedback was directed at the ensure that our decisions are made in the mechanics of our incentive plans, such as broadest business context.
Our external the lack of a holding period on long-term remuneration advisers provided a review of incentive awards, the desire for the mandatory best practice across our key markets, and the deferral of annual bonus and the potential Committee then debated and agreed a small for over-reliance on a pro t metric.
The number of important changes to the executive Committee considered this feedback and remuneration structure.
All of the proposed I am happy to report that both the mandatory changes fall within the parameters of our deferral of annual bonus and a holding period existing Policy, which has been a critical on the long-term incentive awards will apply element of our ability to attract and retain to the executive directors from this current key talent globally particularly in our large financial year onwards.
We are also bringing business operations in Brazil and the USA.
forward the disclosure of the annual bonus Importantly, we consider that the changes targets to the end of the financial year being detailed overleaf will continue to incentivise reported.
Therefore, the information relating our executive directors to drive the desired to both the year ended 31 March 2017 and business performance with a sustainable, the year ended 31 March 2018 can be found long-term focus.
in the Annual report on remuneration.
Governance 83 Proposed changes The Committee is proposing to make the following changes to the executive remuneration structure: Change Detail Rationale Mandatory deferral of Starting with the bonus award made in 2018, all executive Mandatory deferral of bonus will ensure that long-term annual bonus directors will be required to defer at least 50% of any award thinking is at the heart of our executive remuneration package.
However, they will continue to be able to defer up to It aligns executives with the shareholder experience through 100% voluntarily.
Deferral will be for three years into Experian shares.
It makes it easier for the Committee to apply malus to adjust any bonus outcomes in certain circumstances prior to awards being paid.
Introduction of holding Executive directors will be required to retain the net amount Much like the introduction of mandatory deferral, this change period in respect of all of any shares vesting from the Performance Share Plan will ensure that long-term thinking is at the heart of our long-term incentive PSP and Co-investment Plan CIP for an additional executive remuneration package.
It aligns executives with the shareholder experience through This will apply from PSP awards made in 2018.
However, it share price performance.
will not apply to CIP awards until 2019 as, when the decision It makes it easier for the Committee to apply clawback to to introduce the holding period was made, we were already recover shares in certain circumstances, prior to the shares halfway through the bonus year which determines the bonus being released.
to be invested into the CIP.
The holding period will continue to apply post-departure if an executive director leaves the Company as a good leaver.
Introduction of a A threshold level of vesting of 25% will be introduced to the This level of threshold is more in line with best practice in the threshold level of CIP.
For this level of vesting, one matching share will be market, and ensures a smoother vesting schedule, removing vesting to the CIP delivered for every two shares deferred.
Previously there was the all or nothing nature of the target.
no vesting below target performance.
There is no change to Benchmark PBT per share targets for the PSP and CIP will be the level of vesting at target and maximum performance.
Performance targets will be adjusted to ensure a similar degree of stretch remains, but without the all or nothing nature of the target number.
This will apply from the CIP awards made in 2018.
For these reasons, we have not proposed signi cantly increased the pace and range of Performance measures to make any changes to the performance new product innovation.
At the same time, we As we do every year, the Committee reviewed measures we use in any of our incentive plans.
continue to invest heavily in data security, to the performance measures to satisfy However, for long-term incentive awards to be ensure that our systems and processes are as ourselves that they remain fully aligned to our granted in 2018, the Committee has reviewed robust and up-to-date as possible.
We believe that Benchmark the performance targets and determined that PBT continues to be the key performance There is strong momentum running through the Benchmark PBT per share and cumulative measure for our annual bonus plan, as well the business.
We are con dent that we are well Benchmark operating cash ow targets should as being a common barometer by which placed to sustain this level of growth over the be increased.
The targets for the CIP and PSP the external analysts assess our annual coming years as we look to push forward and awards to be granted in 2018 are set out in the performance.
Our long-term incentive plans grow further.
have the multiple performance measures of cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow, How was our performance Pay and performance in the last total shareholder return TSR and a return re ected in our pay?
financial year on capital employed ROCE underpin as well Salary as Benchmark PBT per share, a measure How did we perform in the year?
which is similar to earnings per share EPS.
During the year, the Committee approved We continue to believe that this combination salary increases of between 2.4% and 2.6% This was a good year for Experian.
We made of measures aligns with our strategy and for the executive directors.
These increases signi cant progress not just nancially, but provides a balanced approach to assessing were in line with the increases awarded to also operationally and strategically.
As well as performance over the longer term.
the general employee population across delivering strong financial results, particularly the Group.
in B2B, we have also taken a number of steps We are aware of some shareholders to transition Consumer Services, which preference for a nonfinancial measure and Annual bonus returned to growth towards the end of the year.
last year the Committee introduced the Of the maximum Benchmark PBT target set exibility into the Directors remuneration We grew Organic revenue by 5%, with growth at the start of the year, 57.5% was achieved, policy to be able to introduce such a measure.
accelerating as the year progressed.
At the resulting in overall bonus payouts of 115% We would consider the introduction of any same time, we grew our Benchmark EBIT by of each of the executive directors salaries.
robust nonfinancial measure that we felt 8%, with an Benchmark EBIT margin of 27.7%.
Prior to approving these awards, the would further improve our current suite of This all translated into Benchmark earnings Committee reviewed the calculated outcome performance metrics.
In the meantime, we will per share growth of 11%.
in the context of wider business and financial continue to review and assess performance performance and was satis ed that the level Our management team has invested in a series before approving any vesting outcomes from of payout was warranted.
of targeted initiatives to take advantage of the annual and long-term incentive plans.
material new market opportunities, and has Experian plc 84 Governance Report on directors remuneration Introduction from the Chairman continued Further details of the annual bonus outcomes Looking beyond our executive Final thoughts including, for the first time, details of the directors I have been proud to serve as Chairman of the Benchmark PBT targets against which Remuneration Committee since 2007, and it is While this report focuses on our three performance was measured, are set out therefore with great sadness that I will step executive directors, Experians strength is in the Annual report on remuneration.
down from my role following the 2018 AGM.
built on the combined eff orts of 16,500 It has been a privilege to chair a committee Long-term incentives employees across the world, and I would that has always brought the wider context of like to outline some of the highlights of our The PSP and CIP awards granted in 2015 will employee engagement, succession planning all-employee off ering: vest on 21 May 2018.
As shown in the diagram and diversity across the Group to its below, the vesting of the CIP awards was remuneration focus.
Over the past eleven based equally on Benchmark PBT per share One Experian Recognition years, I have watched Experian grow into the and cumulative Benchmark operating cash tremendous organisation it is today, and I truly In January 2017, we consolidated ow targets, while vesting of the PSP awards our existing employee recognition believe that the approach we have taken to was based on Benchmark PBT per share programmes into one platform.
Since then executive remuneration at Experian has had growth 75% of the award and Relative TSR we have made more than 34,500 awards a part to play in its success.
targets 25% of the award : to employees across the Group, ranging I also believe that Experian is well positioned to from virtual badges and small monetary rewards to all-expenses-paid holidays.
consolidate its place in the markets in which it CIP 2015 operates, grow into new and exciting markets Cumulative Benchmark Benchmark and, in doing so, deliver shareholder value over PBT per operating the coming years.
Experian Sharesave share cash ow Total We operate an Experian Sharesave I am extremely pleased to announce that, plan in over 20 countries, off ering over Maximum 50% 50% 100% following the 2018 AGM, I will be handing over three-quarters of our overall workforce Actual 50% 42% 92% the Remuneration Committee chairmanship the chance to buy Experian shares at a to Mike Rogers.
Having served alongside him signi cant discount.
Of those employees over the past 12 months, I rmly believe that off ered, over 40% currently choose to 50% Mike will be a strong, principled Remuneration participate.
In 2018, we will be extending Committee Chairman, and wish him all the the plan into three new countries.
Finally, I look forward to receiving the support FY18 People Survey of our shareholders for the Annual report on remuneration at the 2018 AGM.
We think it is really important to listen to what our employees think about working at Experian.
In FY18, we carried out our People Survey 42% with both Employee Engagement and Employee Enablement scores at over 70%.
PSP 2015 Benchmark PBT per Relative share TSR Total Maximum 75% 25% 100% Actual 75% 22% 97% 75% 22% As shown in the charts set out above, 92.3% of the 2015 CIP awards and 96.7% of the 2015 PSP awards vested.
Given the business performance set out above, the Committee considered this level of vesting to be appropriate.
Governance 85 Our executive remuneration at a glance Performance snapshot 6% 8.5% 20.6% US$3.7bn Benchmark PBT growth Three-year average Benchmark Three-year TSR outperformance Three-year cumulative Benchmark PBT per share growth of the FTSE 100 Index operating cash ow At constant currency.
Executive director single gure of pay Incentive plan outcomes Brian Lloyd Kerry Benchmark Annual bonus 595% 57.5% Cassin Pitchford Williams PBT 57.5% 000 000 US$000 Salary 921 568 973 Benchmark Cumulative Benchmark Co-investment PBT per share operating cash ow 92.3% Pension and bene ts 212 139 38 Plan CIP 100% 84.5% Annual bonus 1,059 653 1,116 Benchmark TSR Performance Share-based incentives 3,660 2,757 3,667 PBT per share 86.7% 96.7% Share Plan PSP 100% Total 5,852 4,117 5,794 Fixed elements of pay Variable elements of pay Executive director shareholding levels Incentive awards timelines Shareholding % of salary Grant Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 300% Brian Cassin 595% Annual bonus 200% Lloyd Pitchford 461% CIP 200% Kerry Williams 461% PSP Guideline Current shareholding Performance period Additional holding period Wider context for executive director pay Remuneration arrangements for the coming year Salary increases of between A threshold level of vesting of 2.4% and 2.6% awarded to 25% introduced to the CIP.
executive directors, eff ective Market Benchmark PBT per share US$19.4bn 1 June 2018.
No changes to capitalisation and cumulative Benchmark bene ts or pension operating cash ow targets arrangements.
Revenue US$4.7bn will be increased for awards Annual bonus performance to be made in 2018. measures remain unchanged A two-year holding period Total labour cost US$1.7bn this year, however half of any has also been introduced awards paid out are subject to for both the PSP and CIP.
As at 31 March 2018. mandatory deferral.
Experian plc 86 Governance Report on directors remuneration Annual report on remuneration Set out below is the Annual report on remuneration, which will be put to shareholders for an advisory vote at the AGM on 18 July 2018.
The Remuneration Committee has prepared this report on behalf of the Board, in line with the UK Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended and the Listing Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
All the sections which have been audited by the Companys external auditor, KPMG, have been noted.
What did we pay our executive directors in the year?
audited The following table shows the single total gure of remuneration for the executive directors, for the years ended 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017.
Further explanatory information is set out below the table.
Therefore, the gures shown in the table above do not re ect annual salary levels.
For Kerry Williams, the salary also re ects the timing of US payroll payments.
How has the single gure been calculated?
audited Salary This gure represents the salary paid to executive directors during the year.
All salary increases took eff ect from 1 June 2017.
The Committee approved salary increases for executive directors of between 2.6% and 2.8% with eff ect from this date: 1 June 2017 1 June 2016 000 000 % increase Brian Cassin 925 900 2.78% Lloyd Pitchford 570 555 2.70% Kerry Williams US$975 US$950 2.63% In awarding these increases, the Committee considered a number of factors, including the approach to employee remuneration throughout the Group, the prevailing economic conditions and positioning against the market.
The salary review budget in the USA and the UK was between 2.5% and 3%.
Bene ts and pension Taxable bene ts include life insurance, private healthcare and a company car.
Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford are eligible to participate in a fide ned contribution pension plan but elected not to do so during the year ended 31 March 2018.
Over the financial year, Brian Cassin received a cash supplement of 184,167 2017: 179,167, and Lloyd Pitchford received a cash supplement of 113,500 2017: 110,500, in lieu of their pension contributions.
Kerry Williams participates in a fide ned contribution plan 401k.
As a result of him reaching the US Internal Revenue Service IRS calendar limit for this plan, the company contribution to this during the year was limited to US$569 2017 401k employer contribution maximum: US$10,800.
No executive director has a prospective right to a fide ned bene t pension.
Annual bonus Overview There is one annual bonus plan in operation across Experian and the majority of our workforce participate in this, with the remainder of employees participating in a sales commission plan.
However, the operation of the plan varies depending on geography and grade.
For example, while executive directors bonuses are based on Group-wide Benchmark PBT growth, employees in other parts of the Group have their bonus based on the performance of their particular business line and or region.
Starting with the bonus awards to be made in 2018, executive directors will be required to defer half of any bonus earned for three years, though they may choose to defer more.
As in previous years, all three executive directors chose to defer their full 2018 bonus payments into the CIP on a voluntary basis.
Governance 87 Which performance metrics do we use, and why?
Annual bonus outcomes depend on Benchmark PBT growth relative to stretching targets set at the start of each financial year.
We consider Benchmark PBT to be an important measure of performance for Experian because: its fully aligned to our business strategy, as it incentivises executives to generate returns for the business as a pro t growth metric, it re ects one of Experians key performance indicators its simple to understand and to measure.
For the purposes of the annual bonus, performance is measured on a constant currency basis to strip out the eff ects of exchange rate uctuations.
The Committee also excludes the impact of any material acquisitions or disposals made in the year to ensure that Benchmark PBT is measured consistently.
This is in line with our approach for long-term incentive plan measures.
How do we set the bonus targets?
Each year we undertake a rigorous exercise to ensure that we set suffi ciently stretching targets.
Before nalising them, there are a number of steps that the Committee takes to ensure that targets are appropriate in the context of expected performance, and are suffi ciently stretching.
We consider the targets at three separate Remuneration Committee meetings over the year: 1.
In January, the Committee considers the wider context, and is presented with an early indication of how Benchmark PBT growth is tracking in the current year.
Our external remuneration consultants are also invited to this meeting to provide the Committee with a wider assessment of the pay environments in the relevant locations for our business.
At its March meeting, the Committee has a first look at possible targets for the forthcoming year, taking into account a number of factors including: the strategic plan brokers earnings estimates wider economic expectations our key competitors earnings estimates, including a number of diff erent peer groups.
By the time the Committee meets again in May, the performance outcomes for the current year have been reviewed by the Companys auditors, and the budget meetings for the forthcoming year have taken place.
The Committee takes these into account during its final review of the targets for the forthcoming year, before signing them off.
Our Committee is able to take a balanced approach to target setting since all the non-executive directors sit on the Remuneration Committee, as well as on all our other principal Board Committees.
This ensures that the Committee members are fully apprised of the wider business context and the Groups business prospects over the coming years, particularly since the Audit Committee has sight of the budget and business plan prior to the Remuneration Committee meeting taking place.
Annual bonus outcomes In the 2016 Report we announced that the Committee had agreed to disclose annual bonus targets one year following the completion of the relevant performance period.
However, as discussed in the Introduction from the Chairman section of this report, following feedback received during the shareholder consultation process carried out during the year, the Committee has decided to bring the disclosure forward.
As such, targets will now be disclosed immediately following the end of the relevant financial year.
The outcomes for the 2017 and 2018 annual bonus are shown below, relative to targets.
Outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2018 The table below shows our growth in Benchmark PBT for bonus purposes relative to the targets set at the start of the year, and the resulting annual bonus outcomes for each executive director, for the year ended 31 March 2018.
% growth % growth % growth % of bonus required for required required for Achievement Bonus Bonus deferred threshold for target maximum Benchmark % of payout payout under 1 payout payout payout PBT growth maximum 000 % of salary the CIP Brian Cassin 1,059 100% Lloyd Pitchford 4% 6% 8% 6.3% 57.5% 653 115% 100% } Kerry Williams US$1,116 100% 1 This compares to the consensus forecast of the Committees selected analysts of 5% Benchmark PBT growth at the time that the targets were set.
In determining the outcome of the annual bonus, the Committee discussed whether this level of vesting was re ective of the Groups wider business performance during the year.
After careful consideration, the Committee was satis ed that the level of payout was justi ed, and approved the bonus awards at its May 2018 meeting, subject to the nalisation of the results and external audit.
Further details about Experians performance during the year, which were taken into account by the Committee, are set out in the Introduction from the Chairman section of this Report.
The executive directors have elected to defer their full bonus into Experian shares under the CIP for a three-year period.
Deferred bonus shares are not subject to any further conditions but may be matched, subject to the conditions set out in the CIP awards section below.
Experian plc 88 Governance Report on directors remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued Outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2017 Last year, we disclosed that 89% of the maximum Benchmark PBT growth target was achieved, resulting in a bonus payout equivalent to 177% of salary for each of the executive directors.
As disclosed in last years Report, the bonus structure was modi ed with eff ect from FY18 onwards to include a threshold level of vesting.
This bonus award was made prior to that change taking place, and targets were therefore set accordingly.
The targets for the award for the 2017 financial year are set out in the table below: % growth % growth % of bonus required required for Achievement Bonus Bonus deferred for target maximum Benchmark % of payout payout under 1 payout payout PBT growth maximum 000 % of salary the CIP Brian Cassin 1,586 100% Lloyd Pitchford 4% 6% 6% 89% 978 177% 100% } Kerry Williams US$1,674 100% 1 This compares to the consensus forecast of the Committees selected analysts of 2.5% Benchmark PBT growth at the time that the targets were set.
As disclosed last year, the Committee considered this level of payout to be re ective of Group performance over 2017.
Share-based incentives The share-based incentive amount included in the single total gure of remuneration is the combined value of the CIP and PSP awards vesting in respect of the relevant financial year.
For 2017, these relate to the awards granted on 19 May 2014 and for 2018 they relate to the awards granted on 21 May 2015.
Vesting in 2018 for both the CIP and PSP awards depended on performance over the three years ended 31 March 2018 as well as continued service.
The following tables show the performance achieved against the targets for CIP and PSP awards granted in May 2015: CIP awards 1 Vesting Percentage 2 Performance measure Weighting No match 1:1 match 2:1 match Actual vesting Benchmark PBT per share annual growth 50% Below 4% 4% 8% 8.5% 100% 3 Cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow 50% Below US$3.4bn US$3.4bn US$3.8bn US$3.7bn 84.5% Total 92.3% PSP awards 1 Vesting Percentage 4 Performance measure Weighting 0% 25% 100% Actual vesting Benchmark PBT per share annual growth 75% Below 4% 4% 8% 8.5% 100% TSR of Experian vs TSR of FTSE 100 Index 25% Below Index Equal to Index 25% above 20.6% above 86.7% Index Index Total 96.7% 1 Straight-line vesting between the points shown.
2 The maximum opportunity was for a two-for-one match on the bonus deferred.
3 In line with the approach taken in previous years, the cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow targets shown above have been adjusted compared to those originally set to take into account the impact of acquisitions and disposals made over the performance period.
The actual cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow over the performance period, of US$3,699m, is determined on a constant currency basis.
This is in line with our approach for all performance metrics, to ensure that awards are measured on a consistent basis.
4 The maximum opportunity was the original award with a face value of 200% of salary.
Vesting of these awards was also subject to the Committee agreeing that the return on capital employed ROCE performance over the period was satisfactory.
Year-end ROCE was 15.7%, and so the Committee was comfortable that the payout determined by applying the performance criteria was appropriate in the context of this level of performance.
As these awards had not vested at the date this report was nalised, we have based the reported value of the awards on the average share price in the last three months of the financial year, which was 15.90.
The value of the awards included in the single total gure of remuneration is as follows: CIP PSP Value of Value dividend Total value of shares equivalent of shares Shares Shares Shares Shares vesting payments vesting awarded vesting awarded vesting 000 000 000 Brian Cassin 88,596 81,730 141,015 136,326 3,466 194 3,660 Lloyd Pitchford 86,820 80,091 87,026 84,132 2,611 146 2,757 Kerry Williams 69,906 64,488 95,799 92,613 US$3,475 US$192 US$3,667 The value of Kerry Williams shares has been converted into US dollars at a rate of 1:US$1.39, which is the average rate during the last three months of FY18.
Dividend equivalents of 122.0 US cents per share will be paid on vested shares.
These represent the value of the dividends that would have been paid to the owner of one share between the date of grant and the date of vesting.
Governance 89 Update to 2017 disclosure Last year we calculated the value of the share awards realised by Brian Cassin, Lloyd Pitchford and Kerry Williams in 2017 using the average share price from 1 January 2017 to 31 March 2017, in line with the prescribed singlegure methodology.
This has now been revised to re ect the actual share price on vesting, as follows: Three-month Estimated value Actual value average of long-term of long-term share price to incentive awards Share price incentive awards 31 March 2017 000 on vesting 000 Brian Cassin 944 964 Lloyd Pitchford 15.90 981 16.26 997 } Kerry Williams US$1,192 US$1,275 What share-based incentive awards did we make in the year?
audited On 7 June 2017, awards were granted to the executive directors under the CIP and PSP.
The face value of awards made to Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford is given in pounds sterling, and the face value of awards made to Kerry Williams is given in US dollars.
The number of awards made to Kerry Williams has been calculated using the average exchange rate for the three days prior to grant of 1:US$1.29.
All awards have been calculated using a three-day average share price.
In line with the CIP rules, invested shares for Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford were purchased with their bonuses net of tax.
In line with the rules of The Experian North America Co-investment Plan, invested shares for Kerry Williams were calculated with reference to his gross bonus.
Matching awards are based on the gross value of the bonus deferred.
Details of these awards are set out in the following table: Vesting at Type of interest in Face value Number threshold shares Basis of award 000 of shares performance Vesting date Brian Cassin CIP invested shares Deferred shares 100% of net bonus 840 52,333 n a 7 June 2020 1 CIP matching shares Nil-cost options 200% of value of gross bonus deferral 3,171 197,484 25% 7 June 2020 2 PSP Conditional shares 200% of salary 1,850 115,745 25% 7 June 2020 Lloyd Pitchford CIP invested shares Deferred shares 100% of net bonus 518 32,276 n a 7 June 2020 1 CIP matching shares Nil-cost options 200% of value of gross bonus deferral 1,956 121,797 25% 7 June 2020 2 PSP Conditional shares 200% of salary 1,140 71,324 25% 7 June 2020 Kerry Williams CIP invested shares Deferred shares 100% of gross bonus US$1,674 80,887 n a 7 June 2020 1 CIP matching shares Conditional shares 200% of value of gross bonus deferral US$3,348 161,774 25% 7 June 2020 2 PSP Conditional shares 200% of salary US$1,950 94,655 25% 7 June 2020 1 The number of shares awarded to executive directors under the CIP was based on the share price at which invested shares were purchased in the market and the face value shown above is based on this.
2 The number of shares awarded to executive directors under the PSP was based on the average share price for the three days prior to grant, which was 15.98, and the face value shown above is based onthis.
These awards will vest subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions: CIP awards 1 Vesting Performance measure Weighting No match 1:1 match 2:1 match Benchmark PBT per share average annual growth 50% Below 4% 4% 8% Cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow 50% Below US$3.6bn US$3.6bn US$4.0bn PSP awards 1 Vesting Performance measure Weighting 0% 25% 100% Benchmark PBT per share average annual growth 75% Below 4% 4% 8% TSR of Experian vs TSR of FTSE 100 Index 25% Below Index Equal to Index 25% above Index 1 Straight-line vesting between the points shown.
CIP and PSP awards only vest if the Committee is satis ed that the vesting is not based on materially misstated financial results.
The Committee also has the discretion to vary the level of vesting if it is considered that the level of vesting determined by measuring performance is inconsistent with the Groups underlying financial and operational performance.
The vesting of PSP awards is also subject to the Committee agreeing that ROCE performance over the performance period was satisfactory.
Experian plc 90 Governance Report on directors remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued The Committee selected Benchmark PBT per share, Cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow and ROCE as performance metrics for our long-term incentive plans, as they re ect three of our key performance indicators.
Using these metrics therefore directly links to Experians strategic aims and business objectives.
Using relative TSR recognises the importance of creating value for shareholders.
As such, we believe these measures to be the most appropriate measures of the Groups success and, together, they ensure that executive directors are incentivised to deliver on a wide range of business and financial measures.
While they are very similar in nature, we consider Benchmark PBT per share to be a better performance measure than EPS as it excludes the distorting impact of tax and discontinued operations.
We measure our TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100 Index, rather than against our bespoke comparator group, given the diffi culties in measuring TSR against such a narrow group of companies, many of whom are listed in diff erent markets.
As such, they may be subject to diff erent market forces.
Details of Experians performance relative to the FTSE 100 Index is set out in the following section.
How is the CEOs pay linked to Experians performance?
The chart below shows Experians annual TSR performance against the FTSE 100 Index over the last nine years.
The FTSE 100 Index is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be measured, as it is widely used and understood, and Experian is a constituent of the index.
2 No long-term incentive plan LTIP awards vested in respect of performance periods ending in 2011.
Governance 91 What did we pay our non-executive directors during the year?
audited The following table shows a single total gure of remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors in respect of the years ended 31 March 2018 and 31 March 2017: Share-based incentives Total Fees 000 Bene ts 000 000 000 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 1 Don Robert 625 600 6 20 1,178 631 1,798 2 Roger Davis 263 255 263 255 3 Caroline Donahue 177 42 177 42 4 Luiz Fleury 240 243 240 243 Deirdre Mahlan 221 216 221 216 5 Mike Rogers 117 117 George Rose 247 235 247 235 Paul Walker 159 149 159 149 1 The 2017 share-based incentive data for Don Robert shows the value of PSP and CIP awards made to him while serving as Chief Executive Offi cer.
This gure consists of awards which vested after the 2017 report was published and, as such, the value shown for share-based incentives in that report was based on the average share price during the last three months of the financial year, of 15.90, in line with the prescribed single gure methodology.
The share price on the vesting date was 16.26, and the share-based incentive gure shown in the table above has been updated accordingly.
Don Robert also receives an unfunded pension payment from the Group of 466,375 per annum 2017: 467,311.
2 Roger Davis acted as independent Chairman of Experian Limited, which is regulated by the UK Financial Conduct Authority.
His remuneration in respect of this role comprises an annual non-executive directors fee including a fee for his role as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a fee for his role as independent Chairman of Experian Limited.
3 Caroline Donahue joined the Board on 1 January 2017.
4 Luiz Fleury acted as an independent adviser to Serasa S. A. our Brazilian business.
His remuneration includes a fee for this role, paid in Brazilian reais, along with the annual non-executive directors fee.
5 Mike Rogers joined the Board on 1 July 2017.
Non-executive director fees are reviewed every two years, they were last reviewed during this year.
With eff ect from 1 October 2017, the fee levels are as follows: Annual fee from Annual fee prior to 1 October 2017 1 October 2017 Base fee 150,750 142,500 Audit Committee Chairman fee 45,500 43,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman fee 36,500 34,500 Deputy Chairman Senior Independent Director fee 91,000 86,000 Other than the Chairman, non-executive directors required to undertake intercontinental travel to attend Board meetings receive a supplementary payment of 6,000 per trip, in addition to any travel expenses.
This amount is unchanged since October 2009.
As noted in the 2017 Report, Don Roberts fee was reviewed last year, and was increased with eff ect from 1 April 2017 to 625,000.
How has the CEOs pay changed compared to the wider workforce?
The following table sets out the percentage change in the CEOs salary, bene ts and annual bonus between 2017 and 2018, and how this compares to the average percentage change for our UK and Ireland employees.
Consistent with our approach in previous years, weve selected this group of employees because Experian operates in 39 countries and, as such, has widely varying approaches to pay across diff erent regions.
This also avoids the complexities involved in collating and comparing remuneration data across diff erent geographic populations, including the impact of foreign exchange rate movements.
The gures for UK and Ireland employees re ect average salaries and average employee numbers each year.
The annual bonus gure includes payments from sales incentive plans.
Base salary Taxable bene ts Annual bonus CEO 2.8% 29% 33.2 % UK and Ireland employees 3.0% 3.7 % 1.2% Experian plc 92 Governance Report on directors remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued How do we intend to implement the remuneration policy next year?
Salary The following salary increases will take eff ect from 1 June 2018: 1 June 2018 1 June 2017 000 000 % increase Brian Cassin 948 925 2.4% Lloyd Pitchford 585 570 2.6% Kerry Williams US$1,000 US$975 2.6% In approving these increases, the Committee took into account a number of factors, with the pay and increases made across the Group being chief among them.
Annual bonus The Committees approach to operating the annual bonus plan for the year ending 31 March 2019 will be unchanged from 2018, albeit executive directors will be required to defer 50% of any payout for a period of three years.
They may choose to defer up to 100% on a voluntary basis.
The entire bonus will be subject to clawback provisions, allowing the Company to recover all or part of any vested award for a period of three years from the end of the performance period.
The targets for this award will be disclosed in next years Annual report on remuneration.
Share-based incentives The executive directors have each elected to defer 100% of their bonuses into the CIP.
We expect to grant matching shares in the first quarter of the year ending 31 March 2019, on a two-for-one basis.
We also expect to grant PSP awards equivalent to 200% of salary at the same time.
Both CIP and PSP awards will vest subject to meeting the following performance conditions, measured over three years: 1 Vesting Performance measure Weighting 0% 25% 50% 100% CIP awards 2 Benchmark PBT per share average annual growth 50% Below 5% 5% 6% 9% Cumulative Benchmark operating cash ow 50% Below US$3.7bn US$3.7bn US$3.8bn US$4.1bn PSP awards 2 Benchmark PBT per share average annual growth 75% Below 5% 5% 6% 9% TSR of Experian vs TSR of FTSE 100 Index 25% Below Index Equal to Index 8.3% above Index 25% above Index 1 Straight-line vesting between the points shown.
2 Measured on an ongoing activities and constant currency basis.
Vesting of CIP and PSP awards will be subject to the Committee being satis ed that the vesting is not based on materially misstated financial results.
The Committee also retains the discretion to vary the level of vesting if we consider that the level of vesting determined by measuring performance is inconsistent with the Groups underlying financial and operational performance.
The vesting of PSP awards will also be subject to the Committee agreeing that ROCE performance over the period is satisfactory.
As discussed in the Introduction from the Chairman section of this Report, a holding period of two years will apply to PSP awards.
The additional holding period will also apply to CIP awards made from next year.
This is because, when the decision to introduce the holding period was made, we were already halfway through the bonus year which determines the level of bonus award to be invested into the CIP.
Both award types will be subject to clawback provisions, allowing the Company to recover all or part of any vested award during the holding period.
Governance 93 Additional disclosures Directors shareholdings and share interests audited We believe its important that executive directors build up a signi cant holding in Experian shares, to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Under our guidelines, the CEO should hold the equivalent of three times his or her base salary in Experian shares and other executive directors should hold the equivalent of two times their base salary.
These guidelines include invested or deferred shares held under the CIP, but not matching shares.
Shares that have vested but are subject to the two-year holding period will also count towards the guideline.
Until the shareholding guideline is met, we expect executive directors to retain at least 50% of any shares vesting net of tax under a share award.
Unvested shares dont count towards the guideline.
We also have guidelines for the non-executive directors to build up a holding in Experians shares equal to their annual fee.
Each financial year, the first quarters net fee is used to purchase Experian shares until the non-executive director reaches this holding.
All executive and non-executive directors that served during the year hold shares in excess of the relevant shareholding guidelines.
The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the Companys ordinary shares are shown below and there have been no changes between 31 March 2018 and the date of this report: Share awards subject to Shareholding guidelines performance conditions Shares held in Experian plc at Guideline Shareholding CIP matching PSP Share 1 2 3 31 March 2018 % of salary fee % of salary Guideline met?
2 Matching shares granted to Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford are in the form of nil-cost options, which are unvested at 31 March 2018.
Those granted to Kerry Williams are conditional share awards.
3 Share options have been granted under the all-employee Sharesave plan.
4 The number of Experian shares held by Brian Cassin and Lloyd Pitchford at 31 March 2018 includes 146,267 and 98,764 invested shares in the CIP respectively.
5 The number of Experian shares held by Kerry Williams at 31 March 2018 includes 213,182 shares awarded to him under The Experian North America Co-investment Plan as a result of his annual bonus deferral elections, in addition to his personal bene cial shareholding.
Kerry Williams has an unconditional right to receive these Experian shares at the end of the relevant three-year deferral period.
These shares do not carry dividend or voting rights prior to receipt.
Payments made to former directors audited Three former directors of Experian Finance plc formerly GUS plc received unfunded pensions from the Group.
Two of the former directors are now paid under the Secured Unfunded Retirement Bene t Scheme, which provides security for the unfunded pensions of executives aff ected by the HMRC Her Majestys Revenue and Customs earnings cap.
The total unfunded pensions paid to the former directors was 438,508 in the year ended 31March 2018.
Experian plc 94 Governance Report on directors remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued Payments for loss of offi ce audited No payments for loss of offi ce were made in the year 2017: nil.
Executive directors non-executive directorships We recognise the value of external non-executive directorships in enabling executive directors to broaden their experience and development, which we believe ultimately bene ts Experian.
In line with the Codes recommendations, the executive directors may accept one external non-executive directorship, although they may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE 100 company, given the time requirement this is likely to entail.
We allow the executive directors to keep any fees they may receive in respect of their non-executive directorship roles.
Brian Cassin was a non-executive director of J Sainsbury plc throughout the year, and Lloyd Pitchford was a non-executive director of Bunzl plc.
They received fees of 66,154 and 84,112 respectively for the period under review.
During the year, Kerry Williams also took on a non-executive director role at Paci c LifeCorp, for which he received a fee of US$207,097 over the period.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay for all employees, compared to the financial distributions to shareholders, through dividends and earnings-enhancing share repurchases: 2018 2017 US$m US$m % change Employee remuneration costs 1,716 1,768 2.9 % Dividends paid on ordinary shares 388 381 1.8% 1 Estimated value of earnings-enhancing share repurchases 494 299 65.2% 1 The increase is largely due to increased spend under the share repurchase programme after a decrease in 2017.
For reference, the 2016 gure was US$487m.
The Remuneration Committee All of our non-executive directors are members of the Committee and met four times during the year ended 31 March 2018 to discuss remuneration.
Each of the Committees members is considered to be independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
The Committees role and responsibilities The Committee is responsible for: Recommending to Determining individual Communicating with Making Overseeing the Groups the Board senior remuneration packages shareholders on recommendations to executive pension management for executive directors remuneration policy.
the Board on the design arrangements.
remuneration policy and certain senior of the Groups shortand the Chairmans executives.
Committee activities During the year, the Committee: Reviewed drafts of the Report on directors remuneration.
Considered the voting outcomes in respect of the remuneration-related resolutions tabled at the 2017 AGM, and listened to the feedback provided by Experians key shareholders and major investor representative bodies.
The Chairman of the Committee personally met with a number of these to discuss Experians executive director remuneration arrangements.
Discussed at length the key themes emerging from the meetings with shareholders, and considered various potential changes to the executive director packages.
It asked its external advisers and the Global Reward team to review best practice in Experians key markets and provide the Committee with more details around a small number of important changes.
Approved the final changes to the executive remuneration structure, following careful consideration, debate and discussion.
Governance 95 Received updates on the Companys long-term incentive plans, including in respect of performance conditions.
Agreed the 2017 bonus outcomes, 2018 bonus targets, and targets for long-term incentive awards made in the year, as well as the participants for certain long-term incentive plans.
Received an update on current trends in the executive remuneration environment, focusing on the key regions in which the Group operates.
Received an update on the Companys response to the UK Governments gender pay gap disclosure requirement.
Considered remuneration matters in respect of senior hires and departures.
Initiated the invitation to employees to participate in the 2017 Sharesave plan, and received an update on take-up and outcomes of previous grants.
Reviewed the Committees performance and its terms of reference.
As all non-executive directors sit on all of the Board committees, they were exposed to all aspects of employee pay and conditions throughout the organisation, including succession planning, talent management and employee engagement, and assessed executive director remuneration in this context.
Advice provided to the Committee In making its decisions, the Committee consults the Chairman, the Chief Executive Offi cer and the Group Human Resources Director where required.
We also invite members of the Global Reward team to attend Committee meetings as appropriate.
We normally consult the Chief Financial Offi cer about performance conditions applying to shortand long-term incentive arrangements.
However, we do not consider it appropriate that executives are present when their own remuneration arrangements are being discussed.
The Committee has access to independent consultants to ensure that it receives objective advice.
We reviewed our external advisers in 2013 and appointed Towers Watson Ltd Willis Towers Watson, who remained our external advisers throughout the year ended 31 March 2018.
Willis Towers Watson provides other services to Experian globally, including advice on bene ts and provision of market data.
In addition, Kepler a brand of Mercer provided incentive plan award valuations and remuneration data, as well as supporting data for the target calibration process.
Kepler does not provide any other services to the Group, although Mercer, Keplers parent company, does provide unrelated services to the Group.
Both Willis Towers Watson and Kepler are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operate under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
We were satis ed that their advice was objective and independent.
The fees paid to these advisers for services to the Committee in the year ended 31 March 2018 are set out in the following table, and are based on hours spent: Adviser Fees paid in 2018 Willis Towers Watson 47,056 Kepler 9,200 Statement of voting at the 2017 AGM The voting to approve the Annual report on remuneration and the Directors remuneration policy at the AGM held on 20 July 2017, is set out in the following table: Votes for including discretionary votes Votes against % % Total number Number of Number Number of votes cast votes withheld Annual report on remuneration 83.8% 16.2% 579,215,551 111,633,541 690,849,092 4,334,446 Directors remuneration policy 75.5% 24.5% 523,841,449 169,911,599 693,753,048 1,430,490 The Introduction from the Chairman section of this Report contains details of our discussions with shareholders and investor representative bodies, both prior to and following the 2017 AGM, and sets out the steps that the Committee has taken to address the key issues raised.
The Committee has always been, and remains committed to, ongoing dialogue with our key shareholders.
We will continue to speak to them every year, and take on board their views on our executive remuneration structures.
As noted elsewhere in this Report, this year we consulted with shareholders and institutional investor bodies on a number of diff erent occasions, and took their feedback on board to determine the proposed changes to the executive remuneration framework.
Experian plc 96 Governance Report on directors remuneration Directors remuneration policy The Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 20 July 2017 and the Committee intends to implement this Policy for the three years to July 2020.
We have included, below, the Policy table and the Which clawback provisions apply?
section, which we consider to be the most helpful sections of the policy for shareholders.
The full and original version of the Policy, as approved by shareholders, is available on the Companys website at www.
We intend to change how we operate our Policy to re ect the introduction of additional holding periods in respect of our long-term incentive plans, compulsory bonus deferral and the inclusion of a threshold level of vesting in respect of the Co-investment Plan.
To assist clarity, this has been re ected by the inclusion of additional wording, in italics below, within our Policy table but it will not form part of our formal Policy until approved by shareholders in future years.
Element and link Maximum potential value Performance metrics to strategy Operation and payment at target and weightings Base salary To help with attracting and Base salary is paid in equal instalments Annual executive director salary increases When the Committee retaining executive directors during the year.
will, in normal circumstances, be limited to considers salary of the right calibre.
the increases awarded across the Group as a increases, it takes into Salaries are reviewed annually, with any whole.
account individual Provides a base level of pay increases generally taking eff ect from 1June.
performance over the and re ects the competitive Higher increases may be made in exceptional Salary levels and increases take into account preceding financial year.
market salary for the role.
circumstances including, but not limited to, a a number of factors, including the approach change in role or responsibility, and will take Base salary level takes account to employee remuneration throughout the account of market practice in relation to the of personal contribution and Group, prevailing economic conditions, best new role.
performance against Group practice and positioning against the market.
Bene ts Bene ts are provided as part of The Group provides a range of marketThe cost of providing such bene ts may None.
a competitive and cost-eff ective competitive bene ts that include, but are vary from year to year, re ecting the cost overall remuneration package.
not limited to, healthcare, death-in-service to the Company.
Certain bene ts may also be provision, company car or allowance and The Committee sets bene ts at a level it provided to support expatriates, financial and tax advice.
considers appropriate against relevant where they have relocated.
Executive directors can also participate in market practice, the role and particular any of the Groups all-employee share plans, circumstances for example, in the case for example the Sharesave plan, on the of expatriate bene ts, where the individual same basis as other eligible employees.
In the USA, eligible executive directors may participate in a deferred compensation plan, which is standard market practice in the USA.
For expatriate assignments, we retain the exibility to tailor bene ts to the circumstances of the assignment.
Additional bene ts may include relocation expenses at the beginning and end of each assignment, housing allowance and school fees.
Pension Provides a market-aligned Pension arrangements are in line with In the UK, the cash payment or pension None.
contribution for executive directors is normally equal to 20% of annual gross In the UK, the Group operates a fide ned base salary.
contribution plan, with company contributions set as a percentage of base salary.
If In the USA, the contribution rate is up to 4% impacted by HMRC pension limits, an of earnings, up to an annual compensation individual may elect to receive a cash limit set by the Internal Revenue Service.
If required, pension arrangements in other In the USA, executive directors are eligible jurisdictions would be in line with local to join a fide ned contribution plan.
Governance 97 Element and link Maximum potential value Performance metrics to strategy Operation and payment at target and weightings Annual bonus Motivates and rewards the The Committee sets appropriate Threshold performance results in a bonus The annual bonus may be achievement of speci c annual performance targets at the start of each payout equivalent to 25% of the maximum.
based entirely on financial objectives, linked to Experians financial year.
No bonus is payable for below-threshold performance or on a business strategy.
combination of financial, At the end of the financial year, the Committee strategic and or determines the extent to which these have Achieving target performance results operational objectives.
been satis ed, based on audited results, in a bonus payout equivalent to 50% of However, the financial and agrees the level of bonus to be paid.
element will comprise at Half of any bonus must be deferred for a period Achieving maximum performance results least 70% of the bonus.
However, the executive director in full bonus payout of 200% of salary.
The Committee retains may elect to defer all of their bonus into the the ability to exercise its CIP.
Where they elect not to do so, payment is judgment to vary the level made as soon as practicable after the of payout if it considers financial year-end.
that the formulaic payout Malus and clawback provisions apply, determined by measuring under which annual bonus payments performance is may be reduced or recovered in certain inconsistent with the circumstances.
Further details about our Groups actual underlying clawback and malus policy are set out in financial and operational the Which clawback provisions apply?
See page 99 Which clawback provisions apply?
Co-investment Plan Aligns with shareholder Participants are invited to invest between Maximum award levels depend on the bonus Awards vest based on interests through voluntary 50% and 100% of their annual bonus into deferred, which will be matched on up to a financial performance and investment of personal capital, Experian shares.
subject to the Committee delivery of Experian shares and being satis ed that the A conditional award of matching shares or There is no vesting for below-target the long-term time horizons.
vesting is not based on nil-cost options is granted on a two-for-one performance.
materially misstated Use of stretching financial basis on the gross bonus deferred, and vests Achieving threshold performance results financial results.
metrics incentivises over a three-year period subject to achieving in 25% vesting of the matching shares.
Any vested awards are The Committee retains the subject to a further two-year holding period.
Achieving target performance results discretion to exercise its Encourages participants in 50% vesting of the matching shares.
judgment to vary the level long-term commitment to Dividend equivalents accrue on all awards of vesting if it considers the Group through personal of shares.
Achieving maximum performance results the formulaic vesting level investment.
in full vesting of the matching shares.
Malus and clawback provisions apply, determined by measuring under which CIP awards may be reduced performance to be or recovered in certain circumstances.
inconsistent with the Further details about our clawback and Groups actual underlying malus policy are set out in the Which financial and operational clawback provisions apply?
Experian plc 98 Governance Report on directors remuneration Directors remuneration policy continued Element and link Maximum potential value Performance metrics to strategy Operation and payment at target and weightings Performance Share Plan Use of stretching financial Participants receive an annual award of Normal maximum award levels are Vesting of up to 25% of metrics incentivises conditional shares or nil-cost options, which 200% of salary.
the awards is based on a performance.
vest over a three-year period subject to share-based metric, with Awards of up to 400% of salary may be achieving performance targets.
Any vested the balance based on Aligns with shareholder made in exceptional circumstances such awards are subject to a further two-year financial performance.
interests through delivery of as on recruitment.
shares and the long-term Awards are also subject There is no vesting for below-target time horizons.
Dividend equivalents accrue on all awards to a financial underpin.
The Committee retains the Achieving target performance results Malus and clawback provisions apply, ability to vary the level of in 25% of the shares vesting.
under which PSP awards may be reduced vesting if it considers the or recovered in certain circumstances.
Achieving maximum performance results formulaic vesting level Further details about our clawback and in full vesting of the shares.
determined by measuring malus policy are set out in the Which performance to be clawback provisions apply?
section of inconsistent with the the Report.
Groups actual underlying financial and operational See page 99 Which clawback provisions apply?
Chairman and non-executive director NED fees To attract individuals with a The Chairman is paid an annual fee in equal The Committee sets the Chairmans fees, No performance-related broad range of experience monthly instalments.
The Group may provide while NED fees are set by the Board.
arrangements are in and skills, to oversee the the Chairman with a limited range of bene ts Both are set based on a number of factors, place for the Chairman implementation of our strategy.
such as healthcare, tax advice or use of a car.
including the time commitment required or the NEDs.
and positioning against the market.
The NEDs are paid a basic fee plus additional fees for chairing a Board Committee and for Fees are normally reviewed every two years.
the role of Deputy Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
NED fees are paid in equal quarterly instalments during the year.
NEDs receive an additional fee where attendance at Board meetings involves intercontinental travel from their home location.
The Company may settle any tax due on travel expenses incurred by the Chairman and NEDs.
Share Option Plan SOP Provides focus on increasing Options are granted with an exercise price Normal maximum award levels are The vesting of options Experians share price over equivalent to the market value of an Experian 200% of salary.
is based on financial the medium to longer term.
share at the date of grant.
These vest subject performance targets.
Grants of up to 400% of salary may be to achieving performance targets that are made in exceptional circumstances such tested over a three-year period and are as on recruitment.
exercisable for seven years thereafter.
There is no vesting for below-target No option grants have been made since performance.
2009 and the Committee has agreed that no further awards will be made, unless Achieving target performance results warranted by exceptional circumstances in 25% of the options vesting.
Achieving maximum performance results Malus and clawback provisions apply, in full vesting of the options.
under which SOP awards may be reduced or recovered in certain circumstances.
Further details about our clawback and malus policy are set out in the Which clawback provisions apply?
Governance 99 Legacy arrangements The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of offi ce including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out in this Report, where the entitlement to the payment arose i before the 2014 AGM: ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company: or iii under a remuneration policy previously approved by the Companys shareholders.
For these purposes, entitlements arising under the Companys current remuneration policy as approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM will be incorporated into this Policy and payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and an entitlement under an award over shares arises at the time the award is granted.
Clawback and or malus applies to the Companys incentive plans and applies for five years from grant.
Under these provisions, the Committee may apply clawback or malus in circumstances which have: resulted in a level of vesting or payment which is higher than would otherwise have been, due to a material misstatement of the Groups financial results led to a material financial or reputational loss for the Group, due to serious individual misconduct.
Under our malus and clawback policy, should a trigger event be identi ed, a Clawback Committee would be appointed by the Remuneration Committee to investigate the issue.
The Clawback Committee would report back with recommendations on whether malus and or clawback should be applied, which individuals this should aff ect, which remuneration should be subject to malus and or clawback and the value that should be impacted.
The Remuneration Committee would then have final sign-off on any decision to operate clawback or malus.
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Charles Brown Company Secretary 16 May 2018
