Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee operates the remuneration policy for executive directors, with a focus on fair reward for performance.
Jacky Simmonds Remuneration Committee Chair TSR 50.4 per cent has outperformed theFTSE 100 27.1 per cent, Remuneration Committee members and adjusted EPS has increased by26.6 per cent.
Membership Year of appointment Meetings attended It is therefore proposed that the 2018 Policy be broadly unchanged Jacky Simmonds Chair 2014 5 5 from the 2015 Policy, save for a small number of revisions to help Tessa Bamford 2011 5 5 ensure that the Policy appropriately reflects the latest investor Alan Murray 2013 5 5 thinking on remuneration governance.
These changes are: Darren Shapland 2014 5 5 Nadia Shouraboura 2017 5 5 pension contributions will be reduced for future Executive Director appointments: Members who left during the year clarifying our policy on tax equalisation: John Daly 2014 4 4 aligning the maximum aggregate fees for all Non Executive Pilar Lpez 2013 4 5 Directors including the Chairman with the limit provided for under the Companys Articles of Association and for which an increase is All 2018 focus being proposed by separate ordinary resolution at the 2018 AGM : and Full review of the Remuneration Policy and consultation with the introduction of an Intercontinental Allowance for all Non major shareholders Executive Directors including the Chairman reflecting the Executive remuneration awards and outcomes international composition of our Board and the significant travel that some of them have to undertake to attend Ferguson Board Review of incentive plans for senior executives below meetings, which are generally held in Switzerland or the US.
Board level When undertaking the review, the Committee also took the opportunity to review the incentive opportunity limits contained in the Dear Shareholder 2015 Policy to ensure they provide sufficient headroom to compete On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors effectively in the US for the best talent.
Whilst currently not an issue, Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 July 2018. the Committee concluded that there are significant differences between senior executive pay levels and practices in the USA and the UK, and that the 2018 Policy limits may not be sufficiently flexible Remuneration Policy All enough to enable Ferguson to offer a competitive package, in the The current Directors Remuneration Policy 2015 Policy was event we needed to recruit senior US talent to the Board in the future.
approved at the AGM in December 2015.
In line with the requirement Therefore, it is our intention to undertake further work to understand to obtain shareholders approval at least every three years, I am the differences in local market practices and the implications for pleased to present details of a revised Directors Remuneration Policy remuneration at Ferguson.
If this results in a need to review our 2018 2018 Policy that will be submitted to shareholders for approval at Policy further, then we will return to consult with shareholders and the AGM in November 2018. seek approval for any proposed changes at a future AGM.
The proposed amendments to the 2015 Policy and the other major The Committee consulted with and received helpful feedback from decisions taken by the Committee during the year are consistent those of our largest shareholders who responded on these proposed withthe Companys reward principles.
revisions further detail on the consultation is set out below.
Over the last 12 months, the Committee has conducted a thorough review of the 2015 Policy to ensure it remains fit for purpose, while 2018 Remuneration Policy engagement with shareholders appropriately reflecting shareholder feedback since the Policy was During the year, the Committee consulted Fergusons largest last approved, market trends and developments in remuneration shareholders on proposed changes to the 2015 Policy.
The Committee contacted the Companys 22 largest The Committee concluded from its review that the 2015 Policy shareholders representing 57.3 per cent of Fergusons issued continues to be aligned with the Companys strategy and appropriate share capital as well as shareholder representative bodies.
for Ferguson: the annual bonus captures appropriate short-term Meetings with the Remuneration Committee Chair and other financial and personal objectives, while the LTIP continues to Company representatives to discuss the proposed changes reinforce long-term decision making through a balanced focus tothe 2015 Policy were also offered to all those contacted.
on sustainable earnings growth, cumulative cash flow and total The Committee received feedback from four shareholders and shareholder return outperformance of the FTSE 100.
The result two shareholder representative bodies.
Overall the feedback is that pay outcomes have been closely aligned with Company received was positive and supportive of the proposed changes.
performance, and over the last three years have underpinned Feedback was reviewed and discussed by the Committee sustained long-term business performance: we have generated andthe proposed 2018 Policy was refined as appropriate.
$4.443 billion of adjusted OpCF over that period, the Groups 70 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information In addition, and as permitted under the 2015 Policy, the Committee Fergusons Remuneration Principles believes it is appropriate to increase the maximum annual bonus To provide remuneration packages that fairly reward Executive opportunity for Kevin Murphy to 140 per cent of base salary, consistent with his predecessor and to bring his package more into Directors and senior executives for the contribution they make to the business, having regard to the size and complexity of the line with competitive practices in the USA, where we compete for thehighest calibre of senior talent for this role.
Groups business operations and the need to attract, retain and motivate executives of the highest quality: The annual bonus will operate along similar lines as for the year to have remuneration packages which comprise salary, ended 31 July 2018, except that the bonus scorecard of measures will short-term bonuses, long-term incentives, benefits-in-kind be simplified by removing gross profit and upweighting trading profit.
andpension provision: and Further details can be found on page 86.
The implementation of to aim to provide a total cash award of base salary and bonus the LTIP for the coming year remains unchanged, with TSR, EPS and around the median of the market, with the opportunity to OpCF continuing to apply in equal proportions as they have done earn a higher reward for sustained superior financial and since awards made in 2015 16. individual performance.
Finally, and on behalf of the Committee, I thank you for your continued support and trust you will find the Directors Remuneration Company performance All Report useful and informative, and I look forward to receiving your Company performance for the year ended 31 July 2018 again saw support at the 2018 AGM, where I will be available to respond to your strong trading performance in the USA and Canada and, on 29 March questions on this report.
2018, we successfully completed the sale of our Nordic business, Stark Group, to Lone Star Funds, whilst the UK business continues itsrestructuring programme.
Specifically: the strong US and Canadian trading performance translated into strong profit performance for the Group with both the gross profit Jacky Simmonds and trading profit bonus targets being achieved at maximum level, Chair of the Remuneration Committee whilst cash-to-cash days performance was above threshold for the year: over the performance period 2015-2018 for the LTIP, TSR was Glossary of terms inDirectors Remuneration 50.4per cent and as a result the Company achieved a ranking Report 2018 of28th against our FTSE 100 comparator group: adjusted EPS growth was 17.7 per cent above UK RPI, and above AGM Annual General Meeting the threshold level set by the Committee: and Code UK Corporate Governance Code three-year cumulative adjusted OpCF was $4.443 billion, EPS Headline Earnings Per Share above maximum.
ESPP Employee Share Purchase Plan Taking account of this strong performance, the Committee ISP International Sharesave Plan has confirmed: LTIP Long Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTI plans Ordinary Share Plan 2011, Revised Ordinary Share bonus payments to the Executive Directors for the year ended Plan 2016, Performance Ordinary Share Plan 2016, 31 July 2018 ranging from 93 per cent to 98 per cent, averaging Performance Based Buy Out Award and Restricted 95per cent of their maximum levels: and Share Buy Out Awards the LTIP granted for the performance period 2015-2018 will vest OpCF Operating cash flow overall at 81.57 per cent of maximum.
Policy Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration The Large and Medium-sized Companies Looking ahead to the year ending 31 July 2019 Reporting Regulations andGroups Accounts and Reports Regulations or Regulations 2008 as amended In accordance with our Policy, the Committee undertook an annual Report Directors Remuneration Report review of the Executive Directors base salaries for the coming year.
TSR Total Shareholder Return The Committee awarded a salary increase of 2.5 per cent to the Group Chief Executive Group CEO, John Martin, in line with the general level of increases awarded to other associates in the Group.
Key elements of this report As set out in my report last year, the Committees intention consistent with our 2015 Policy is to appoint Executive Directors on below- 2018 Remuneration Annual report market salaries, and increase these on a phased basis over two Policy on remuneration years subject to their performance, by more than the average salary Remuneration Remuneration 2018 Remuneration Policy Annual report on remuneration 1.
Introduction and loss of office payments will only be made if they are consistent Information Annual bonus All increase for the relevant general workforce.
This policy applies both This section of the Directors Remuneration Report has been with the approved Policy in force at the time of payment or otherwise For the purposes of this Annual report on remuneration: When considering the objectives for the Executive Directors and approved by ordinary resolution.
other members of the Executive Committee, the Remuneration prepared in accordance with the Remuneration Reporting 1 any estimated share values are determined using a share price of Committee assesses whether incentives are designed to promote Regulations.
During the year, the Committee completed a review of Details of how the Company implemented the2015 Policy for the 5,941pence, being the average closing mid-market quotation for the right behaviours and takes into account whether specific executive remuneration which sought to ensure continued alignment year ended 31 July 2018, and will implement the 2018 Policy for Fergusonplc shares for the three-month period ended 31 July 2018. with the Companys strategy and that, going forward, it remains the year ending 31 July 2019 areprovided in the Annual report 2 the remuneration of Kevin Murphy is shown in local currency and any sterling attention should be given to environmental, social and governance simple and closely aligned to the requirements of all stakeholders.
onremuneration section starting on page 86. p ex ac yh m ae nn gte r s h a a tv e f e b or t ee hn c e po en riv o e d e rten d t fide o U d 3 S 1 J D b ula y 2 se 0 d o 18 o n a t f $h 1. r 3 e 3 e 0 -8 m : o1 n. th average matters.
Directors take such matters into account when considering Following the review, the Committee proposes that the 2015 Policy any investment proposal or operational matters, and management be resubmitted withanumber of small revisions to the policy which The Annual report on remuneration provides, in the section entitled is expected to meet performance targets which include compliance was approved bythe shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Report for the year ended 31 July 2018, details of the remuneration Implementation of Policy for the year ending 31July 2019 with any environmental, social or governance-related standards that to our Group Chief Financial Officer Group CFO, Mike Powell, and paid to Directors in accordance with the 2015 Policy approved at have been set.
The overall performance of the businesses and of This section sets out the 2018 Policy.
It contains details of the the 2015 AGM.
The 2015 Policy can be found on the Ferguson plc Executive Directors management is reviewed at the end of the year when considering the Companys policy to govern future payments that will be made website at www.
award of bonuses and whether operational and personal objectives to Directors, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on Base salary 29 November 2018 2018 AGM.
If approved, the 2018 Policy will In line with the Policy, the Remuneration Committee undertook an have been met.
annual review of the Executive Directors base salaries during the The threshold, target and maximum bonus opportunities for each take effect immediately following the 2018 AGM.
The Committee agreed to an increase to the base salary level ofthe Executive Directors are set out in the table below: of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Chief 2.
Remuneration Policy tables Threshold Target Maximum Executive Officer, USA from 1 August 2018.
Revised base salary As % salary levels, and those which applied during the year ended 31 July 2018, J Martin Group CEO 80% 100% 120% our Chief Executive Officer, USA, CEO, USA Kevin Murphy, who Future policy table: Executive Directors are set out below.
Annualised base salary M Powell Group CFO 70% 90% 110% Base salary 2018 19 2017 18 % K Murphy CEO, USA 1 80% 110% 140% 000 000 change Purpose and link to strategy 1 1.
A fos n r Ko et v e in d i M n t ur h p e C hy h om as m b it ee ten e C inh ca re ira s l sed et t te o r o a l n p evel ag c e 7 on1 t sis ht e m enta w xiit m h h um a is pw red arec d le ev ss eo l r To pay Executive Directors at a level commensurate with their contribution to the Company and appropriately based on skill, J Martin Group CEO 899.2 877.2 2.5% as Chief Executive Officer, USA.
M Powell Group CFO 550.0 510.0 7.8%2 The level of salary paid should be set at a level that is considered appropriate to aid the recruitment, retention and motivation K Murphy CEO, USA $975.0 $900.0 8.3%2 80 per cent of the bonus opportunity will be linked to the achievement of financial performance targets 20 per cent is based of high calibre Executive Directors required to ensure the successful formation and delivery of the Groups strategy and 1.
For context, the Group-wide average salary increase was 2.7 per cent.
on cash-to-cash days and 60 per cent on trading profit and the were appointed in 2017 on salaries below the market median and management of its business in the international environment in which it operates.
As noted in the Remuneration Committee Chairs statement, the Committee remaining 20 per cent of the bonus opportunity is linked to personal a av wa err a d g e e s d sa ala lar ry i y inc ncrr e e a as se f es o tr t o M he r ike e P lev oa w n e t g ll a en nd e K rae l w vin o M rkf ur or p ch e i y t n o hat rd a e rr t e a o m boo five five t the he ir strategic objectives.
For the 2018 19 financial year, the bonus has Operation and opportunity salaries closer to the market median.
This approach is consistent with both the been simplified by removing gross profit from the bonus scorecard Base salary is normally set taking into account prevailing market and economic factors, individual and corporate performance, 2015 Policy and the 2018 Policy.
experience in the role, pay conditions across the general workforce, the location of the role holder and the market for talent, with the ofmeasures.
Specific individual objectives were set at the beginning opportunity to exceed this level to reward sustained individual high performance.
It is normally set at or around the mid-market level Pension and benefits of the 2018 19 financial year.
of other companies comparable on the basis of size, internationality and complexity.
UK-based Executive Directors receive a salary supplement in lieu For the 2018 19 financial year, the threshold for bonus payments of membership of the Group pension scheme, being 30 per cent in relation to ongoing trading profit will be set at or above the Base salary is paid monthly in cash in the currency specified in the employment contract.
ofbase salary for John Martin and 25 per cent for Mike Powell.
Base salary will be reviewed but not necessarily increased each year, with any increases typically in line with the general level USA-based Executive Director Kevin Murphy participates in the outturn trading profit for the 2017 18 financial year on a constant ofincrease awarded to other employees in the Group.
Ferguson defined contribution pension arrangement and receives currency basis.
There is an annual review of base salary by the Committee although an out-of-cycle review may be conducted if the Committee The Board considers that the performance targets for 2018 19 are determines it appropriate.
The review will take into account the same items as discussed above as well as percentage increases aCompany contribution of 16 per cent of base salary.
This includes awarded to the general workforce, and governance practices.
a 401k plan and Ferguson Executive Retirement Plan arrangements.
commercially sensitive and they are not disclosed in this Report The Committee retains the exibility to award larger increases than those awarded to the general workforce where it considers These plans have normal retirement ages of 59 and 55 for this reason.
The Committee intends to disclose the targets and itappropriate and necessary such as in exceptional circumstances or if an individual assumes a new or expanded role with further respectively.
Bonus payments are not included in the calculation of performance against them in the Annual report on remuneration the Company pension contributions.
Benefits provided to Executive next year depending on considerations of commercial sensitivity scope and responsibility.
If it is considered appropriate, larger increases may be phased over more than one year.
Directors are detailed in the Remuneration table on page 90. atthat time.
The Committee retains the exibility to review and decide on a case-by-case basis whether it is appropriate to award increases toallow a newly appointed Executive Director whose base salary has been set below the mid-market level to progress quickly Long-term incentives tooraround that mid-market level once expertise and performance has been proven.
LTIP awards will be made during the 2018 19 financial year at the The base salaries for the Executive Directors for the year under review and the coming year are set out in the Annual report levels set out in the table below and unchanged from 2017 18 : on remuneration.
award valuLT e as IP Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid % of salary J Martin Group CEO 300% Reflecting their strong individual performances, as well as their Assessment of performance measures: the Committee considers the individual salaries of the Executive Directors at a Committee meeting each year, taking into account the factors listed in operation and opportunity above.
M Powell Group CFO 240% Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to base salary: there are no provisions for the recovery K Murphy CEO, USA 250% ofsums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to base salary.
The extent to which the LTIP awards proposed to be granted during 2018 19 vest will be dependent on the following performance targets, over a three-year performance period, each with a weighting of one-third of award opportunity: comparative TSR: EPS growth: and OpCF.
significant contributions to overall Company performance over 74 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 86 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 the last year, the base salaries for Mike Powell and Kevin Murphy have been increased by 7.8 per cent and 8.3 per cent respectively.
Pages 74 to 85 Pages 86 to 96 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Remuneration Directors Remuneration Report continued At a glance 2017 18 performance summary The performance numbers shown here are those used for remuneration purposes only and are defined and reconciled  below.
Adjusted Group ongoing gross profit Performance Definition and reconciliation $5,981m $6,031m $5,835m $5,689m Ongoing Group gross profit of $6,063 million see note 2 to the consolidated financial $6,031m statements on page 108 retranslated at Company budgeted foreign exchange rates 10.2% forthe year ended 31 July 2018.
All Threshold Target Maximum Actual Adjusted Group ongoing trading profit Performance Definition and reconciliation $1,504m $1,442m $1,387m $1,331m Ongoing Group trading profit of $1,507 million see note 2 to the consolidated financial $1,504m statements on page 108 retranslated at Company budgeted foreign exchange rates 14.9% forthe year ended 31 July 2018.
All Threshold Target Maximum Actual Adjusted Group ongoing average cash-to-cash days Performance Definition and reconciliation 54 days 53.5 days 53.7 days 53 days The 12-month average number of days from payment for items of inventory to receipt of 53.7 days cash from customers for the ongoing business at Company budgeted foreign exchange rates 0.3 days improvement forthe year ended 31 July 2018.
Threshold Target Maximum Actual Adjusted EPS growth over UK inflation 3 years Performance Definition and reconciliation 30% Headline earnings per share of 322.4 cents in 2015 and 444.4 cents in 2018 adjusted to include 17.7% 17.7% 36.7 cents in 2015 and 10.2 cents in 2018 relating to the disposed Nordic business.
9% The growth in adjusted headline earnings per share from 359.1 cents in 2015 to 454.6 cents in2018 in excess of UK inflation RPI for the All Threshold Maximum Actual same period of 8.9 per cent.
Adjusted OpCF 3 years Performance Definition and reconciliation Cash generated from operations, before interest and tax, of $1,323 million 2016 17: $1,410 million: $4.443bn 2015 16: $1,488 million adjusted for items which are not considered part of the underlying business $4.443bn performance as agreed by the Remuneration $4.213bn Committee.
These adjustments were to add back $3.577bn $31 million 2016 17 and 2015 16: $nil in relation to the cash flow lost due to the Nordic business being disposed of during the year: $59 million 2016 17: $25 million: 2015 16: $8 million of cash flow on exceptional items: and $99 million 2016 17 and 2015 16: $nil in relation to a special funding All contribution to the UK defined benefit pension plan.
Threshold Maximum Actual 3-year TSR performance vs FTSE 100 Performance 150 125 28th 100 against FTSE 100 75 Jul 2015 Jul 2016 Jul 2017 Jul 2018 All Ferguson plc FTSE 100 index 72 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Rewarding 2017 18 performance The graphs below show totalremuneration for Executive Directors in post during 2017 18, aswell as amounts received in fixed pay, annualbonus, long-termincentive and other awards.
The single figure of total remuneration for each Executive Director who served during the year is set out in the Remuneration table onpage 90.
Total remuneration 2017 18 000 $000 John Martin Mike Powell Kevin Murphy 4,138.3 1,178.7 $2,178.9 2016 17: 3,745.7 2016 17: 1,296.5 2016 17: N A 5,000 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 Fixed pay Annual bonus N A All-employee 0 LTIP 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 Actual Actual Actual Actual Actual $ Actual $ RSBO For John Martin, following his promotion to Group Chief Executive on 1 September 2016 total remuneration for the year ended 31 July 2017 reflects: 1 one months salary at an annualised level of 531,000 and pension contributions of 25 per cent base salary for his services as Group Chief Financial Officer: 2 11 months salary at an annualised level of 860,000 with pension contributions of 30 per cent base salary forhis services as Group Chief Executive: and 3 an adjusted value for the LTI vesting in November 2017 to reflect the actual value on vesting of 1,699,700.
For Mike Powell, following his appointment as Group Chief Financial Officer on 1 June 2017, total remuneration for the year ended 31 July 2017 reflects the two months salary, taxable benefits, pension benefits, annual bonus payment and the grant of three Restricted Share Buy Out RSBO awards.
The RSBO awards were previously detailed on page 80 of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts and the face value of those RSBO awards is now shown in the 2016 17 figures for Mr Powell in the Remuneration table on page 90.
For Kevin Murphy, the remuneration including any vested share plan awards he received relating to his service in 2016 17, prior to hispromotion to Chief Executive Officer, USA and appointment to the Board as an Executive Director on 1 August 2017, is not required tobeincluded in the Remuneration table on page 90 and is therefore not included in the graph above.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Remuneration 2018 Remuneration Policy and loss of office payments will only be made if they are consistent 1.
Introduction with the approved Policy in force at the time of payment or otherwise This section of the Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by ordinary resolution.
prepared in accordance with the Remuneration Reporting Regulations.
During the year, the Committee completed a review of Details of how the Company implemented the2015 Policy for the executive remuneration which sought to ensure continued alignment year ended 31 July 2018, and will implement the 2018 Policy for with the Companys strategy and that, going forward, it remains the year ending 31 July 2019 areprovided in the Annual report simple and closely aligned to the requirements of all stakeholders.
onremuneration section starting on page 86.
Following the review, the Committee proposes that the 2015 Policy The Annual report on remuneration provides, in the section entitled be resubmitted withanumber of small revisions to the policy which Report for the year ended 31 July 2018, details of the remuneration was approved bythe shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
paid to Directors in accordance with the 2015 Policy approved at This section sets out the 2018 Policy.
The 2015 Policy can be found on the Ferguson plc Companys policy to govern future payments that will be made website at www.
to Directors, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM on 29 November 2018 2018 AGM.
If approved, the 2018 Policy will take effect immediately following the 2018 AGM.
Remuneration Policy tables Future policy table: Executive Directors Base salary Purpose and link to strategy To pay Executive Directors at a level commensurate with their contribution to the Company and appropriately based on skill, experience and performance achieved.
The level of salary paid should be set at a level that is considered appropriate to aid the recruitment, retention and motivation of high calibre Executive Directors required to ensure the successful formation and delivery of the Groups strategy and management of its business in the international environment in which it operates.
Operation and opportunity Base salary is normally set taking into account prevailing market and economic factors, individual and corporate performance, experience in the role, pay conditions across the general workforce, the location of the role holder and the market for talent, with the opportunity to exceed this level to reward sustained individual high performance.
It is normally set at or around the mid-market level of other companies comparable on the basis of size, internationality and complexity.
Base salary is paid monthly in cash in the currency specified in the employment contract.
Base salary will be reviewed but not necessarily increased each year, with any increases typically in line with the general level ofincrease awarded to other employees in the Group.
There is an annual review of base salary by the Committee although an out-of-cycle review may be conducted if the Committee determines it appropriate.
The review will take into account the same items as discussed above as well as percentage increases awarded to the general workforce, and governance practices.
The Committee retains the flexibility to award larger increases than those awarded to the general workforce where it considers itappropriate and necessary such as in exceptional circumstances or if an individual assumes a new or expanded role with further scope and responsibility.
The Committee retains the flexibility to review and decide on a case-by-case basis whether it is appropriate to award increases toallow a newly appointed Executive Director whose base salary has been set below the mid-market level to progress quickly tooraround that mid-market level once expertise and performance has been proven.
The base salaries for the Executive Directors for the year under review and the coming year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: the Committee considers the individual salaries of the Executive Directors at a Committee meeting each year, taking into account the factors listed in operation and opportunity above.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to base salary: there are no provisions for the recovery ofsums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to base salary.
74 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Future policy table: Executive Directors Taxable benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide a range of market competitive benefits to encourage retention and which enable an Executive Director to perform his or her duties effectively.
Operation and opportunity A range of benefits are provided that, depending on the location of the individual, may include: life assurance cover: critical illness cover: private medical cover for Executive Directors and their dependants: car, driver, car allowance: professional tax and financial advice including assistance in relation to tax filings : relocation assistance where necessary : tax equalisation arrangements in relation to additional international tax and social security contributions, so that the Executive Director is no better or worse off from an individual tax perspective: and other reasonable ancillary benefits, where necessary.
The travel and other business expenses incurred in relation to their duties as Executive Directors may be reimbursed or paid forbythe Company directly, as appropriate including any relevant tax payable.
In addition, the Executive Directors have the benefit of Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and an indemnity from the Company.
It is expected that an Executive Director would receive reasonable levels of benefits consistent with those typically offered in his orher country of residence.
Benefits are typically paid monthly and their value assessed at the end of each financial year for tax purposes.
Benefits are monitored, controlled and reviewed on a periodic basis.
The Committee retains the flexibility to offer additional benefits where appropriate.
This would be reviewed on a case-by-case basis due to the position and circumstances of the relevant Executive Director e. g. if asked to relocate, or is recruited, from overseas.
The benefits for the Executive Directors for the year under review and the coming year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: not applicable.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to benefits: consistent with our policy for all employees there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to benefits.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy To provide a market-competitive benefit for retirement which rewards sustained contribution and to encourage the recruitment and retention of high performing Executive Directors.
Operation and opportunity Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the relevant pension arrangements offered by the Group or to receive a cash salary supplement in lieu of pension entitlement.
Pension contribution or cash salary supplement is paid monthly.
The entitlement is fixed as a percentage of base salary.
The maximum opportunity, either by way of a Company contribution to a Group pension arrangement or payment of a cash salary supplement, for current Executive Directors will not be increased from the percentage levels set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
The maximum opportunity for any new Executive Director who is first appointed as a Director on or after the date ofthe 2018 AGM is 25% of base salary.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to pension: consistent with our policy for all employees there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to pension.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Remuneration 2018 Remuneration Policy continued Future policy table: Executive Directors Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy To reward achievement of annual financial and operational goals consistent with the strategic direction of the business.
Operation and opportunity Executive Directors are eligible subject to invitation at the discretion of the Committee in consultation with the Group Chief Executive, other than in relation to his or her own arrangements to receive an annual bonus which is based on an assessment of financial and personal performance in the relevant financial year.
The annual bonus earned up to the target level of payout by an Executive Director shall be paid in cash and, if shareholding guidelines have been met at the time the bonus is awarded, any amounts of annual bonus earned in excess of target will also be paid in cash.
If shareholding guidelines have not been met, the Deferred Bonus Plan policy on page 77 will apply.
The annual bonus is not pensionable.
The annual bonus is normally reviewed annually and the opportunity available may be adjusted each year up to a maximum opportunity of 150 per cent of base salary.
The annual bonus opportunities for each of the Executive Directors for the year under review and the coming year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Threshold, on-target and maximum performance levels are also set as a percentage of base salary.
All bonus payments are determined by the Committee.
Details of the actual vesting, as well as the threshold, on-target and maximum performance percentages for each Executive Director for the current year, as well as details of performance criteria set for the year under review and performance against them, are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: financial key performance indicators are used.
Performance measures, targets and weightings are reviewed annually.
They will be set each year by the Committee with reference to the Groups annual budget, business priorities at the time and also the long-term strategic business plan, as well as market expectations of the Companys future performance.
They are intended to align the performance of Executive Directors with the Groups near-term objectives of delivering against its strategy.
At least 80 per cent of maximum bonus is weighted to financial performance and not more than 20 per cent of maximum bonus is weighted to personal objectives aimed at driving the strategic objectives of the business.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to annual bonus: for bonuses paid for the 2015 16 financial year, and subsequently, recovery and withholding provisions will apply.
The Committee has the right to recover from Executive Directors any amount of the bonus paid at any time before the second anniversary of the announcement of the results for the financial year to which the annual bonus relates in the following circumstances: a the Committee forms the view that there has been a material financial misstatement of the Companys audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in accounting practice and that such misstatement resulted either directly or indirectly in a higher cash bonus payment being made than would have been the case had that misstatement not been made: and or b it is discovered that, during the financial year in respect of which the bonus is paid, the Executive Director: i conducted him herself in a way which resulted in significant reputational damage to the Company: or ii was guilty of negligence or gross misconduct.
The Committee also has the right to recover from an Executive Director any amount of the bonus paid in the event a fraud was effected by or with the knowledge of the Executive Director during the financial year in respect of which the bonus was paid.
There is no time limit on the application of recovery or withholding provisions in the event of fraud during a year towhich a bonus payment relates.
76 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Future policy table: Executive Directors Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Purpose and link to strategy To encourage Executive Directors to build up a shareholding in value equivalent to a set multiple of base salary and to facilitate share ownership to provide further alignment with shareholders.
To align interests of Directors and shareholders in developing the long-term growth of the business and the execution anddelivery of the Groups strategy.
Operation and opportunity Executive Directors who have not met their shareholding guidelines requirement in any financial year in which an annual bonus ispaid will be granted an award under the DBP as set out below.
In any given year, the annual bonus earned up to the target level of payout by an Executive Director shall be paid in cash.
If shareholding guidelines have not been met at the time the bonus is awarded, amounts earned in excess of target by an Executive Director will be deferred into shares and held subject to the terms of the DBP DBP shares and subject to forfeiture for three years or such other period as the Committee considers appropriate from the date the bonus is awarded.
Awards of DBP shares will normally be made in the form of nil-cost options but may be awarded in other forms allowed under theDBP rules if appropriate.
Dividend equivalent payments may be made in relation to the DBP shares in cash or shares equal in value to the value of dividends that would have been payable on the DBP shares during the period between grant and vesting of an award.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to DBP: for DBP shares awarded in respect of bonus awards made for the 2015 16 financial year, and subsequently, recovery and withholding provisions will apply.
The Committee has the right to recover or withhold from Executive Directors any award of DBP shares at any time before the second anniversary of the date on which they vested in the following circumstances: a there has been a material financial misstatement of the Companys audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in accounting practice : and or b i the Executive Director conducted him herself in a way which resulted in or was reasonably likely to result in significant reputational damage to the Company: or ii was guilty of negligence or gross misconduct.
The Committee also has the right to recover from an Executive Director any award of DBP shares in the event a fraud was effected by or with the knowledge of the Executive Director.
There is no time limit on the application of recovery or withholding provisions in the event of fraud during a year to which a bonus payment relates.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Remuneration 2018 Remuneration Policy continued Future policy table: Executive Directors LTIP Purpose and link to strategy To align the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders in developing the long-term sustainable growth ofthebusiness and execution and delivery of the Groups strategy.
To facilitate share ownership to provide further alignment with shareholders.
Operation and opportunity Executive Directors are eligible to participate subject to invitation by the Committee in the LTIP approved by shareholders.
Awards are typically made annually in each financial year in accordance with the plan rules and are structured as nil cost options, restricted shares, conditional shares or phantom shares.
Vesting of awards is subject to the Company meeting performance targets measured over at least three financial years, typically starting with the financial year in which the grant takes place.
The Committee retains the discretion to award up to the maximum award that may be granted under the LTIP rules which is 350per cent of base salary in shares valued on or around the date of grant, although the Committee will not increase awards for each Executive Director role above any prior year award levels under the LTIP without prior consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
For each performance element, 25 per cent of the award vests for threshold performance 0 per cent below threshold increasing prorata on a straight-line basis to 100 per cent vesting for maximum performance.
The shareholding guidelines require Executive Directors to retain vested shares after taking into account any shares sold to pay tax, social security or similar liabilities received from awards made under the LTIP on or after 1 December 2015 for two years from thevesting date except in exceptional circumstances and with the approval of the Committee.
For awards granted as options, itwillbe sufficient to hold the vested but unexercised nil cost options for this period.
Dividend equivalent payments may be made in accordance with the LTIP rules on the shares which are the subject of the award tothe extent they vest in cash or shares with a value equal to the value of dividends that would have been payable during the periodbetween grant and vesting of an award.
The LTIP awards granted in the year under review, and those proposed to be granted to the Executive Directors are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: metrics will be assessed each year and will be set by the Committee prior to grant to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee may adjust in limited circumstances the targets or introduce alternative or additional measures to those set out on page 87 of the Annual report on remuneration but would consult with major shareholders before doing so.
The Committee may also vary: i weightings between measures provided that no single measure will have a weighting of more than 40 per cent: and ii the targets after the start of the cycle, although the targets will not be materially less challenging than those originally set.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to LTIP: the Committee may, in its discretion, at any time before the fifth anniversary of the date of grant, recover from Executive Directors any vested LTIP shares and or cash paid and withhold any unvested awards or reduce future grants in any of the following circumstances: i a material financial misstatement of the Companys audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in accounting practice : ii any conduct of the Executive Director which results in or is reasonably likely to result in significant reputational damage to the Company: and iii the negligence or gross misconduct of the Executive Director.
The Committee may, in its discretion, recover from an Executive Director any vested LTIP shares and or cash paid and withhold any unvested awards or reduce future grants in the event of a fraud effected by or with the knowledge of the Executive Director.
There is no time limit on the application of recovery or withholding provisions in the event ofa fraud.
78 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Future policy table: Executive Directors All-employee share plans Purpose and link to strategy To foster wider employee share ownership and to allow Directors to voluntarily invest in the Company.
Operation and opportunity Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys all-employee share plan applicable to the jurisdiction in which they are based on the same terms as other eligible employees.
A North America-based Executive Director may make monthly savings over a period of one year linked to the grant of an option over Ferguson plc shares with an option price at a discount of up to 15 per cent of the market value of the shares at grant.
Grants are currently made under the ESPP.
A UK or Europe-based Executive Director may make monthly savings over a period of three or five years or other period set by any relevant tax authority linked to the grant of an option over Ferguson plc shares with an option price ata discount of up to 20 per cent of the market value of the shares at grant.
Grants are currently made under the ISP.
The maximum opportunity under the rules of both plans is 500 or local currency equivalent per month being the current maximum permitted by the UK tax authority for UK all-employee share plans or such other maximum monthly payment mandated by the UK tax authority in respect of UK all-employee share plans.
At the time of this Policy, the Board has currently set the savings limit at 250 per month for both ISP and ESPP plans.
The savings limit used each year will be reviewed by the Board and set annually at an amount up to, but not exceeding, the maximum opportunity.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: not applicable as these are all-employee share plans without performance measures offered to all employees.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to all-employee share plans: there are no provisions forthe recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to all-employee share plans.
Shareholding guidelines Purpose and link to strategy To encourage Executive Directors to build up a shareholding, to align interests with those of shareholders in developing thesustainable long-term growth of the business and the execution and delivery of the Groups strategy.
Operation and opportunity Executive Directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a prescribed percentage of their base salary.
Executive Directors are advised of the required target percentage, a timeline to achieve the target and requirements for maintaining the shareholding in line with salary increases.
Share ownership may be achieved by retaining shares received as a result of participating in a Company share plan after taking into account any shares sold to finance option exercises and or to pay tax, social security and similar liabilities.
Executive Directors are also required to retain vested shares after taking into account any shares sold to pay tax, social security and similar liabilities received from awards made under the LTIP for two years from the vesting date except in exceptional circumstances and with the approval of the Committee and while employed by the Group.
For awards granted as options, it will be sufficient to hold the vested but unexercised options for this period.
Details of the actual guidelines that apply to each Executive Director and their current shareholdings are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: not applicable as these are guidelines for holding shares and not a form of remuneration.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to shareholding guidelines: there are no provisions fortherecovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to shareholding guidelines.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Remuneration 2018 Remuneration Policy continued Future policy table: Non Executive Directors Fees Purpose and link to strategy To remunerate Non Executive Directors to reflect their level of responsibility and time commitments.
Operation and opportunity The Chairman is paid a basic fee determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Non Executive Directors are paid a basic fee.
Additional fees are paid for the roles of Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Fees for Non Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors at a Board meeting.
Additional fees for Non Executive Directors for duties beyond those stated above may be payable, at the discretion of the Board, from time to time to reflect the additional time commitment and responsibility involved.
The maximum aggregate fees for all Non Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association or such higher amount as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution determine.
The Committee, in relation to the Chairman, and the Board, in relation to the other Non Executive Directors, retain the flexibility toincrease fee levels to ensure that they continue to appropriately recognise the experience of the individual, time commitment ofthe role, and fee levels at comparable companies.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 August each year.
The fees payable to the Chairman and Non Executive Directors for the year under review and the coming year are set out intheAnnual report on remuneration.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to fees: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to fees.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To enable a Non Executive Director to perform his or her duties effectively.
Operation and opportunity Non Executive Directors including the Chairman do not participate in any incentive plan, nor is any pension payable in respect oftheir services, and they are not entitled to any benefits, except: they receive assistance with their tax affairs arising from the Companys tax residence in Switzerland: the travel and other business expenses incurred relating to their duties as Non Executive Directors may be reimbursed or paid forby the Company directly, as appropriate including any relevant tax payable : and a travel allowance of 2,500 each way, where there would be a need for intercontinental flight in excess of five hours one way based on the home location of the Non Executive Director or Chairman and the location of the Board or Committee meeting, uptoa maximum of 30,000 per annum.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to benefits: there are no provisions for the recovery ofsums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to benefits.
80 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Future policy table: Non Executive Directors Shareholding guidelines Purpose and link to strategy To encourage Non Executive Directors to build up ashareholding in value equivalent to a set multiple oftheir basic fee.
To align interests of Non Executive Directors and shareholders in developing the sustainable long-term growth of the business and overseeing the execution and delivery of the Groups strategy.
Operation and opportunity All Non Executive Directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a prescribed percentage of their fees.
All Non Executive Directors are advised of the required target percentage, a timeline to achieve the target and requirements formaintaining the shareholding in line with salary or fees increases.
Details of the actual guidelines that apply to each Non Executive Director and their current shareholdings are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Notes to the policy table Summary of changes made Following the review of the 2015 Policy, some minor changes have been proposed to base salary, fees, benefits and pension.
The aim and basisof the rationale for those changes is to provide greater transparency on how the Company sets pay and on the benefits offered.
Ifthe2018Policy is approved at the 2018 AGM, the components of remuneration that will change are as follows: Base Salary The market context for Executive Director pay decisions will be defined by reference to the relevant market for talent, taking into account theresidence and location of the role holder: Fees Subject to the approval of a separate ordinary resolution at the 2018 AGM, an increase in the maximum aggregate fees under the Companys Articles of Association for all Non Executive Directors from 1.0 million to 1.5 million per annum to ensure that any future annual increases, inthe ordinary course, can be made and to allow for the appointment of additional Non Executive Directors: Benefits Clarity that, in relation to tax equalisation arrangements, an Executive Director should not be better off from an individual tax perspective: Introduction of an intercontinental allowance for all Non Executive Directors including the Chairman where there would be a need for intercontinental flight in excess of five hours one way based on the home location of the Non Executive Director or Chairman and the location of the Board or Committee meeting: and Pensions Maintain current levels of pension contributions for current Executive Directors, but set a maximum pension contribution of 25 per cent ofbase salary for Executive Directors appointed on or after the date of the 2018 AGM.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Remuneration 2018 Remuneration Policy continued Fixed pay base salary, benefits, pension 1.
Legacy arrangements A newly appointed Executive Director will be offered a base salary, In approving this 2018 Policy, authority is given to the Company benefits and pension package in line with the Policy in force at that for the duration of the 2018 Policy to honour commitments paid, time.
The Committee retains the flexibility to review and decide on promised to be paid or awarded to: i current or former Directors a case-by-case basis whether it is appropriate to award increases to prior to the date of this 2018 Policy being approved provided that allow a newly appointed Executive Director whose base salary has such payments or promises were consistent with any Remuneration been set below the mid-market level to progress quickly to or around Policy of the Company which was approved by shareholders and that mid-market level once expertise and performance has been was in effect atthe time they were made : or ii an individual who proven.
This decision would take into account all relevant factors subsequently is appointed as a Director of the Company at a time noted above.
when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, was not paid, promised to be paid Variable pay annual bonus and long-term incentive awards or awarded as financial consideration of that individual becoming A newly appointed Executive Director will be offered an annual a Director of the Company, even where such commitments are bonus and long-term incentives in line with the Policy in force at that inconsistent with the provisions of the 2018 Policy.
The maximum level of variable remuneration annual bonus and LTIP awards which may be awarded to new Executive Directors For the avoidance of doubt, this includes: 1 all awards granted under is limited to 500 per cent of base salary excluding any buy out the Ordinary Share Plan 2011 and Performance Ordinary Share awards, the policy for which is set out below.
The Committee retains Plan 2016 to employees of the Company who were not Directors the flexibility to vary the weighting between annual bonus and LTIP at the date of grant: and 2 all awards granted to Mike Powell upon uptothe approved Policy maxima.
joining Ferguson of either the Restricted Share Buy Out Awards or Performance Based Buy Out Award, as well as a Deferred Bonus Depending on the timing of the appointment, the Committee may Plan Award granted to him in November 2017.
The 2015 Policy set different annual bonus performance criteria for the first year of approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM will continue to apply appointment.
Where an appointment is an internal promotion, any until this proposed 2018 Policy is approved at the 2018 AGM.
If this variable pay element awarded in respect of the individuals previous proposed 2018 Policy is not approved at the 2018 AGM, the 2015 role would continue on the original grant terms.
In addition, any other Policy will continue to apply in accordance with its terms.
ongoing remuneration including pension obligations existing prior to the appointment would be able to continue.
Differences in Remuneration Policy for One-off buy out cash or share award Executive Directors compared to other employees Where an Executive Director is appointed from outside the Group, The remuneration policy for other senior executives across the the Committee may make a one-off award to the new Executive Group is broadly consistent with that for the Executive Directors, Director to buy out incentives and other remuneration opportunities although there are differences in award opportunities as well as the forfeited on leaving his or her previous employer.
The Committee performance linkage of incentives: executives and senior managers retains the flexibility to make such additional payments in the form with Group roles participate in long-term incentive arrangements ofcash and or shares.
which reflect Group performance and for some who have regional When making such an award, the Committee will, as far as duties as well would have arrangements to reflect both Group and practicable, replicate the structure of the arrangements being regional performance, whilst those with regional roles participate forfeited and in doing so will take into account relevant factors in incentives that are linked to regional performance, thereby including the delivery mechanism, time horizons, attributed maximising participant line-of-sight and aligning pay outcome with expected value and performance conditions of the forfeited award.
their contribution to the success of their business area.
In addition, The Committee will endeavour not to pay more than the expected the operation of the DBP is not cascaded into the organisation, value of theforfeited award.
reflecting local practice in the markets in which many senior executives are based notably the USA.
The Committee will, where possible, facilitate such awards through the Companys current incentive plans, but it may be necessary to Below the executive and senior manager populations, the wider use the exemption permitted within the Listing Rules.
employee population of the Group receives remuneration that isconsidered to be appropriate for their geographic location, role, Non Executive Directors levelof responsibility and performance.
For the appointment of the Chairman or Non Executive Director, fee 3.
Recruitment policy arrangements will be made in line with the Policy in force at that time.
Executive Directors As noted earlier, the Committee will consider the need to attract the best talent whilst aiming to pay no more than is appropriate ornecessary in the circumstances.
In determining each element of pay and the package as a whole upon recruitment, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the skills and experience of the individual, the market rate for an individual of that experience, as well as the importance of securing the best person for the role.
82 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Executive Directors 4.
Policy on loss of office On loss of office, there is no automatic entitlement to a bonus.
All Directors Executive Directors may receive a bonus in respect of the year of In the event of termination of a service contract or letter of cessation of employment based on, and subject to, performance appointment of a Director, contractual obligations will be honoured in conditions and pro-rated to reflect the actual period of service in the accordance with the service contract and terms of incentive plans or year of cessation except pro-ration may not be applied in exceptional letter of appointment.
The Committee will take into consideration the circumstances such as death in service or ill-health.
The Committee circumstances and reasons for departure, health, length of service, will take into account the reason for the Executive Directors performance and the duty where applicable for Directors to mitigate departure and any other relevant factors when considering a bonus their own loss.
Under this 2018 Policy the Committee may make payment ofa departing Executive Director.
any statutory payments it is required to make and or settle claims brought against the Company in relation to a termination.
In addition, The treatment of leavers under the LTIP or any other awards under the Committee may agree to payment of outplacement counselling LTI plans, together with awards under all-employee plans and, costs and disbursements such as legal costs if considered to be ifapplicable the DBP, would be determined by the relevant leaver appropriate and dependent on the circumstances of departure.
provisions in accordance with the plan rules.
It is the Companys policy for the period of notice from the Company Under the LTIP or any other awards under LTI plans, any unvested to the Executive Directors not to exceed 12 months and for awards will lapse at cessation unless the individual has good leaver NonExecutive Directors to the Company not to exceed six months.
status namely for reasons of death, redundancy, injury, disability, ill-health, employing business or company sold out of the Group and There are no pre-determined contractual provisions for Directors any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee regarding compensation in the event of loss of office except those retains the discretion to determine when the awards should vest listed in the table below: and performance conditions be tested: although this would normally Chairman and be at the usual vesting date, the Committee may determine in Details of Non Executive certain circumstances to bring forward the performance test and provision Executive Directors Directors date of vesting to the date of cessation, e. g. in circumstances such Notice 12 months notice from Six months as death in service.
In the event of a change of control or takeover, period the Company.
notice all long-term incentive awards will vest subject to performance Six months notice from byeither conditions being met.
In relation to the LTIP, awards would generally the Executive.
be pro-rated to reflect the period of service of the Executive Director: Termination The Company may terminate Fees and although, if the Committee considers it appropriate, the Committee payment an Executive Directors service expenses has the discretion set out in the plan rules not to pro-rate.
contract by makingapayment accrued inlieu of notice equal to 12 months up to the Under the all-employee plans, any unvested awards will lapse at cessation unless the individual has a good leaver status for UK base salary and the value of termination benefits excluding bonus in date only.
Executive Directors this will be specifically as prescribed by HMRC in the SAYE appendix of the relevant plan rules and for Executive respectof the period covered bythe payment in lieu of notice.
Directors in other jurisdictions as set out in the relevant section oftheapplicable plan rules.
Any such payment in lieu of notice will be made in monthly instalments Under the DBP, any unvested awards will be forfeited if an Executive subject to mitigation.
Director ceases to be an employee of the Group by reason of No payment will be made to misconduct or if the Company becomes aware, after termination, Executive Directors in the event offacts or circumstances which would have entitled it to dismiss the ofgross misconduct.
If an Executive Director ceases to PostNon-compete and non-solicitation Not be an employee for any other reason, an award shall vest in full at the termination covenants apply for a period of six applicable.
end of the deferral period unless the reason for cessation is death covenants months afterthe termination date.
or other circumstances which the Committee considers sufficiently exceptional, the award shall vest in full at the date of death or The policy on loss of office and contractual provisions above cessation of employment.
would be applied to any new Directors service contract or letter of appointment.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Remuneration 2018 Remuneration Policy continued 5.
Matters considered when determining thePolicy oftheCommittee Shareholder views The Committee operates the annual bonus plan, DBP, LTIP and The Committees aim is to have an ongoing and open dialogue with all-employee plans and other long-term incentive plans, according major shareholders.
The Chair of the Committee will usually consult to their respective rules and in accordance with tax authorities with major institutional shareholders and shareholder representative rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of those bodies, when required and as appropriate, to discuss the business plans, the Committee may apply certain operational discretions.
and executive remuneration more widely.
The Committee recognises These include the following: the importance of understanding shareholders views and ensuring that they are considered when making decisions regarding the selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: remuneration policy for Directors.
Therefore, when any material determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: changes are proposed to a policy, the Chair of the Committee will determining the quantum of awards and or payments inform major shareholders in advance, and offer a meeting to discuss withinthelimits set out in the Policy table above : the proposed changes.
As part of this years review of remuneration determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment arrangements, a consultation was undertaken with shareholder of performance: views given due consideration when finalising the 2018 Policy.
making the appropriate adjustments required in certain The Committee also considers shareholder feedback received circumstances e. g. change of control, changes to accounting inrelation to the AGM each year.
rules, rights issues, corporate restructuring events, and Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group and other special dividends : determining good leaver status for the purposes of the LTI plans matters determining policy and applying the appropriate treatment: and Our policy for all Directors and employees across the Group is undertaking the annual review of performance measures and to provide remuneration at mid-market levels.
On promotion or weighting between them within the limits set out in the Policy appointment, senior executives may be initially remunerated below table, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and LTIP from market levels and then increased to mid-market levels over time, year to year.
once performance has been established.
The emphasis on the various elements of pay within the 2018 Policy varies depending If an event occurs which results in the performance conditions on the role of the individual within the Group.
Where possible, and or targets of the annual bonus plan or LTIP being deemed no employees are encouraged to hold shares in Ferguson, thereby longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment, the providing alignment with shareholders and benefiting from Committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures any growth in value of the Group but through different delivery and or targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised mechanisms.
For the Executive Directors, a greater emphasis conditions or targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
The use isplaced on performance-related pay.
of the discretions referred to in the Remuneration Policy tables and above will be explained as appropriate in the Annual report on The Committee does not currently consult with employees when remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation determining the policy.
The Committee considers the basic salary with major shareholders.
increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader employee population when determining the Policy for the Executive Directors.
It also takes account of market developments, the wider economic environment, good corporate governance practices, remuneration data and its responsibilities to its shareholders.
This information is taken into account by providing context and informing the Committee of the market in which they aremaking decisions.
84 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Scenario assumptions 7.
Illustrations of the Remuneration Policy In arriving at the pay scenarios, the following assumptions have been 2018 19 made in relation to the fixed elements of remuneration: The charts give an indication of the level of remuneration that would be received by each Executive Director in accordance with Base salary for 2018 19. the 2018 Policy in respect of minimum fixed pay, on-target and Benefits received for 2017 18 as set out in the Remuneration table maximum performance.
These pay scenario charts are based on the on page 90. assumptions set out on this page and are presented for illustrative Pension using the 2018 Policy as set out in the Remuneration purposes only.
In this Report, the assumptions do not incorporate Policy table on page 75 and applied to 2018 19 base salary.
any share price appreciation nor do the illustrations include any For the non-fixed elements of remuneration: all-employee share plan awards for which an Executive Director maybe eligible.
In relation to the annual bonus, the scenarios are based on bonus opportunity to be made in accordance with implementation of the Group CEO Policy for 2018 19.
000 In relation to long-term incentive awards, the scenarios are based on the awards to be made in accordance with implementation of Maximum 24% 22% 54% 4,996 the Policy for 2018 19.
On-Target 44% 32% 24% 2,793 In each case the assumptions for on-target and maximum performance are applied in the table below.
Minimum 100% 1,219 Annual bonus LTIP On-target Group CFO Paid at as a percentage Threshold vesting, at 25 per 000 ofbasesalary : cent of an award expressed as 1 100 per cent for John Martin a percentage of the base salary Maximum 27% 23% 50% 2,630 90 per cent for Mike Powell used for calculating the award: 110 per cent for Kevin Murphy 75.0 per cent for John Martin On-Target 46% 32% 22% 1,530 60.0 per cent for Mike Powell 62.5 per cent for Kevin Murphy Minimum 100% 705 Maximum Paid at as a percentage Full vesting at 100 per cent of the CEO, USA ofbasesalary : award expressed as a percentage 1 120 per cent for John Martin of the base salary used for $000 110 per cent for Mike Powell calculating the award: Maximum 24% 27% 49% $5,008 140 per cent for Kevin Murphy 300 per cent for John Martin 240 per cent for Mike Powell On-Target 42% 37% 21% $2,887 250 per cent for Kevin Murphy 1.
Awards will be granted by reference to a percentage of the Executive Directors Minimum 100% $1,205 2018 19 base salary and this table calculates the value of the awards on that basis.
These values are used in the scenarios.
Fixed pay Bonus LTIP Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Remuneration Annual report on remuneration All Annual bonus Information When considering the objectives for the Executive Directors and For the purposes of this Annual report on remuneration: other members of the Executive Committee, the Remuneration 1 any estimated share values are determined using a share price of Committee assesses whether incentives are designed to promote 5,941pence, being the average closing mid-market quotation for the right behaviours and takes into account whether specific Fergusonplc shares for the three-month period ended 31 July 2018. attention should be given to environmental, social and governance 2 the remuneration of Kevin Murphy is shown in local currency and any sterling payments have been converted to USD based on a three-month average matters.
Directors take such matters into account when considering exchange rate for the period ended 31 July 2018 of $1.3308:1. any investment proposal or operational matters, and management is expected to meet performance targets which include compliance Implementation of Policy for the year ending 31July 2019 with any environmental, social or governance-related standards that have been set.
The overall performance of the businesses and of management is reviewed at the end of the year when considering the Executive Directors award of bonuses and whether operational and personal objectives Base salary have been met.
In line with the Policy, the Remuneration Committee undertook an annual review of the Executive Directors base salaries during the The threshold, target and maximum bonus opportunities for each year.
The Committee agreed to an increase to the base salary level ofthe Executive Directors are set out in the table below: of the Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Chief Threshold Target Maximum Executive Officer, USA from 1 August 2018.
Revised base salary As % salary levels, and those which applied during the year ended 31 July 2018, J Martin Group CEO 80% 100% 120% are set out below.
As noted in the Committee Chairs letter on page 71 the maximum award level 1 for Kevin Murphy has been increased to a level consistent with his predecessor J Martin Group CEO 899.2 877.2 2.5% as Chief Executive Officer, USA.
2 M Powell Group CFO 550.0 510.0 7.8% 80 per cent of the bonus opportunity will be linked to the 2 K Murphy CEO, USA $975.0 $900.0 8.3% achievement of financial performance targets 20 per cent is based 1.
on cash-to-cash days and 60 per cent on trading profit and the 2.
As noted in the Remuneration Committee Chairs statement, the Committee remaining 20 per cent of the bonus opportunity is linked to personal awarded salary increases to Mike Powell and Kevin Murphy that are above the average salary increase for the relevant general workforce in order to move their strategic objectives.
For the 2018 19 financial year, the bonus has salaries closer to the market median.
This approach is consistent with both the been simplified by removing gross profit from the bonus scorecard 2015 Policy and the 2018 Policy.
Specific individual objectives were set at the beginning Pension and benefits of the 2018 19 financial year.
UK-based Executive Directors receive a salary supplement in lieu For the 2018 19 financial year, the threshold for bonus payments of membership of the Group pension scheme, being 30 per cent in relation to ongoing trading profit will be set at or above the ofbase salary for John Martin and 25 per cent for Mike Powell.
outturn trading profit for the 2017 18 financial year on a constant USA-based Executive Director Kevin Murphy participates in the currency basis.
Ferguson defined contribution pension arrangement and receives The Board considers that the performance targets for 2018 19 are aCompany contribution of 16 per cent of base salary.
This includes commercially sensitive and they are not disclosed in this Report a 401k plan and Ferguson Executive Retirement Plan arrangements.
The Committee intends to disclose the targets and These plans have normal retirement ages of 59 and 55 performance against them in the Annual report on remuneration respectively.
Bonus payments are not included in the calculation of next year depending on considerations of commercial sensitivity the Company pension contributions.
Benefits provided to Executive atthat time.
Directors are detailed in the Remuneration table on page 90.
Long-term incentives LTIP awards will be made during the 2018 19 financial year at the levels set out in the table below and unchanged from 2017 18 : LTIP award value as % of salary J Martin Group CEO 300% M Powell Group CFO 240% K Murphy CEO, USA 250% The extent to which the LTIP awards proposed to be granted during 2018 19 vest will be dependent on the following performance targets, over a three-year performance period, each with a weighting of one-third of award opportunity: comparative TSR: EPS growth: and OpCF.
86 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information All All Comparative TSR OpCF The TSR element of the award will vest as set out in the table below The OpCF element of the award will vest as set out in the table below comprising one-third of the total award opportunity : comprising one-third of the total award opportunity : Percentage Percentage of award subject to 1,2 3 ofaward subject OpCF OpCF which will vest to TSR which $4.983 billion 100% 1 2 Fergusons TSR position in comparator group will vest Between $4.423 billion 25%100% Upper quartile 100% and$4.983billion Between median and upper quartile 25%100% $4.423 billion 25% At median 25% Below $4.423 billion 0% Below median 0% 1.
Cash generated from operations before interest and tax as presented in the 1.
Full constituent members of the FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the audited Group cash flow statement in the Ferguson plc Annual Report and performance period, with no additions or exclusions.
Accounts subject to such adjustments as the Committee deems appropriate 2.
Awards will vest on a straight-line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent.
toensure it reflects underlying business performance.
The cumulative three-year figure for adjusted OpCF for the last three years The TSR measure is considered appropriate as it closely aligns equals $4.443 billion, as set out on page 72. theinterests of the Executive Directors with those of the Companys 3.
shareholders over the long term and incentivises outperformance For OpCF generation, the Committee sets the cumulative OpCF ofthe Company relative to its peers.
The TSR performance condition target having due regard to the Groups budget and strategic supports the achievement of profit growth, cash generation, plan every year aswell as market expectations and the Groups maximising shareholder value and relative outperformance trading environment.
The OpCF measure is considered appropriate as it encourages All EPS growth long-term generation of cash to fund investment and returns 1 The EPS element of the award will vest as set out in the table below to shareholders.
comprising one-third of the total award opportunity : Total margin of EPS growth over Percentage of award subject Non Executive Directors and Chairman 2 USinflation CPI after three years to EPS which will vest The Companys policy on Non Executive Directors remuneration 30% and above 100% isset by the Board with account taken of the time and responsibility Between 9% and 30% 25%-100% involved in each role, including where applicable the Chairmanship 9% 25% ofBoard Committees.
Below 9% 0% A summary of current fees is as follows: 1.
Headline EPS as presented in the audited Ferguson plc Annual Report and 2018 19 2017 18 Accounts subject to such adjustments as the Committee deems appropriate 1,2 000 000 toensure it reflects underlying business performance.
Chairmans fee 393.0 383.0 Non Executive Director base fee 68.5 66.7 For EPS growth targets, the Committee sets the EPS growth range having due regard to the Groups budget and strategic business Additional fees: plan every year as well as market expectations, the Groups trading Senior Independent Director 14.0 13.1 environment and the consensus of analysts forecast trading profit.
Chairman of Audit Committee 20.0 19.3 The EPS targets are considered appropriate as they require Chair of Remuneration Committee 20.0 16.3 substantial improvement in the Groups financial performance 1.
All increases to Non Executive Director Chairman fees were broadly in line with and EPS is a key metric used by investors to assess the the average salary increase awarded to the general workforce, except for the Groups performance.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee whose fee was increased at above this rate in order to reflect the significant increase in workload and responsibilities associated with the role in recent years.
As noted in the 2018 Policy, the Non Executive Directors including the Chairman will also have the benefit of a travel allowance of 2,500 each way, where there would be a need for intercontinental flight in excess of five hours one way based on the home location of the Non Executive Director or Chairman and the location of the Board or Committee meeting, up to a maximum of 30,000 per annum.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued Advisers to the Committee Report for the year ended 31 July 2018 During the year, the Committee received advice and or services from various parties.
Details are set out below.
Remuneration Committee The Committee met regularly during the year.
There were five Mercer Kepler which is part of the MMC group of companies was meetings in total and details of attendance are shown in the table appointed as the Committees independent remuneration consultant onpage 70. in 2017 following a competitive tender process led by the Chair of the Committee.
Mercer Kepler is a founding member and signatory The activities of the Committee are governed by its terms of to the UK Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct which reference which were reviewed in July 2018 and can be found governs standards in the areas of transparency, integrity, objectivity, ontheFerguson plc website at www.
confidentiality, competence and due care.
Mercer Kepler adheres to During the year, the members of the Remuneration Committee this Code of Conduct.
The Committee has established arrangements were Jacky Simmonds Chair, Tessa Bamford, Alan Murray, Darren to ensure that the advice received from Mercer Kepler is independent Shapland and Nadia Shouraboura.
John Daly and Pilar Lpez were of the advice provided to the Company.
The Chair of the Committee also members of the Committee until they stepped down from the has direct contact with the lead Mercer Kepler partner to discuss Board on 31 May 2018 and 31 July 2018 respectively.
Mercer Kepler is appointed by the Committee and its performance, along with the quality and objectivity of its advice, The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was is reviewed on an annual basis.
The Committee reviewed the conducted during the year and considered at the July 2018 meeting.
performance of, and advice provided by, Mercer Kepler in November The review concluded the Committee was working effectively 2017.
Mercer Kepler also provided remuneration consultancy services and minor recommendations to improve effectiveness, including to the Company during the year.
Fees are charged predominantly continuing to develop its understanding of the global compensation on a time spent basis and the total fees paid to Mercer Kepler for landscape, were identified.
the advice provided to the Committee during the year was 142,283.
Fees paid to Mercer Kepler for other remuneration-related services tothe Company during the year were 61,600.
All Allocation of time spent during the year Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Freshfields provided legal During 2017 18, the Committee considered the items detailed advice to the Committee during the year in connection with the below at its meetings, as well as other issues as required.
Remuneration Policy and the Companys Remuneration Report.
Fees are charged predominantly on a time spent basis and the total Governance fees paid to Freshfields for the advice provided to the Committee 2018 Remuneration Policy Review during the year were 20,834.
Freshfields was appointed by the Approval of Directors Remuneration Report 2017 18 Company and provided other services to the Company during Annual governance and compliance review the year.
The Committee is satisfied that the services provided to Review of UK gender pay gap performance it by Freshfields are of a technical nature and did not create any Salary and fees review conflict of interest and therefore the advice received from them was Review of executive pay levels objective and independent.
If a conflict of interest were to arise, the Remuneration proposals for existing Executive Directors Committee would appoint separate legal advisers from those used and new and existing Executive Committee members by the Company.
Approval of remuneration packages for senior executives, The Committee also seeks internal support from the Group Chief below Board level Human Resources Officer, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Review of the Chairmans fees Company Secretary together with other senior Group employees Incentives as necessary.
Those who attend by invitation do not participate in discussions that relate to the details of their own remuneration.
Assessment of performance against 2017 18 targets andobjectives for 2018 19 targets Review of bonus structure for financial year 2018 19 Discretionary share plans and all-employee share plans Agree discretionary share plan awards for 2018 19 Confirmation of vesting of discretionary share plan awards grantedin 2014 Agree process for 2017 18 grants under all-employee share plans Annual reviews Remuneration adviser performance Share headroom in accordance with Investment Association guidelines Committee effectiveness Directors shareholding guidelines Committees terms of reference 88 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Statement of shareholder voting The following table shows the results of the full details of the voting outcomes for the Remuneration Report resolution at the AGM on28 November 2017 and the Remuneration Policy at the AGM on 1 December 2015: Votes withheld Date of vote Votes for For % Votes against Against % Total abstentions Remuneration Report 28 November 2017 190,565,944 98.61 2,685,822 1.39 193,251,766 2,605,522 Remuneration Policy 1 December 2015 195,566,771 97.79 4,428,909 2.21 199,995,680 961,949 Board appointments and service agreements letters of appointment All Executive Directors are appointed to the Board from the relevant effective date of appointment set out in their service agreements.
Appointment dates for all of the Non Executive Directors are set out in their letters of appointment.
Further details are shown in the table below.
Board appointments Date of service agreement Effective date Expiry of 1 Director letter of appointment of appointment current term Chairman G Davis 29 May 2003 1 July 2003 20 January 2020 20 January 2011 as Chairman Executive Directors J Martin 31 August 2016 1 April 2010 1 September 2016 as Group CEO M Powell 28 February 2017 1 June 2017 K Murphy 17 July 2017 1 August 2017 2 Non Executive Directors T Bamford 22 March 2011 22 March 2011 22 March 2020 A Murray 11 December 2012 1 January 2013 1 January 2019 D Shapland 3 April 2014 3 April 2014 1 May 2020 N Shouraboura 7 June 2017 1 July 2017 1 July 2020 J Simmonds 21 May 2014 21 May 2014 21 May 2020 1.
Details of all Directors can be found on pages 52 and 53.
It remains the Boards policy that Non Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, whichis then reviewed and, ifappropriate, extended for a further three-year period.
All Directors are proposed for re-election annually in accordance with the Code.
During the year, John Daly and Pilar Lpez served as Non Executive Directors until stepping down from the Board on 31 May 2018 and 31 July 2018 respectively.
Availability of documents Copies of service agreements and letters of appointment are available for review upon request at the Companys registered office in Jersey.
They are also available at the Corporate Head Office in Switzerland and the Group Services Office in the UK, and will be available forinspection at the 2018 AGM.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued Remuneration table showing single total figure of pay for year Audited The table below sets out in a single figure the total amount of remuneration, including each element, earned by each of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 July 2018.
John Martin was promoted to Group Chief Executive with effect from 1 September 2016 having previously served as Group Chief Financial Officer.
During 2016 17, MrMartin received one months salary at an annualised level of 531,000 and pension contributions of 25 per cent base salary for his services as Group Chief Financial Officer and 11 months salary at an annualised level of 860,000 with pension contributions of 30 per cent base salary for his services as Group Chief Executive.
Mike Powell was appointed as Group Chief Financial Officer on 1 June 2017.
During 2016 17, Mr Powell received two months salary, taxable benefits, pension, annual bonus payment and three RSBO awards previously detailed on page 80 of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
The face value of those RSBO awards is now shown in the 2016 17 figures.
His annual bonus payments for both 2016 17 and 2017 18 are shown as gross amounts due to him.
For 2016 17, amounts in excess of target were deferred into a nil cost option award of 284 shares in accordance with the terms of the DBP as he had not met his shareholding guideline target.
Deferral is expected toapply again in 2017 18 if he has not met his shareholding guideline target prior to payment of his bonus.
Kevin Murphy was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 August 2017 and the remuneration including any vested share plan awards he received relating to his service in 2016 17 prior to his promotion is not required to be included.
For the purposes of the total remuneration figures shown for 2017 18, payments made to Kevin Murphy shown in USD have been converted back into pounds sterling using the three-month average exchange rate for the period ended 31 July 2018 shown on page 86.
This total is provided for information only.
It includes remuneration paid to Ian Meakins and Frank Roach.
The overall figure of 9,357,300 reported in last years Annual Report and Accounts is reconciled with the inclusion of Mike Powells RSBO awards 1,095,700 and the actual LTI vesting adjustment for John Martin, Ian Meakins and Frank Roach 941,800 in total for all three Directors.
Benefits comprise private health insurance, car benefit car allowance, car, driver, tax and financial advice and tax gross up arrangements.
The LTIP grant made to John Martin in January 2016 will vest overall at 81.57 per cent in January 2019.
Details of a grant made to Kevin Murphy in 2015 before he was appointed as an Executive Director are not required to be included.
Further details of that grant are provided on page 93.
The figure for total remuneration includes share price appreciation for the value of LTI vesting and the value of dividend equivalents on vested LTI awards.
Value shown for 2017 18 represents estimated value of LTIP awards granted in 2016 that are expected to vest in January 2019.
The estimate assumes 81.57 per cent overall vesting of LTIP awards using the three-month average share price for the period ended 31 July 2018 of 5,941 pence.
Value shown for 2016 17 represents the actual vesting of the ESOP and LTIP awards which vested in November 2017, using the share price of5,368 pence on the date of vesting 7 November 2017.
Each of the Executive Directors were granted shares in all-employee share plans in the year.
John Martin, Mike Powell and Kevin Murphy entered into a five year sharesave contract, three year sharesave contract and a one year ESPP savings contract, respectively.
The value shown for 2017 18 represents the gain, calculated being the difference between the option price and the share price at the date the option price was set, on the maximum number of shares granted.
Kevin Murphy participates in the defined contribution pension arrangements of Ferguson Enterprises, Inc. receiving contributions of 16 per cent of base salary from Ferguson Enterprises Inc.
The cost of employers contributions during the year was $144,000.
During the year ended 31 July 2018, John Martin and Mike Powell received salary supplements in lieu of Group pension scheme membership.
The table below sets out in a single figure the total amount of remuneration received by each of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors who served during the year ended 31 July 2018.
Fees Fees 000 000 Chairman and  2017 18 2016 17 G Davis 383.0 375.4 Non Executive Directors current as at the date of this report T Bamford 66.7 65.3 A Murray 79.8 78.1 D Shapland 86.0 84.2 N Shouraboura 66.7 5.4 J Simmonds 83.0 81.2 Non Executive Directors who stepped down during the year 1 J Daly 55.6 65.3 P Lpez 66.7 65.3 Total remuneration 887.5 820.2 1.
The annual fee amount received by John Daly for the year ended 31 July 2018 covers the period up to 31 May 2018, being the date on which he stepped down from the Board.
90 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Additional disclosures in respect of the Remuneration table Audited All Annual bonus The annual bonuses awarded to Executive Directors for the year ended 31 July 2018 are shown in the Remuneration table on page 90 and the bonuses are calculated as follows: Actual performance Target Performance as % of salary Maximum Actual opportunity 1 Director Measure Threshold Target Maximum Performance Threshold Target Maximum % of salary Group ongoing trading profit $1,331.0m $1,387.0m $1,442.0m $1,504.0m 36.00% 36.0% J Martin Group ongoing gross profit $5,689.0m $5,835.0m $5,981.0m $6,031.0m 36.00% 36.0% Group ongoing average cash-to-cash days 54.0 53.5 53.0 53.7 18.40% 24.0% 2,5 Personal objectives 1 20 20 20 20 20 24.00% 24.0% Total Achieved: 114.40% 120.0% M Powell Group ongoing trading profit $1,331.0m $1,387.0m $1,442.0m $1,504.0m 33.00% 33.0% Group ongoing gross profit $5,689.0m $5,835.0m $5,981.0m $6,031.0m 33.00% 33.0% Group ongoing average cash-to-cash days 54.0 53.5 53.0 53.7 16.40% 22.0% 3,5 Personal objectives 1 20 20 20 18 20 19.80% 22.0% Total Achieved: 102.20% 110.0% K Murphy Group ongoing trading profit $1,331.0m $1,387.0m $1,442.0m $1,504.0m 7.20% 7.2% USA ongoing trading profit $1,206.1m $1,303.9m $1,401.7m $1,406.0m 28.80% 28.8% Group ongoing gross profit $5,689.0m $5,835.0m $5,981.0m $6,031.0m 7.20% 7.2% USA ongoing gross profit $4,667.5m $4,836.8m $5,006.1m $5,046.3m 28.80% 28.8% Group ongoing average cash-to-cash days 54.0 53.5 53.0 53.7 3.68% 4.8% USA ongoing average cash-to-cash days 55.9 55.4 54.9 54.6 19.20% 19.2% 4,5 Personal objectives 1 20 20 20 19.1 20 22.92% 24.0% Total Achieved: 117.80% 120.0% 1.
Actual performance figures are adjusted, definitions and reconciliations are provided on page 72.
John Martins personal objectives were based on supporting the new Chief Executive Officer, USA, reshaping the UK business leadership team to execute the turnaround strategy, reviewing the Executive Committee composition and the subsequent recruitment and appointment of individuals to the Executive Committee andreviewing the US business disruption team to complement the acceleration of innovation in the Group.
Mike Powells personal objectives included recruiting and appointing a new Group Head of Internal Audit, ensuring strong financial leadership for the UK business, executing the Group Services Office relocation and enhancing financial reporting to the Board.
Kevin Murphys personal objectives were based on improving the Ferguson associate engagement score, launching and embedding a new US business disruption team and recruiting and appointing individuals to the US leadership team.
The specific targets set for personal objectives are considered to be commercially sensitive as they relate to internal operational and strategic measures which could beused by competitors to gain anadvantage if disclosed.
The Committee intends to disclose further details of these targets in next years Report.
Following a review, the Committee considers that Executive Directors personal objectives for 2016 17 are no longer commercially sensitive and has approved the following disclosure: Payout of Executive Director Objective Assessment element John Martin Like-for-like revenue growth of at least 2% Like-for-like revenue growth was 2.7% 50% above market above market Meet material year-one milestones for the UK Good progress made with most milestones met 20% strategy review Execute review of Nordics operating strategy Review completed: Silvan business sold: good 25% andimplementation plan progress on disposing of Stark Group and implementing other priorities Total: 95% Frank Roach Deliver against trading profit targets set for the US Trading profit performance exceeded maximum 50% 1 CMRO business performance level set Deliver against Net Promoter Score targets set for Net Promoter Score performance was 0% 1 theUS CMRO business below Threshold Total: 50% Mike Powell Mike Powell joined Ferguson shortly before the end of Performance was assessed from 1 June 2017 from 1 June 2017 the financial year.
Specific objectives were not set for to the year end.
The Committee agreed that this period, which was spent primarily on completing MrPowell had made a strong initial contribution.
Total: 100% hisinduction, reporting of the Groups results for Hesuccessfully embedded in the Groups 2016 17and financial year 2017 18 budget reviews.
leadership team, oversaw the reporting of the Groups results for 2016 17 and gained approval ofthe 2017 18 budget 1.
These targets remain commercially sensitive and will not be reported: performance of this business is not reported externally.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued All Long-term incentives Long-term incentives awarded to Executive Directors under the LTIP in January 2016 will vest in January 2019.
The vesting of those awards is subject to the performance conditions shown in the tables that follow.
In relation to those awards, the Committee reviewed the EPS and OpCF measures and considered it appropriate to adjust for the impact of the Nordic business disposal EPS and OpCF and for the impact ofaspecial pension funding contribution to the UK defined benefit pension plan as well as exceptional cash flow OpCF only.
LTIP Vested awards The performance conditions which applied to the awards made in January 2016 ended on 31 July 2018 and actual performance achieved isdetailed below.
Performance required % of award TSR relative to FTSE 100 Total margin of adjusted EPS growth Performance level vesting at date of grant over UK inflation after three years RPI Adjusted OpCF Below threshold 0% Below median Below 9% Below $3.577 billion Threshold 25% At median 9% $3.577 billion Between threshold Between median Between 9% Between $3.577 billion and maximum 25% 100% and upper quartile and 30% and$4.213 billion Maximum or above 100% Upper quartile 30% and above $4.213 billion Actual performance achieved 28th 17.7% $4.443 billion % of award subject to each performance condition vesting 88.6% 56.1% 100.0% Total percentage vesting: 81.57% Accordingly, the total percentage of shares vesting is set out below: Total number Percentage of Number of Value of shares 4,5 of shares granted award vesting shares vesting vesting 000 1 J Martin 37,847 81.57% 30,870 1,943 Past Directors 2 I Meakins 25,537 81.57% 20,829 1,311 3 F Roach 38,200 81.57% 31,158 1,961 1.
In accordance with shareholding guideline requirements, John Martin will retain vested shares or hold vested but unexercised nil cost options for a holding period oftwo years from the vesting date.
As detailed on page 66 of the Companys 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, Ian Meakins awards reflect the completed financial years served prior to his retirement on31 August 2016, in line with the Committees exercise of discretion.
His original award was 76,611 nil cost options.
As detailed on page 78 of the Companys 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, Frank Roachs awards reflect the completed financial years served prior to his retirement on 31 July 2017, in line with the Committees exercise of discretion.
His original award was 57,301 conditional shares.
Value determined using the share price noted on page 86 under the heading Information.
5. Dividend equivalents have accrued on the 2015 share awards and will be paid out in cash after vesting of the awards.
The value above includes an approximate value ofthe cash payment estimated to be 351.52 pence per share.
Unvested awards The following tables set out the performance conditions and indicative vesting percentages for the relative TSR, EPS and OpCF elements ofunvested awards under the LTIP made in 2016 17 and 2017 18 respectively.
Calculations for TSR are independently carried out and verified before being approved by the Committee.
Calculations for EPS and OpCF are performed and verified internally.
2016 17 Award Performance required % of award TSR relative to FTSE 100 Total margin of adjusted EPS growth over 1 2 3 Performance level that would vest at date of grant UK inflation after three years RPI Adjusted OpCF Below threshold 0% Below median Below 9% Below $3.875 billion Threshold 25% At median 9% $3.875 billion Between threshold Between median Between 9% Between $3.875 billion and maximum 25% 100% and upper quartile and 30% and$4.495 billion Maximum or above 100% Upper quartile 30% and above $4.495 billion Indicative vesting % based on performance as at 31 July 2018 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 1.
Headline EPS as presented in the audited Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts subject to such adjustments as the Committee deems appropriate to ensure itreflects underlying business performance.
Cash generated from operations before interest and tax as presented in the audited annual Group cash flow statement in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts subject to such adjustments as the Committee deems appropriate to ensure it reflects underlying business performance and would be adjusted to reflect the impact on OpCF following the disposal of the Nordic business.
As described on page 79 of the Companys 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, these targets have been restated into US dollars using a 1:$1.55 exchange rate, being the average exchange rate for the three-year period preceding the grant of the 2016 17 award.
92 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information 2017 18 Award Performance required % of award TSR relative to FTSE 100 Total margin of adjusted EPS growth 1 2 3 Performance level that would vest at date of grant over US inflation after three years CPI Adjusted OpCF Below threshold 0% Below median Below 9% Below $4.400 billion Threshold 25% At median 9% $4.400 billion Between threshold Between median Between 9% Between $4.400 billion and maximum 25% 100% and upper quartile and 30% and $4.900 billion Maximum or above 100% Upper quartile 30% and above $4.900 billion Indicative vesting % based on performance as at 31 July 2018 88.3% 100.0% 87.1% 1.
Cash generated from operations before interest and tax as presented in the audited annual Group cash flow statement in the Companys Annual Report and Accounts subject to such adjustments as the Committee deems appropriate to ensure it reflects underlying business performance, and would be adjusted to reflect the impact on OpCF following the disposal of the Nordic business.
Performance Based Buy Out Award Deferred Bonus Plan Award Unvested award Unvested award The Performance Based Buy Out Award of 18,859 Conditional Shares The Deferred Bonus Plan Award of 284 nil cost options granted granted to Mike Powell in June 2017 will normally vest in November toMike Powell on 30 October 2017 will normally vest in August 2019.
The performance conditions that apply to the Performance 2020.
This award is not subject to performance conditions and Based Buy Out Award are the same as those applied to the LTIP willvest in full subject to continued employment.
The face value award made in 2016 17, detailed on page 92. ofthis award is captured in the Annual Bonus figure for 2016 17 intheRemuneration Table.
Restricted Share Buy Out Award Ordinary Share Plan Award Vested award Unvested awards The Restricted Share Buy Out Award of 14,026 Conditional Shares granted to Mike Powell in June 2017 vested in full on 28 March 2018.
The Ordinary Share Plan Awards of 8,234 and 5,574 Conditional This award was not subject to performance conditions.
The value Shares granted to Kevin Murphy in November 2015 and November of this award is included below the Share awards exercised during 2016 respectively will normally vest in November 2018 and the year table and the face value of this award is now included in the November 2019 respectively.
The awards granted before Kevin Other column for 2016 17 in the Remuneration table on page 90.
Murphy was promoted to the Board are not subject to performance conditions and will vest in full subject to continued employment.
Unvested awards Restricted Share Buy Out Awards of 5,695 and 2,439 Conditional Performance Ordinary Share Plan Award Shares granted to Mike Powell in June 2017 will normally vest in Unvested award March 2019 and April 2020 respectively.
These awards are not The Performance Ordinary Share Plan Award of 13,936 Conditional subject to performance conditions and will vest in full subject to Shares granted to Kevin Murphy in November 2016 will normally vest continued employment.
The face value of these awards is now in November 2019.
The performance condition that applies to the included in the Other column for 2016 17 in the Remuneration award which was granted before Kevin Murphy was promoted to the tableon page 90.
Board is based on trading profit growth of the Groups US business over a three-year period ending 31 July 2019.
Share awards exercised during the year Details of the share awards exercised during the year are set out below: 1,2 Director All employee LTIP ESOP OSP RSBO Total J Martin 957 17,561 35,113 53,631 M Powell 14,026 14,026 K Murphy 65 9,048 9,113 1.
The aggregate gain made on the exercise of options during the year by John Martin and Kevin Murphy was 1,687,038 and 1,011 respectively.
The aggregate value of assets received or receivable by Mike Powell and Kevin Murphy during the year was 754,318 and485,663 respectively.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued All Directors shareholdings Audited All Directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a minimum percentage of their salary or fees as set out in the table below.
The Directors interests in the Companys shares both held individually and by their connected persons as at 31 July 2018 are set out below and there has been no change in interests since that date and up to the date of this Report.
Shares Shareholding Vested Unvested share awards beneficially guideline unexercised With performance conditions Without performance conditions owned as at as a multiple share 1 2,3 4,5 6 6 6 6 6 6 6 31 July 2018 of salary fees awards LTIP PBBO POSP RSBO DBP OSP All employee Executive Directors J Martin 107,227 2.5 146,702 344 M Powell 7,020 2 23,254 18,859 8,134 284 206 K Murphy 24,233 2 32,915 13,936 13,808 64 Chairman and Non Executive Directors G Davis 14,538 1 T Bamford 1,940 1 A Murray 2,368 1 D Shapland 1,989 1 N Shouraboura 1 J Simmonds 1,894 1 Directors who stepped down during the year J Daly 1,942 1 P Lpez 2,465 1 1.
Following the special dividend and share consolidation effected on 11 June 2018, Directors shareholdings reduced as they received 18 New Ordinary Shares of11227 563pence for every Old Ordinary Share of 10 53 66 pence owned.
All Directors have a five-year time period from the date of appointment or promotion to meet the shareholding target.
If not met within that timeframe the individual Director would discuss plans with the Committee to ensure that the target is met over an acceptable timeframe.
Under the Policy, Executive Directors would defer amounts in excess of target bonus into shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan if on the date a relevant bonus was paid the guideline target had not been met.
Beneficially owned shares count towards the guideline whilst unvested awards of shares or share options do not.
Vested share awards do not count towards the guideline until exercised.
As at 31 July 2018, all Directors had met their shareholding guideline targets set for 2017 18, with the exception of Mike Powell and Nadia Shouraboura.
Shareholding guideline targets for Mike Powell and Nadia Shouraboura were set on 1 August 2017 and they have until 1 June 2022 and 1 July 2022 respectively to meet their shareholding target.
Shareholding guideline targets are first set by reference to the salary or fees of a Director as at 1 August in the financial year following appointment to the Board and calculated using the average share price for the two months ended 31 July of the financial year in which the appointment was made and are re-tested annually until met.
Once met, the target is re-tested at least annually on the same basis and set at the number of shares resulting from the re-test or, if lower, the existing target increased in line with any base salary or fee increases.
There were no vested but unexercised awards held by Executive Directors under any of the share plans.
Details of share awards exercised in the year are detailed in the Share awards exercised during the year table at the bottom of page 93.
LTIP, POSP and PBBO awards are subject to performance conditions but RSBO, DBP, OSP and All employee awards are not.
LTIP awards are awarded in the form of nil cost options to John Martin and Mike Powell and in the form of conditional share awards to Kevin Murphy.
PBBO and RSBO awards were awarded to Mike Powell in the form of conditional share awards.
The DBP award was awarded to Mike Powell in the form of nil cost options and the OSP award was awarded to Kevin Murphy in the form of conditional share awards.
Further details of the performance conditions which apply to the LTIP, POSP and PBBO awards are set out on pages 92 and 93.
All Scheme interests awarded during the financial year Audited Awards under the LTIP were made on 30 October 2017.
Awards are based on a percentage of salary determined by the Committee.
The Committee considers annually the size of each grant, determined by individual performance, the ability of each individual to contribute to the achievement of the performance conditions, and market levels of remuneration.
The maximum vesting is 100 per cent of the award granted.
Details of performance conditions for awards which were granted during the year are set out on page 93.
The scheme interests awarded during 2017 18 are summarised below: 2,3 Face value Number of award Performance criteria Threshold 1 Director Award Type of award of shares 000 period performance Performance conditions J Martin LTIP Nil cost options 49,997 2,631.6 1 August 2018 25% of award EPS 31July 2021 vesting TSR M Powell LTIP Nil cost options 23,254 1,224.0 Cumulative OpCF K Murphy LTIP Conditional shares 32,915 1,732.5 M Powell DBP Nil cost options 284 14.9 N A N A N A 1.
John Martin, Mike Powell and Kevin Murphys LTIP awards granted during the financial year were based on a percentage of salary as follows: John Martin 300 per cent : Mike Powell 240 per cent : and Kevin Murphy 250 per cent.
The DBP award granted to Mike Powell during the year was based on the amount of annual bonus earned in 2016 17 that exceeded target.
The share price used to calculate the face value of the LTIP share awards granted on 30 October 2017 was 5,263.5 pence which was the average share price over a10-dealing-day period immediately preceding the date of grant.
The LTIP awards made to John Martin and Mike Powell were in the form of nil cost options.
At vesting, the exercise price per share will be nil.
The LTIP award made to Kevin Murphy was a conditional share award and there is no exercise price.
The share price used to calculate the face value of the DBP share award granted on 30 October 2017 was 5,263.5 pence which was the average share price over a 10-dealing-day period preceding the date of grant.
The DBP award made to Mike Powell was in the form of nil cost options.
Face value is calculated as required by the Regulations as the maximum number of shares at full vesting multiplied by either the share price at date of grant or the average share price used to determine the number ofshares awarded.
Dividend equivalents also accrue on the LTIP and DBP awards and the amount which may be due to an Executive Director is not included in the calculation of face value.
The maximum dilution which may arise through issue of shares to satisfy the entitlement to these LTIP and DBP scheme interests would be 0.00042 per cent calculated as at31 July 2018.
Mike Powells DBP award will normally vest on 30 October 2020 subject to Mr Powells continued employment with the Company.
94 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financials Other information Ferguson TSR performance and Group CEO remuneration comparison The graph opposite shows Fergusons 400 TSRperformance against the performance 300 of the FTSE 100 Index from the creation of the new holding company, which was 200 created at the time of the redomiciliation toSwitzerland in November 2010, 100 to31July2018.
The FTSE 100 Index has 0 been chosen as being a broadequity market index consisting of companies Nov 2010 Jul 2011 Jul 2012 Jul 2013 Jul 2014 Jul 2015 Jul 2016 Jul 2017 Jul 2018 comparable insize and complexity Ferguson return index FTSE 100 return index toFerguson.
1 The table below shows the total remuneration oftheGroup Chief Executive for the nine-year period from 1 August 2009 to 31 July 2018.
During the nine-year period, Ian Meakins was the Group Chief Executive until his retirement on 31 August 2016.
Since 1 September 2016, John Martin has served asGroup Chief Executive.
The single figure total shown for Mr Martin in the 2016 17 financial year includes one months pay as Group Chief Financial Officer.
The single figure for all nine years is calculated on the same basis as that used in the Remuneration table on page 90.
The single figure of total remuneration for John Martin and Ian Meakins for the year ended 31 July 2017 has been adjusted respectively from the value of3.458 million and 2.023 million estimated in that years report to reflect the actual value of LTI at the date of vesting inNovember 2017.
Payments for loss of office and to past Directors Change in Group Chief Executive pay for the Audited yearcompared to that of Ferguson employees No payments for loss of office were made during the financial year.
The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in base Payments to John Daly and Pilar Lpez, who stepped down from the salary, benefits and annual bonus between the year ended 31 July Board during the year, are set out in the Non Executive Directors 2018 and the previous financial year for the Group Chief Executive remuneration table on page 90.
Payments made to past Executive compared to the average for UK-based employees1.
Directors Ian Meakins and Frank Roach in relation to LTIP awards % change granted on 19 January 2016 are disclosed on page 92.
No payments % change % change in annual 2 in salary in benefits bonus have been made to past Directors other than a payment of $94,588, to Frank Roach in lieu of accrued holiday, and those payments Group Chief Executive 2.0% -33.6% 15.3% detailed above.
Average for all UK-based employees 4.2% 21.4% -3.0% 1.
Although the Group Chief Executive has a global role and responsibilities, Relative importance of spend on pay UK-based employees were chosen as a suitable comparator group as he is based in the UK exceptto attend Board and Committee meetings in Switzerland The following table sets out the amounts and percentage change in or other worldwide locations outside of the UK.
Also pay structures and changes total employee remuneration costs, dividends and returns of capital for to pay vary widely across the Group, depending on the local market conditions.
The Group Chief Executives bonus is determined by both his performance the year ended 31 July 2018 compared to the year ended 31 July 2017. andthe performance of the whole of the Ferguson Group, whereas employees Year ended Year ended bonuses are based on their performance and the performance of the 31 July 2018 31 July 2017 Percentage businesses in the countries in which they work.
The percentage change in 1 1 $m $m change annual bonus for UK-based employees is based on the best available estimates at time of publication.
During the year ended 31 July 2017, which forms the basis for the comparison 2 remunerationcosts 2,913 2,710 7.5% for the percentage changes to Group Chief Executive remuneration, John 2 Martin replaced Ian Meakins as Group Chief Executive on 1 September 2016.
Ordinary dividends paid 390 328 18.9% Group Chief Executive pay during that year has been calculated using the sum 2 Special dividends paid 974 N A of Mr Meakins and Mr Martins salary, benefits and bonus for their respective 2 one and 11 months of service as Group Chief Executive during 2016 17.
Share buyback 675 N A Mr Meakins did not receive an annual bonus for the year ended 31 July 2017.
The calculation of the change in benefits for the Group Chief Executive, is based 1.
This table is now reported in USD following the change in presentational on figures from 2016 17, described above in note 3, that include a tax gross up currency in 2017. payment made to Ian Meakins in August 2016 that relates to the previous tax 2.
Further details on employee remuneration, dividends paid and the share year and a tax gross up payment made to John Martin in September 2016 that buyback programme can be found in note 11, note 9 and note 26 of the relates to the previous tax year.
The change in benefits without this duplication consolidated financial statements on pages 116, 115 and 133 respectively.
Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Remuneration Annual report on remuneration continued Dilution Further information Awards under the LTIP, historical executive share option plans and External Directorships all-employee plans may be met by the issue of new shares when Executive Directors are permitted to take on external Non Executive options are exercised, by the use of Treasury Shares or by shares Directorships.
In order to avoid any conflicts of interest, all such purchased in the market.
Awards under the LTI plans are met by appointments are subject to the approval of the Nominations market purchases of shares or from the Trusts.
The Nominations Committee believes that taking up an monitors the number of shares issued under the Plans and external non executive appointment helps bring a wider perspective anyimpact on dilution limits.
to the Company and also assists in the development of business skills and experience.
Compared to the limits set by the Investment Association in respect of new share issues to satisfy options granted for During the year, Mike Powell was a Non Executive Director and Audit executive share plans 5 per cent in any rolling 10-year period Committee Chairman of Low & Bonar plc and received an annualised and all share plans 10 per cent in any rolling 10-year period fee of 48,250 per annum for his services.
The Company allowed asat31 July2018the Companys headroom was 1.72 per cent MrPowell to retain the fees paid to him during the year.
Detail of Employee Benefit Trusts Executive share plans The Ferguson plc 2011 Employee Benefit Trust Jersey Trust and % Ferguson plc US Trust US Trust together, the Trusts were established in connection with the obligation to satisfy historical and Actual 3.28% future share awards under the LTI plans and any other employee incentive plans Share Awards.
Limit 5% The trustees of each of the Trusts have waived their rights to receive dividends on any shares held by them.
As at 31 July 2018, the All share plans 227 Jersey Trust held 298,567 ordinary shares of 11 pence and 563 % 7,011 in cash: and the US Trust held 1,128,038 ordinary shares of 227 11 pence.
The number of shares held by the Trusts represented Actual 5.29% 563 0.56per cent of the Companys issued share capital at31 July 2018.
Limit 10% During the year, shares were purchased by the Trusts to ensure that they continue to have sufficient shares to satisfy share awards.
The JerseyTrust purchased 87,275 ordinary shares and paid This Report has been approved by the Board and is signed 4.6 million and the US Trust purchased 478,053 ordinary shares onitsbehalf by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
The Company provided funds to the Trusts On behalf of the Board to enable them to make the purchases.
All purchases took place prior to the share consolidation, which took place on 11 June 2018.
The number of shares purchased represented 0.21 per cent of the Companys issued share capital prior to the share consolidation.
Detail of all-employee share plans The Company operates two all-employee share plans which Jacky Simmonds Executive Directors can participate in.
In the USA and Canada, Chair of the Remuneration Committee theESPP operates as a one-year savings contract plan.
In all other 1 October 2018 business units, employees may participate in the ISP for a savings period of three or five years.
This Report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the Remuneration Reporting Regulations.
Furthermore, the Board has also applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code updated in April 2016.
The Remuneration Committee confirms that throughout the financial year the Company has complied withthese governance rules.
96 Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financials 98 Group income statement 99 Group statement of comprehensiveincome 99 Group statement of changesinequity 100 Group balance sheet 101 Group cash flow statement 102 Notes to the consolidated financialstatements 140 Independent auditors report to the members of Ferguson plc 146 Company profit and loss account 146 Company statement ofchangesinequity 147 Company balance sheet 148 Notes to the Company financial statements Mike Powell Group Chief Financial Officer Ferguson plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97
