Directors remuneration report Statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder You will have read the recent announcement that Tim OToole, our Chief Executive for over I am pleased to present the Directors seven years, stepped down from his position remuneration report for the financial on the Board and as Chief Executive on yearended 31 March 2018.
The Board is grateful to Tim for Overview hiscontribution and leadership since 2010.
The Group delivered stable adjusted Fulldetails of Tims termination arrangements earningsand sustained cash generation will be included in next years report and will thisyear and further strengthened its also be fully disclosed, in the normal way, balancesheet through the bond refinancing when confirmed.
However, this years results fell short of our ambitions and Our approach to remuneration weare disappointed that we did not make The key principles underpinning the theprogress we had intended.
This context Committees approach to executive Imelda Walsh has framed the decisions and outcomes remuneration are: Chair, Remuneration Committee forour current and future remuneration and Alignment with strategy and these are set out in this summary and also businessobjectives throughout the report.
Rewarding performance The Companys current Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy was Performance-biased framework The context of this years approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2015 Competitive remuneration results has framed the 92.82% voted in favour.
This report includes Simplicity and transparency the proposed Policy, which will be subject to Committees decisions and shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
outcomes for our current ThisStatement and the Annual report on Alignment with strategy and future remuneration remuneration will be subject to an advisory The Executive Directors and senior vote at the 2018 AGM.
management are specifically incentivised to framework.
achieve the Groups strategy and business The Committee aims to ensure that the objectives, which are as follows: Policyprovides a good framework for incentivising Executive Directors and Focused and disciplined bidding in 1 seniormanagers to drive the performance ourcontract businesses ofthe Group for the long term benefit of Driving growth through attractive shareholders and to enable the Company to 2  in our recruit competitively.
In 2015 we introduced passengerrevenue businesses anumber of best practice features which Continuous improvement in operating continue to remain relevant.
Overall, we view 3 andfinancial performance the current Policy asbroadly fit for purpose and, as a result, the proposed changes are Prudent investment in our fleets, 4 relatively minor.
The proposed changes, along systemsand people with the supporting rationale, arecovered Maintaining responsible partnerships laterin my Statement and in the remainder 5 withour customers and communities ofthis report.
The Board believes that the ongoing achievement of these strategic objectives willdeliver strong long term financial and shareholder value on a sustainable basis.
In this section Page Statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 68 Remuneration at a glance 71 Remuneration policy 72 Annual report on remuneration 81 68 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance As noted in my overview, although progress Business performance Overall, the Committee determined that the has been made in a number of areas, we As reported in the main body of this report, EABP award for Matthew Gregory will be believe we have not yet reached our full although some progress has been made, 146,882, which is 22.3% of the total bonus potential and results in some areas have including strong cash generation, our overall opportunity.
In line with the existing Policy, beendisappointing.
As a Committee, we are results fell short of our ambitions.
Our largest 50% of the award will be paid in cash and 50% cognisant of the way in which business and division First Student was broadly stable but deferred into shares.
share price performance are aligned and our did not achieve the target level of business The vesting of the 2015 LTIP award was decisions in respect of executive remuneration retention planned and continues to face driver subject to two performance measures: 50% are framed accordingly.
labour cost inflation challenges due to the ROCE and 50% relative TSR.
Neither of these shortage of drivers in some regions.
First Bus 2017 18 performance measures was achieved and therefore the took an encouraging step forward in its margin andrewarddecisions 2015 LTIP lapsed.
improvement plans, but this was offset by the In light of the overall challenges faced by the cost challenges experienced by First Transit Pay across the Group business during the year, Matthew Gregory, in the first half and by Greyhounds inability to The Group is committed to offering an Chief Financial Officer CFO, advised the overcome the structural shift taking place in its attractive reward package for employees Committee that he did not wish to be long haul markets, as ultra low cost airlines atalllevels.
In addition to competitive base considered for a salary increase with effect significantly increased capacity.
We have salaries, we offer a wide range of benefits from 1 April 2018.
The Committee welcomed therefore updated our view of the carrying toemployees and their families, tailored and supported this position.
However, with value of the divisions goodwill and other tolocal markets.
Further information is thedeparture of the Chief Executive, and the assets in light of these issues, impairing them included in this report on page 91. additional responsibilities that Matthew will by a total of $387.3m or 277.3m accordingly.
take on, the Committee will be considering We published our first Gender Pay Gap In First Rail, although our GWR and SWR rail atemporary increase in Matthews salary for Reportin April 2018.
Our median gender franchises have operational challenges to the period of time in which he takes up his paygap is -9.1%.
This means that womens overcome, both are profitable and are additional responsibilities as interim Chief median hourly pay is 9.1% higher than mens.
TPEfranchise was loss-making, and we FirstGroup is one of the few UK companies havetaken the decision to provide for As noted above, the Committee considered tohave a Group Employee Director GED, forecastlosses of up to 106.3m over the the outcome of the 2017 18 EABP in the who isinvited to attend meetings of the remaining life of the contract.
Finally, both UK context of broader business performance Committee.
We will work closely with our and US weather conditions in the final quarter andshareholder experience.
Following GED, JimmyGroombridge, as we consider created operational challenges with a careful consideration and discussion with theadditional reporting requirements and consequent impact on performance.
TimOToole, the Committee determined widerremit of the Committee.
thatno bonus should be awarded to him in The financial targets for our Executive Non-Executive Directors respect of2017 18.
Directors under the Executive Annual Bonus NED fees Plan EABP are based on revenue, adjusted Separately, the Committee considered each Following a review of the NEDs fees by the operating profit and cash flow.
In 2017 18 element of the EABP against the financial and Chairman and the Executive Directors, the revenue was 6,398.4m, an increase of non-financial targets for Matthew Gregory as fees were increased from 55,000 to 58,000 13.2%, but when the benefits from the CFO.
The Committee concluded that in light p. a. with effect from 1 August 2017.
At the newSWR franchise and the 53rd week ofthe shortfall against target in adjusted same time, the Senior Independent Director Roadbusinesses only are excluded and operating profit, although Group revenue had fee and the fee for the Board Safety onaconstant currency basis, the increase increased, no bonus would be awarded in Committee Chair were increased from was 1%.
However, a strong 10,000 p. a. to 12,000 p. a. bringing these cash flow performance had been delivered, into line with the Audit and Remuneration Adjusted operating profit was 317.0m, a which resulted in maximum vesting under this Committee Chairs fees, which were not decrease of 6.5% compared with 2017 but element and partial vesting achieved of the increased.
No further increase is anticipated onaconstant currency basis and excluding safety and customer satisfaction measures.
during 2018, other than the introduction of an SWRand the 53rd week, this represented allowance for intercontinental travel which is areduction of 10.4%.
However, net cash flow The final element of the EABP award was described on page 80. increased substantially to 199.0m, which individual performance.
Out of a potential included SWR start of franchise cash flows 10%, the Committee awarded Matthew of88.5m.
Full details on each objective and theperformance achieved are set out The EABP also includes personal objectives onpages 83 and 84 of the Annual report and non-financial measures relating to onremuneration.
safetyand customer satisfaction which are measured at divisional level and averaged to provide a Group outturn.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 Directors remuneration report continued Statement by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Chairmans fee 2018 19 Performance and Reward Shareholder engagement Following a review of the Chairmans fee, this The Committee considers that the existing The Committee is committed to an open was increased from 280,000 p. a. to 295,000 EABP framework, weightings and measures andtransparent dialogue with shareholders p. a. with effect from 1 December 2017. continue to be an appropriate short term ontheissue of executive remuneration incentive.
The Committee has, however, andconsiders these engagements vital to With Wolfhart Hauser now stepping up to the determined that in order for the Group ensureits remuneration strategy continues position of Executive Chairman, the Committee revenueelement to be awarded, Group tobe aligned with the long term interests of will be considering a temporary increase to his adjusted operating profit must exceed its FirstGroups shareholders.
We recognise fees to reflect the additional time commitment threshold target.
Targets in respect of the thatthe performance of the Company can be and this will be disclosed in the normal manner 2018EABP will reflect the business context further improved but in relation to incentive in due course.
and challenges as well as the overall business outcomes, both annual and long term Governance plan for addressing these at both divisional incentive have, in recent years, reflected The Committee actively monitors and Group level.
business performance and the Committee developments in corporate governance and hasexercised downward discretion where Likewise, following a review during the the guidelines produced by shareholders and warranted.
year, the Committee believes that the LTIP their representative bodies to ensure that we framework remains appropriate.
However, We look forward to your support for this remain aligned with best practice.
inlight of the Companys performance and yearsreport and the new Policy at the 2018 Policy review also the bid activity, the Committee has forthcoming AGM.
The Committee undertook a full review of determined that additional time is needed Finally, I am grateful to my colleagues on the thePolicy during the year.
Full details of the before the most appropriate targets can be Committee and those who support our work.
changes and the new Policy are set out later determined and the 2018 LTIP awards can inthis report.
Whilst the overall conclusion bemade.
It is the Committees expectation Imelda Walsh wasthat the Policy remained broadly fit for that targets and measures for the 2018 LTIP Chair, Remuneration Committee purpose the following changes are proposed: award will be no less demanding than those operated in respect of the 2017 award and Threshold vesting under the LTIP will be that the three measures will remain TSR, EPS setat 20% of the maximum for future and ROCE.
When the 2018 LTIP is awarded, LTIPawards.
Previously the Policy details of the associated targets and measures allowedfor 25% of the maximum to vest will be fully disclosed.
This was reduced to 20% of the maximum in respect of the 2017 LTIP Looking ahead following shareholder consultation and the For the coming year, it is anticipated that the Committee has determined that this should Committee will focus on the following areas: now be formalised as part of the Policy.
supporting the recruitment of a new The ability to award NEDs a fee when ChiefExecutive undertaking intercontinental travel is being supporting the Groups business objectives introduced to reflect the significant time and strategic goals required when travelling long distances ensuring compliance with new regulatory onCompany business.
This supports requirements, including the new UK theNEDs in the effective performance Corporate Governance Code and the oftheir roles.
widening of the remit of the Committee The maximum pension opportunity for ensuring that remuneration arrangements newly appointed Executive Directors will are designed to promote the long term beset at up to 20% of base salary.
success of the Company and reward Previously the Policy explicitly set the performance, whilst maintaining a pension allowance to be equal to 20% prudentapproach to cost and the ofsalary.
This change provides future risktothebusiness flexibility and brings the approach to pension contributions into line with marketpractice.
70 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration at a glance Tim OToole Matthew Gregory Policy element Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Base salary from 1 April 2018 845,625 437,000 % increase from prior year Pension Defined benefit arrangement, providing 1 50th Allowance of 20% of base salary, of which at accrual for each year of service up to a fixed least10,000 is paid into the Companys defined earnings cap of 140,705.
For earnings above this contribution pension plan.
cap, an allowance of 20% of base salary ispaid.
The defined benefit arrangement closed to accrual with effect from 5 April 2018.
Annual bonus EABP Up to 120% of base salary Up to 150% of base salary Annual bonus metrics Adjusted operating profit 45% Adjusted operating profit 45% Revenue 20% Revenue 20% Cash flow 10% Cash flow 10% Safety 7.5% Safety 7.5% Customer satisfaction 7.5% Customer satisfaction 7.5% Individual performance 10% Individual performance 10% Payment for threshold performance 0% 0% Deferred bonus plan 50% of annual bonus is deferred for three years 50% of annual bonus is deferred for three years inFirstGroup shares inFirstGroup shares 2017 18 bonus outturn 22.3 % maximum potential LTIP 120% of base salary 175% of base salary 1 LTIP metrics 20% Road ROCE, 40% EPS and 40% relative TSR 20% Road ROCE, 40% EPS and 40% relative TSR Payment for threshold performance 20% 20% Malus and clawback Malus applies to the period prior to vesting, including deferred shares, for both the EABP and LTIP.
Clawback applies to the cash and deferred shares awarded under the EABP for a period ofthree years from the date the cash payment is made and the date the deferred shares are granted, and to the LTIP for two years following the end of the performance period.
Dividends on vested awards Participants are eligible to receive dividends on vested awards Shareholding requirement 200% of base salary 150% of base salary 2 Shareholding as at year end 1,253,522 144% of base salary 308,399 58% of base salary Shareholding requirement 16 July 2020 1 December 2020 to be achieved by: 1 Prior to 2017, LTIP awards were subject to 50% ROCE and 50% relative TSR.
A review of the LTIP metrics was carried out in 2017 and the performance metrics were amended to ensure they remain appropriate.
Awards granted in November 2017 are subject to the new performance metrics.
Further detail on this is available on page 85.
2 Includes vested but unexercised awards.
2017 18 2016 17 1 Non-executive fees 2 Chairman 295,000 280,000 2 Non-Executive Director NED and Group Employee Director GED 58,000 55,000 Additional fees 3 Senior Independent Director SID 12,000 10,000 Audit Committee Chair 12,000 12,000 Remuneration Committee Chair 12,000 12,000 3 Board Safety Committee BSC Chair 12,000 10,000 1 Further detail on fee changes is provided on page 91.
2 The Chairmans fee was reviewed and increased with effect from 1 December 2017.
3 The NED and GED fees and the additional fees for the SID and the Chair of the BSC were reviewed and increased in August 2017.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy This part of the Directors remuneration report sets out the Remuneration Policy for the Company, which has been prepared in accordance withthe Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, and taking account oftheprinciples of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Committee also takes significant account of guidelines issued by theInvestment Association, ISS and other shareholder bodies when setting the remuneration framework and seeks to maintain an active and constructive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects ofcorporate governance generally and any changes to the Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
The new Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 17July 2018 and, subject to receiving majority shareholder support, it will operate from the date of approval.
It is intended that the Remuneration Policy will remain applicable for the three years following approval.
Information on how the Company intends to implement the new Remuneration Policy for the current financial year is set out throughout the Annual report on remuneration from page 81 onwards.
Details of the performance conditions, measures and weightings for grants made in the year will also be set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Summary of proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy Following a review by the Committee, the summary below sets out the minor changes we are proposing to make to the Remuneration Policy, subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM: Previous element LTIP NEDs intercontinental travel Pension Previous policy Threshold vesting up to 25% Not applicable Maximum opportunity of 20% of ofthemaximum basesalary Change to policy Threshold vesting up to 20% NEDs may receive an allowance in the Maximum opportunity of up to20% of ofthemaximum event they arerequired to undertake base salary intercontinental travel for the purpose of attending Board orCommittee meetings orsitevisits Rationale for change 20% threshold vesting approach adopted Supports NEDs in the effective Brings pensions into line with developing following shareholder consultation for the performance of theirroles, including market practice 2017 LTIP nowconfirmed as thefuture additional timecommitment policy approach whenrequired to undertake intercontinental travel 72 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Remuneration policy for Executive Directors Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Salary To attract and Typically reviewed annually, Salary increases in percentage of salary Not applicable.
terms for Executive Directors will normally executives with the be within the range of those for Group Any increases take account of: attributes, skills employees.
Where the Committee andexperience considers it necessary or appropriate, Company and individual required to deliver largerincreases may be awarded in performance and experience theGroups strategy.
individual circumstances, such as a role and responsibilities changein scope or responsibility.
market positioning The Committee has the flexibility to set the external indicators, such as salary of a new hire at a discount to the inflation and market conditions market level initially and to realign it over thefollowing years as the individual gains pay increases of Group experience in the role.
In exceptional employees circumstances, the Committee may agree No recovery or to pay above market levels to secure or withholdingapplies.
retain an individual who is considered by theCommittee to possess significant and relevant experience that is critical to the delivery of the Companys strategy.
Benefits Provide marketA range of benefits may be Benefits are not generally expected to be a Not applicable.
competitive benefits provided including, but not limited significant part of the remuneration package to assist in attracting to, provision of company car or in financial terms.
and retaining cash equivalent, private medical The cost of benefits is not pre-determined, executives and to insurance, life assurance, long reflecting the need to allow for normal support them in term disability insurance, general increases associated with the provision theperformance employee benefits and travel and ofbenefits.
The Committee retains the discretion to offer additional benefits as appropriate, such as assistance with relocation, tax equalisation and overseas tax advisory fees.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Pension benefits Allows executives Payment may be made into a Executive Directors employed after April 2011 Not applicable.
tobuild long term pension scheme or delivered receive a pension allowance of up to 20% of savings for their asacash allowance.
retirement, ensures No recovery or In the event of further changes to the pension the total remuneration withholdingapplies.
tax regime adversely affecting individuals package is pension benefits and or the Groups pension competitive and arrangements, the Committee may amend aidsretention.
the pension benefits available, but only on a basis which would not cost the Company materially more than the Executive Directors current arrangements in terms of percentage of base pay.
Annual bonus To focus on the Bonuses are awarded annually For existing Executive Directors The bonus is based on a delivery of annual under the Executive Annual combination of financial, Maximum bonus opportunity is 150% for goals, to strive for Bonus Plan EABP.
operational and individual metrics, the Chief Financial Officer.
superior performance which the Committee may review At least half the bonus awarded and to achieve from time to time.
The precise inany year will be deferred into specific targets which allocation between financial and shares, normally for a period of For newly recruited support the strategy.
non-financial metrics as well as three years.
ExecutiveDirectors including weightings within these metrics, Deferred share ChiefExecutive will depend on the strategic focus The EABP is reviewed annually to element encourages of the Company from year to year.
ensure performance measures Maximum bonus opportunity will be retention and At least half of any award will be and targets are appropriate and 150%of base salary.
provides a link 1 subject to financial measures.
between the bonusand share Vesting of deferred shares An amount of up to 25% of the price growth.
isdependent on continued maximum may be payable for employment or good threshold performance.
The Committee has discretion The Committee retains the topermit a dividend equivalent discretion, acting fairly and amount to accrue on shares reasonably, to alter the bonus which vest under the EABP.
outcome in light of the underlying The rules of the EABP contain performance of the Company, malus and clawback provisions taking account of any factors totake account of exceptional itconsiders relevant.
Committee will consult with majorinvestors before any Cash bonus payments can be exercise of its discretion to clawed back up to the third increase the bonus outcome.
anniversary of payment and deferred share awards can be scaled back before they vest.
1 This is unchanged from previous policy.
The Committees current practice is that at least 75% is linked to financial metrics.
74 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Incentivises the Awards under the LTIP are rights For existing Executive Directors LTIP awards will be subject to execution of strategy, to receive conditional shares or theachievement of a combination Normal award policy is set at a maximum and drives long term nil-cost options over shares, of stretching targets designed opportunity of 175% of base salary for the value creation and subject to continued employment toincentivise performance in Chief Financial Officer.
alignment with longer and performance conditions.
support of the Groups strategy term returns to and business objectives, An amount of up to 20% of the shareholders.
measured over a three-year maximum may be payable for For newly recruited performance period.
The threshold performance, with ExecutiveDirectors including Committee determines the maximum vesting being equal ChiefExecutive measures, their relative weightings to100% of any award made.
and targets prior to each award.
Maximum award opportunity will be 200% Shares which vest under the of base salary for a newly recruited Chief The Committee retains the LTIPare subject to an additional Executive and 175% of base salary for discretion, acting fairly and holding period of two years othernewly recruited Executive Directors.
reasonably, to alter the LTIP following the three-year vesting outcome in light of the In exceptional circumstances, awards performance period.
Shares underlying performance of the ofupto 300% of base salary may be maybe sold in order to satisfy Company during the performance made, such as to aid recruitment.
taxor other relevant liabilities period, taking account of any asaresult of an award vesting.
The Committee will consult with major The Committee has discretion shareholders before any exercise topermit a dividend equivalent of its discretion to increase the amount to accrue on shares LTIP vesting outcome.
which vest under the LTIP.
The rules of the LTIP contain malus and clawback provisions totake account of exceptional andadverse circumstances.
LTIP awards can be scaled backbefore vesting.
Where awardshave vested, they may beclawed back up to the fifth anniversary of grant.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics All-Employee Share Plans To encourage all Opportunity to participate in The maximum participation level is Not applicable employees to make a SaveAs You Earn SAYE and the inaccordance with HMRC limits.
long term investment Share Incentive Plan known as in the Companys Buy As You Earn or BAYE on the shares in a taxsame terms as other eligible efficient way.
Shareholding Guidelines To ensure that The Chief Executive is expected Not applicable Not applicable Executive Directors tohold shares equivalent in value interests are aligned to a minimum of 200% of base with those of salary and other Executive shareholders over a Directors 150% of base salary longer term time within a five-year period from the period.
later of their date of appointment or the initial approval of and, ifappropriate, subsequent amendments to, this remunerationpolicy.
Executive Directors are further required to retain at least 75% of the shares, net of tax, vesting under a Group share incentive plan or otherwise acquire sharesin the Company until the shareholding guideline is met.
The Committee reserves the right to relax or waive the application of the guidelines where it believes it is justified by the circumstances.
EABP and Long-Term Incentive Plan The Committee operates within its policy at all times.
It will also operate the EABP and LTIP according to the rules of each respective plan andconsistently with normal market practice and the Listing Rules, including flexibility in a number of areas.
How the Committee will retain flexibility includes: when to make awards and payments how to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and how much of an award should vest who receives an award or payment how to deal with a change of control, restructuring or any other corporate event of the Group whether an Executive Director or senior manager is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and what proportion of awards vest, if any, atthe time of leaving or at the original vesting date s how and whether an award or its performance conditions may be adjusted in certain circumstances e. g. change of accounting policy the choice of and adjustment of performance measures, weightings and targets for each incentive plan from year to year in accordance with the remuneration policy set out above and the rules of each plan amending plan rules in accordance with their terms.
Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual report on remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
76 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Setting performance The Committee does not formally consult Reward scenarios measuresandtargets withemployees on Executive Director The graphs below provide an indication of In determining the levels of executive reward, remuneration, however, as a result of the thereward opportunity for each of the current the Committee places considerable emphasis Companys all-employee share plans, Executive Directors based on their roles as at on ensuring a strong and demonstrable link UK-based employees are able to become 1 April 2018 including Tim OToole who was between actual remuneration received and shareholders in the Company and can the Chief Executive until 31 May 2018. thedelivery of FirstGroups strategic plans.
comment on the Remuneration Policy in the The basis of calculation and key assumptions same way as other shareholders.
In addition, The measures and weightings used under used to complete the charts are as follows: the Company provides a number of forums theEABP are selected annually to reflect the foremployees to provide feedback as well as Minimum only fixed pay is payable i. e. base Groups key strategic initiatives for the year receiving employee views from the Group salary, benefits and pension or cash in lieu of andreflect both financial and non-financial Employee Director.
No bonus is payable and no vesting objectives.
The targets for the EABP are set achieved under the LTIP.
The value of the Chief byreference to the Companys strategy Legacy arrangements Executives pension benefit and allowance is andinternal budgets as well as the external The Committee may approve payments to assumed to be in line with that for 2017 18 context, such as market forecasts.
satisfy commitments agreed prior to the asset out in the Executive Directors total Thisapproach seeks to ensure that the approval of this Remuneration Policy.
The value of the CFOs  challenging.
Thisincludes previous incentive awards pension allowance is 20% ofbase salary.
thatare currently outstanding and unvested The LTIP provides a focus on delivering which have been disclosed to shareholders On-target fixed pay plus 50% of maximum superiorreturns to shareholders by providing inprevious remuneration reports.
The annual bonus pay-out and 20% vesting under rewards for longer term growth and shareholder Committee may also approve payments the LTIP.
The Committee reviews outside of this Remuneration Policy in order annually whether the performance measures, Maximum fixed pay plus 100% of tosatisfy legacy arrangements made to an weightings and calibration of targets remain maximum annual bonus pay-out and 100% employee prior to and not in contemplation appropriate and sufficiently challenging vesting under the LTIP.
of joining the Board of Directors.
takinginto account the Companys strategic For all scenarios, it is assumed that the share objectives and shareholder interests.
All historic awards that were granted but price will remain unaltered.
remain outstanding remain eligible to vest All-employee share plans awards are not based on their original award terms.
subject toperformance conditions in line with the treatment of such awards for all employees andin accordance with the applicable taxlegislation.
Group employee considerations Chief Executive In setting the remuneration of the Executive Total remuneration 000s Directors, the Committee takes into account the overall approach to rewarding employees Minimum 1,100 in the Group.
FirstGroup operates in a 100% numberof markets and its employees carry On-target 1,810 60.8% 28.0% 11.2% out a diverse range of roles across the UK Maximum 3,130 andUS.
All employees, including Directors, 35.1% 32.4% 32.4% arepaid by reference to the market rate and 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 base salary levels are reviewed regularly.
Whenconsidering salary increases for Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Executive Directors, the Committee pays closeattention to pay and employment Chief Financial Officer conditions across the wider workforce.
Total remuneration 000s The key difference between Executive Minimum 538 Directorremuneration and other employees 100% isthat, overall, the remuneration policy for 1,019 On-target 52.8% 32.2% 15.0% Executive Directors is more heavily weighted Maximum 1,959 towards variable pay linked to business 27.5% 33.5% 39.0% performance than for other employees, so 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 thatremuneration will increase or decrease inline with business performance and Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP aligntheinterests of Executive Directors andshareholders.
In particular, long term incentives are provided only to the most seniorexecutives as they are reserved for those considered to have the greatest potential to influence overall levels of performance.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 Directors remuneration report continued Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee believes it is vital to be able to attract and recruit high-calibre executives who are focused on delivering the Groups strategic plans, while relating reward to performance in the context of appropriate risk management, and aligning the interests of Executive Directors andsenior managers with those of shareholders to build a sustainable performance culture.
The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of a new Executive Director is to take account of his or her remuneration package in their prior role, the market positioning of the remuneration package and not to pay more than is necessary to facilitate their recruitment.
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director will be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment, except: Salary The salary level shall take into account companies in the comparator group, which comprises companies that are broadly inline with FirstGroups size, structure and complexity and have features that are comparable to FirstGroup.
The Committee has the flexibility to set the salary of a new Executive Director at a discount to the market level initially, with aseries of planned increases implemented over the following few years to bring the salary to the desired positioning, subject to individual performance.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has the ability to set the salary of a new Executive Director at a rate higher than the market level to reflect the criticality of the role and the experience and performance of the individual.
Benefits The Company may award certain additional benefits and other allowances including, but not limited to, those to assist with relocation support, temporary living and transportation expenses, educational costs for children and tax equalisation to allow flexibility in employing an overseas national.
Pension benefits Any new Executive Director based outside the UK will be eligible to participate in pension or pension allowance, insurance and other benefit programmes in line with local practice.
Annual bonus The maximum bonus opportunity shall be 150% of base salary.
Long-Term The maximum opportunity shall be 200% of base salary for a newly recruited Chief Executive and 175% of base salary for Incentive Plan other newly recruited Executive Directors.
However, a maximum opportunity of 300% of base salary may be used in exceptional circumstances, in addition to any buy-out of forfeited awards.
Total incentive The maximum incentive opportunity which may be granted in line with the policy maximums will be 450% of salary, excluding opportunity replacement awards.
Replacement The Committee shall consider what cash or replacement share-based awards, if any, are reasonably necessary to facilitate awards the recruitment of a new Executive Director in all circumstances.
This includes an assessment of the awards and any other compensation or benefits item that would be forfeited on leaving their current employer.
These payments would not exceed what is considered by the Committee to be a fair estimate of remuneration lost when leaving the former employer and would reflect, as far as possible, the nature and time horizons attached to that remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
If the Executive Directors former employer pays a portion of the remuneration that was deemed foregone, the replacement payments will be reduced by an equivalent amount.
In the case of an internal executive appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role will be allowed to pay out according to its existing terms, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment will continue.
Relocation In instances where the new Executive Director is required to relocate or spend significant time away from their normal policies residence, the Company may provide compensation to reflect the cost of relocation, including up to two years temporary provision of accommodation and associated moving costs.
The level of the relocation package will be assessed on a case-by-case basis but will take into consideration, amongst other items, any cost-of-living differences, housing allowances and schooling.
Where an Executive Director leaves within two years of their appointment, the Committee has the discretion to clawback part or all of the relocation package.
Notice periods The Committee shall utilise notice periods of up to 12 months.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement shall be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
78 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Executive Directors service agreements The Executive Directors service agreements, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the calibre required to manage the Company.
The Committees policy is for Executive Directors service contracts to be terminable on no more than one years notice.
The details of existing Executive Directors service contracts are summarised in the table below: Executive Director Date of service contract Notice period Tim OToole 25 January 2011 12 months Matthew Gregory 1 December 2015 12 months Policy on payment for loss of office Executive Directors service agreements contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice.
The Company is unequivocally against rewards for failure: the circumstances of any departure, including the individuals performance, would be taken into account in every case.
Directors service agreements are kept for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Service agreements may be terminated without notice and without payment in lieu of notice in certain circumstances, such as gross misconduct.
The Company may require the Executive Director to work during their notice period or may choose to place the individual on garden leave, for example to ensure the protection of the Companys and shareholders interests where the Executive Director has access to commercially sensitiveinformation.
Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, the Company may at its absolute discretion reimburse for reasonable professional fees relating to the termination of employment and, where an Executive Director has been required to relocate, to pay reasonable repatriation costs, including possible tax exposure costs.
In the event of an Executive Directors departure, any outstanding share awards will be treated in accordance with the plan rules as follows: Plan Treatment on cessation Salary, Benefits These will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment in lieu.
and Pension EABP Good leaver reason Where an individual is considered a good leaver a performance-related bonus will be paid.
This will be based on the proportion of the bonus year for which the individual has been actively employed and bonus if any will be paid at the normal time, although the Committee retains discretion to pay it earlier in appropriate circumstances.
There is no entitlement to any bonus award under the EABP for any financial year where an Executive Director has not been actively working, even if still in employment.
The Committee has discretion to make an award in these circumstances, but would only consider exercising its discretion if this were justified by the circumstances and timing of the Executive Directors departure.
The Committee will not exercise that discretion in respect of any period when the Executive Director is on garden leave.
Any resulting bonus payment will normally be time pro-rated and be based on the level of performance achieved.
Other reason The EABP provides no entitlement to a bonus following cessation of employment, unless the leaver is considered a goodleaver.
Deferred Share Good leaver reason Awards Where an individual is considered a good leaver other than in the case of death unvested EABP deferred shares will vest either at the end of the vesting period or in the event of termination by reason of ill-health on the date of cessation of employment or any other date determined by the Committee.
Where an award vests early, the good leaver will receive a pro-rated number of shares to reflect the acceleration of vesting, although in the event of termination by reason of ill-health theCompany may exercise discretion to waive pro-rating.
In the case of death, deferred share awards vest on the date of death and no pro-rating is applied.
Other reason Unvested deferred share awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment or, at the Committees discretion, on service of notice of termination of employment.
Long-Term Good leaver reason Incentive Plan Where an individual is considered a good leaver other than in the case of death unvested LTIP shares will vest either at the end of the performance period or in the event of termination of employment by reason of ill-health on the date of cessation of employment to the extent the performance conditions have been satisfied as determined by the Committee.
A good leaver will normally receive a pro-rated proportion of any outstanding LTIP awards.
The Committee may choose to allow certain awards to vest while others lapse, depending on the circumstances of the case.
In the case of death, awards vest on the date of death and are not subject to the performance conditions, with pro-rating applying in the same way as for good leavers.
Other reason Awards will normally lapse on cessation of employment.
All-employee Awards will vest in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan, which do not permit the exercise of any discretion by share plans theCommittee.
A good leaver is defined as cessation of employment in the following circumstances: death: ill-health: injury or disability: statutory redundancy: agreed retirement: employing company ceasing to be a Group company: transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company: and at the Committees discretion.
Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 Directors remuneration report continued Policy on external appointments The Committee believes that the Company can benefit from Executive Directors holding one approved non-executive directorship of another company, offering Executive Directors the opportunity to broaden their experience and knowledge.
Company policy is to allow Executive Directors to retain the fees earned from such appointments.
Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts, but each has a letter of appointment with the Company.
Eachletter of appointment generally provides for a three-month notice period.
Non-Executive Directors are normally appointed for two consecutive three-year terms, with any third term of three years being subject to rigorous review, taking into account the need progressively torefresh the Board.
In line with the requirement of the Code, all Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are subject to annual re-election by shareholders ateach AGM.
The appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors is subject to early termination without compensation if they are not re-appointed at a meeting of shareholders.
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors may on occasion receive reimbursement of costs incurred in relation to professional advice.
Thesepayments, if made, are taxable benefits to the Non-Executive Director and the tax arising is paid by the Company on the Directors behalf.
Fees for the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole, on the recommendation of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Fees for the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The policy on fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors is: Purpose and To be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain Non-Executive Directors necessary to contribute to a high-performing Board.
link to strategy Chairman The fee for the Chairman is determined by the Committee and reflects the commitment, demands and responsibility of the role.
The fee is paid monthly and can either be taken in cash or shares or a combination of both.
The fee is inclusive of all Committee roles and is not performance-related or pensionable.
Limited benefits relating to travel, accommodation and meals may also be payable in certain circumstances, with the tax arising being paid by the Company on the Chairmans behalf.
The fee payable to the Chairman may be varied either up or down from this level during the three-year period that this Remuneration Policy operates to ensure it continues to appropriately recognise the requirements of the role.
Non-Executive Fees are determined by the Board, within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association, with Non-Executive Directors Directors abstaining from any discussion or decision on their fees.
The Board takes account of recognised best practice standards for such positions when determining the fee level and structure.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a base fee.
Additional fees may be payable for chairmanship of the Companys key Committees and for performing the Senior Independent Director role.
Non-Executive Directors may also receive an allowance in the event they are required to undertake intercontinental travel for the purpose of attending Board or Committee meetings or site visits.
Fees are paid monthly and can either be taken in cash or shares or a combination of both.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment contain provisions for payment in lieu of notice.
Other than the Group Employee Director, Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements or receive any pension provision.
Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for expenses and any tax arising on those expenses is settled directly by the Company.
To the extent that these are deemed taxable benefits, they will be included in the Annual report on remuneration, as required.
Reasonable costs of travel and accommodation for business purposes are reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors.
On the limited occasions when it is appropriate for a Non-Executive Directors spouse or partner to attend, such as to a business event, the Company will meet these costs.
The Company will meet any tax liabilities that may arise on such expenses.
Fee levels may be varied either up or down during the three-year period that the Remuneration Policy operates to ensure they continue to appropriately recognise the time commitment and responsibilities of the role, increases or decreases to fee levels for Non-Executive Directors in general and fee levels in companies of a similar size and complexity.
Group Employee The Group Employee Directors fee is in line with the basic fee of the Non-Executive Directors and is payable in addition to the Director remuneration received as an employee of the respective Group operating company, which includes participation in any benefit and incentive arrangements and pension scheme.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee values its continued dialogue with shareholders and engages directly with them and their representative bodies at the earliest opportunity.
Shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM, as well as any additional feedback and guidance received during the year, isconsidered by the Committee as it develops the Companys remuneration framework and practices.
80 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Annual report on remuneration This part of the Directors remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and Rule 9.8.
The Annual report on remuneration and the Statement by the Chair will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM on 17 July 2018.
Executive Directors total remuneration audited Annual bonus Value of Long-Term deferred Incentive 1 2 Salary Benefits Cash shares Plan Pension Total Year 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 3 3 Tim OToole 2018 846 43 211 1,100 4 4 2017 846 44 180 197 1,267 Matthew Gregory 2018 437 14 73 73 87 684 2017 425 14 227 227 85 978 1 Taxable benefits include: Tim OToole 12,000 car allowance, 22,000 for US medical insurance and 9,000 reimbursement of advisory fees principally relating to taxation in the UK and US.
Matthew Gregory 12,000 car allowance and 2,000 for UK private medical insurance.
The decrease in the Chief Executives benefits is due to the impact of the change in exchange rates on his US medical insurance.
2 The following pension-related benefits were received during the year: Tim OToole 140,984 pension allowance and a defined benefit pension input amount, netof Directors contributions, of 69,724.
Matthew Gregory received a pension allowance of 87,400, which included a defined contribution pension amount of 10,000.
3 No annual bonus has been awarded to Tim OToole for the year 2017 18 for the reasons explained in the Statement by the Chair.
4 The 2014 LTIP award, which vested on 5 June 2017, had been shown in last years annual report with an indicative value of 1.35 per share.
The actual share price on the date of release was 1.41, as announced to the market on 7 June 2017, and this is the share price used to calculate the value of the award shown in this table.
Annual base salary audited 2018 2017 % increase 000s 000s 1 Tim OToole 846 846 Matthew Gregory 437 425 2.8 1 In accordance with the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders in July 2015, the base salary of Tim OToole has not been increased for the duration ofthepolicy.
As noted in the Statement by the Chair, in light of the overall challenges faced by the business during the year, Matthew Gregory, CFO, advisedthe Committee that he did not wish to be considered for a salary increase in 2018.
The Committee welcomed and supported this position.
However, with the departure of the Chief Executive, and the additional responsibilities that Matthew will take on, the Committee will beconsidering a temporary increase in Matthews salary for the period of time in which he takes up his additional responsibilities as Interim ChiefOperating Officer.
Benefits audited Benefits for Executive Directors include the provision of a company car allowance, private medical cover, life assurance and advisory fees principally relating to taxation in the UK and US for Tim OToole.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 Directors remuneration report continued Pension audited Tim OToole participated in a defined benefit pension scheme.
His contributions to this scheme were paid via salary sacrifice with an equivalent contribution being paid directly to the pension scheme by the Company.
This provides him with 1 50th accrual for each year of service, based on average pensionable salary for the three tax years prior to retirement.
Upon reaching age 60, he amended his normal retirement age from 60 to 65, for future service.
He will receive all his benefits at the same time, but those payable from age 60 will be increased for deferred payment, and those payable from age 65 are payable unreduced at that time.
Pensions normally increase in line with the consumer prices index and provide a dependants pension on a members death.
There was a scheme earnings cap of 140,705 above which a pension allowance of 20% of base salary was paid.
Information in the table below includes the total accrued benefit at 31 March 2018 which represents the annual pension that is expected to be payable on eventual retirement given the length of service and salary of Tim OToole.
Increase in Total accrued accrued annual benefit at pension at Age at Pension 31 Mar 2018 31 Mar 2018 1 31 Mar 2018 age 000s 000s Tim OToole 62 65 25 4 1 Tim OToole ceased to accrue benefits in the defined benefit pension scheme, following closure to future accrual of the scheme with effect from April 2018.
No additional benefits are available on early retirement.
The allowances paid during the year to Tim OToole and Matthew Gregory were 140,984 and 87,400, respectively.
Matthew Gregorys allowance included a defined contribution pension input amount of 10,000.
Performance-related pay The Committee believes it is important for Executive Directors that a significant proportion of the remuneration package is performance-related and the performance conditions applying to incentive arrangements support the delivery of the Companys strategy.
The Committee considers performance against a range of metrics, including safety, to ensure that the assessment is rounded, taking into account both qualitative and quantitative factors.
The table below outlines each of the performance measures used in the Companys performance-related incentives and how they support the Companys strategy and business objectives as outlined in the Strategic report: Business KPIs objectives Our Values 1 LTIP Road ROCE TSR EPS Bonus Adjusted operating profit Revenue Cash flow Safety Customer satisfaction Individual performance 1 As mentioned on page 85, a review was undertaken in 2017 18 with regards to the performance metrics used in the LTIP.
82 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Executive Annual Bonus Plan 2017 18 Executive Directors annual bonus audited For 2017 18 the EABP aimed to incentivise improved performance against a range of financial Adjusted and non-financial metrics.
The structure of the bonus had not changed from 2016 17 and was operating profit 45% weighted so that 75% would be based on financial metrics and 25% on non-financial metrics.
Revenue 20% The financial targets set by the Committee were based on the Groups approved plan.
The Cash ow 10% Committee had also reviewed targets at individual business unit level and had taken into Safety 7.5% consideration consensus and expectations for 2017 18 at that time.
Customer satisfaction 7.5% For 2017 18, the EABP comprised the following six elements: Individual performance 10% Adjusted operating profit a KPI used in managing the business.
Revenue encourages management to deliver sustainable growth through pricing and volume.
Cash flow encourages management to devise operational plans focused on cash generation to create options for the Board in relation to, among other uses, investment in key assets of fleet, systems and people.
Safety to ensure that risk controls, safety procedures and safety behaviours are constantly improved to reduce long term injuries and avoid safety incidents across all the divisions.
Performance was assessed against a balanced scorecard using a broad range of indicators, including long term injuries, passenger injuries and collisions.
Customer satisfaction a key focus at all levels of the Group.
Performance was assessed against a balanced scorecard of measures: customer satisfaction surveys, punctuality and cancellations across First Student, First Transit, Greyhound, First Bus and First Rail.
Individual performance recognises achievement in other significant areas.
Performance was assessed against individual objectives for the year, which were aligned with the Groups strategy and transformation plans, and the Executive Directors core areas of responsibility.
Stretching, relevant and measurable financial and non-financial annual bonus targets were set by the Committee.
The Committee assessed each element of the annual bonus separately as part of an overall balanced scorecard of measures.
Within each element the Committee considered a number of sub-elements, including the performance of each division and the Companys performance on a rail and non-rail basis, and formed a rounded assessment of performance of the Executive Directors at the end of the year.
In keeping with the practice applied in previous years, the original target ranges for the revenue and operating profit elements have been adjusted to reflect the actual reported foreign exchange rates changes experienced in the year under review.
For 2017 18, the financial and non-financial performance outcomes were as follows: Maximum Actual Threshold Target Maximum potential % of award Metrics performance 0% 50% 100% award which vested Outcomes 1 Adjusted operating profit 317.0m 329.6m 339.4m 344.6m 45% No payout generated.
This would have resulted on a payout of 13.6% under this metric but the Committee exercised its discretion in light of the adjusted operating profit outturn and determined that no payout would occur.
Cash flow 199.0m Less than n a 191.6m or 10% 10 Group cash generation for the year 191.6m greater exceeded the EABP target level and delivered full payout.
Safety Between Balanced scorecard of indicators 7.50% 1.5 Group safety performance is an average of threshold the performance for each division.
and target Customer satisfaction Between Balanced scorecard of measures 7.50% 2.8 Group customer satisfaction is an average threshold of the performance for each division.
and target 1 Adjusted operating profit figures throughout this document are before Greyhound goodwill impairment, TPE onerous contract provision, other intangible asset amortisation charges and certain other items as set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Directors remuneration report continued For the reasons referred to in the Statement by the Chair, the Committee has decided not to award an annual bonus to Tim OToole for the year 2017 18.
A review of his individual performance against objectives is therefore not included in this report.
With regard to Matthew Gregory, the Committee carefully reviewed his individual performance against objectives set at the beginning of the yearand concluded that, against the specific objectives set, many of which referred to his role as CFO, Matthew had delivered these to a high standard, notwithstanding disappointing overall business results.
Therefore the Committee assessed his degree of achievement and decided to award him 8% out of a possible 10%: Degree of Executive Director Objective Assessment achievement Matthew Gregory Lead continuous improvement in overall safety Regularly conducted safety tours in North America culture, strategy and governance, encouraging and the UK consistently high standards of behaviour on safety, Encouraged divisions to adopt data driven approach and foresight of potential hazards to safety through the monthly Business Reviews Demanded improvement to safety for capital equipment, particularly seeking a technological Fully achieved solution to baggage handling in Greyhound buses Significantly increased time spent by US insurance team with US management to better understand safety trends and drive action plans.
Deliver the cost savings and capital expenditure Capital budget and cost savings were delivered amounts set out in the 2017 8 budget Fully achieved Help to create an environment which allows the Assisted Student with their M&A pipeline set up and divisions to achieve top line growth beyond what process can be forecast in the current plan Worked with First Bus to improve revenue from lower-quality businesses Partially achieved Worked with Greyhound to create commercial opportunities markets and Customer Relationship Management programmes Deliver a financial strategy for use of free cash flow Plan prepared, not delivered yet due to competing Partially and a communications plan for shareholders priorities achieved Assess divisional CFOs and lead hiring in the First Rail and Greyhound CFOs appointed and divisions integrated Fully achieved Overall strengthening of UK and US finance capability Finalise and commence implementation of Inventory Robotics pilots initiated, to cover billing in First Student of Ideas project and First Transit Fully achieved Guide First Bus as it implements SAP during Project went live in April 2018 without significant issues Fully achieved 2017 18 As referred to in the Statement by the Chair, in light of the overall results, the Committee has exercised its discretion and agreed to reduce to nil the percentage vesting under the Revenue metric, which would have otherwise been 13.6%.
As a result, the annual bonus for the year 2017 18 has been as follows: Directors Tim Matthew OToole Gregory Maximum bonus opportunity % of salary 120 150 Annual bonus % of salary 33.5 1 Actual bonus 000s 146 1 The actual bonus achieved by Matthew Gregory was 22.3% of the total bonus opportunity.
84 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance 2018 19 Executive Directors annual bonus For 2018 19 the EABP will aim to incentivise improved performance against a range of financial and non-financial metrics.
The structure of the bonus is unchanged from 2017 18 and will be weighted such that 75% will be based on financial metrics and 25% onnon-financial metrics.
The financial targets will be set by the Committee based on a number of factors such as the Groups business plan, individual business unit level performance, consensus and expectations for 2018 19.
The Committee will set targets which are stretching to ensure payouts only occur for strong performance over the financial year.
The targets will be no less demanding than those set for the year 2017 18, having taken into account the year on year improvement required from First Student, First Transit, Greyhound and First Bus, but also that the contribution from First Rail is likely to reduce.
Specific targets will not be disclosed in advance as they would give a clear indication of the Groups business objectives, which are commercially sensitive.
Where bonus targets are no longer commercially sensitive, typically following the end of the financial year, they will be disclosed in that years Directors remuneration report.
Awards will be subject to an underlying performance override enabling the Committee to scale back to reflect the Groups performance as well as malus and clawback.
Half of any bonus earned will be deferred into the Companys shares for three years, conditional upon continued employment.
The Committee has already demonstrated in assessing bonus outcomes in 2015, 2017 and 2018, that it is prepared to set aside the formulaic outcome and reduce awards or introduce a further condition, to ensure that business performance or the impact of a significant event is properly reflected.
The 2018 19 annual bonus maximum and threshold levels of bonus as a percentage of base salary will be as follows: Executive Director Maximum Threshold Matthew Gregory 150% 0% Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 Long-Term Incentive Awards audited The vesting of the 2015 LTIP awards were subject to the achievement of ROCE and TSR performance conditions over a three-year performance period each representing 50% of the award.
The performance in respect of each of the metrics was as follows: Actual Threshold Maximum % of award Metrics performance Entry level 0% 12.5% 50% which vested ROCE 7.1 7.6 7.6 8.7 Relative TSR 44th percentile Below median Median Upper quartile TSR and ROCE performance for the period 1 April 2015 31 March 2018 has not met the threshold level of performance required for vesting under the 2015 LTIP.
Awards made under this plan have therefore lapsed.
2017 Long-Term Incentive Awards audited As set out in the 2017 Statement by the Chair, the Committee undertook a review of the Companys LTIP performance metrics.
The review included consultations with major investors and their representative bodies on the inclusion of EPS as a metric as well as the definitions, weightings and target levels of performance of the other LTIP metrics.
The Committee believes that in the current market and economic environment, FirstGroup will create shareholder value by exceeding market growth rates, improving margins and returns, exercising cost discipline and generating cash.
The Committee concluded that the performance metrics most relevant to incentivising delivery of these objectives are EPS, TSR and ROCE.
Input from major shareholders was requested in a detailed consultation letter sent in October 2017.
We were pleased that the major shareholders who responded to the consultation were supportive of the overall LTIP approach.
The Committee has made a number of amendments to the operation of the LTIP as follows: introduction of Adjusted EPS as a metric alongside TSR and ROCE amending the existing ROCE metric to cover Road divisions only vesting at threshold performance has been reduced to 20% rather than 25% previous awards 40% of the award is subject to the Companys relative TSR performance, 40% of the award is subject to the achievement of EPS growth targets and 20% of the award is subject to ROCE targets measured at the end of the performance period.
All metrics will be assessed over a three-year performance period which commenced on 1 April 2017.
The awards are subject to a two-year holding period following the three-year performance period as well as malus and clawback.
In addition, aswith all LTIP awards, before an award vests the Committee must be satisfied that the underlying performance of the Group is satisfactory.
TheCommittee believes that having a performance override is an important feature of the plan as it mitigates the risk of unwarranted vesting outcomes.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Directors remuneration report continued Details of the performance metrics and targets for the 2017 LTIP awards are set out below.
Earnings per Share EPS EPS growth will be determined using Adjusted EPS.
The Committee considers Adjusted EPS to be a fairer reflection of trading performance as iteliminates factors which distort year-on-year comparisons and so is a more appropriate measure to incentivise the achievement of underlying growth.
The Committee noted that differences between adjusted and statutory EPS will need to be carefully considered and this is consistent withthe overall review process described in the above paragraph.
EPS growth will be assessed at constant currency.
The use of constant currency is established practice at the Company to eliminate foreign exchange translation effects only and ensures that management are rewarded for improving the underlying performance of the business.
When assessing performance, the reported Adjusted EPS for 2019 20 will be compared against the reported Adjusted EPS for 2016 17, restatedinto constant currency based on the effective foreign exchange rates in 2019 20.
Details of the EPS targets for the 2017 LTIP are set out below: % of award 1 EPS CAGR which vests 4% 0% 4% 8% 11% 40% 1 Between threshold 4% and maximum 11%, vesting will be on a straight-line basis.
EPS targets were set taking into consideration the three-year business plan agreed by the Board in May 2017 after the award of the SWR Rail Franchise and analyst forecasts at the time of our consultation letter to shareholders in October 2017.
The 4% CAGR threshold requires performance of almost double the rate of inflation expected over the performance period and 11% CAGR for maximum vesting is very stretching given the current economic growth rates in our major markets.
The change to the corporation tax rate in the US was not known at the time the targets were set.
Rather than amend the target, the Committee has agreed it will take account of any impact on the EPS outturn at the time vesting is determined.
ROCE Return on Capital Employed As the Rail divisions are not heavy users of the Companys capital and the Company will be relying on the Road divisions to drive improved ROCE performance, the Committee concluded that Road ROCE is a more appropriate measure for the LTIP than Group ROCE.
The Road ROCE metric will be calculated by dividing operating profit less tax by relevant Capital Employed retranslated at constant currency where: Operating profit is the reported adjusted operating profit of the Group, as published in the Annual Report, excluding earnings derived from theRail division Capital Employed is net assets, excluding net debt, derivatives and pension balances and also excluding items relating to the Rail division.
The exclusion of the pension deficit is considered appropriate as the Committee believes management should not be rewarded for movements in this element.
This approach to pensions is identical to the ROCE definition, which did include Rail, used for the 2015 and 2016 LTIP awards.
To ensure consistency with the assessment of EPS targets, when assessing performance, the base year ROCE 5.2% will be restated on a constant currency basis.
The 2016 17 adjusted operating profit will be restated at the effective foreign exchange rate for 2019 20 and the March 2017 Capital Employed will be restated at closing balance sheet rates as at March 2020.
In order to provide transparency for each LTIP award, the Committee will disclose sufficient information to reconcile performance against the ROCE target range at the beginning and the end of the performance period.
At the beginning of the performance period for awards made in 2017 1 April 2017, LTIP Road ROCE was 5.2%.
This was calculated as follows: Reported ROCE 2016 17 7.3% Remove Rail earnings and capital employed balances 1.6 % Remove pension balances 0.5 % LTIP Road ROCE 2017 scheme basis 5.2% The Committee believes that this method of calculation results in a ROCE definition that will ensure management are rewarded for improving the effective allocation of capital across the business and then generating a return from this investment.
The ROCE target range has been set such that no vesting will occur unless the 2019 20 ROCE exceeds the ROCE outturn for 2016 17 the base year ROCE by 10 basis points bps.
Maximum vesting will occur if the 2019 20 ROCE is 150 bps or more above the base year.
86 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Details of the ROCE targets for the 2017 LTIP are set out below: ROCE % of award 1 Growth from end of 2016 17 which vests 10 bps 0% 10 bps 4% 150 bps 20% 1 Between threshold 10 bps and maximum 150 bps, vesting will be on a straight-line basis.
Relative TSR Total Shareholding Return The relative nature of the metric, with TSR measured against a comparator group of 31 companies, creates an objective measure of long term value delivery to shareholders and rewards executives for delivering performance which is better than that of competitors.
Relative TSR will be determined over a three-year performance period commencing on 1 April 2017 using a three-month average TSR at the beginning and end of the performance period by reference to the Companys positioning amongst a comparator group of companies.
The Committee believes that relative TSR is a suitable value metric, which takes into account performance of the Companys closest peers.
Details of the TSR targets for the 2017 LTIP are set out below: % of award 1 TSR Ranking which vests Below median 0% Median 8% Upper quartile 40% 1 Between median and the upper quartile of the peer group, vesting will be on a straight-line basis.
The comparator group for the benchmarking of remuneration and the relative TSR metric for awards granted in 2017 comprises: Aggreko easyJet Hays SIG Babcock International Group Electrocomponents Interserve Smith DS Balfour Beatty Ferguson formerly Wolseley IWG Stagecoach Group Bunzl G4S Kier Group Thomas Cook Group Capita Galliford Try Mitie Group Travis Perkins Carillion GKN National Express Wizz Air Holdings Carnival Go-Ahead Group Rentokil Initial Wood Group John DCC Grafton Group Serco Group The changes to the comparator group are the removal of WS Atkins and Amec Foster Wheeler, following their takeovers, and the addition of WizzAir Holdings.
The comparator group comprises companies in the travel, business services and industrial sectors, which are of comparable scale, complexity and activity to the Company.
In the event of one or more of the constituents undergoing a takeover, merger, dissolution, variation in capital or any other event that will materially affect the calculation of a ranking, the Committee shall determine how this should be reflected in the ranking calculation.
On this basis, awards were granted to Executive Directors on 24 November 2017 as follows: Share price Face value Number % of award at date % of base of shares Face value which vests Performance 1 Executive Director of grant salary awarded of award at threshold period Tim OToole 104.7 pence 120 969,197 1,014,750 20% 1.4.
20 1 Awards granted using the average five-day closing mid-market share price at the time of grant.
The award granted to Tim OToole, Chief Executive, is structured as a conditional award under which, following vesting, the shares are transferred to the participant for nil payment.
The award granted to Matthew Gregory, CFO, is structured as a nil-cost option, which may be exercised for up to 12 months following vesting.
Both awards are subject to clawback and malus, and a two-year post-vesting holding period, as per the rules of the LTIP.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Directors remuneration report continued 2018 Long-Term Incentive Awards It is the Committees intention to make awards under the LTIP this year and it is anticipated that the approach to be adopted regarding metrics will be similar to that of the 2017 LTIP, that is, 20% Road ROCE, 40% EPS and 40% relative TSR.
In view of the overall results for the year, the Committee is taking some additional time to review the calibration of the targets, which will be no less demanding than those set for the 2017 LTIP.
Directors interests in share awards audited The outstanding LTIP, deferred share bonus and SAYE awards of Directors are set out in the table below.
There have been no changes to the terms of any share awards granted to Directors.
Date on which 3 Number Awards Number award of awards Face value lapsed of awards vests Date of held as at Awards of awards Awards during held as at Exercise becomes Expiry 1 2 Director Plan grant 1.4.
18 price p exercisable date 3 Tim OToole Deferred sharebonus 10.6.
21 1 The face value in the table above has been calculated by multiplying the maximum number of shares that could vest or under option in the case of SAYE by the closing share price on the date of grant.
2 An award vests on the date the Committee determines whether performance conditions have been met, or if on that date dealing restrictions apply, the first date after dealing restrictions cease to apply.
3 The table above shows the maximum number of shares that could be released if awards were to vest in full.
Participants are entitled to receive dividends or dividend equivalent amounts once the share awards have vested.
4 In light of the tram incident in Croydon in November 2016, and the ongoing investigations, the Committee had decided that it would not be appropriate to award a bonus either in cash or award the deferred share element to Tim OToole in the usual way.
Tim was not awarded a bonus for the financial year 2016 17.
Instead, the Committee determined that a conditional award of deferred shares be made, equivalent in value to the bonus of 723,415 that Tim would have received based on achievement against the performance measures and targets agreed at the start of the 2016 17 financial year.
The Committee will determine at its discretion in 2020the extent if at all to which the award will vest based on the outcomes and or status of the various investigations.
5 Awards made to Tim OToole and Matthew Gregory under the EABP and LTIP are subject to clawback and malus provisions, in line with best practice and .
88 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Shareholding guidelines audited Under the terms of the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM, Executive Directors are required to build up a specified shareholding in the Company.
This is to create greater alignment of the Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
The guidelines require Executive Directors to retain at least 75% of the shares, net of tax, vesting under a Group share incentive plan or otherwise acquire shares in the Company within a five-year period from their date of appointment or 16 July 2015, whichever is later, until a shareholding with a market value calculated by reference to the year end share price equal to 200% of base salary in the case of the Chief Executive and 150% of base salary in the case of other Executive Directors is achieved.
The Committee reserves the right to relax or waive the application of such guidelines in certain circumstances, including the impending retirement of an Executive Director.
The table below sets out the Executive Directors and their connected persons shareholdings including beneficial interests and a summary of outstanding and unvested share awards as at 31 March 2018.
Unvested Ordinary Ordinary deferred share Unvested shares shares bonus awards LTIP awards Shareholding Current beneficially beneficially subject to subject to Vested but requirement shareholding owned at owned at continued performance not exercised % of basic % of basic 2 Executive Director 1.4.
2 Based on the middle market closing price of an ordinary share of the Company of 82.10 pence per share on 29 March 2018.
The range of the Companys share price for the year was 77 pence to 153 pence.
3 The percentage of basic salary shown in the table includes vested but unexercised awards.
If unvested deferred share bonus awards subject to continued employment were included in the calculation, Tim OTooles current shareholding as a percentage of basic salary would be 202% and Matthew Gregorys would be 104%.
4 Tim OToole acquired 24,776 shares between 1 April 2018 and the date of approval of this report as a result of his standing instruction to allocate part of his salary to acquire shares in the Company.
Since August 2011, Tim OToole has allocated part of his monthly gross base salary to acquire shares in the Company.
From August 2011 until May 2015 the monthly allocation was 10,000, rising to 15,000 from June 2015 to October 2017 and then again to 25,000 from November 2017 onwards.
Shares are purchased from the post-tax and post-National Insurance NI amount.
All-Employee share schemes Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys Save As You Earn SAYE and Share Incentive Plan, known as Buy As You Earn BAYE on the same terms as other eligible employees.
SAYE The maximum participation level in the SAYE plan is 500 per calendar month as per HMRC limits with participants granted linked share options, by reference to projected savings, with a 20% discount to the prevailing share price at the time of grant.
In line with HMRC requirements, on the maturity of the savings contracts, participants can elect to use the accumulated savings to exercise their options or request the return of their savings.
BAYE The maximum participation level in the BAYE is 150 per month, as per HMRC limits.
The Company provides two Matching Shares for every three Partnership Shares, subject to a maximum Company contribution of shares to the value of 30 a month.
The shares are held in trust and become available for release with no tax or NI liability once held for five years.
The Matching Shares will be forfeited if the corresponding Partnership Shares are removed from the trust within three years from award.
In accordance with the applicable legislation, shares that remain subject to the plan are held on behalf of participants in a UK-based trust.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Directors remuneration report continued Dilution The Company ensures that the level of shares granted under the Companys share plans and the means of satisfying such awards remains withinbest practice guidelines so that dilution from employee share awards does not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital for all share plans and 5% in respect of executive share plans in any ten-year rolling period.
The Committee monitors dilution levels at least once a year.
At 31 March 2018, less than 1% of the Companys issued share capital had been issued for the purpose of its share incentive plans over a ten-year period.
Employee Benefit Trust EBT The FirstGroup EBT has been established to acquire ordinary shares in the Company, by subscription or purchase, from funds provided by the Group to satisfy rights to shares arising on the exercise or vesting of awards under the Groups share-based incentive plans.
The trustee of the FirstGroup EBT has informed the Company that its intention is to abstain from voting in respect of the FirstGroup shares held in the trust.
As at 31March 2018, 7,464,219 shares were held by the EBT to hedge outstanding awards of 27,103,816.
This means that the EBT holds sufficient shares to satisfy 27.54% of outstanding awards.
Performance graphs The graph below shows the TSR performance of 100 invested in FirstGroup plc shares over the past nine years compared to an equivalent investment in the FTSE 250 and in our comparator group.
The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as it provides an established and broad-based index, of which the Company is a constituent.
Total shareholder return 500 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 03 09 31 03 10 31 03 11 31 03 12 31 03 13 31 03 14 31 03 15 31 03 16 31 03 17 31 03 18 FirstGroup plc FTSE 250 Index Total shareholder return Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream TSR is measured according to a return index calculated by Datastream on the basis that all the Companys dividends are reinvested in the Companys shares.
The return is the percentage increase in the Companys index over the nine-year period.
Remuneration of the Chief Executive The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the highest paid Executive Director, the Chief Executive, during each of the past nine years.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and LTIP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The annual bonus percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum.
From 1 November 2010 to 31 March 2011, Tim OToole received a remuneration of 357,000.
2 Relates to the remuneration of Tim OToole who was appointed Chief Executive in November 2010.
3 Tim OToole waived his bonus in 2012 and 2013.
4 A bonus was not paid to Tim OToole in 2017 and instead he received a conditional deferred share award.
90 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Percentage change in remuneration levels The table below shows the movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive between the current and previous financial year compared to that for the average UK employee First Bus and First Rail, but excluding Group.
The Committee has chosen this comparator as it feels that it provides a more appropriate reflection of the earnings of the average worker than the movement in the Groups total wage bill, which is distorted by movements in the number of employees and variations in wage practices in the US.
However, the Committee will re-assess the comparator in 2018 19 to ensure it remains appropriate.
For the benefits and bonus per employee, the figures are based on those employees eligible to participate in such schemes.
Base salary Benefits Annual bonus 1 2 Chief Executive 0% 2.3 % 0% 3 4 UK employees 2.89% 6.86% 4.95 % 1 The decrease in benefits is due to the impact of the change in exchange rates on the Chief Executives US medical insurance costs.
2 The Chief Executive did not receive a bonus for 2017 18.
3 Pay increases for the majority of UK employees in First Bus and First Rail are collectively bargained with trade unions in individual operating companies in First Bus and First Rail.
Some of these agreements are multi-year deals.
Typical increases for 2017 18 were in the range 1-3%.
4 This reflects the lower level of discretionary bonuses paid in some of our UK businesses in 2017 18 to the average UK employee compared to the previous year.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the Companys expenditure on pay in comparison to adjusted operating profit and distributions to shareholders by way of dividend payments.
2018 m 2017 m % change 1 Adjusted operating profit 317 339 6.5 Distributions to shareholders 2 Total employee pay 3,162 2,945 7.4 1 Group adjusted operating profit has been used as a comparison as it is a key financial metric which the Board considers when assessing Company performance.
2 Total employee pay is the total pay for all Group employees, including pension and social security costs.
Wider pay and benefits environment In addition to competitive pay, FirstGroup offers a wide range of employee benefits to all employees regardless of role.
We are committed to helping our colleagues save for retirement through a variety of company pension arrangements and retirement plans, and a further key element of our employee engagement strategy is the opportunity to share in the growth and success of the business through our UK employee share plans.
Other benefits in the UK include discounted travel on our rail and bus services, and discounts on shopping, entertainment and eating out.
We also operate childcare voucher schemes across our UK businesses and our Employee Assistance programme offers all employees access to free, 24 7 confidential telephone, online and face to face advice for problems they may be experiencing at home or work.
Greyhound Canada and some of our larger UK businesses have their own dedicated in-house Occupational Health teams: our other businesses use external specialist advisers to support employees with health problems which may be affecting their performance at work.
In the US we offer a broad spectrum of health and welfare benefits to our employees and their families, including life insurance, health, dental and vision benefits for employees and their dependents.
We encourage early preparation for retirement through an attractive 401 k retirement savings plan, and we also provide disability plans for short and long term illness.
Employee and family wellbeing is a focus through our Route to Rewards wellness program, and throughout the year we encourage participation in wellness activities.
In Canada, we provide a range of company pension arrangements and retirement plans to support employees in saving for retirement.
Our employee benefits include life insurance, health and dental benefits, and disability coverage for employees and their dependents.
All our divisions run workplace health and wellbeing programmes to support employees to stay fit and healthy.
More information can be found in the Our People section on page 27.
Non-Executive Directors NED and Chairmans fees audited The Chairmans fee was reviewed and increased from 280,000 to 295,000 with effect from 1 December 2017.
This fee had not been increased since Wolfhart Hausers appointment as Chairman in 2015.
The increase was implemented to reflect the demands of the role and the time commitment required of the Chairman.
With Wolfhart Hauser now stepping up to the position of Executive Chairman, the Committee will be considering a temporary increase to his fees to reflect the additional time commitment and this will be disclosed in the normal manner in due course.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Directors remuneration report continued The NEDs fees, which include the Group Employee Director, were reviewed in August 2017 and increased from 55,000 to 58,000.
Theadditional fees for the Senior Independent Director and the Chair of the Board Safety Committee were also reviewed and increased from 10,000 to 12,000 to bring them in line with the additional fees for chairing the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The NEDs fees will not beincreased in 2018 19.
1 Fees Benefits Totals 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Non-Executive Director 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Wolfhart Hauser 285 280 285 280 Warwick Brady 58 54 58 54 2 Jimmy Groombridge 49 49 Drummond Hall 70 63 70 63 Martha Poulter 49 2 51 3 David Robbie 11 11 Imelda Walsh 70 65 70 65 Jim Winestock 70 64 5 2 75 66 1 The Company meets all reasonable travel, subsistence, accommodation and other expenses, including any tax where such expenses are deemed taxable, incurred by the NEDs and the Chairman in the course of performing their duties.
2 In addition to his fee as a Group Employee Director, Jimmy Groombridge received earnings from the Group as an employee amounting to 21,251.
As a participant in the BAYE he received 681 shares during the financial year.
Based on the middle market closing price of a share on 29 March 2018 of 82.10 pence, the value of these were 560.
3 David Robbie was appointed on 2 February 2018.
Former Non-Executive Directors 1 Richard Adam 64 6 64 6 1 Richard Adam resigned on 2 February 2018.
External board appointments Where Board approval is given for an Executive Director to accept an outside non-executive directorship, unless the appointment is in connection with the Group business, the individual Director is entitled to retain any fees received.
During the year, Tim OToole has not received any remuneration for serving as an Independent Non-Executive Director of Edison International and Southern California Edison, and as a board member of the US National Safety Council.
Payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office audited There have been no payments to past Directors and no payments for loss of office during 2017 18.
Non-Executive Directors interest in ordinary shares audited The beneficial interests of the Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons who held office at 31 March 2018 in the shares of the Company as at that date and 1 April 2017 are shown below.
Shares are held outright with no attaching performance conditions.
Jimmy Groombridge holds his shares in the FirstGroup Share Incentive Plan SIP trust.
Ordinary shares beneficially owned at Ordinary shares 1.4.
17 or date of beneficially owned at appointment, if later 31.3.
18 Wolfhart Hauser 284,558 284,558 Warwick Brady 108,701 108,701 1 Jimmy Groombridge 3,207 3,888 Drummond Hall 30,990 30,990 Imelda Walsh 19,429 19,429 Jim Winestock 64,743 64,743 3 Martha Poulter 60,000 3 David Robbie 30,000 1 Jimmy Groombridge participates in the Companys BAYE scheme.
His shares are held in the SIP trust.
As explained on page 89, if the Partnership Shares were removed from the SIP trust within three years, the corresponding Matching Shares would be forfeited.
Jimmy Groombridge acquired 343 shares between 1 April 2018 and the date of approval of this report.
2 Martha Poulter was appointed to the Board on 26 May 2018.
3 David Robbie was appointed to the Board on 2 February 2018.
92 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Non-Executive Directors dates of appointment Non-Executive Directors have an agreement for service for an initial three-year term, which can be terminated by either party giving three monthsnotice.
In line with the Code, all Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are subject to annual re-election by shareholders ateach AGM.
The table below sets out the appointment dates for those Non-Executive Directors who served during the year ending 31March2018.
They will all, except for Richard Adam who stepped down on 2 February 2018, put themselves forward for election or re-electionat the AGM, on 17 July 2018.
Non-Executive Director Date of appointment Wolfhart Hauser 19 May 2015 Richard Adam 24 February 2017 Warwick Brady 24 June 2014 Jimmy Groombridge 26 May 2017 Drummond Hall 24 June 2014 Martha Poulter 26 May 2017 David Robbie 2 February 2018 Imelda Walsh 24 June 2014 Jim Winestock 1 August 2012 Role of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is primarily responsible for determining and recommending to the Board the framework for executive remuneration and for determining, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration of Executive Directors and senior managers.
The Committees full terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committees principal responsibilities are summarisedbelow: determining and agreeing with the Board the framework for executive remuneration that ensures Executive Directors and senior managers areprovided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are rewarded in a fair and responsible manner for their individual contribution towards the success of the Company ensuring that the remuneration policy is appropriate and consistent with effective risk management within the agreed framework, setting and determining the total individual remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors and senior managers, giving due regard to individual and Company performance, and remuneration trends across the Group approving the design of, and determining the targets for, any performance-related plans and the total annual payments made under such plansto Executive Directors and senior managers determining the terms of employment and remuneration of each Executive Director and senior executives, including recruitment and  Membership The current members of the Committee, who are all independent Non-Executive Directors, are: Imelda Walsh, Chair: Drummond Hall, theSeniorIndependent Director, and David Robbie, who joined the Committee in March 2018.
Other attendees at the Committee meetings include the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the CFO, the Group Employee Director, the Group Corporate Services Director, the Group HR Director, the Group Head of Reward and PwC, the Committees external adviser.
The General Counsel & Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
Attendees are not involved in any decisions, and are not present for any discussions, regarding their own remuneration.
After each meeting, the Chair of the Committee presents a report on its activities to the Board.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Directors remuneration report continued Committee activities In line with its remit, amongst other matters, the Committee took the following actions during the year: assessed the level of achievement against objectives under the EABP and LTIP reviewed the metrics, definitions, weightings and targets of the EABP and LTIP confirmed that the LTIP awards granted in 2014 would vest at 16.3% based on EPS performance approved individual remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors and senior managers approved the granting of awards under the EABP, LTIP and Executive Share Plan reviewed and approved the Directors Remuneration Report and changes to the Remuneration Policy discussed current trends in remuneration practice and corporate governance, including shareholders representatives guidelines and policies reviewed its terms of reference reviewed the performance of its advisers and that of the Committee External adviser The Committee has authority to obtain the advice of external independent remuneration consultants.
It is solely responsible for their appointment, retention and termination and for approval of the basis of their fees and other terms.
Over the course of the year, the Committee was supported byPwC, who were appointed by the Committee in 2014.
The Chair of the Committee agrees the protocols under which PwC provides advice.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
During the year, PwC provided independent advice and commentary on a range of topics including Directors remuneration reporting, discretionary share plans, corporate governance and executive remuneration trends and shareholders consultation.
PwC fees for advice provided to the Committee were 67,950 2017: 32,200, charged on a time-and-materials basis.
PwC also provided general consultancy services to FirstGroup during the year: however, the Committee is satisfied that this does not compromise the independence and objectivity of the advice it has received from PwC, which has no other connection with the Company.
Imelda Walsh Chair, Remuneration Committee 31 May 2018 94 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2018
