Corporate governance Directors remuneration policy The Remuneration Policy, as set out in this section, applies to the roles of Chairman, Executive Director and Non-Executive Director.
The Board believes the Remuneration Policy is appropriate to support the long-term success of the Company whilst ensuring itdoes not promote inappropriate risk taking.
If approved by the shareholders in a binding vote at the 2019 AGM in June, the Remuneration Policy will apply for a maximum ofthree years from the AGM.
Executive Directors remuneration The Remuneration Policy is designed to offer competitive but not excessive remuneration structured so that there is a significant weighting towards long-term variable pay elements.
Reflecting this, the Executive Directors do not participate in an annual discretionary cash bonus plan.
The salary of the Executives is purposefully set at the lower end of market practice for UK companies of a similar size.
The table below provides a full summary of the Remuneration Policy elements for Executive Directors.
Samir Desai has confirmed that he will waive any entitlement to variable remuneration under the LTIP in respect of the 2019 award cycle.
Element of remuneration Key features Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Performance measures Salary Reviewed annually in March.
Supports the attraction No prescribed maximum salary n a and retention of the level or salary increases.
Salaries take account of best talent.
external market and the Account will be taken of increases overall employee context.
applied to employees as a whole when determining salary increases.
Committee retains the discretion to award higher increases where it considers it appropriate, especially where salary at outset has been set at a relatively low level.
Market competitive The value of benefits is not n a Allowances Executive Directors are and cost effective capped as it is determined by and benefits entitled to the following benefits provide thecost to the Company, which benefits: reassurance and risk may vary.
- life assurance: and mitigation and support - private medical retention of talent.
The Committee may determine that Executive Directors should receive additional reasonable benefits if appropriate, taking into account typical market practice and practice throughout the Group.
Pension Directors are entitled To provide retirement Maximum contribution in line with n a toreceive employer benefits for Executives.
contribution to other employees in contributions to the the Group, currently 2% of salary, Funding Circle Ltd defined increasing to 3% in April 2019. contribution pension plan although the CEO has waived his right to receive this contribution as set out below.
Bonus Executive Directors do not Our policy is to place n a n a currently participate in a greater emphasis on discretionary annual cash long-term variable pay bonus plan and Funding elements.
Incentives Circle does not have an are awarded under all-employee discretionary theLTIP.
67 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Directors remuneration policy continued Executive Directors remuneration continued Element of remuneration Key features Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Performance measures LTIP Executive Directors are Rewards long-term Derived from the median of Annual revenue granted awards under the sustainable performance, maximum total direct compensation growth and average LTIP described in more in line with Funding for FTSE 250 companies other annual EPS over detail below.
than the top 50 companies to three years.
Vesting ensure peer size is relevant.
governed by Awards may be made as Focuses executives on For2019, these awards would be performance on both conditional share awards delivering outstanding 1.98million for the CEO and measures using ornil-cost options as value creation for 1.12million for the CFO.
Vesting on basis of a Awards will be performance single measure can shares with a three-year occur at performance performance period.
above Threshold on one measure.
Following the end of the performance period and on No awards will vest termination of employment, unless the share shares will be subject to a price at the end of the holding period of two years.
performance period also exceeds the IPO The Executives may, at the price of 440 pence.
discretion of the Committee, receive dividend equivalents The Committee on vested shares.
retains certain discretions, in line The Committee may with market practice, adjust and amend awards in relation to the in accordance with the operation and LTIPrules.
administration of the Malus and clawback may plan as further be applied in exceptional described below.
Shareholding Executive Directors are Supports our Minimum shareholding n a requirement expected to build and ownership mentality requirement, to be satisfied within maintain a holding of focus, promotes five years of appointment, of no shares in the Company.
stewardship and helps less than 200% of salary for all align management Executive Directors.
If any Executive with shareholders.
Director does not meet the requirement, they will be expected to retain all of the net of tax number of shares vesting under any of the Companys discretionary share incentive arrangements until the requirement is met.
LTIP performance measure selection and target calibration Long-term incentive plan The Committee believes that using a combination of revenue Plan operation growth and EPS performance, together with an underpin of Beginning in 2019, Funding Circles policy will be to make LTIP the IPO share price, to govern the vesting of Funding Circles Awards toitsExecutive Directors.
These awards are designed LTIP is the best way to balance our performance objectives to incentivise Executive Directors over the longer term, and to and align our incentives with the Companys strategic priorities.
deliver performance-related pay, with a clear line of sight for These measures have been selected over the inclusion of total executives and direct alignment with shareholders interests.
shareholder returns to ensure that the Executives focus on thetwo key areas of performance that we believe will drive Awards under the LTIP will be nil-cost options with a three-year shareholder value.
Vesting of LTIP Awards is subject to the performance period.
After the performance period has ended, achievement of stretching goals over a three-year vesting awards will be subject to a two-year holding period, as is consistent period.
Goals for vesting of awards have been set using with common market practice.
Vesting will be contingent upon several sources, including internal plans, IPO guidance and performance against the chosen measures: revenue growth analysts' expectations and each measure is independent of and earnings per share EPS.
the other, weighted revenue growth: EPS 55:45.
The table below shows how the two measures will be applied together, in a simple vesting matrix arrangement.
68 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance LTIP payout matrix Performance level % of award vesting Revenue growth At and above Per annum over three years Stretch 55% 66.3% 77.5% 100% 50% based off 2018 At and above On target 27.5% 38.8% 50% 72.5% 40% At and above Threshold 13.8% 25% 36.3% 58.8% 30% Below Below 30% 11.3% 22.5% 45% Threshold Notes: Threshold On target Stretch Below For performance outcomes between these points, vesting will Threshold Above 1.1p Positive Above 1.6p bedetermined on a straight-line interpolation basis.
Earnings per share for the year 2021 There will be no vesting if performance on both measures is below Threshold.
There will be no vesting unless the share price atthe end of the performance period also exceeds the IPO price of440 pence.
Why are the measures used in a matrix arrangement?
The matrix reflects the natural and beneficial tension between growth and returns, and is a simple, flexible yet effective way ofmaking the appropriate tradeoffs inherent in our growth strategy.
Executives must achieve an appropriate balance between both growth and delivery of earnings in order to earn their vested awards, and those awards will in turn be worth more as underlying performance and growth drive shareholder value.
If performance on a single measure is above Threshold, while theother is not, vesting is restricted and applies to the former only.
How have Threshold, On-Target and Stretch goals been calibrated?
The Committee has set challenging performance goals for the various levels of vesting after careful consideration of relevant reference points including analyst expectations, IPO guidance and internal projections.
The table below lists the specific reference points and rationales that were used to set each performance goal: Measure Performance Level Reference points Rationale used Revenue Growth 50% Stretch Analyst consensus plus c. 10% points CAGR% over 3 years 40% On target Analyst consensus average 30% Threshold Analyst consensus less c. 10% points Earnings per Share Above 1.6p Stretch Above derived analyst range Annual average, 2021 Positive On target Consistent with target of profitability over growth focus Above 1.1p Threshold Lower end of derived analyst range We gave detailed consideration to analyst expectations, The Committee believes that the performance range between referring to the latest available forecasts as at December 2018.
Threshold and Stretch around the on-target goal, guided by Using 2018 as the base year for growth, consensus projections analyst estimates, is appropriate, challenging and robust given for 2021 guided the setting of the on-target goal for Revenue a range of market conditions.
Setting the on-target goal according to average analyst Funding Circles EPS goals were calibrated in a similar way expectations signals to all that expected incentives will be tothe approach adopted for our revenue goals.
We used paid for delivering expected performance.
We believe this analyst estimates and forward forecasts, although analyst isfair.
models for forecasting EPS lack some detail.
"Specifically, However, there is no doubt the revenue growth objectives are theon-target goal of ""Positive EPS"" is consistent with the exciting but remain challenging."
"Achieving the analyst consensus ""Growth strategy""."
EPS goals have been set after accounting revenue growth merely triggers a Target, not a Maximum for expected annual dilution.
The Stretch or Maximum target which would trigger a 100% vesting is higher again.
Maximum is c. 10% points above average Consensus and Threshold the point at which any vesting occurs at all is c. 10% points below the average Consensus.
69 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Directors remuneration policy continued Long-term incentive plan continued Legacy Arrangements How has the impact of new accounting standards Executive Directors may be eligible to receive relevant specifically IFRS 16 been reflected?
payments from any award made prior to the approval of the Remuneration Policy such as the vesting of share awards Funding Circle will adopt IFRS 16 in 2019, which will result in made prior to the IPO or prior to the appointment of an restated financial figures.
This is expected to have minimal individual to the Board.
Details of any such payments will be impact on revenue and EPS so the proposed goals do not set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
However, it is possible that future accounting For example, as further explained in note 4 to the single total standard changes may have a larger impact, and the scheme figure of remuneration table on page 74 of this Report, the rules allow for retrospective adjustments to LTIP targets in Executive Directors were awarded unapproved share options this circumstance.
in June 2018 the Pre IPO Exec Grants which continue to How the matrix works for LTIP payouts vest following the IPO.
The vesting of LTIP Awards in three years time will be based on the matrix shown above.
By way of illustration, if Target Malus and clawback policy positive EPS is achieved at the same time that revenues All LTIP awards and the Pre IPO Exec Grants are subject to grow 40% annually, 50% of the shares vest.
This reflects the malus and clawback provisions.
In certain circumstances underlying difficulty of achieving these two challenging goals theBoard may at any time prior to the fifth anniversary of the simultaneously.
If, instead, EPS is only -1.1 pence and grant date of an LTIP Award reduce the LTIP Award to zero revenue growth is no better than 30% the threshold level of ifappropriate or impose additional conditions on the LTIP performance required for any awards to vest during this Award to the extent that cash and or Shares have not yet been three-year period then a 13.8% payout will be awarded.
delivered in satisfaction of the LTIP Award: or if cash and or Shares have been delivered in satisfaction of the LTIP Award, As EPS and revenue growth achievements vary, so does vesting, require that the participant either returns some or all of the Shares as reflected in the matrix.
If we have achieved our stretch EPS acquired pursuant to the LTIP Award or make a cash payment goal 1.6 pence, for example, then improved revenue growth to the Company in respect of the cash or Shares delivered.
increases vesting from 58.8% Threshold revenue growth to72.5% Target revenue growth, and eventually to100% The Board will retain the discretion to calculate the amount Stretch revenue growth.
This demonstrates the importance subject to recovery, including whether or not to claw back of growth to us over this three-year period.
such amount gross or net of any tax or social security contributions applicable to the LTIP Award.
In turn, if the EPS is at Threshold above -1.1 pence, then improvements in revenue growth will increase the vesting from The Board may invoke these malus and clawback provisions 25% Threshold revenue growth to 38.8% Target revenue where, during the period beginning on the grant date or, where growth, and eventually to 66.3% Stretch revenue growth.
an LTIP Award is subject to a performance condition, at the This again underlines the importance of growth to us over start of the performance period and ending on the fifth thisthree-year period.
anniversary of the grant date, there has been: The maximum payout of 100% vesting will only occur if both the - a material misstatement of the audited accounts of a revenue growth and EPS stretch goals are met.
The maximum member of the Group: LTIP grant cannot exceed the median of the maximum total - an error in assessing a performance condition applicable direct compensation of our tailored peer group used for toan LTIP Award or in the information or assumptions on market benchmarking purposes less base pay.
which the LTIP Award was granted, vests or is released: Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy - a material failure of risk management in any member of the CEO 2.18m Group or a relevant business unit: - serious reputational damage to any member of the Group ora relevant business unit: or 1.19m 1.98m - serious misconduct or material error on the part of theparticipant.
0.99m 0.2m 0.2m 0.2m 0.2m Minimum Target Maximum CFO 1.42m 0.86m 1.12m 0.56m 0.3m 0.3m 0.3m 0.3m Minimum Target Maximum Variable Fixed 70 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance If a participant dies, unless the Committee decides otherwise, Discretions reserved in operating incentive plans their LTIP Award will vest and be released as soon as The Committee will operate the LTIP in accordance with its reasonably practicable after the date of death taking into rules and the above Remuneration Policy table.
The Committee account any applicable performance conditions measured up retains certain discretions, consistent with market practice, in to that point and, unless the Committee decides otherwise, relation to the operation and administration of the plan including: the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed.
- the determination of performance measures and targets LTIP Options may normally be exercised to the extent vested and resultant vesting and payout levels: for a period of six months after release or 12 months after - the ability to amend or substitute a performance condition if death or such other period as the Committee may determine.
one or more events occur which cause the Committee to Vested LTIP Awards: If a participant ceases Group reasonably consider that an amended or substituted Employment during the holding period of a vested LTIP Award, performance condition would be more appropriate and their LTIP Award will normally be released at the end of the would not be materially less difficult to satisfy than holding period, unless the Committee determines that it originally intended: should be released as soon as reasonably practicable after - the determination of the treatment of individuals who leave thecessation of Group Employment.
However if the participant employment, based on the rules of the LTIP, and the treatment is dismissed as a result of gross misconduct, the vested LTIP of the awards on exceptional events, such as a change of Award will lapse.
If a participant dies during the holding period, control of the Company: and their LTIP Award will be released as soon as reasonably practicable after the date of death.
- the ability to make adjustments to existing awards in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues or corporate restructurings.
Where LTIP Options have already vested and been released on the date of cessation of Group Employment, those LTIP Options Executive Directors service contracts may normally be exercised for a period of six months from the The CEO entered into a new service contract in September 2018. date of cessation.
If a participant dies, a vested LTIP Option The CFO entered into his service contract in July 2017 and may normally be exercised until the first anniversary of the death.
thiscontract did not change on IPO.
The Executive Directors Pre-IPO Awards: All pre-IPO awards lapse in the event of dismissal contracts are terminable by either the employer or the individual for cause or other disciplinary reasons as determined by the on 12 months notice for the CEO and six months notice for discretion of the Committee.
Subject to this, unvested pre-IPO the CFO.
awards lapse unless the Committee exercises its discretion to Executive Directors are eligible to receive a contribution to permit exercise on terms it determines.
Vested pre-IPO awards theFunding Circle Ltd defined contribution pension scheme.
may be exercised at any time until the tenth anniversary of the Currently, contributions are set to 2% of base salary per annum date of grant.
in line with the contribution made to other Funding Circle An Executive Directors employment may be terminated by employees.
The CEO has waived his right to any pension payment in lieu of notice, equal to the basic salary that would contribution.
Executive Directors also receive private healthcare have been payable.
The employer may in its discretion determine and life assurance.
Executive Directors are also entitled to that the payment in lieu will be paid in monthly instalments reimbursement of all travelling, hotel, entertainment and over the notice period and subject to reduction if the Executive otherexpenses incurred in the proper performance of their Director receives income from an alternative employment or respective duties.
Discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice will not be exercised if notice of termination of the CEOs employment Cessation of Employment is given or received in circumstances where he is determined Unvested LTIP Awards: Ordinarily unvested LTIP Awards will to be a good leaver under the Companys employee share plans.
lapse upon a participant ceasing to be employed by or hold office with the Group Group Employment.
Unless the participant is dismissed for cause, the Committee will have the discretion to allow any unvested LTIP Award to continue until the date when it would have normally have been released if the participant had not ceased Group Employment.
The Committee retains discretion, however, to allow the LTIP Award to vest and be released earlier when the participant ceases Group Employment, or some other time.
The extent ifat all to which an LTIP Award vests in these circumstances will be determined by the Committee, taking into account the satisfaction of the performance conditions applicable to the LTIP Award measured over the original performance period or to such earlier point, if the LTIP Award is to be released atan earlier date and such other factors as the Committee consider relevant and, unless the Committee decides otherwise, the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed on cessation of Group Employment.
71 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Directors remuneration policy continued For an internal appointment, any legacy arrangements will Change of Control Policy either continue on their original terms or be adjusted to reflect In the event of a change of control of the Company, LTIP Awards the new appointment, as appropriate.
will vest and be released early.
The proportion of any unvested LTIP Awards which vest will be determined by the Board, For external and internal appointments, the Committee may taking into account the extent to which performance conditions agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses have been satisfied at that time and such other factors as the as it considers appropriate in the year of appointment and for Board considers relevant and, unless the Board determines a further two years.
otherwise, the proportion of the performance period which For external candidates, it may be necessary to make has elapsed.
LTIP Options will normally be exercisable for one additional awards in connection with the recruitment to buy month following the change of control, after which time they out awards forfeited by the individual on leaving a previous will lapse.
Alternatively, the Board may permit LTIP Awards to employer if it considers the cost can be justified and it is in the be exchanged for equivalent awards of shares in a different best interests of the Company.
Buy out awards are not subject company including the acquiring company.
If the change of to a formal cap.
The Committee will seek to make buy outs control is an internal reorganisation of the Group or if the subject to what are, in its opinion, comparable requirements Board so decides, participants may be required to exchange interms of service and performance.
In respect of pre-IPO awards, the Company has agreed that Policy on external appointments additional protection will apply in the event of a termination of Executive Directors may hold external directorships and retain their employment or engagement in anticipation of, upon or any fees for such directorships if the Board determines that within 12 months following a change of control of the Company, such appointments do not cause anyconflict ofinterest.
where such termination is deemed to be connected with the change of control.
In those circumstances, the relevant individual Other considerations will be entitled to receive a cash payment or other form of Pay and employment conditions generally in the Group are taken award the replacement award which vests upon the into account when setting Executive Directors remuneration.
The value of the replacement award will be determined by reference to the portion of the The Committee receives regular updates on overall pay participants unvested pre-IPO awards that would have vested andconditions in the Group.
but for the change of control over the period of 24 months The Committee considers it is important for all employees to following the change of control or, if later, the 24 months have the opportunity to become shareholders in the Company following their termination.
The agreed provisions are subject and currently all employees are eligible to participate in the to the Companys discretion to determine that a greater LTIP.
Awards made to employees other than the Executive number of Shares subject to a pre-IPO award should vest Directors are not generally subject to performance conditions.
The Company did not consult with employees in preparing this Shareholding requirements Remuneration Report.
The Committee recognises the importance of aligning The Committee understands the importance of listening to the Executive Directors and shareholders interests through views of the Companys shareholders and takes account of the significant shareholdings in the group.
The Executive Directors guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views in determining are expected to build up a shareholding of equivalent value to the remuneration arrangements in operation within the Group.
All of the after-tax number of vested The Chair of the Committee consulted with the Companys LTIP shares vested under any of the Companys discretionary major shareholders during the development of the Policy set share incentive arrangements must be retained towards out above and in preparing this Remuneration Report.
satisfaction of this requirement, which is expected to be met within five years of its introduction subject to personal circumstances.
The extent to which the shareholding requirements have been met by the Executive Directors is detailed on page 75.
Recruitment policy The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment of high calibre executives to strengthen the management team and secure the skill sets necessary to deliver the Groups strategic aims.
While the Committee will seek to align a new Executive Directors remuneration package to the Companys Remuneration Policy as set out above, there will inevitably bedifferences particularly in relation to base pay for new Executives who are not already significant shareholders.
72 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration Non-Executive Directors remuneration Element of remuneration Key features Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Fees The fees paid to the Fees are set at a level to reflect n a Non-Executive Directors are the amount of time and level determined by the Board as of involvement required in awhole.
The Chairman and order to carry out their duties the Non-Executive Directors as members of the Board and are paid annual fees and do its Committees and to attract not participate in any of the and retain Non-Executive Companys post-IPO incentive Directors of the highest calibre arrangements or receive with relevant commercial and anypension provision or other experience.
Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Directors and for chairing the Audit Committee, Risk and Compliance Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Additional fees are also payable if a Non-Executive Director serves on multiple Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on termination of their appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors are entitled to reimbursement of reasonable expenses.
As an early stage private company, which did not pay Directors fees, the Company has historically granted options to certain Non-Executive Directors under the Companys pre-IPOshare option plan.
Although the options granted will continue to vest and be held by those Non-Executive Directors going forwards, no further options willbegranted to Non-Executive Directors under any of the Companys share option plans.
Cath Keers and Geeta Gopalan both received an additional fee on appointment as Director.
Cath Keers received a pre-admission fee of 100,000 in September andGeetaGopalan received a fee of 100,000 on joining the Board in November, in both cases to reflect additional work done in advance of their appointment.
It was a condition ofthisadditional fee that the post-tax amount be used to acquire shares in the Company.
Letters of appointment All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company.
The appointments of each of the Non-Executive Directors are for an initial term of three years from March 2018 for Cath Keers, November 2018 for Geeta Gopalan and September 2018 for all other Non-Executive Directors, unless terminated earlier by either party onone months notice.
The appointment of each Non-Executive Director is also subject to re-election when appropriate by the Company in general meeting.
Recruitment policy In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will use the policy set out in the table above.
73 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued This part of the report sets out how the Remuneration Policy has been applied since the IPO and how the Committee intends to apply the Remuneration Policy going forward.
An advisory shareholder resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the AGM.
We also give details about the Directors share interests and some further details about the Committee.
Single total figure of remuneration audited The following tables set out the aggregate emoluments earned by the Directors in the years ended 31 December 2018 and2017respectively.
Salary Long-term 1 3 4 and fees Taxable benefits Bonus Pensions incentives Total 2018 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Samir Desai 210 1 3,870 4,081 Sean Glithero 300 5 777 1,082 Non-Executive Directors Andrew Learoyd 50 50 Ed Wray 16 16 Eric Daniels 16 20 36 Bob Steel 16 16 2, 6 Cath Keers 154 2 156 2, 7 Geeta Gopalan 111 111 5 Hendrik Nelis 5 Neil Rimer 1.
F or Executive Directors, benefits correspond to the taxable value of benefits received during the relevant financial year and principally include private medical cover and life assurance cover.
Taxable benefits for Non-Executive Directors relate to reimbursement of travel to the workplace.
Certain Non-Executive Directors expenses have been classified as taxable benefits.
In such cases, the Company will ensure that the Director is kept whole by settling the expense and any related tax.
The figures shown include thecost of the taxable benefit plus the related tax charge.
C ath Keers received a pre-admission fee of 100,000 in September and Geeta Gopalan received a fee of 100,000 on joining the Board in November, in both cases to reflect additional work done in advance of their appointment.
It was a condition of this additional fee that the post-tax amount be used to acquire shares in the Company.
Executive Directors are entitled to 2% of base salary as pension contribution.
The CEO has waived his right to the pension contribution.
"T he Executive Directors were awarded unapproved share options in June 2018 prior to IPO under the pre-IPO share plan ""Pre-IPO Exec Options""."
The Pre-IPO Exec Options are short-term incentives, having no performance conditions other than continued employment and vesting over a five-year period, with the first 25% vesting on 1 June 2020.
All of the options were unvested at 31 December 2018.
The number in the table above for the value of the Pre-IPO Exec Options is calculated on the basis of the fair market value on grant of 1.80.
In addition to the above, as set out in the table of Directors' vested and unvested share awards, on IPO the vested and unvested ESS and growth shares that were granted in previous years were converted into ordinary shares.
The unvested portion is held by the trustee of the Company's employee benefit trust and continues to vest on the same vesting dates as before.
Immediately prior to IPO, Samir Desai held 3,845,968 vested and 2,237,532 unvested shares and Sean Glithero held 216,763 vested and 650,290 unvested shares.
The offer price at IPO was 4.40.
Hendrik Nelis and Neil Rimer, who are not independent Non-Executives, have waived their entitlement to a fee.
74 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance Salary Long-term 1 2 and fees Taxable benefits Bonus Pensions incentives Total 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Samir Desai 202 2 204 Sean Glithero 75 1 76 3 Non-Executive Directors Andrew Learoyd Ed Wray Eric Daniels Bob Steel Hendrik Nelis Neil Rimer 1.
Taxable benefits for Non-Executive Directors relate to reimbursement of travel to workplace.
Executive Directors were entitled to 1% of base salary as pension contribution.
No Non-Executive Directors were paid a fee in 2017.
Awards granted to the Executive Directors prior to the IPO continued to vest over time but there were no long-term incentives awarded or eligible to vest in respect of performance for the financial periods to 31 December 2017 or 31 December 2018.
None of the Directors had a prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension plan.
Directors shareholding and share interests audited Table of Directors share interests as at 31 December 2018 Beneficially Vested Unvested 1,2 owned shares awards awards Total Executive Directors Samir Desai 14,207,345 4,044,813 18,252,158 Sean Glithero 162,573 1,082,140 1,244,713 Non-Executive Directors Andrew Learoyd 1,642,888 87,500 12,500 1,742,888 Ed Wray 1,543,538 658,900 12,500 2,214,938 Eric Daniels 324,610 58,594 383,204 Bob Steel 614,754 337,500 12,500 964,754 Cath Keers 12,045 12,045 Geeta Gopalan 13,216 13,216 Hendrik Nelis Neil Rimer 1.
I ncludes shares owned by connected persons.
This does not include shares held by Samir Desais father which were included in his stated shareholding for the purposes oftheCompanys prospectus in September 2018.
Vested growth and ESS shares are treated as legally owned shares.
The Companys share ownership requirements are that Executive Directors shall subject to personal circumstance build andmaintain a shareholding equivalent to at least 200% of salary over five years.
At the 2018 year end the CEO complied with thisrequirement.
The CFO was appointed to the Board on 28 November 2017 and currently holds vested shares equal to 94% oftwo times salary, calculated on 19 February 2019 when the share price was 3.48.
Unvested awards are not taken into account.
Theshares are subject to a lock up arrangement which expires on close of business 3 October 2019.
75 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued Table of Directors vested and unvested share awards audited No.
Historically there have been two different types of awards granted to Executive Directors: conditional shares referred to in the table above as ESS and Growth and unapproved options referred to in the table above as Unapproved.
Other than in certain circumstances as set out on page 72 e. g. on termination of employment or change of control, unapproved options can be exercised during a period of 10 years from the date of grant.
T he conditional shares ESS and Growth were not exercised but converted to ordinary shares on IPO as explained on page 74 and were sold.
76 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance Table of Directors vested and unvested share awards audited No.
77 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Annual report on remuneration continued Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office during the year.
Payments to former Directors There were no payments made to former Directors during the year.
Performance graph and CEO remuneration table The chart below illustrates the Companys TSR performance compared with that of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment companies, which Funding Circle became a constituent of on 24 December 2018.
The graph shows the value of 100 invested inFunding Circle at the IPO offer price of 4.40 per share on 3 October 2018 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment companies.
120 100 80 60 40 20 0 03.10.2018 31.12.2018 Funding Circle Holdings plc FTSE 250 constituents excluding investment companies The table below sets out the CEOs single figure of total remuneration.
P rior to IPO, share options awarded to the CEO did not have performance conditions and therefore the vested number of shares equals the maximum number of shares that could have been received.
The CEO received no bonus during the five-year period.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration compared with employees The table below shows the average increase in each component between the CEO and the average employee in the Company from 2017 to 2018.
Change in remuneration levels Average CEO employee Salary 4% 4% Benefits No bonus was paid to the CEO in 2017 or 2018.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out relative importance of spend on pay.
There have been no dividends paid to date.
Revenue and adjusted EBITDA have been presented as these are two key performance measures used by the Directors inassessing performance.
2018 2017 m m % change Revenue 141.9 94.5 50% Adjusted EBITDA 28.5 25.1 14% Employee costs see note 7 84.8 60.5 40% Average number of employees 954 719 33% 78 Funding Circle Holdings plc Corporate governance Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors following the IPO and for 2019 are as set out below: Chairman 200,000 Non-Executive Director base fee 55,000 Committee Chairman fees other than the Nomination Committee 10,000 Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 In addition to the above fees, Ed Wray receives 10,000 for his involvement on multiple Committees.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for the year ended 31 December 2019 The table below shows the salaries for the Executive Directors as at 1 January 2019 in comparison to base salary as at 1January 2018.
000 1 Jan 2019 1 Jan 2018 % change Samir Desai 210 202 4% Sean Glithero 300 300 The CFO will continue to receive a pension contribution currently equal to 2% of base salary.
This will increase to 3% of base salary from 6 April 2019 in line with contributions for other employees.
The CEO will continue to waive his right to thispension contribution.
Salaries for Executive Directors are reviewed each year taking into account the Remuneration Policy set out in this report.
LTIP performance measures are set to be stretching and achievable as further described on page 68.
2018 Non-Executive Director remuneration It has been determined that the Non-Executive Director fees will remain as set out in the table above.
External advisers During the year ended 31 December 2018, the Committee received advice from Pearl Meyer, who were appointed by the Committee in November 2018 following a review process.
Deloitte also provided advice on remuneration and benchmarking tothe Company in advance of the IPO.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received is independent and that the Pearl Meyer and Deloitte engagement partners and teams that have provided remuneration advice do not have connections withthe Company that might impair their independence.
The fees paid to Deloitte and Pearl Meyer in 2018 in relation to advice provided tothe Committee or to the Company in advance of the IPO were agreed by the Company in advance for specific projects and were 130,000 and 20,000 respectively.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 and the UKLAs Listing Rules.
