DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Our remuneration framework is aligned with the Groups strategicobjectives, by rewarding the creation of sustainable value, with particular focus on our customers, shareholders, people and values.
The committee consists entirely of independent non-executive directors.
Biographies of the members of the committee are set out on pages 74 and 75.
Following Clare Spottiswoodes retirement from the board in May 2018, Elisabeth Fleuriot joined the committee upon her appointment to the board in June.
Elisabeth is a welcome addition to the committee, bringing a wealth of international business experience.
Responsibilities JOHN DALY The Remuneration Committee is responsible for Remuneration Committee Chairman determining all elements of the remuneration of the executive directors, other members of the Group Committee membership during 2018 Executive Committee and the chairman of the board.
Member since It also agrees, with the board, the framework and May 2015 policy for the remuneration of other senior managers John Daly Chairman chair since May 2016 of the Group and reviews and recommends to the Winnie Fok January 2013 board the remuneration of the company secretary.
1 Clare Spottiswoode June 2010 From 2019, to comply with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, the committee will also be Barbara Thoralfsson July 2016 2 responsible for setting the remuneration of the Elisabeth Fleuriot June 2018 company secretary.
Clare Spottiswoode retired as a director on 15 May 2018.
In determining the executive remuneration policy, 2.
Elisabeth Feluriot joined the board and Remuneration Committee on 18 June 2018. the committee takes into account the Groups need There were three scheduled meetings held during the year ended to attract, retain and incentivise executive talent, 31December 2018. a variety of legal and regulatory requirements, the Members attendance at committee meetings is shown on page81.
relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Main activities of the Remuneration Code and the pay policies and practices throughout Committee during theyear % the Group.
The committee also determines the policy on the duration, notice period and termination payments under the members of the Group Executive Committee contracts, with a view to recognising service to the company whilst ensuring that failure is not rewarded and that the need to mitigate loss is recognised.
The committee approves the design and determines the measures and formulae for performance-related pay schemes operated by the company.
It approves Performance and incentives 30% the eligibility of executive directors and other Group Governance 35% Executive Committee members for annual bonuses Reporting 15% and awards under long-term incentive plans and Executives base pay Chairman fee 5% the methods for assessing performance against the Below board level 15% objectives of those plans.
Noindividual determines Links to strategic priorities their own remuneration.
The committees terms of reference are available on the companys website at g4s.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 105 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual bonus The annual bonus is determined by reference to the Groups financial performance, FIXED PAY together with individual performance against Base pay strategicobjectives.
Retirement benefits During 2018 the Group faced strong competition and Other benefits management maintained commercial discipline and increased profits and margins in the Groups largest SHORT-TERM INCENTIVES business segment, Secure Solutions.
However, this was partially offset by challenging market conditions Annual bonus plan one year with deferred in a number of Cash Solutions markets, which element three years weighed on the overall financial performance of the LONG-TERM INCENTIVES Group.
As a result, despite meeting a number of important strategic objectives, the executive directors Long-term incentive plan three years notified the Committee of their wish to waive their entitlement to a bonus for 2018.
The committee Our remuneration approach approved this recommendation from the executive We seek to attract and retain the best people whilst directors and consequently no bonus is payable in ensuring that the remuneration policy and practice respect of2018.
drive behaviours that are in the long-term interests of Long-term incentive plan LTIP In line with the company and its shareholders.
our commitment to ensure that our remuneration framework aligns with our strategy and promotes Business context and performance the long-term success of G4S, a significant part of The Group has two principal business segments: performance-related reward is delivered through Secure Solutions and Cash Solutions.
Over the past three years 2016 to 2018, In Secure Solutions, the Group delivered 3.1% the Group has delivered strong growth in underlying underlying revenue growth and improved Adjusted earnings and strong operating cash flow and a portion PBITA margins from 6.2% to 6.5%.
This performance of the awards which were granted in 2016 have was delivered in the context of tightening labour therefore vested at a level of 55.8%.
supply and intense competition in manned security Further information on the levels of executive services in some geographies.
remuneration earned in 2018, including performance In Cash Solutions the company continued to against the relevant targets, is given on pages 116 experience good demand for its cash solutions to119.
technology and ended the year with these products Total single figure - The overall change in the total and services deployed at 23,300 locations across single figure for 2018 compared with 2017 is a the world, up from 19,800 at the end of 2017.
progress was more than offset by the impact of bank branch and ATM closures in the UK and Europe and Key areas of focus in 2018 Adjusted PBITA for the year was 17.1% lower than in2017.
Remuneration Policy and approach Our remuneration policy, which received a highThe net effect of the results of the two business level of support from shareholders at our 2017 segments was that Group underlying revenues rose AGM, continues to operate effectively.
In light of the by 1.1% and that Adjusted PBITA of 474 million was announcement of strategic changes to the business, in line with 2017. the committee has chosen to defer a review of our Further details are set out in the chief executive remuneration policy until the required renewal at our officers introduction to the Strategic Review on pages AGM in 2020, in line with the usual three-year cycle.
However, the committee is cognisant of evolving Good progress was made in the development of the investor views and changes to the UK Corporate Groups strategy during the year.
In January 2018, Governance Code and in order to align our practice management established a Global Cash Division with these latest developments, the committee and and in December 2018 the Group announced a board have agreed to make a number of changes to review of the Groups options to create two strong, the executive remuneration framework: independent companies via the separation of Secure Introduction of a holding period for all longSolutions and Cash Solutions.
The board believes term incentive awards granted to executive that this has the potential to strengthen strategic, directors and the group executive committee after commercial and operational focus to the benefit of the 2019 AGM, a two-year holding period will customers, employees and shareholders.
apply following the completion of the performance period.
This extends the total time horizon to a 2018 Remuneration outcomes period of five years.
Pay review As reported last year, the salaries of Reduction in pension for future hires for future both the CEO and CFO were increased by 2% externalexecutive director appointments, pension effective from 1 January 2018.
The increase awarded contributionswill be reduced to 15% of salary in to the executive directors was in line with the line with seniormanagement in the UK and recent increase applicable to Group employees and most appointments to the group executive committee.
106 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Increase in share ownership requirements our Incentives share ownership requirement for the CEO is The annual bonus opportunity and LTIP award already 200% of salary.
The requirement for the levels remain unchanged for 2019, both of which are CFO has been increased from 150% to 200%, so subject to maximum award sizes as set out in the the minimum share ownership requirement is now Remuneration Policy on pages 108 to 115.
In relation to the annual bonus, the committee seeks Introduction of a post-employment shareholding to set targets that support the overarching strategy, policy to reflect the requirement in the New reflecting the business context for the relevant period.
Code and the views of shareholders, we are Targets are also intended to be stretching whilst introducing a post-employment shareholding remaining achievable and are compatible with the policy.
Executive directors will be expected Groups risk appetite.
The committee is confident that to retain shares equal to the share ownership the 2019 targets meet these criteria.
requirements or their actual shareholding at the The long-term incentive plan introduced in 2014 date their employment ends if lower for a period received overwhelming support from shareholders of two years post-departure.
and will continue to operate in 2019, with The committee considers that the introduction the addition of a two-year holding period for of these changes will strengthen the alignment awardsmade after the companys 2019 annual of the executives with the interests of our general meeting.
The committees performance Our workforce Consistent with our practice every year, a formal The committee recognises the need to consider review of the committees performance was carried workforce remuneration and related policies when out at the end of 2018. determining remuneration arrangements for senior Details of the process for board and committee management.
The committee has reviewed its approach during 2018 to ensure it has greater performance evaluations are set out on page 84. oversight of the most relevant information, which Overall, the review concluded that the committee will include visibility of pay rates and trends, benefits continues to be effective and to perform well.
It policy and variable compensation across different also highlighted the committees role in ensuring pay organisational levels and geographies.
appropriately reflects performance of the Group, taking account of our shareholders views and Governance expectations.
In 2019, the committee will have a With a view to reflecting changes made by the 2018 key role to play in ensuring that our remuneration UK Corporate Governance Code, the committee practices continue to focus on and support the is in the process of reviewing its terms of reference.
delivery of our strategic objectives, while retaining Thecurrent committees terms of reference are and rewarding the high calibre individuals and talent available on the companys website at g4s.
com needed to deliver long-term sustainable success.
Voting on remuneration UK Code Compliance The annual report on remuneration will be put to The committee is conscious of the Codes an advisory vote at this years AGM, and we look requirement that executive directors remuneration forward to receiving shareholders support once again should be designed to promote the long-term success this year.
of the company - and that performance-related I will be available to answer questions and elements of remuneration should be transparent, listen tothe views of our shareholders at the stretching and applied rigorously.
As described above, the committee has introduced a number of features to the remuneration framework to ensure compliance with the New Code: new JOHN DALY holding periods will apply consistently to the LTIP Remuneration Committee Chairman awards made to both the executive directors and to the Group Executive team after the 2019 12 March 2019 AGM.
Theinclusion of deferral, share ownership requirements and malusand clawback within the policy provides suitable long-term alignment of Remuneration policy interests between our senior executives and our The companys remuneration policy for directors is set out on pages 108 other shareholders.
to 115 of this report and on the companys website at g4s.
It was approved by shareholders at the companys Implementation of remuneration in 2019 annual general meeting held on 25 May 2017 with 97.26% of all votes cast in Pay review favour.
The long-term incentive plan referred to in the policy was approved at The executive directors have recommended to the the 2014 annual general meeting with 96.88% of all votes cast in favour.
The committee thatno increases be made to their salaries remuneration policy came into effect on 26 May 2017 and will continue to with effect from 1 January 2019. apply for up to three financial years unless a new or revised policy is approved by shareholders in the meantime.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 107 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The Directors Remuneration Policy approved by our shareholders at our 2017 AGM is reproduced below.
However, we are making a number of changes to the executive remuneration framework within this policy as described in the letter from the Remuneration Committee chairman at the start of this report.
Remuneration policy for executive directors BASE PAY Purpose and link to strategy In determining salary increases, the committee considers market salary levels including those of Base pay is set at competitive levels in order to appropriate comparator companies.
recruit and retain high calibre executives with the skills required in order to manage a company of the size Ordinarily, annual salary increases would be no more and global footprint of G4S.
than the average annual increase across the Group.
However, in exceptional circumstances a higher level The level of pay will reflect a number of factors of increase may be awarded, for example: including individual experience, expertise and role.
following a significant change to the nature or scale Operation of the business: Reviewed annually and fixed for 12 months following a significant change to the nature or commencing 1 January.
Interim salary reviews may scope of the role: or be carried out following significant changes in role, for a new appointment, where the base pay scope or responsibility or at any other time at the may initially be set below the market level and committees discretion.
increased over time, as experience develops and The final salary decision may also be influenced with reference to the individuals performance in by role, experience, individual and company the first few years in the role.
performance, internal relativities and increases for Where exceptional increases are made we will fully Group employees.
disclose and explain the rationale for such increases.
Maximum opportunity Performance measures and clawback Actual base pay for each executive director is None, although individual performance may have a disclosed each year in the Directors remuneration bearing on salary increases.
BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity As with base salary, a suitable range of benefits is Maximum benefits per director per annum: made available in order to recruit and retain high holidays 30 days calibre executives.
car allowance 20,000 Operation business related local transport 40,000 Executives are entitled to a number of benefits for financial advice, expatriate benefits and comprising paid holiday, healthcare for themselves relocation expenses, the expense will reflect the and their family and life insurance of up to four cost of the provision of benefits from time to time times base salary, car allowance, business related but will be kept under review by the committee transport, limited financial advice from time to time other benefits granted at the discretion of the and expatriate benefits where relevant.
A relocation committee up to 3% of base pay per annum per allowance reflecting reasonable costs actually incurred director will be paid.
reasonable business expenses are not subject to Other benefits may be granted at the discretion of a maximum, since these are not a benefit to the the Remuneration Committee.
director Reasonable business expenses in line with G4S Any allowance in relation to relocation will provide expenses policy e. g. travel, accommodation and for the reimbursement of reasonable costs incurred.
subsistence will be reimbursed and in some instances the associated tax will be borne by the company.
Performance measures and clawback None.
108 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 ANNUAL BONUS Purpose and link to strategy Performance measures and clawback Rewards the achievement of annual financial Typically, executive directors bonus measures are andstrategic business targets and delivery of weighted so that: personalobjectives.
between 70% and 85% of the bonus is based on Deferred element encourages long-term shareholding achievement of challenging financial performance and discourages excessive risk taking.
measures e. g. profit before tax and amortisation, organic growth, cash-flow measures, etc.
with Operation each measure operating independently of the others: and the remainder is linked to personal Awarded annually based on performance in the year.
and or non-financial measures, which are strategic Targets are set annually and relate to the Group and or operational in nature.
or the business managed by the executive.
Each year, the committee may use its discretion to Bonus outcome is determined by the committee vary the exact number of measures, as well as their afterthe year end, based on annual performance relative weightings, and this will be disclosed in the againsttargets.
Bonuses are paid in cash, but executives are required As a result of the number of factors taken into to defer any bonus payable in excess of 50% of their account in determining bonus, there is no minimum maximum bonus entitlement into shares.
for a minimum period of three years.
Dividends or equivalents accrue during the deferral period on For illustrative purposes, in the event that only deferred shares.
threshold has been achieved, pay-out would be 35% of maximum, rising to full pay-out should achievement Bonuses are not pensionable.
of a stretch performance level be achieved for all Maximum opportunity measures assuming the non-financial performance measures were satisfied.
Maximum opportunity of 150% of base pay per annum for the CEO and the CFO.
The deferred element of the bonus is not subject toany further performance measures but is subject 125% of base pay per annum for any other executive toclawback in certain circumstances.
deferred part of the bonus, which is settled in cash, is also subject to clawback see separate section on page 112.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Purpose and link to strategy Maximum opportunity Incentivises executives to achieve the companys longMaximum opportunity of 250% of base pay per term financial goals, as well as focus on value creation, annum for theCEO.
whilst aligning the interests of executives with those Maximum opportunity of 200% of base pay per of shareholders.
annum for other executive directors.
Operation Performance measures and clawback Executive directors are granted awards on an annual Awards vest based on performance over a period basis, whichvest over a period of at least three years of at least three financial years commencing with the subject to continuedservice and the achievement of a financial year in which the award is made.
number of key performance measures.
Performance will be measured based on a The Remuneration Committee reviews the quantum combination of earnings per share growth, total of awards tobe made to each executive each year to shareholder return against a comparator group and ensure that they remainappropriate.
For awards made in Dividends or equivalents accrue during the vesting 2017, these were in the proportion of 40%, 30% and period on awards that vest.
However, the committee retains the flexibility to amend these proportions, provided The award is settled by the transfer of marketthat no single measure will be a significantly greater purchased shares to the executive directors.
All the released shares after tax must be retained At threshold, 25% of the relevant portion vests.
This until the minimum shareholding requirement is met.
increases on a straight-line basis up to 100% for Currently, the minimum shareholding requirement is performance in line with maximum.
Targets are set 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% for the out on page 119. other executive directors.
Awards are subject to clawback in certain circumstances see below on page 112.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 109 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED RETIREMENT BENEFITS The current executive directors receive cash Purpose and link to strategy allowances.
The CEO receives 25% of base pay As with base salary and other benefits, making as a cash allowance: the CFO and other executive available a suitable retirement benefits package directors receive 20% of base pay.
aids the recruitment and retention ofhigh calibre executives, allowing such executives to provide for The level of award is kept under review by the their retirement.
committee and is intended to be broadly market comparable for the roles.
Operation G4S operates a defined contribution Group-wide Maximum opportunity personal pension plan in the UK in which executives Maximum opportunity of up to 25% of base pay for may participate.
Alternatively, G4S may provide a cash the CEO and 20% for other executive directors.
allowance in lieu of a contribution into such plan.
Remuneration policy for non executive directors CHAIRMANS FEE Purpose chairmans fee at any other time if appropriate.
The chairmans fee is reviewed against other companies of To attract and retain a high calibre chairman by a similar size.
offering a market-competitive fee, which also reflects the responsibilities and time commitment.
There are Maximum opportunity no performance-related elements.
Ordinarily, any increase in the chairmans fee would Operation be in line with other increases for similar roles in other companies.
The chairmans fee is disclosed each year in the Directors remuneration report.
The fees are Fees payable to the chairman and other nonreviewed annually by the committee.
The annual executive directors in aggregate per annum shall not fee is an all-inclusive consolidated amount.
The exceed the maximum specified in the companys committee retains the discretion to review the articles of association for the relevant year.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES EXCLUDING THE CHAIRMAN The NED fees are reviewed annually by the executive Purpose directors.
The board retains the discretion to review To attract and retain high calibre non-executive the NED fees at othertimes, as appropriate, to reflect directors NEDs by offering market-competitive any changes in responsibilities or commitment.
fees which should reflect the responsibilities and time commitment.
There are no performance-related The basic fee covers committee membership and elements.
each NED is expected to participate in one or more board committees.
All the fees are reviewed against Operation other companies of a similar size.
NED fees including any additional fee for any Maximum opportunity additional role listedbelow are disclosed each year in the Directors remunerationreport.
Ordinarily, any increase in the NEDs fees would be in line with other increases for similar roles in other With the exception of the chairman, the fees for companies.
NEDs are structured by composition build-up consisting of: Fees payable to NEDs including the chairman in aggregate per annum shall not exceed the maximum a base fee specified in the companys articles of association for an additional fee for chairing a committee the relevant year.
an additional fee for the role of senior independent director 110 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 BENEFITS Purpose Maximum opportunity Benefits may be provided from time to time in Reasonable business expenses are not subject to connection with the chairman and other NEDs a maximum, since these are not a benefit to the performing their roles, such as business travel, director.
subsistence and entertainment, accommodation Benefits and expenses will reflect the actual cost of and professional fees for tax and social security provision.
compliance, and other ancillary benefits.
Operation Reasonable business expenses in line with G4S expenses policy e. g. travel, accommodation and subsistence will be reimbursed and in some instances the associated tax will be borne by the company.
Notes to the directors remuneration policy notwithstanding that they are not in line withthe policy set out above where the terms of the payment 1.
Performance measures were agreed Annual Bonus Plan The actual performance i. before 5 June 2014 the date the companys first measures and targetsare set by the Remuneration shareholder-approved directors remuneration Committee at the beginning ofeach year.
The policy came into effect : performance measures used for our annual bonus plan have been selected to reflect the Groups key ii.
before the policy set out above came into performance indicators.
effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved The committee aims to ensure that the measures directors remuneration policy in force at the time appropriately encourage the executive directors to they were agreed: or focus on the companys strategic priorities, whilst the targets are set to be stretching butachievable.
at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the company and, in the opinion of the The aim is to strike an appropriate balance between committee, the payment was not in consideration incentivising annual financial and strategic business for the individual becoming a director of the targets, and each executive directors key role-specific company.
For these purposes, payments may include the Long Term Incentive Plan In choosing the committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration.
performance measures for the Long Term Incentive Incases where all or part of the variable remuneration Plan, the committee aims to find a balance of award was in the form of shares, the payment terms measures which reflect the companys long-term are those agreed at the time the award was granted.
financial goals as well as incentivise executives to Details of the vesting of the awards will be published create sustainable, long-term value for shareholders.
in the annual remuneration report each year.
Legacy Plans The committee reserves the right to The non-executive directors do not participate in any make any remuneration payments and or payments incentive schemes nor do they receive any benefits for loss of office including exercising any discretions other than those referred to in the above table.
available to it in connection with such payments Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 111 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2.
Malus and claw-back mechanisms Since 2010, any cash and or shares awarded under the annual bonus plans and the previous Performance Share Plan may be subject to clawback.
The Long Term Incentive Plan and the annual bonus plan may be subject to malus or clawback from the executive director concerned if the Remuneration Committee so determines and, in the case of misstatement of accounts, where the Audit Committeeconcurs.
The time period in which the clawback can be operated depends on the reason for the overpayment as set out in the table below.
The amount to be clawed back directly from the executive director will be the overpaid amount, but the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to claw back the net i. e. post-tax amount of the award received by the executive director.
Annual Bonus Plan including deferred Malus and claw-back elements Long term incentive plan LTIP Since 2015 plan PSP previous Current LTIP Material misstatement up to 2 years after up to 2 years after vesting except up to 2 years after vesting of group financial the payment of the where due to fraud or reckless behaviour accounts cash element when it shall be 6 years after vesting Misconduct up to 6 years after up to 6 years after vesting the payment of the cash element Fraud unlimited unlimited Principles and approach to recruitment and internal for remuneration relinquished under a previous employment i. e. buy-out arrangements and promotion of directors would be intended to mirror forfeited awards as When hiring a new executive director, or promoting far as possible by reflecting the value, nature, time to the board from within the Group, the committee horizons and performance measures attached.
In will offer a package that is sufficient to retain and such circumstances, the company will disclose a motivate and, if relevant, attract the right talent whilst full explanation of the detail and rationale for such at all times aiming to pay no more than is necessary.
Ordinarily, remuneration for a new executive director In certain circumstances, it may be necessary will be in line with the policy set out in the table to buy out long notice periods of previous summarised above.
However, discretion may be employment.
required for exceptional circumstances such as dealing with remuneration relinquished in a previous job.
With regard to internal promotions, any commitments made before promotion and The maximum level of on-going variable pay that unconnected with the individuals promotion may may be awarded to new executive directors on continue to be honoured even if they would not recruitment or on promotion to the board shall be otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing limited to 400% of base salary as set out in the policy when the commitment is fulfilled.
above calculated at the date of grant, excluding any For external and internal appointments, the buy-out awards see below.
Remuneration and Remuneration Committee may agree that the any buy-out arrangements will be announced as far company will meet certain relocation expenses as possible at the time a new executive director or including legal fees, as set out in the policy.
chairman is appointed, or in the following Directors remuneration report.
In determining the approach for all relevant elements, the Remuneration Committee will When determining the remuneration of a newlyconsider a number of factors, including but not appointed executive director, the Remuneration limited to external market practice, current Committee will apply the following principles: arrangements for existing executive directors and The on-going remuneration package to be other internal relativities.
designed in accordance with the policy above.
Service contracts New executive directors will participate in the Shareholders are entitled to inspect a copy of annual bonus scheme and Long Term Incentive executive directors service contracts at the Plan on the same basis as existing executive companys head office and at the AGM.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion Executive directors service contracts all have the to grant one-off cash or share-based awards to following features: executive directors where it determines that such Contracts are drafted in line with best practice at an award is necessary to secure the recruitment the time the executive directors were appointed.
of that executive director and where it is in the Terminable on 12 months notice by either party.
best interests of the company to do so.
Such awards would only be made as compensation 112 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Specific provisions for Ashley Almanza and Loss-of-office payment Tim Wellers contracts dated 2013 and 2016 The duration of the notice period in the executive respectively include: directors contracts is 12 months.
Messrs Almanza and Weller are each allowed to The Remuneration Committee would consider the hold one external non-executive appointment application of mitigation obligations in relation to any and retain the fees paid to them for such termination payments.
Mr Almanza has no external nonThe contracts do not provide for the payment of a executive appointment having stepped down from guaranteed bonus in the event of termination.
the board of Noble Corporation in June 2018 and Mr Weller is a non-executive director of the Neither Ashley Almanza nor Tim Weller will be Carbon Trust.
eligible for bonus accrual during any period of garden Mitigation obligations on termination payments leave.
are explicitly included in the executive directors In relation to Mr Almanza, the value of the contracts.
Notice payments for Ashley Almanza termination payment would cover the balance of and Tim Weller are payable monthly.
any salary and associated benefits payments due to Non-executive directors letters ofappointment: be paid for the remaining notice period, the value of which will be determined by the Remuneration Appointment is subject to the provisions of the Committee.
articles of association of the company, as amended from time to time regarding appointment, In relation to Mr Weller, the value of the termination retirement, fees, expenses, disqualification and payment would amount to the balance of any salary removal of directors.
due to be paid for the remaining notice period multiplied by 1.25 to reflect the value of contractual All continuing non-executive directors are required to stand for re-election by the shareholders at least benefits during such period.
once every three years, although they have agreed The Remuneration Committee would also retain the tosubmit themselves for re-election annually in discretion to make appropriate payments necessary accordance with the Code.
to finalise any settlement agreement, but in exercising Initial period of appointment is two years.
such discretion the Remuneration Committee would All reasonably-incurred expenses will be met.
remain mindful to ensure that there was no reward for failure.
Fees are normally reviewed annually.
The fees for outplacement services and reasonable legal fees in connection with advice on a settlement agreement may be met by the company.
The table below illustrates how each component of pay would be calculated under different circumstances: Plan Automatic good leaver categories Treatment for good leavers Treatment for other leavers Annual bonus All leavers other than voluntary Executive directors may receive a bonus to be Bonus opportunity will lapse.
cash element resignation and summary dismissal.
paid on the normal payment date and in accordance with the agreed performance measures but reduced pro-rata to reflect the time employed.
Annual bonus Injury, disability or ill health Deferred shares may be released if the Deferred share awards will deferred share executive director ceases employment prior lapse.
Redundancy element to the third anniversary as a result of one of Retirement the good leaver reasons.
Death Termination without cause Change of control or sale of employing company or business Any other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee Long Term Injury, disability or ill health Awards will vest on the relevant vesting date on Awards will lapse.
Incentive Plan a time-apportioned basis, unless the Remuneration Redundancy Committee determines otherwise, and subject to Retirement the achievement of performance measures at the Death relevant vesting date.
Change of control or sale of The vesting date for such awards will normally employing company or business be the original vesting date, unless otherwise determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Any other circumstances at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 113 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED As directors may leave employment for a wide range of reasons, the committee retains discretion to approve payments where the reason for leaving does not fall precisely within the prescribed good leaver category.
The committee will take account of the directors performance in office and the circumstances of their exit.
The committee will seek to balance the interests of shareholders, the departing director and the remainingdirectors.
Any awards subject to performance conditions would be assessed at the end of the relevant period and be subject to time apportionment.
Corporate Action If the company is subject to a change in control, the Long Term Incentive Plan provides that awards will vest subject to the performance targets having been satisfied up to the date of the change of control and, unless the committee determines otherwise, time pro-rating.
On a variation of share capital, other reorganisation of the company, or a demerger of a substantial part of the Groups business, the committee may make such adjustment to awards as it may determine to be appropriate.
The bar charts above set out the effect of the executive directors remuneration policy as it will apply in 2019 and based on the assumptions set out below: Minimum Threshold Maximum Fixed pay Consists of total fixed pay including base salary, benefits and pension benefits Base salary salary effective as at 1 January 2019 Benefits amount received by the Executive Directors respectively in 2018 including business expenses classified by HMRC as benefits but which the company does not consider to be benefits in the ordinary sense Retirement benefits 25% of salary for Ashley Almanza, 20% of salary for Tim Weller Annual No payout 30% of the maximum payout i. e. 100% of the maximum payout i. e. bonus 45% of salary for Ashley Almanza 150% of salary for Ashley Almanza and Tim Weller and Tim Weller Long-term No vesting 25% vesting under the LTIP 100% of the maximum payout incentives i. e. 62.5% of salary for Ashley i. e. 250% of salary for Ashley Almanza and 50% of salary for Almanza and 200% of salary for Tim Weller Tim Weller 114 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Minimum Threshold performance Maximum performance Minimum Threshold performance Maximum performance Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The structure of the executive directors pay policy is generally in line with the policy for remuneration of the senior management within the Group, although the levels of award will be different.
The performance measures that apply in the variable element of remuneration will reflect the relevant areas of responsibilities.
There may be one-off awards for retaining scarce and critical individuals below board level.
Remuneration of employees globally will depend on local regulation and practice, taking any collective bargaining agreements into account, where they exist.
Elements of remuneration Availability Fixed pay Pay Available to all employees worldwide Pensions Available to most employees in developedmarkets Variable Annual bonus Available to all senior managers worldwide Long term incentive plan Available to some senior managers worldwide Benefits Car or car allowance Available to all senior managers worldwide Life Income protection insurance Available to most employees in developedmarkets Private Healthcare Available to all senior managers in markets where it is commonly provided Across the Group the company seeks to pay competitively, taking into account external benchmarking and internal moderation at each level to ensure that remuneration is in line with market practice.
When determining base salary increases for executive directors, the Remuneration Committee pays particular attention to the data at senior manager level.
At G4S, the committee does not normally consult directly with employees as part of the process of determining the remuneration policy and pay decisions for executive directors and has not therefore done so in setting this remuneration policy.
However, employee surveys are carried out biennially which help determine employees views of their own pay and benefits, as well as those of colleagues in general.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views We are committed to on-going engagement on key remuneration issues and seek our major shareholders views prior to proposing any major change in policy.
This provides us with valuable feedback and we take into consideration these views and seek to reflect them in our policy.
The chairman of the Remuneration Committee will be available to answer any questions and listen to the views of our shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Benefits include car allowance, business-related travel, healthcare, disability and life assurance.
Benefit values include the cost of certain travel, overnight accommodation, meals and memberships which HMRC treats as a taxable benefit and on which the company has paid, or will in due course pay, tax as it does not consider such expenses to be benefits in the ordinary tax sense.
The grossed-up amounts for 2018 are 40,343 2017: 71,706 for Ashley Almanza.
Benefit values also include local travel costs of 25,098 2017: 10,420 for Ashley Almanza who bears the tax himself, and contain other business costs which HMRC deems to be benefits.
Any bonus due above 50% of the individuals maximum bonus entitlement is awarded as deferred shares, which vest after a period of three years unless the individual ceases employment prior to the third anniversary and qualifies as a good leaver, in which case release of such deferred shares occurs shortly after termination of employment.
Mr Almanzas bonus pay-outs for 2017 consisted of 704,816 in cash and 415,353 in shares deferred for three years.
Mr Wellers bonus pay-outs for 2017 consisted of 482,813 in cash and 187,961 in shares deferred for three years.
For 2018, the executive directors notified the Committee of their wish to waive their entitlement to a bonus.
The Committee approved this recommendation.
Further information regarding 2018 bonus performance is set out on page 118.
For 2018, Ashley Almanza received a fee of $55,000 as well as shares valued at $356,314 from Noble Corporation, 2017: $88,500 in fees which he retained for the part of the year prior to his stepping down from his non-executive directorship referred to on page 113 on 19 June 2018.
Mr Weller received and retained 17,000 from the Carbon Trust for his nonexecutive directorship during the year under review 2017: 17,000.
Values in the 2017 LTIP column relate to the 2015 LTIP, which vested on 20 March 2018 and are calculated using the share price on the date of vesting of 247.7p per share.
Values provided in the 2017 LTIP column of the 2017 directors remuneration report were estimates.
On 20 March 2018, Ashley Almanza had 544,673 shares vesting under the 2015 LTIP, of which he retained 288,676 shares after selling 255,997 shares to satisfy tax and NI liabilities arising out of such vesting.
On the same date, Tim Weller had 69,065 shares vesting under the 2015 LTIP, of which he retained 36,604 after selling 32,461 shares to satisfy tax and NI liabilities arising out of such vesting.
Values in the 2018 LTIP column relate to the 2016 LTIP due to vest on 15 March 2019.
Since the share price on the date of vesting is unknown at the date of this report, the figures provided are estimates calculated using the average market value over the last quarter of the year under review, i. e. 201.4p per share and the vesting level under the 2016 LTIP, which is 55.8%.
Further information regarding performance and vesting of the 2016 LTIP is set out on page 119.
The amount of executive directors remuneration attributable to the companys share price growth over the three-year performance period is the difference between the share price of 183.8p per share used for the purpose of the awards made or deemed granted in March 2016 and the average market value over the last quarter of the year under review, i. e. 201.4p per share used to estimate value at the vesting date of 15 March 2019.
On this basis, the amounts are 141,165 and 100,313 for Messrs Almanza and Weller respectively.
In relation to Mr Weller, the LTIP figure for 2018 includes estimates regarding three separate awards under the companys LTIP 2016 granted as part of his remuneration arrangement upon joining the company as CFO on 24 October 2016 and due to vest on 15 March 2019.
These are: an award made following his relinquishing the 2015 performance share plan aware from his previous employer, an award made as compensation for the forfeiture of his annual bonus from his previous employer: and an award on a pro-rata basis relative to his start date as CFO on 24 October 2016.
Estimates were calculated using the methodology described in note 5 above.
Non-executive directors The following table shows a single total figure of remuneration in respect of qualifying services for the 2018 financial year for each nonexecutive director, together with the comparative figures for 2017.
Aggregate non-executive directors emoluments are shown in the last column of the table.
Benefit values include the cost of overnight accommodation, travel and meals, which HMRC treats as taxable benefits and on which the company has paid, or will in due course pay, tax as it does not consider such expenses to be benefits in the ordinary tax sense.
For Clare Spottiswoode figures cover the period up to the date that she retired from the board on 16 May 2018.
For Elisabeth Fleuriot figures cover the period from the date of her appointment as a non-executive director on 18 June 2018 and fees received for her role as chair of the CSR Committee.
Benefits figures for Winnie Fok, Barbara Thoralfsson and Elisabeth Fleuriotinclude professional fees in relation to tax and social security compliance.
During 2017, in addition to his role as chair of the Risk Committee, Mr Spence also chaired the Audit Committee.
116 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 2018 Annual bonus During the financial year ended 31 December 2018, the performance measures relating to the annual bonus scheme rules were consistent with the Remuneration Policy, with 85% of the maximum bonus opportunity for Ashley Almanza and 80% for Mr Weller being based on achievement of challenging financial performancemeasures.
The financial performance measures were based on revenue, budgeted Group earnings excluding specific and other separately disclosed items and budgeted Group operating cash flow before capital expenditure for Mr Almanza and budgeted Group earnings excluding specific and other separately disclosed items and budgeted Group operating cash flow before capital expenditure for Mr Weller.
For threshold performance, 35% of maximum entitlement would pay out with on-target performance resulting in a payment of 60% of maximum entitlement, with 100% only being earned in the event of achievement of a stretch performance significantly in excess of budget.
The element of bonus determined for each financial performance measure is calculated by interpolating actual achievement against the range between the minimum i. e. entry threshold and the maximum target to achieve maximum performance.
The remaining 15% of the maximum bonus opportunity for Mr Almanza and 20% for Mr Weller was linked to objectives relating to non-financial performance.
These consisted of personal objectives or related to the organisation and were linked to specific elements of the Groups strategy for which the particular director had responsibility.
Each executive director has a number of strategic performance measures linked to areas that the committee has agreed for the year.
The committee reviews the progress in each area and then makes an assessment as to whether the executive has performed in accordance with expectations.
The maximum bonus potential remained unchanged from 2017 at 150% of base pay for both Messrs Almanza and Weller.
Bonuses are paid in cash up to 50% of maximum entitlement.
Where the bonus amount is in excess of 50% of the maximum bonus potential, the amount which exceeds 50% is delivered in the form of a deferred share award which vests after a period of three years.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 117 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The tables below show how pay was linked to performance in 2018 and set out details of each of the financial measures, the targets in respect of these measures and the actual outcomes: 2018 annual bonus Performance conditions and outcomes ASHLEY ALMANZA Score Weighting achieved % of % of total maximum Threshold to To achieve for each Financial measures bonus earn bonus Target full vesting Achievement measure Revenue 10% 7,583m 7,818m 8,052m 7,512m nil Group Earnings 45% 273m 282m 290m 253m nil Group OCF 30% 543m 559m 576m 439m nil Total 85% n a n a n a n a nil Personal objectives Mr Almanza was able to earn up to 15% of the maximum bonus potential for achieving personal objectives.
Mr Almanzas personal objectives for 2018 covered three key areas, namely strategy, productivity and organisation, which were designed to align with the strategic priorities for 2018 see pages 18 and 19 and were set out in the 2017 Directors Remuneration report.
Further details on each personal objective, achievement and performance rating are set out in the table below: Personal Objective Achievement Performance Rating Strategy Continue to develop the Increased security risk consulting and systems revenue A score of 10 points out Groups use of technology in its of a potential maximum of Increased customer locations using G4S cash technology products and services 15 points.
Productivity Develop and initiate the Implemented programme of organisation efficiency with an in-year benefit next phase of the Group productivity during 2018 of 30m.
programme Organisation Embed new The new organisation structure introduced in 2018, resulted in clearer focus organisation to ensure new teams on strategy and performance in Cash Solutions and Secure Solutions, and operate effectively created a strong foundation from which to consider the potential separation of the Cash Solutions businesses.
TIM WELLER Weighting % of Threshold to To achieve Score achieved % of total Financial measures maximum bonus earn bonus Target full vesting Achievement for each measure Group Earnings 45% 273m 282m 290m 253m nil Group OCF 35% 543m 559m 576m 439m nil Total 80% n a n a n a n a nil Personal objectives Mr Weller was able to earn up to 20% of the maximum bonus potential for achieving personal objectives.
The personal objectives for the CFO role were set at the beginning of the year to align with the strategic priorities for 2018.
These were set out in the 2017 Directors Remuneration report and focused on two key areas, namely productivity and IT.
Further details about the personal objectives, as well as Mr Wellers achievement and overall performance rating are set out in the table below: Personal Objective Achievement Performance Rating Productivity Contribute to Implemented changes to embed streamlined reporting and management A score of 10 points Group programme with efficiency information as well as fide-layering which have resulted in sustained efficiency out of a maximum of 20 improvements in key support functions improvements.
Integrated IT systems Deliver lean Following the launch of the pilot of the Javelin IT-enabled operating model process IT project in Ireland during 2017, the enhanced version of Javelin encompassing all of the lessons learned was deployed into Ireland in 2018 and into the UK in February 2019.
As mentioned earlier in the report, the executive directors communicated to the Remuneration Committee their wish to waive their entitlement to a bonus for 2018.
The committee approved this recommendation and consequently, no bonus is payable in respect of 2018.
118 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Long term incentive plan LTIP The 2018 and 2017 values shown in the fourth column of the single-figure table relate to the LTIP awards made in March 2016 and 2015 respectively.
The performance measures and targets of these awards are set out below: Performance measures and targets for the LTIP awards 40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual Proportion of Ranking against Proportion of Average operating Proportion of growth in EPS allocation vesting the bespoke allocation vesting cash flow allocation vesting period ending on comparator group 31 December by reference in the third year to TSR Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil 105% Nil 5% pa 15% over 25% Median 25% 105% 25% 3 years 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata between Between median Pro-rata between Between 105% Pro-rata between 25% and 100% and upper quartile 25% and 100% and 125% 25% and 100% Greater than 100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100% 12% pa 36% over 3 years The table below illustrates the companys performance against the 2015 award targets and the resulting payout as shown in the 2017 values in the fourth column of the single figure table: Measure Performance Vesting % of element Average annual growth in EPS Increase of 10% pa 80% Relative TSR Ranked between 41st and 0% 42nd in peer group Average OCF 125% 100% Total vesting 62% of maximum The table below illustrates the companys performance against the 2016 award targets and the estimated payout as shown in the 2018 values in the fourth column of the single figure table: Measure Performance Vesting % of element Average annual growth in EPS Increase of 9.33% pa 72% Relative TSR Ranked between 40th 0% and 41st in peer group Average OCF 123% 90% Total vesting 55.8% of maximum Vesting under the 2016 LTIP was 55.8% of maximum of the award.
90% performance was achieved for the average OCF component and 72% of the portion allocated to average annual EPS growth vested.
Dividend payments to shareholders were maintained throughout and increased towards the end of the performance period, however relative TSR performance was affected by share price fluctuations so did not result in any payout for this measure.
TSR Comparator group The bespoke comparator group consisted of companies constituent of the FTSE 100 index corrected to exclude financial institutions and companies in the extractive sector, and include competitor companies which are outside that index.
It consisted originally of 66 companies not including G4S.
During the three-year performance period, six of these companies were delisted as a result of takeovers or mergers ARM Holdings, British Sky Broadcasting, GKN, Rexam, SABMiller and Tui Travel, therefore these were removed from the group.
Competitors included in the comparator group are Loomis, Prosegur, Securitas, Capita and Brinks.
Total pension entitlements audited information None of the executive directors have any prospective entitlement to a group defined benefit pension nor is either a member of the Groups pension plan, which is a defined contribution group personal pension plan available to all UK employees.
Instead the CEO and CFO receive cash allowances of 25% and 20% of their base pay, respectively.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 119 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AUDITED INFORMATION Awards under the LTIP approved by the shareholders at the companys AGM in June 2014 were made in March 2018 consistent with the companys normal grant policy.
Details of the awards made to the executive directors are summarised in the table below and further details are given in the table on directors shareholdings and interests on page 121: EPS, TSR and AOCF Number Face Performance Performance % vesting at Director Award type of shares value condition period threshold Ashley Almanza Conditional 925,277 2,396,375 40% EPS 30% 01 01 2018 25% shares TSR 30% 31 12 2020 AOCF Tim Weller Conditional 507,065 1,313,250 40% EPS 30% 01 01 2018 25% shares TSR 30% 31 12 2020 AOCF Notes: 1.
The face-value calculation for all awards granted in March 2018 was based on a share price of 2.5899 which represents the average closing share price during the three business days following the announcement of the companys 2017 financial results.
Awards of conditional shares under the 2018 LTIP were granted in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy.
As a result, conditional share awards representing 250% of base pay and 200% of base pay were granted to Messrs Almanza and Weller respectively.
Further details of performance conditions are set out in the table below.
Performance measures for long-term incentives awarded in 2018 The bespoke comparator group consists of companies constituent of the FTSE 100 index corrected to exclude financial institutions and companies in the extractive sector, and include competitor companies which are outside that index.
The companys current policy is to use market-purchased shares to satisfy LTIP awards.
Participants in the LTIP will receive a further share award with a value equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid in respect of LTIP awards vesting at the end of the performance period.
The company calculates whether the EPS performance target has been achieved by reference to the Groups audited accounts, which provide an accessible and objective measure of the Groups earnings per share.
The average OCF performance target is calculated by reference to the relevant definition set out in the LTIP rules approved by shareholders.
The committee may alter the terms of the EPS measure if it feels that it is no longer a fair measure and is no longer incentivising.
TSR ranking will be verified externally.
40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual Proportion of Ranking against Proportion of Average operating Proportion of growth in EPS allocation vesting the bespoke allocation vesting cash flow allocation vesting period ending on comparator group 31 December in by reference to the third year TSR Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil 105% Nil 5% pa 15% over 25% Median 25% 105% 25% 3 years 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata between Between median Pro-rata between Between 105% Pro-rata between 25% and 100% and upper quartile 25% and 100% and 125% 25% and 100% Greater than 100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100% 12% pa 36% over 3 years 120 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Statement of directors shareholdings and share interest audited information The executive directors are required to build up a minimum shareholding in G4S, as explained in the remuneration policy.
Shares in the table below are valued at the year-end price, which was 196.95p per share at 31 December 2018.
Share ownership Number of Deferred Total shares requirement Shareholding requirement shares held at under LTIP awards subject to 2018 2017 % of salary achieved at 31 12 18 31 12 18 performance at 31 12 18 Ashley Almanza 1,326,745 907,678 200% 273% 527,899 2,980,253 Tim Weller 90,267 53,663 150% 27.1% 72,574 1,837,945 Notes: 1.
Includes any shares owned by persons closely associated with the directors.
Deferred share awards and LTIP awards do not include the further shares with a value equivalent to the dividends which are paid in respect of shares received.
The number of shares is gross and will be subject to tax when they are released.
In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, any bonus due above 50% of Messrs Almanza and Wellers maximum bonus entitlement is awarded in deferred shares, which although not subject to further performance conditions are subject to employment conditions and vest after a period of three years.
The number of deferred shares held as at 31 12 18 column consists of, in the case of Mr Almanza, 146,410 shares relating to the portion of his 2015 annual bonus deferred into shares, 221,116 shares relating to the portion of his 2016 annual bonus deferred into shares and 160,373 shares relating to the portion of his 2017 annual bonus deferred into shares.
On 16 March 2019, Mr Almanza will receive the aforementioned 146,410 shares as well as additional shares to account for dividend entitlement during the period of deferral before selling sufficient shares to pay the withholding taxes relating to the deferred shares granted under the aforementioned 2015 annual bonus scheme.
For Mr Weller, the 72,574 shares listed in this column relate to the portion of his 2017 annual bonus which was deferred into shares.
In relation to Mr Almanza, the total shares under LTIP awards subject to performance column consists of an award of 1,259,114 conditional shares under the 2016 LTIP, an award of 795,862 conditional shares granted under the 2017 LTIP, as well as an award of 925,277 conditional shares granted under the 2018 LTIP.
In relation to the 2016 LTIP, on 15 March 2019, Mr Almanza will receive an estimated 802,062 shares, which includes additional shares to account for dividend entitlement before selling sufficient shares to pay the withholding taxes.
In relation to Mr Weller, the total shares under LTIP awards subject to performance column includes the following as yet unvested awards made in accordance with Mr Wellers remuneration arrangement upon becoming CFO on 24 October 2016, further details of which arrangements are set out on page 90 of the Integrated Reports and Accounts 2016: an award of 250,000 conditional shares granted on 8 November 2016, with a deemed date of grant of March 2016 following his relinquishing the 2015 performance share plan award from his previous employer and an award of 544,736 conditional shares granted on 22 November 2016 under the companys LTIP on a pro-rata basis, with a vesting period of 36 months and a deemed date of grant of March 2016 relative to his start date as CFO on 24 October 2016. an award of 100,000 shares on equivalent terms to the G4S 2016 LTIP was granted on 9 June 2017 as compensation for the forfeiture of Mr Wellers annual bonus from his previous employer.
These awards are due to vest on 15 March 2019.
Mr Weller will receive an estimated 569,951 shares which includes additional shares to account for dividend entitlement before selling sufficient shares to pay the withholding taxes.
Estimates are calculated using a vesting price of the average share price of the company for the last quarter of 2018, namely 201.4p per share multiplied by 55.8% vesting level for the LTIP 2016 of the number of shares awarded under the LTIP 2016 and additional dividend shares.
In addition, consistent with the companys normal grant policy, in March 2017 Mr Weller received an award of 436,144 conditional shares under the 2017 LTIP and in March 2018, an award of 507,065 conditional shares under the 2018 LTIP.
In addition to the above, each of the directors has a deemed interest in the total number of shares held by the companys Employee Benefit Trust.
As at 31 December 2018, the trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust held 5,342,225 shares 2017: 4,362,068 shares.
The shareholdings for non-executive directors are shown below.
As at 31.12.2018 As at 31.12.2017 John Connolly 336,642 336,642 John Daly 30,000 30,000 Elisabeth Fleuriot n a Winnie Fok 30,000 30,000 Steve Mogford 10,000 10,000 John Ramsay 38,000 n a Paul Spence 30,000 20,000 Clare Spottiswoode n a 4,681 Barbara Thoralfson There are no requirements for the non-executive directors to hold shares nor for any former directors to hold shares once they have left the company.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 121 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE There was no payment for loss of office during the year under review.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED INFORMATION Grahame Gibson Grahame Gibson, who stepped down as a director of the company on 4 June 2015, ceased to be an employee on 20 October 2015.
Details of payments for loss of office in prior years are set out on page 87 of the companys integrated report and accounts 2015 available at g4s.
Awards made to Mr Gibson under the companys long-term incentive plans were pro-rated to 20 October 2015.
As disclosed in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report, the award made in 2014 vested on 20 March 2017, when Mr Gibson received 187,092 shares.
The last remaining award under the 2015 LTIP was also subject to performance, which was tested at the normal vesting dates, with such award vesting on 20 March 2018 when Mr Gibson, who is no longer subject to shareholding requirements, elected to receive payment in cash and received a gross payment 141,541.
Himanshu Raja Himanshu Raja stepped down from the board of the company and his role as chief financial officer on 1October 2016.
He ceased to be an employee on the same date.
Details of payments for loss of office in 2016 are set out on page 95 of the companys Integrated Report and Accounts 2016 available at g4s.
Awards made to Mr Raja under the companys long-term incentive plan were pro-rated to 1 October 2016.
All such awards remained subject to performance, to be tested at the normal vesting dates.
On 20 March 2017, Mr Raja received 344,499 shares before selling sufficient shares to pay withholding taxes following the vesting of the LTIP award made in 2014.
On 20 March 2018, Mr Raja received a 152,997 shares before selling sufficient shares to pay withholding taxes following the vesting of the LTIP award made in 2015.
The last remaining award under the 2016 LTIP remains subject to performance, which will be tested at the normal vesting date in March 2019.
Such award is due to vest on 15 March 2019 and Mr Raja will receive an estimated 133,254 shares before selling sufficient shares to pay withholding taxes.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The line graph below shows the ten-year annual Total Shareholder Return TSR performance against the FTSE 100 index.
The directors believe this to be an appropriate form of broad equity market index against which to base a comparison, given the size and geographic coverage of the Group.
Nick Buckles stepped down as CEO on 31 May 2013 and Ashley Almanza took over as CEO from 1 June 2013.
After July 2011, the CEOs total single figure of annual remuneration included payment in lieu of pension.
This was 40% of base pay for Nick Buckles and is 25% of base pay for Ashley Almanza.
Prior to July 2011, a notional sum equal to 40% of relevant base pay has been included.
The value of shares that vested in the relevant year under the PSP or a notional value in the case of shares vested but unexercised has been included in the prior years CEOs total figures, since that is the most relevant year for measurement of performance.
The figures before 2013 did not include taxable expenses.
Bonus % of maximum awarded figure for 2017 is the adjusted figure after a reduction equivalent to 10% of base pay was applied, as recommended by the executive directors and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Bonus % of maximum awarded for 2018 takes account of the waiver by the executive directors of their bonus 2018.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEOS REMUNERATION The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEOs salary, benefits and bonus between 2017 and 2018 compared with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for UK-based G4S employees.
The Remuneration Committee has chosen all employees in the UK who were in employment during the two-year period 2017 and 2018 as the group which should provide the most appropriate comparator, as the Group CEO is based in the UK.
Percentage change in remuneration between 2017 and 2018 Salary Benefits Bonus CEO 2.0% 5.8% See note below Average change for all other UK employees 2.9% See note below See note below Notes: 1.
The core benefit composition and the underlying employee entitlements remain unchanged over the two-year period, with changes linked to increases in premium rates and costs ofprocurement of insurance and other benefits.
Information on bonuses is not readily available for all other UK employees.
As explained earlier in this report, Mr Almanza waived his entitlement to bonus in 2018.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared with other disbursements fromprofit.
2018 2017 Change Dividends paid 150m 145m 3.4% Total employee costs 5,194m 5,363m -3.2% There were no share buy-backs effected in either year.
The reduction in total employee costs is the result of a combination of a reduction in total employee numbers, due to disposals and restructuring, and the impact of foreign exchange rates on the 2018 figure with the 2017 figure stated at December 2017 average rates.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 123 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STATEMENT OF IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2019 Decisions were taken on the basis of the directors remuneration policy approved at the companys 2017 AGM set out on pages 108 to 115.
However, as mentioned above, the committee is cognisant of evolving investor expectations and of the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code applicable from 1 January 2019.
Taking into consideration these developments, a number of changes to the executive remuneration framework, which have been agreed are set out below in the relevant components of remuneration.
The committee considers that the introduction of these features will increase the alignment of the executive directors with the interests of our other shareholders.
Executive directors remuneration Base pay For 2019, at the annual pay review, it was decided that Messrs Almanza and Wellers base pay would not be increased in 2019 and would therefore remain at 958,550 and 656,625 respectively.
Annual Bonus Scheme The annual bonus for the 2019 financial year will be determined on a basis consistent with the existing remuneration policy, with the maximum bonus opportunity remaining at 150% of salary for both Ashley Almanza and Tim Weller.
The majority of the annual bonus opportunity for executive directors will be based on Group financial measures.
For 2019, in line with the approach taken in 2018, the measures used to assess Group financial performance will include underlying earnings, operating cash flow and revenue, as these metrics continue to support the companys key strategic objectives.
When setting Group financial targets, the committee takes into account a number of factors to ensure that the targets set are aligned with the Groups strategy and are sufficiently stretching.
The board approves strategic objectives for the CEO and 15% of the maximum bonus is allocated to these objectives in 2019.
The CEO recommended and the committee has approved a 15% allocation of the CFOs maximum bonus opportunity to non-financial objectives.
The Remuneration Committee will therefore determine final bonus outcomes for the Executive Directors based on overall Group financial performance and the attainment of non-financial objectives.
Details of performance measures and targets are considered to be commercially sensitive since they relate to the 2019 financial year.
To the extent that they are no longer commercially sensitive, specific targets and performance against these will be disclosed in the companys 2019 integrated report and accounts.
The proposed target levels for 2019 have been set to be challenging and align with the Groups strategic priorities and business plan.
In reviewing the targets, the committee took into account a number of factors, including for example the fact that in relation to group earnings, the minimum target that needs to be met in order for any bonus to be payable must be at least equal to the earnings in 2018.
In addition, the committee also considered the proposed non-financial objectives for each of Messrs Almanza and Weller and concluded that these were also demanding.
124 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Mr Almanzas personal objectives for 2019 cover two key areas, namely strategy and organisation including values & culture.
The separation review is a major strategic project, the development of which is managed by Mr Almanza and his executive team.
Alongside this work Mr Almanza is accountable for leading the executive teams work to promote the Groups values and to build and sustain the organisation required for the successful execution of the Groups strategy.
Mr Wellers personal objectives for 2019 are focused on the separation review announced in December 2018.
This review includes important finance, tax, treasury and IT components, overseen by Mr Weller.
As part of next years review of the Directors Remuneration Policy, the committee will review and will consult with shareholders on the future annual bonus approach.
Long Term Incentive Plan The level of awards due to be granted in the 2019 financial year under the LTIP approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM will be consistent with the existing remuneration policy.
For all long-term incentive awards granted after the 2019 AGM a two-year holding period will apply following the completion of the performance period, which will have the effect of extending the total time horizon to a period of five years.
As for 2019, the committee considers that a combination of earnings per share growth, total shareholder return and average operating cash flow targets are the most appropriate performance measures for the 2019 awards, as they provide a robust method of assessing the companys performance, both in terms of underlying financial performance and returns to shareholders.
Awards granted under the LTIP during the 2019 financial year are subject to the performance conditions listed in the table overleaf.
Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 125 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance measures for long-term incentives awarded in 2019 40% of each award granted 30% of each award granted 30% of each award granted Average annual growth Proportion of Ranking against Proportion of Average Proportion of in EPS period ending allocation vesting the bespoke allocation vesting operating allocation vesting on 31 December comparator group cash flow in the third year by reference to TSR Less than 5% pa Nil Below median Nil 105% Nil 5% pa 15% over 3 25% Median 25% 105% 25% years 5 to 12% pa Pro-rata between Between median Pro-rata between Between 105% Pro-rata between 25% and 100% and upper quartile 25% and 100% and 125% 25% and 100% Greater than 12% 100% Upper quartile 100% 125% 100% pa 36% over 3 years The companys current policy is to use market-purchased shares to satisfy LTIP awards.
The company calculates whether the EPS performance targets have been achieved by reference to the Groups audited accounts, which provide an accessible and objective measure of the Groups earnings per share.
Adjustments to EPS will be made in respect of: Constant exchange rates in line with previous years, these will be normalised to the rates in the base year Acquisitions earnings will be added to the EPS base at the level used in the acquisition business case Disposals earnings will be removed from the EPS base at the business plan rate Share buy-back the company will only execute buy-backs if the investment is economically accretive and it is in the interest of the company.
The adjusted EPS for the purposes of calculating performance against the LTIP target shall be further adjusted by: a. increasing the average number of shares in issue during the performance year by the number of shares bought back during the past three years b. decreasing the net interest cost in the performance year in respect of the interest charge on the cash cost of any share buy-backs during the past three years.
Interest will be calculated at the Groups average costs of funds for the year.
The Remuneration Committee will apply discretion in the event of impairment.
If the impairment is not a result of management failure, then it will not impact the pay-out.
The Remuneration Committee may alter the terms of the EPS measure if it feels that it is no longer a fair measure and is no longer incentivising.
Operating cash flow is a measure taken before capital expenditure and investments to ensure that management is not incentivised to under-invest in growth opportunities and before pension deficit repayment.
Operating cash flow is expressed as EBITDA - working capital and provisions movement as a percentage of EBITDA.
Average operating cash flow is the average over three years.
Retirement benefits From 2019, pension contributions in relation to any future external executive director appointments will be reduced to 15% of base pay in line with senior management in the UK and recent appointments to the Group Executive Committee.
Other features From 2019, the minimum share ownership requirement for the CFO has been increased from 150% to 200%.
It is therefore aligned with that of the CEO and means that the minimum shareholding requirement is now 200% for both executive directors.
In addition, in order to reflect the requirement in the New Code and the views of shareholders, we are introducing a post-employment shareholding requirement for all LTIP awards made following the 2019 AGM.
Executive directors will be expected to retain shares equal to the share ownership requirements or their actual shareholding on the date of termination if lower for a period of two years following their departure.
126 G4S plc Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 Non-executive directors remuneration The fees payable to the non-executive directors other than the chairman are set by the executive directors who receive input from the chairman.
The fees payable to the non-executive chairman are set by the Remuneration Committee.
In both cases, fees are reviewed annually.
Non-executive directors fees were last increased in January 2018.
The review carried out in December 2018 concluded that there would be no change to the fees for the nonexecutive directors, which was broadly in line with the approach adopted for the Groups senior management population.
The table below, sets out the fees for the non-executive chairman and other non-executive directors applicable for 2019.
Increase on 2019 2018 prior year Annual fee % Chairman 382,500 382,500 No change Basic fee 63,500 63,500 No change Senior Independent Director 15,000 15,000 No change Chair of Audit Committee 20,000 20,000 No change Other chairs 18,500 18,500 No change ADVISORS TO THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Deloitte was appointed by the Remuneration Committee as its advisor in 2014.
Such appointment is reviewed every year and was confirmed in August 2018.
The committee received advice from Deloitte on executive and senior management remuneration matters throughout the year under review.
The committee has satisfied itself as to the independence of Deloitte.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and operates voluntarily under its code of conduct in the UK.
Services provided to Remuneration Fees for services to Other services provided to Advisor Appointment Committee Rem Co Company Deloitte 2014 Advice on executive 30,200 Advice on controls, tax remuneration advice on expatriate and share plans, and other consulting services.
These services were provided by different parts of Deloitte.
Fees for services to the Remuneration Committee are at an agreed rate based on time involved and paid as incurred.
The group chief executive, Ashley Almanza, provided guidance to the committee on remuneration packages for senior executives within the Group.
Further guidance was received from the Groups HR director, Jenni Myles, and the director of compensation and benefits, Sok Wah Lee.
Neither the group chief executive nor the group HR Director participated in discussions regarding their own remuneration.
The committee is satisfied that the advice it received during the year was objective and independent based on the experience of its members generally.
STATEMENT OF VOTING AT GENERAL MEETING A resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in the companys annual report for the year ended 31 December 2016 was passed at the companys annual general meeting held on 25 May 2017.
A resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report other than the part containing the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year ended 31 December 2017 was passed at the companys annual general meeting held on 15 May 2018.
The results of the votes on these resolutions are set out in the table below: Resolution For Against Withheld Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 AGM 97.26% 2.74% 131,465 Directors Remuneration Report 2018 AGM 97.36% 2.64% 603,228 Integrated Report and Accounts 2018 G4S plc 127
