Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Dear shareholders On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 covering the remuneration policy and practice for the first time as a listed company.
"In addition to my annual statement as Chair of the Remuneration Committee, this report contains: - the current Directors remuneration policy the ""Remuneration Policy, which will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the AGM on 5 June 2019 and will apply for three years fromthe date of approval: and - the Annual Report on Remuneration, which sets out Committee members payments made to the Directors and details the link Cath Keers Chair between Company performance and remuneration fortheyear ended 31 December 2018."
It also sets out Andrew Learoyd Chairman of the Board howthePolicy is intended to be implemented in 2019.
Ed Wray Independent Non-Executive Director TheAnnual Report on Remuneration is subject to anadvisory shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
Committee composition and operating rhythm The Committee was formally established by the Board prior tothe IPO in September 2018.
Ed Wray and Andrew Learoyd join me as the other members of the Committee.
We confirm Our incentives are that we have complied with the 2016 Code recommendation that the Committee comprises at least three independent simple: we want to build Non-Executive Directors.
It is our intention to meet at least three times a year and on an ownership mentality anad hoc basis as needed.
Although we did not meet formally prior to the IPO or in 2018, we have met three times since the among key executives, year end.
Given that the Executive Directors do not participate in anannual bonus plan, the main activities of the Committee tosupport growth.
will be in the early part of 2019, agreeing the performance conditions for the long-term incentive plan.
As the Remuneration Committee has only been established for a short time, we have not conducted a formal performance evaluation but we plan to do so during 2019.
We will report on this in the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts.
Role of the Committee The Committees primary role is to determine the remuneration of the Directors and senior leadership team of the Group andto determine the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors as well asmonitoring and reviewing its ongoing appropriateness andrelevance.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are summarised onpage 52 of the Corporate Governance Report and further details on the Committees roles and responsibilities can befound in our Terms of Reference on our website at: corporate.
65 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Overview of Remuneration Policy and progress in 2018 Employee share ownership Funding Circle is a founder-led business.
From inception, the Share ownership for all Circlers has always been and remains remuneration philosophy has been to support share ownership an integral part of the Groups culture and the Company across the business through equity incentives to encourage all operates equity incentive arrangements for all permanent Circlers to behave as owners taking decisions for long-term employees.
All Circlers contribute to the achievement of the value creation rather than focusing on the short term.
Groups long-term success and the Board believes that extending share ownership throughout the Group enhances It is the Committees intention to continue with that philosophy loyalty and engagement.
A single discretionary share-based and our expectation is that key executives will continue to build LTIP was adopted in September 2018, conditional on IPO, and significant personal shareholdings in Funding Circle through the Committee approves grants to the Global Leadership Team along-term incentive plan.
There is no discretionary annual under the LTIP and has approved the parameters pursuant bonus scheme.
towhich awards are made to all other Circlers.
Grants to The Committee has reviewed and built on the work undertaken Circlers, including the Global Leadership Team other than by the Board in the lead up to the IPO.
In anticipation of the IPO, theExecutive Directors, vest over a period of four years but the Board reviewed the remuneration framework to ensure an are not otherwise normally subject to performance conditions.
appropriate remuneration structure and strategy was in place and sought independent specialist advice in relation to the 2019 AGM remuneration principles that it should apply to Directors.
At our first AGM in June 2019, shareholders will be asked to vote TheCompany has established a set of remuneration on the Remuneration Policy, which will remain in place for three principles and a remuneration framework that will: years following the date of approval, and on the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In accordance with legislative requirements, - attract, motivate and retain executives and senior the vote on the Policy will be binding and the vote on the Annual management to deliver the Companys strategic goals Report on Remuneration will be advisory.
I look forward to andcreate long-term shareholder value: receiving your support on both resolutions.
- incentivise strong financial performance and reward thedelivery of the Companys business plan and key strategic goals: Cath Keers Chair of the Remuneration Committee - adhere to principles of good governance and appropriate 7 March 2019 risk management: and - align employees with the interests of shareholders and encourage widespread equity ownership across the Group.
Focus for 2019 During 2019, the Committees focus will be on: - approval of performance conditions and awards under thelong-term incentive plan LTIP, ensuring that there isasignificant proportion of long-term variable pay linked tolong-term value creation and embedding simplicity and transparency in both the design and the delivery of our executive rewards: - ensuring that executive remuneration decisions are made in the context of the broader all-employee and external climate: - reviewing any issues raised by shareholders in relation to remuneration and the Remuneration Policy: and - assessing the ongoing appropriateness of the  in light of remuneration trendsand market practice.
