STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT While full details will be disclosed in next years Annual Report Annual statement Performance in 2017 18 and Accounts, we can confirm that the remuneration he will be Dear Shareholder, paid on leaving will be in accordance with our policy.
All LTIP and The Board has delivered full year results that are ahead of deferred shares will lapse upon cessation of employment.
Key highlights of the year included: The directors remuneration report is divided into three includes half of the 2017 18 annual performance-related bonus, principalsections: Progress made against all three core strategic pillars: the deferred share element of which will not be awarded.
protect and grow the core, win new bus and rail contracts This annual statement, which provides the context for the and develop for the future of transport committees decisions during the year Executive remuneration policy Resilient financial performance, with operating profit higher The new remuneration policy We will be proposing a new remuneration policy at our annual than initial expectations and solid financial profile The annual report on remuneration, which provides details of general meeting on 1 November 2018.
The current policy was last Proposed full year dividend to be maintained at 102.08p remuneration paid to the Board during the 2017 18 financial approved at the annual general meeting in 2015 and received year and how we will apply the new policy for the forthcoming Good progress with international expansion, with seven 97.77% of the votes held in favour.
year 2018 19 international contracts won to date Following a detailed review, the committee considers that the Bus contract in Singapore delivering high performance levels current policy remains largely fit for purpose, with many best Executive performance and reward Ongoing mobilisation of the German rail contracts practice features including additional holding periods on vested progressing well At the request of the two executive directors, a 25% reduction to long term incentives, malus and clawback.
The committee would, the payout from the 2017 18 annual performance-related bonus Southeastern franchise extended to 1 April 2019 and however, like to take the opportunity to make a few minor changes, shortlisted to bid for the new South Eastern franchise has been applied.
Both executive directors declined their annual all of which are intended to bring the policy further in line with best performance-related bonuses in full last year and the Group Chief Highest ever Bus Passenger Survey satisfaction score of and market practice while also allowing for a modest amount of Executive has declined his bonus in full for the last two 91% in regional bus additional flexibility in the way the policy is operated.
Operational performance at GTR had steadily Launched the UKs largest demand-responsive trial consulted with major shareholders and shareholder representative Our policy on executive improved throughout 2017 18 prior to the introduction of the May Contracts secured to commercialise our expertise in bodies on the main changes proposed as outlined below: timetable changes, and indeed has now stabilised.
The executive remuneration is clear, transparent smart-ticketing and payment solutions directors request was in recognition of the severe disruption the Annual bonus to include flexibility in the choice and weighting and aligned to the successful new timetable caused our passengers for the last six weeks of ofmetrics.
The metrics used will be aligned to the Groups 2017 18. strategic objectives, with the majority of the bonus subject to delivery of our strategy.
Focus for the year ahead challenging financial targets and no more than 25% of the The committee assessed the 2017 18 annual performance-related For the year ahead, the committees primary focus will be maximum being payable at threshold on any element bonus against both financial 75% and strategic 25% measures.
continuing to ensure that our overall remuneration policy is Katherine Innes Ker, Long term incentives to include flexibility around performance Based on this assessment, an annual performance-related bonus structured to support both the financial objectives and strategic Remuneration Committee Chair conditions measured over a period of at least three years.
In of 91% of maximum bonus 136.5% of salary could have been priorities of the Group.
The committee spends a large proportion thefuture, these may include both the current financial payable.
The committee considered performance against the of its time discussing performance measures and outcomes, the metricsof growth in earnings per share EPS and relative total health and safety underpin and determined that this had been met context of which is framed by a number of considerations including shareholder return TSR, and non-financial metrics selected on account of health and safety performance having been the wider political environment and economy, the market in which topromote the long term success of the Group.
The committee maintained during the year.
However, considering the context of we operate and how the Group and individual directors perform.
would consult with the Groups major shareholders before overall Group performance, it was agreed that downward Our overarching objective remains unchanged: that is to ensure making any significant change to the measures used during the discretion should be applied in respect of the rail customer service we continue to attract and retain the highest quality leaders who life of the new policy underpin, which had not been met, in addition to recognising the are incentivised to deliver the Groups strategic aims whilst On behalf of the Board, I am Greater clarity in our approach to setting the remuneration of unsatisfactory introduction of the GTR May timetable changes.
balancing reward, performance and stakeholder interests.
pleased to present the directors new executive directors.
This may include the timing and The committee therefore accepted the executive directors request Another key focus area will be to ensure compliance with measures used for incentive awards made in the first year of remuneration report for the year to reduce the overall bonus payable by 25%, resulting in an actual regulatory requirements, including the new 2018 UK Corporate appointment, depending on the timing of appointment, or setting ended 30 June 2018. bonus of 68.3% of maximum bonus 102.4% of salary being Governance Code.
Our objective will be to adopt best practice as salaries at a level to allow future salary progression to reflect payable 2017: nil.
For the Group Chief Executive, the 25% early as possible, and before we are required to in 2020, wherever performance in the role reduction amounted to 193,666. practicable.
We will review the pay ratio information in relation to Increase in the shareholding requirement to 200% of base salary the total remuneration of the Group Chief Executive compared to for executive directors, to be achieved by the retention of at least The Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP award, granted to the Group our UK workforce.
While the expanded remuneration committee 50% of the net of tax gain on vested long term incentive awards Chief Executive in November 2015, will lapse in full from November Single remuneration figure 000 remit to set pay for all senior management will not represent a until the shareholding has been reached currently this is 2018 as none of the performance measures were achieved following change for us in practice, we will also be seeking to receive The total single remuneration figure for our executive applicable for the Group Chief Executive only the three year performance period ending on 30June 2018. greater oversight of wider pay practices across the Group.
directors for the year ended 30 June 2018 is shown below: In operating the proposed new policy, Go-Ahead would continue to Both the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial 2018 2017 ensure that its implementation reflects best practice and would Officer received an inflationary increase of 2.7% to their base Group Chief Executive consult with shareholders on planned changes where appropriate salaries from 1 April 2018, this being no more than the average David Brown 1,175 782 to do so.
At last years Annual General Meeting, 99.50% of the inflationary increase awarded to all employees across the Group.
Katherine Innes Ker, votes cast supported the resolution to approve our annual report Group Chief Financial Officer Remuneration Committee Chair on remuneration.
Patrick Butcher 630 422 Departure of the Group Chief Financial Officer I appreciate the time various shareholders and their representative Restated from last year to reflect actual value of the 2014 15 Shortly after the 2017 18 year end, the Board was informed of the 5 September 2018 LTIPaward which vested in November 2017.
See page 94 for bodies have given to considering our new proposed policy.
Group Chief Financial Officers intention to leave the Group later information.
this year to take up the role of Chief Financial Officer at Capita plc.
Our new remuneration policy is set out on pages 87 to 93.
82 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 83 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Q&A with Katherine Innes Ker In addition to assessing performance against specific What are the main elements of Go-Aheads About this report targets, the committee always considers the Groups remuneration framework?
Q performance as a whole when deciding levels of payout This report sets out the Groups policy on remuneration for executive and non-executive directors, to be proposed to shareholders There are three main elements of executive directors for the annual performance-related bonus, LTIP and any at the annual general meeting on 1 November 2018, from which date the policy will apply if approved.
While the policy remains remuneration: salary increases.
This is to ensure that overall largely unchanged from that approved by shareholders in 2015, there are a number of minor changes which are intended to bring remuneration is not based just on a formulaic approach Fixed element: comprises base salary, taxable the policy in line with best and market practice.
A summary of the main changes is set out on page 83.
Once approved, this policy benefits e. g. family healthcare and, for the Group alone, but also reflects Group and individual director may operate for up to three years.
The annual performance-related bonus Chief Financial Officer only, a non-pensionable cash This report also describes the implementation of the remuneration policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2015 annual supplement of 13% ofbase salary and LTIP are both subject to recovery clawback and general meeting and sets out the remuneration received by the directors for the year ended 30 June 2018. withholding malus provisions for three years following Short term element: an annual performance-related the award.
bonus which incentivises and rewards the delivery of a This directors remuneration report complies with the Companies Act 2006, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies balanced selection of financial and non-financial and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and Page 85 sets out the key decisions made by the committee targets over the financial year.
Half of this bonus is during the year.
applies the main principles relating to remuneration which are set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code published in April 2016 paid in cash and half is paid in shares deferred for a the Code.
period of three years What is the committees approach to Long term element: a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP remuneration of the wider workforce?
Q which incentivises financial performance over athree The remuneration committees year 2017 18 As well as being responsible for determining the year period, promoting long term sustainable value remuneration of the executive directors, the committee creation.
Vested shares from this plan must also be also oversees the remuneration of the senior retained other than to pay tax or NICs due on receipt management team, which is the first layer below Board of the shares for a further twoyears Set targets for 2017 18 annual performance-related bonus taking into account long term strategy level.
The committee receives and discusses proposals July andreviewoutcomes What is the committees approach to from the executive directors on the salary and annual remuneration?
performance-related bonuses for the senior Q management team before they are approved and paid.
The key principles underpinning the committees Set targets for 2017 18 LTIP award Bonuses for the senior management team are paid on a August approachto executive remuneration are: prioritising long Agreed to undertake a remuneration committee advisor review with delegation to a sub-committee cash and deferred share basis, with deferred shares to be term shareholder and wider stakeholder value: assessing Approved the directors remuneration report for the year ended 1 July 2017 held for a period of three years.
performance through a balanced range of measures: ensuring there is a clear link between the performance In determining the executive directors remuneration, Completed remuneration committee advisor review and formally approved continued appointment of ofthe Group and payments made to the executive thecommittee takes into account general trends in November NewBridge Street NBS part of Aon plc directors: designing remuneration and incentives which remuneration across the Group as a whole.
The Reviewed overall remuneration policy for senior management are aligned with the Groups risk policies and systems: committee seeks to ensure that the underlying principles Approved the annual performance-related bonuses of senior management for the year ended 1July2017 and structuring incentives to support Go-Aheads vision which support its decisions on the executive directors and culture by focusing on both individual and collective remuneration are consistent with those that relate to Board accountability.
decisions on the pay of the wider workforce.
In practice, the executive directors remuneration is more heavily The committee thoroughly assesses the performance Detailed review of executive remuneration policy weighted towards variable pay and therefore is linked to measures and targets for the annual performanceFebruary Approved recommendation of annual share plans hedging review the Groups performance than the pay of other related bonus and LTIP to ensure that they are Reviewed and approved terms of reference colleagues which is principally driven by market appropriate and support our strategy to create long term Considered and noted senior management salary review from 1 April 2018 comparators and individual experience and performance.
value for all our stakeholder groups.
Specifically, Group Considered and approved Chairmans fees from 1 April 2018 profit, cash, and individual strategic goals are key What is the committees approach to the new performance indicators for the annual performancerelated bonus.
A quality of earnings review and a health Q corporate governance reforms?
Ongoing review of executive remuneration policy and safety threshold underpin also apply to the overall April The committee has kept abreast of governance bonus.
Consideration is given to other relevant underpins developments, particularly concerning the proposed on an annual basis, such as the additional rail customer changes to the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Ongoing review of executive remuneration policy service threshold we included in 2016 17 and 2017 18.
During the year, we specifically discussed the proposals that June Review of executive director share ownership guidelines For LTIP, the current key performance indicators are would have the biggest impact on the remuneration growth in adjusted earnings, total shareholder return and Reviewed estimated outcome of the 2017 18 annual performance-related bonus and vesting of the 2015 16 committee.
This included the expanded remuneration LTIP award customer satisfaction ratings.
committee remit, CEO pay ratios, reporting on committee Reviewed and approved changes to share scheme rules in the context of the General Data discretions, share price impact on long term incentive All of our performance metrics are linked directly to the ProtectionRegulation outcomes and the requirement for companies to take action Groups specific objectives supporting progress in each of where significant shareholder opposition has been received.
our three core strategy pillars: to protect and grow the Asa result, the committee believes that it is well positioned core business: win new bus and rail contracts and to comply with the changes which have beenrecently develop for the future of transport.
published in the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
84 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 85 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration 2017 18 at a glance Policy element Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Executive directors remuneration actual vs policy 000 Base salary with effect from 1 April 2018 567,520 387,590 The charts below show a comparison of the total single remuneration figure received by the executive directors for the year ended 30 June 2018 compared with the maximum reward opportunity that was available under Go-Aheads remuneration policy.
David Brown Patrick Butcher % increase from prior year 2.7% 2.7% Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Fixed Bonus LTIP Other remuneration Fixed Bonus LTIP Pension Does not receive any form Receives a non-pensionable cash Actual 1,175 Actual 630 of pension provision supplement of 13% of base salary Max 2,275 Max 1,410 2017 18 annual performance-related bonus Maximum opportunity % of salary 150% 150% The value of the gross cumulative dividend payment in relation to the 2014 15 deferred share bonus award which vested in November 2017 following the Actual bonus % of salary 102.4% 102.4% end of the three year deferral period Cash amount 290,500 198,398 Amount satisfied in shares 290,500 Remuneration policy report More information on page 95 The Groups remuneration policy Policy is set out in this section.
This Policy, as determined by the remuneration committee, willbe put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 1 November 2018.
The new Policy, which is set out on pages 87 to 93 inclusive, will take effect from the conclusion of the AGM subject to shareholder approval.
This Policy supersedes that 2015 16 LTIP award approved by shareholders in2015.
Maximum opportunity % of salary 150% Not applicable.
The 2015 16 LTIP The new Policy remains essentially unchanged from that which was approved at the 2015 annual general meeting and details of award was granted prior to the Number of shares initially granted 32,618 the proposed changes are set out in the Remuneration Committee Chairs letter on page 83.
Group Chief Financial Officer Number of shares vested Nil vesting commencing employment Number of shares lapsed 32,618 Balance we assess performance through a balanced range of Remuneration linked to strategy measures to ensure we cover all aspects of our executive The committee believes it is very important that our overall More information on page 97 directors performance.
Policyis structured to support both the financial objectives and thestrategic priorities of the Group in a manner which is aligned Pay for performance there is a clear link between the with shareholders and stakeholders long term interests.
The performance of the Group and payments made to the executive keyprinciples underpinning our new Policy remain unchanged directors and senior managers.
Performance-related elements of Total single figure remuneration 1,174,426 630,448 asfollows: remuneration are relevant, transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Care is taken to avoid paying more than necessary and Prioritising long term shareholder value a large proportion of due regard is given to pay and employment conditions elsewhere the executive directors remuneration is payable in shares.
Half of Shareholding requirement 200% of base salary 200% of base salary this year, the in the Group.
the total annual performance-related bonus is awarded as Group Chief Financial Officers deferred shares, to be held for a period of three years and subject Risk remuneration incentives are designed to be aligned with the shareholding requirement has to recovery and withholding provisions.
Awards under the LTIP are Groups risk policies and systems.
increased from 150% to 200% also made in shares, further aligning the interests of our executive Culture incentives are structured to support Go-Aheads vision directors with those of our shareholders.
Awards granted under and culture by focusing on both individual director and collective the LTIP are subject to an additional two year holding period Board accountability.
With alignment to our strategic objectives, following the vesting of awards.
Current shareholding as at 30 June 2018 234% 33% we target long term sustainable performance, with fair as a % of base salary recruitment and leaver policies.
Chairman and non-executive director fees Chairman and non-executive director fees were increased by 2.7% from 1 April 2018 86 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 87 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration policy table for executive directors Element & Purpose & maximum link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Base salary Salary is the core reward for the Paid monthly in cash Annual salary increases for executive directors n a role and enables the Group to will not normally exceed the average increase Salaries are set by the committee which reviews all the relevant factors, including: recruit and retain individuals of awarded to other UK based employees The scope of the role and responsibilities the calibre required to deliver its However, larger increases may be awarded in Experience in post, skills and potential strategic objectives and lead its certain circumstances, including but not limited to: Sustained performance in the role management team, without Increase in scope of responsibilities of the role Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group paying more than is necessary To apply salary progression for a newly Appropriate market data Base salary also reflects the appointed director Salaries are normally reviewed annually individuals skills, expertise, Where a directors salary has fallen The committee may also review salaries on an ad hoc basis if an executive director experience and role within the significantly below market position is promoted and or there is an increase in their responsibilities Group PerformanceFocuses on the key strategic Normally, annual non-pensionable payments made after the AGM Maximum of 150% of salary The committee will review performance measures and targets at the start of the related bonus objectives for the year ahead year.
Performance criteria will be aligned to the Group strategic objectives at that Half of any bonus is normally paid in cash following the AGM and half is paid in time.
The majority of the bonus will be subject to challenging financial targets Deferral of half of bonus into shares deferred for a period of three years Group shares aligns executive Performance below threshold results in zero payment, with no more than 25% Based on the achievement of specific financial and non-financial objectives directors interests with those of 1 bonus available at threshold.
Payments rise from 0% to 100% of the maximum Subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following the award shareholders opportunity levels for performance between threshold and maximum targets A quality of earnings review applies to the full bonus A health and safely underpin applies to the full bonus which enables the committee to exercise its discretion to reduce or not pay a bonus if health and safety performance is not satisfactory Long Term Aligned to the strategic objectives Annual grant of performance shares that vest three years after grant subject to Maximum of 150% of salary for the Group Chief Awards will be granted subject to a combination of financial and or non-financial Incentive Plan of the Group to deliver long term the satisfaction of performance conditions Executive and 100% of salary for other executive measures, tested over a period of at least three years.
Performance conditions LTIP returns to shareholders directors will measure the long term success of the Group Participation and individual award levels will be determined at the discretion of the committee within the Policy Exceptional circumstances maximum e. g. on In respect of each performance measure, performance below the threshold recruitment of 200% of salary results in zero vesting.
The starting point for the vesting of each performance Vested awards must be retained other than to pay tax or NICs due on receipt of element will be no higher than 25% and rises on a straight line basis to 100% for the shares for two further years 1 attainment of levels of performance between threshold and maximum targets.
Subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following vesting There is no opportunity to retest The committee has the discretion in certain circumstances to grant and or settle The committee may introduce or reweight performance measures so that they are an award in cash.
In practice this will only be used in exceptional circumstances directly aligned with the Groups strategic objectives for each performance period for executive directors Performance metrics currently include compound annual growth in adjusted earnings Dividend equivalents may be paid 2 per share EPS and relative total shareholder return TSR with each accounting for at least 25% of the award.
The committee has the discretion to vary the weighting and choice of metrics including the comparator groups prior to each award.
However, it would consult with shareholders before introducing significantly different metrics 3 Pension Provides a cash alternative to Monthly, non-pensionable payment, normally paid in cash Up to 15% of salary may be provided n a allowance pension contributions in line with market practice Other benefits Ensures package is competitive Incorporates various cash non cash benefits which may include: family private Benefits are intended to be market competitive n a with market practice and healthcare, death in service and life assurance cover 4x base salary, free travel but are not subject to a maximum as the cost of employees have a minimum level on the Groups services and professional membership subscriptions providing the insured benefits is set by third party of insured benefits providers and can vary from year to year Any reasonable business related expense including tax thereon can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit Executive directors are eligible for other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms All employee Executive directors are eligible to Executive directors may participate in these plans in line with HMRC Participation levels operate in accordance with n a share plans participate in HMRC approved all guidelinescurrently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as other HMRC limits as amended from time to time employee schemes which eligible employees encourage share ownership 4 Share To align the financial interests of Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post tax gain on vested LTIP 200% of salary holding for both directors n a ownership the executive directors with those and deferred share awards until such time as the executive directors have a of shareholders holding of 200% of base salary 1.
Recovery and withholding provisions may be applied as a result of misconduct, material misstatement or error in calculation of performance.
The current Group Chief Executive does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group.
The Group Chief Financial Officer receives a cash allowance of 2.
In line with our commitment to transparent reporting, EPS is reported on a statutory basis.
Where targets have been based on adjusted EPS EPS before 13% of salary.
amortisation and exceptional items, vesting will be determined by a calculation on an adjusted basis, based on reported Group operating profit adding back 4.
This year, the Group Chief Financial Officers shareholding requirement has increased from 150% to 200%.
amortisation and any exceptional items, which is consistent with prior years.
88 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 89 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Making the appropriate adjustments required in certain Considerations when determining remuneration policy circumstances e. g. change of control, rights issues, corporate Performance measure selection The remuneration committee considers shareholder feedback and restructuring events, and special dividends guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally With the exception of base salary, benefits, pension allowance and participation in all employee share plans, all other elements of Determining good leaver status for incentive plan purposes and when reviewing remuneration policy, in addition to best practice the remuneration packages of the executive directors are linked to performance.
A significant proportion of executive directors applying the appropriate treatment and the Code.
potential remuneration is therefore performance-related.
Undertaking the annual review of performance measures and A substantial proportion of the executive directors pay is In choosing the performance metrics and targets we ensure that there is a strong and demonstrable link between management their weightings, and setting targets for the annual performance-related, with half of the annual bonus also normally incentives and the Groups strategic objectives.
We have also set a performance-based framework for remuneration which is performance-related bonus and LTIP from year to year subject to deferral into the Groups shares.
A broad range of consistent with the Groups scale and unique structure.
This enables the executive directors and senior managers to share in the Ability to recognise exceptional events within existing financial and non-financial targets is included in our incentive long term success of the Group without delivering excessive benefits or encouraging short termism or excessive risk taking.
It also performance conditions structure and recovery and withholding provisions apply to both aligns their interests with those of our shareholders.
the annual performance-related bonus and LTIP.
In addition, If an event occurs which results in the annual performanceThe choice of performance measures for the annual performance-related bonus is based on a mixture of financial, non-financial awards granted under the LTIP since 2015 are subject to an related bonus or LTIP performance conditions and or targets and strategic targets, with a clear alignment to the Groups key strategic objectives for the year ahead.
The choice of performance additional two year holding period following the vesting of awards.
being deemed no longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or measures for the long term incentive plan is a combination of financial and non-financial measures, aligned to the strategic divestment, the committee will have the ability to adjust Working with the audit committee, the remuneration committee objectives of the Group, to deliver long term returns to shareholders and measured over a three year period.
appropriately the measures and or targets and alter weightings, ensures that risk is properly considered in setting the overall provided that the revised conditions or targets are not materially The charts below provide estimates of the potential future reward opportunity for the executive directors split between fixed, target remuneration policy.
The executive directors are also incentivised less difficult to satisfy.
The scenarios do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
They also do to take environmental, social and governance matters seriously not take into account that the Group Chief Financial Officer will be leaving the Group later this year.
and to consider the long term implications of their decision The committee would only expect to exercise discretion to making.
Accordingly, in line with the Investment Association dealwith exceptional circumstances and would always provide Total remuneration by performance scenario for 2018 19 financial year 000 Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the committee contextand explanation of the extent to which the discretion has linked a proportion of the annual performance-related bonus hasbeen used.
Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer to the achievement of safety and good governance objectives.
Outstanding share incentive awards that remain unvested or Fixed Bonus LTIP Fixed Bonus LTIP In setting the remuneration policy the committee considers the unexercised at the date of this report, as detailed on pages 99 to remuneration packages offered to colleagues across the Group as 101, remain eligible for vesting or exercise based on their original well as the senior management team.
As a point of principle, award terms.
Fixed 571 Fixed 440 salaries, benefits, pensions and other elements of remuneration are benchmarked regularly to ensure they remain competitive in Consistency with remuneration for the wider Group the markets in which we operate.
Target 1,210 Target 828 Remuneration arrangements are determined throughout the As would be expected, we have differences in pay and benefits Group based on the same principles: that reward should be sufficient to attract and retain high calibre talent and that reward across the businesses which reflect individual responsibility, Max 2,275 Max 1,410 market and geographical location.
When considering annual salary should support the delivery of business strategy.
The committee reviews the remuneration for those colleagues immediately below increases, the committee reviews the proposals for salary increases for the colleague population generally, as it does for any the executive directors to ensure that this incentivises the delivery The assumptions underlying each scenario are described below: of the Groups strategy and business objectives.
other changes to remuneration policy being considered.
Fixed remuneration: base salary as at 1 April 2018, benefits as received in 2017 18 and, for the Group Chief Financial Officer only, The committee did not formally consult with colleagues when Through our devolved structure, local management is empowered the value of his pension allowance.
drawing up the directors remuneration policy.
However, the to create tailored remuneration packages on an individual committee considers any informal feedback through colleague business-by-business basis.
As a result, the components and Target: fixed remuneration plus half of the maximum annual performance-related bonus award 75% of base salary plus threshold engagement surveys or other channels.
The Board has already levels of remuneration for different colleagues will differ from the vesting under the LTIP awards 37.5% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 25% of base salary for the Group Chief started to consider how we can improve engagement with our policy for executive directors as set out above.
For the remuneration committee specifically, this receive bonus, pension and share awards which vary according to Maximum: fixed remuneration plus the maximum annual performance-related bonus award 150% of base salary plus full vesting willalso include matters of executive pay and wider company the local business and market practice.
The maximum provision of LTIP awards 150% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer.
and incentive opportunity available are determined by the seniority and responsibility of the role.
Committee discretions Participation in the LTIP is currently limited to executive directors A new colleague may be granted a normal annual LTIP award Recruitment remuneration The committee operates the Groups variable incentive plans only, while participation in the deferred share bonus plan is limited shortly following appointment assuming the Group is not in a On appointing a new executive director, the committee would seek according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC to executive directors and senior management.
closed period in addition to any awards made to compensate for to align the remuneration package for the relevant individual with rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of awards from previous employment being forfeited.
It is an important part of Go-Aheads values that all colleagues, not the Groups remuneration policy as set out on pages 87 to 93.
It these plans, the committee will apply certain operational just management, have the opportunity to become shareholders in would aim not to pay more than necessary to secure the right discretions.
These include the following: Where a newly appointed executive director is required to relocate, the Group.
All colleagues with at least six months continuous candidate and the package would take into account the experience the committee may provide an allowance or reimbursement of any Selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis service have the opportunity to participate in our Share Incentive and calibre of the individual concerned.
The remuneration package reasonable expenses including tax thereon.
Any ongoing costs Plan and Save As You Earn schemes.
Determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment for a new executive director would be set in accordance with the will be met by the Group for a period of normally no more than Determining the quantum of awards and or payments within terms of the approved remuneration policy in force at the time of 12months.
the limits set out in the policy table on pages 88 and 89 appointment.
Salaries would reflect the skills of the individual, and For an overseas appointment, the committee will have discretion to Determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment may but not necessarily be set at a level to allow future salary offer cost-effective benefits and pension provisions which reflect progression to reflect performance in the role.
ofperformance local market practice and relevant legislation.
Any executive director Depending on the timing of the appointment, the committee may promoted internally may remain eligible for payments under deem it appropriate to set different annual performance-related incentive plans joined and or contractual arrangements entered into bonus or LTIP performance conditions to the current executive before joining the Board.
However, the committee will have regard directors for the first performance year of appointment.
to best practice in reviewing the treatment of any such entitlements.
90 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 91 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Recruitment remuneration continued Policy table for Chairman and non-executive directors The committee assesses on an individual basis whether it is necessary to compensate executive directors for incentives lost from their The remuneration policy for the Chairman and the non-executive directors is set out in the table below.
Non-executive directors are previous employers.
The level and timing of such compensation will normally seek to reflect or take account of the value, term and not involved in any discussions or decisions about their own remuneration.
performance conditions of the payments or awards forgone on a like-for-like basis.
Compensation will normally take the form of conditional awards or options over Group shares but cash and or time vested payments Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation may be made where the committee believes these would offer better value for money for shareholders.
Existing arrangements will be Fees The basic fee for the Chairman and non-executive The remuneration of the non-executive directors used where possible: however, the committee also reserves the ability to make use of the flexibility provided under the Listing Rules directors is a fixed annual fee commensurate with takes the form solely of fees, which are set without prior shareholder approval.
The committee is sensitive to investor concerns about such arrangements and will endeavour to take the time each director is expected to spend on the annually by the Board cost effective approaches.
Groups business and with the responsibility The level of fees set is subject to the current assumed as director of a listed company The appointment terms of non-executive directors will be on terms substantially similar to those of the existing non-executive directors limits as set out in the Groups articles of and in accordance with the remuneration policy in force at the time.
Fees are set at a level to attract and retain association currently aggregate fees of 500,000 individuals with appropriate expertise to for all non-executive directors complement the Groups strategy Service agreements of executive directors Fees are reviewed annually each year with reference to comparable listed companies The Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Officer entered into a service agreement with The Go-Ahead Group plc on 1April 2011 and 14 March 2016 respectively.
The term of each service agreement is undefined and is terminable by either the Group on Additional fees Additional fees may be paid to non-executive Non-executive directors are not eligible to one year notice or by the executive director on six months notice.
The directors service agreements are available for inspection at the payable for duties directors who are chair of a Board committee  remuneration or Groups registered office.
The service contract policy for a new appointment will be on similar terms as existing executive directors, with and or who occupy the role of Senior Independent pension entitlements or to participate in share the facility to include a notice period of no more than 12 months.
Director to reflect the additional responsibility and option schemes time commitment required Non-executive directors may also be Departure of executive directors providedwith limited travel, hospitality and accommodation expenses Executive directors service agreements contain a provision, exercisable at the discretion of the Group, to pay an amount in lieu of notice on early termination of the agreement.
Such payments are limited to base salary plus pension allowance and other benefits such as Letters of appointment for Chairman and non-executive directors family private healthcare and life assurance cover, but would not automatically include entitlement to bonus or share awards.
Each non-executive director has a letter of appointment which provides for a notice period of six months.
The terms of appointment The Group can also pay legal fees and outplacement services.
There are no provisions for special pension benefits, such as beneficial contain no entitlement to compensation for early termination.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Groups early retirement terms.
Other than the notice periods specified above, the executive directors are not due any contractual compensation registered office during normal business hours and will also be available for inspection prior to and during the AGM.
payments in the event of early termination of a service agreement.
The committee believes that the agreements provide appropriate protection of the interests of shareholders when negotiating a termination, at which time the committee would take into account the The contract dates and notice periods for the non-executive directors are shown in the table below: departing directors duty to mitigate his her loss when determining the amount of any compensation.
Director Date of service agreement Notice period from the Group Notice period from the director Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months 6 months Loss of office payments Katherine Innes Ker July 2010 6 months 6 months The treatment of remuneration for executive directors whose service with Go-Ahead terminates will be considered on a case-by-case Adrian Ewer April 2013 6 months 6 months basis.
However, the table below sets out the treatment of elements of remuneration that would normally apply: Harry Holt October 2017 6 months 6 months Reason for Retirement, redundancy, disability, death or change Other termination of ownership or as otherwise determined by the committee leavers Leanne Wood October 2017 6 months 6 months Salary and contractual Payment equal to the aggregate of the base salary and the value of Paid to date of termination, benefits any contractual benefits for the notice period including any accrued including pay for any accrued Retirement and re-election of directors or untaken holiday but untaken holiday Performance-related bonus Bonus awarded subject to satisfaction of performance targets for No award for year In accordance with the Groups articles of association and the provisions of the Code, all directors are required to submit themselves for cash the relevant financial year, pro-rated accordingly for the period of oftermination re-election at each AGM.
Accordingly, all directors will be submitting themselves for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
employment to the date of cessation of employment and normally paid in cash External appointments Performance-related bonus Awards normally vest in accordance with normal timetable with the Awards lapse in full on In accordance with their service agreements, the executive directors are able to accept external appointments and are permitted deferred shares exception of death or ill-health retirement cases which are reviewed cessation of employment to retain any fees paid for such services, provided that approval is given by the Board.
The Group Chief Executive is a director of the by the committee on a case-by-case basis Rail Delivery Group Limited and ATOC Limited and he does not receive any fees for either of these roles.
He is also a non-executive Unvested LTIP awards Awards normally vest at the normal vesting date unless the Awards lapse in full on director of Renew Holdings plc for which he received 39,514 for the period 2 July 2017 to 30 June 2018.
The Group Chief Financial remuneration committee determines the award should vest on the cessation of employment Officer does not have any external appointments.
date of cessation of employment The amount of award vesting will be subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions and will normally be reduced pro rata to reflect time elapsed between grant and cessation of employment although the committee has discretion to waive pro-rating where it believes it would be appropriate to do so 92 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 93 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual report on remuneration Commentary on the executive directors single figure table: The remuneration committee presents the annual report on remuneration which, together with the annual statement from the Remuneration Committee Chair, will be putto 1.
Salary shareholders as an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on Base salary levels for the executive directors are shown below and will remain in place until April 2019 when they will be reviewedagain: 1November 2018.
From From % Executive director 1 April 2018 1 April 2017 Increase Group Chief Executive, David Brown 567,520 552,600 2.7 The annual report on remuneration is divided into three sections: Group Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Butcher 387,590 377,400 2.7 Section 1: Single figure tables 2.
Taxable benefits Section 2: Additional information on 2017 18 remuneration The taxable benefit for the executive directors comprises family healthcare membership.
Section 3: Implementation of remuneration policy in 2018 19 3.
Cash bonus and deferred share bonus annual performance-related bonus The table below illustrates the components of the annual performance-related bonus award at maximum and actual payouts for business objectives set at the start of the year.
Based on the assessment of performance against targets, the executive directors could have been awarded an overall bonus of 91% of maximum bonus 136.5% of salary.
In accordance with the executive directors request to The external auditor has reported on certain sections of this report and stated whether, in their opinion, those sections have been reduce any annual performance-related bonus by 25%, the committee exercised discretion and reduced the executive directors award by properly prepared.
Those sections which have been subject to audit are clearly indicated.
25% resulting in an actual bonus of 68.3% of maximum bonus 102.4% of salary being payable.
Half of this bonus is payable in cash and half is awarded as deferred shares to be held for a period of three years.
The full bonus is subject to recovery and withholding provisions for three years following vesting.
The Group Chief Financial Officer will not receive the deferred shares element of this bonus on account Section 1: Single figure tables of his cessation of employment later this year.
Weighting Actual payout Executive directors single figure table audited Metric Performance measure percentage of maximum Achieved percentage of salary The table below summarises all remuneration that was earned by each executive director during the year.
Group profit Group operating profit 65% 65% 97.5% The remuneration committee reviews all incentive awards prior to payment and uses judgement to ensure that the final assessments of 2017 18 performance are fair and appropriate.
Group cashflow Net debt after adding 10% 10% 15% back restricted cash Short term incentives Performance-related bonuses Long term Single total Strategic KPIs See page 96 25% 16% 24% Taxable Deferred incentives Pension Other remuneration 1 2 3 3 4 5 6 Total before discretion 100% 91% 136.5% Salary benefits Cash bonus share bonus LTIP allowance remuneration figure 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Total after discretion 75% 68.3% 102.4% Group Chief Executive, 2018 556 3 291 291 34 1,175 David Brown The following tables illustrate in more detail the actual performance against each individual metric.
This is before the committee 2017 545 3 220 14 782 exercised their discretion to reduce the bonus by 25% at the executive directors request.
Group Chief Financial 2018 380 2 198 50 630 Officer, Patrick Butcher 2017 372 2 48 422 Group operating profit Restated from last year to reflect the actual value of the 2014 15 LTIP award which vested in November 2017.
This was 186,970 2017 estimation: 206,093 The Group operating profit target for the 2017 18 financial year was as shown below, with payout on a sliding scale: basedon the share price as at 22 November 2017 of 16.23.
The cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment was as disclosed last year, being33,169.
Measure Target Weighting % of bonus Actual payout Group operating profit 2017 18 Threshold vesting 111.9m 0% Target vesting 117.8m 50% 100% Maximum vesting 135.4m 100% The actual Group operating profit, before exceptional items, for the year ended 30 June 2018 was 135.9m, resulting in the maximumpayout.
Cashflow For Group cashflow defined as net debt after adding back restricted cash, the target for the 2017 18 financial year was 318m.
Actual net debt after adding back restricted cash was 289.0m 2017: 285.8m, resulting in the maximum payout: Measure Target Weighting % of bonus Actual payout Net debt 2017 18 Target Vesting 318m 0% 100% Maximum Vesting 302m 100% 94 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 95 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Strategic KPIs 4.
Nil vesting of 2015 16 LTIP award Group Chief Executive only For the 25% of performance-related bonus attributable to strategic KPIs, objectives were all aligned to the strategic objectives agreed at The table below summarises the performance conditions forthe Group Chief Executives 2015 16 LTIP award and the actual the 2017 Group Board Strategy Day.
The committee discussed each of the strategic KPIs, where the maximum vesting for each of the five performance achieved.
This award was subject to performance conditions measured over the three financial years ending with the key measures was 5%.
It was agreed that 16% out of the maximum 25% should vest and further details are shown below.
Measure Target Decision As shown below, none of the performance measures were achieved for this award.
Protect and grow Develop strategies to grow bus passenger numbers 3% The customer service targets for rail and bus each with 10% target respectively were measured by the independent passenger the core Secure contract wins in London watchdog Transport Focus formerly Passenger Focus : Maximise value from London Midland franchise For the rail customer service target, which was measured as the average customer satisfaction score across the Groups train Secure extension to Southeastern franchise and submit bid for new franchise operating companies, the benchmark was the London and South East Sector NRPS score, with the threshold being the Spring 2015 Stabilise GTR contract performance and set pathway to profitability London and South East Sector NRPS of 78%.
The target was to increase the score to 82% over the three year performance period.
The Spring 2018 score for the Groups train operating companies was 75% and therefore there was 0% vesting for this Win new bus and Win a second bus contract in Singapore 3% rail contracts element of the award.
Win a further contract in Germany and continue successful mobilisation of Netz1 Lots 2 and 3 For the bus customer service target, the threshold was to maintain the 2015 Bus Passenger Survey score of 90%, with the target to Explore international bus and rail opportunities increase the score to 93% over the three year performance period.
The 2018 score for the Group was 91% and so 40% could have been Develop for the Assess, resource and fund six strategic projects, which have clear project plans and are 5% achieved for this element of the award.
However, there was an additional profit threshold for the customer service target, which was future of transport starting to deliver benefits that earnings per share EPS growth over the three year period must be greater than RPI 5%.
For the year ended 30 June 2018, Change themes Lean make further progress rolling out lean across operating companies and set KPIs to 3% EPSgrowth was 3.40% resulting in 0% vesting for the customer service element of the award.
monitor performance Technology roll out contactless across regional bus and implement new bus app Performance conditions and actual performance achieved for the 2015 16 LTIP award Compound Relative TSR vs Culture change improve colleague engagement as demonstrated through survey results EPS payout annual growth in Payout FTSE 250 excluding Payout % of each Rail customer Bus customer % of each element adjusted EPS % of TSR element certain sectors customer element service target service target Leadership introduce professional development hours and personal development plans for all senior management team Weighting 40% 40% 10% 10% % of total Reputation Ensure that Go-Aheads reputation is enhanced with key stakeholders 2% award Restore investor confidence in Go-Ahead Below 0% Less than RPI 0% Below median 0% Less than 78% Less than 90% threshold 5% p. a.
Health and safety target threshold Threshold 10% RPI 5% p. a.
25% Median 10% 78% 90% The annual performance-related bonus includes a health and safety underpin that enables the committee to use its discretion to reduce Between Between Between RPI Between 25% Between Between 10% Between 78% Between 90% bonus payments potentially to zero should it be considered appropriate.
The committee concluded that no scaling back of bonus was threshold 10% and 100% 5% p. a. and RPI and 100% median and and 100% and 82% and 93% required in light of the Groups health and safety performance having been maintained during the year.
and maximum 13% p. a. upper quartile Maximum 100% RPI 13% p. a.
100% Upper quartile 100% 82% 93% Rail customer service threshold Adjusted EPS 94th out of 122 75% 91% There was an additional underpin that enabled the committee to use its discretion if customer satisfaction across the Groups train of 181.6p.
live companies Performance operating companies in Spring 2018 was less than the London and South East Sector National Rail Passenger Survey NRPS score of From a base of achieved 82% in Spring 2017.
The Spring 2018 NRPS score for the Groups train operating companies was 75%.
In accordance with the executive 169.6p this is directors request, the committee exercised discretion and reduced the overall annual performance-related bonus by 25%.
Actual % 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% vesting In line with our commitment to transparent reporting, EPS and Group operating profit are now reported on a statutory basis.
At the time of this LTIP award, the targets were based on adjusted EPS and adjusted Group operating profit before amortisation and exceptional items.
The vesting of the 2015 16 LTIP award has therefore been calculated on an adjusted basis, based on reported Group operating profit adding back amortisation and any exceptional items, which is consistent with prior years.
96 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 97 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 5.
Pension allowance Section 2: Additional information on 2017 18 remuneration The Group Chief Financial Officer receives a non-pensionable cash supplement of 13% of his base salary.
The Group Chief Executive Directors shareholdings and share plan interests audited does not receive any form of pension provision from the Group.
A summary of all directors shareholdings and share plan interests as at 30 June 2018 are shown in the table below: 5 6.
Other remuneration Outstanding scheme interests as at 30 06 18 Actual shares held Total of all The value of the gross cumulative dividend payment in relation to the 2014 15 deferred share bonus award which vested in November Unvested scheme Unvested scheme share scheme 2017 following the end of the three year deferral period.
interests subject to interests not subject Total shares subject interests and performance to performance Awards eligible for to outstanding shareholdings as 1 2 3 4 measures measures vesting 2017 18 scheme interests As at 1 July 2017 As at 30 June 2018 at 30 June2018 Non-executive directors single figure table audited Executive directors 6 David Brown 122,309 11,425 133,734 66,011 80,528 214,262 Non-executive directors remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2018 7 Patrick Butcher 40,835 6,770 47,605 4,363 7,663 55,268 The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive director for the year ended 30June 2018 and the prior year: Non-Executive directors Single total Andrew Allner 1,242 1,242 1,242 remuneration figure Committee membership and other responsibilities 000 Katherine Innes Ker 116 116 116 Non-executive director Nomination committee Audit committee Remuneration committee Other 2018 2017 Adrian Ewer 3,003 3,003 3,003 8 Andrew Allner Chair Member Chairman 181 177 Harry Holt 8 Katherine Innes Ker Member Member Chair Senior Independent 63 59 Leanne Wood 294 294 Director 9 Nick Horler 1,038 1,038 Adrian Ewer Member Chair Member 58 54 Notes 1 Harry Holt Member Member Member 35 1.
LTIP awards still subject to performance measures.
Excludes LTIP awards which will be granted in November 2018 for the year ended 30 June 2018.
1 Leanne Wood Member Member Member 35 2.
Deferred share bonus plan awards and sharesave options that have not vested.
Relates to the 2015 16 LTIP award, which would have been eligible to vest from November 2018 in respect of the three year performance period ended 30 June 2 Nick Horler Member Member Member 17 48 2018.
The remuneration committee have determined a nil vesting for this LTIP as performance conditions have not been met.
Further details can be found on page 97.
All share plan interests, vested, unvested and unexercised together with any holdings of ordinary shares.
Harry Holt and Leanne Wood were appointed to the Board on 23 October 2017.
The single figures shown above reflect the fees paid during the period 5.
Actual shares are beneficial holdings which include the directors personal holdings and those of their spouses.
They also include the beneficial interests in shares 23October 2017 to 30 June 2018. which are held in trust under the Groups Share Incentive Plan.
Nick Horler retired from the Board with effect from the conclusion of the annual general meeting held on 2 November 2017.
The single figure shown above 6.
During the year, David Browns beneficial shareholding increased by 14,517 ordinary shares.
This consisted of 8,229 and 6,076 ordinary shares acquired through reflects the fees paid during the period 2 July 2017 to 2 November 2017. the post tax gain on the 2014 15 deferred share bonus and LTIP awards respectively which vested in November 2017.
For further details of the vesting of the 2014 15 deferred share bonus and LTIP awards, please see page 100.
Additionally, David Brown exercised a Sharesave option over 103 ordinary shares at an option price of 17.34 per share in October 2017 and retained the shares.
During the period 2 July 2017 to 30 June 2018, David Brown purchased 109 shares under the Fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive directors Groups Share Incentive Plan.
In the period 1 July 2018 to 5 September 2018, David Browns ordinary shareholding increased from 80,528 to 80,547 as a result of The fee level for the Chairman was reviewed on 1 April 2018 and increased by 2.7%.
The base fee levels for the non-executive shares purchased under the Groups Share Incentive Plan.
There have been no other changes in the shareholdings of the executive directors between 1 July 2018 and the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
directors were also reviewed on 1 April 2018 and similarly increased by 2.7% in line with those of the general workforce and the 7.
During the year, Patrick Butchers beneficial shareholding increased by 3,300 ordinary shares which he purchased in December 2017.
In accordance with policy, wider Board.
There was no change to the additional fees paid for chairing the remuneration and audit committees, or to the Senior the 40,835 unvested LTIP awards and 6,770 unvested deferred share awards will lapse upon cessation of employment later this year.
Harry Holt and Leanne Wood joined the Board as independent non-executive directors on 23 October 2017.
Leanne purchased 294 ordinary shares on 12 June 2018.
Nick Horler retired as an independent non-executive director with effect from the conclusion of Go-Aheads annual general meeting on 2 November 2017.
Nicks The annual fees payable to the Chairman and non-executive directors from 1 April 2018 are set out in the table below.
shareholding disclosed in the above table is therefore reflective for the period 2 July 2017 to 2 November 2017.
Chairman and non-executive directors annual fees with effect from 1 April 2018 000 Chairman 184 Non-Executive Director 51 Senior Independent Director 5 Audit Committee Chair 8 Remuneration Committee Chair 8 98 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 99 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors share ownership guidelines audited Group Chief Financial Officer, Patrick Butcher Awards eligible All executive directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a minimum percentage of their salary.
During the year, the Vested in for vesting 2017 18 Mid-market 2016 17 but remuneration committee agreed to increase the guideline for the Group Chief Financial Officer from 150% to 200% of salary.
Whilst this price on exercised Balance at Balance would not be incorporated into the remuneration policy until formally approved by the shareholders at the 2018 AGM, this change was Date of date of Option Balance at Granted in Vested in during Lapsed in 30 June post Plan grant grant price 1 July 2017 year year 2017 18 year year 2018 Vested Lapsed exercise immediately effective and was required to be achieved over five years from the change of policy.
2 Deferred share 15.11.16 20.81 6,770 6,770 6,770 For the year ended 30 June 2018, the shareholding guideline for the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer was bonus plan therefore 200% of salary.
At this date, the Group Chief Executive beneficially held 80,528 shares equating to 234% of base salary based 2 LTIP 16.11.16 20.47 18,073 18,073 18,073 on the average share price between the period 1 June and 30 June 2018 and therefore meets the shareholding requirement.
Since his 1 2 17.11.17 16.58 22,762 22,762 22,762 appointment in March 2016, the Group Chief Financial Officer has built up a shareholding of 7,663 shares.
These shares are beneficially 2 Total 24,843 22,762 47,605 47,605 held and equate to 33% of base salary and therefore do not yet meet the shareholding requirement.
The number of shares over which the award was granted was calculated using a share price of 16.58, this being the average of the middle market quotations Executive directors are required to retain 50% of the post tax gain on vested LTIP and deferred share awards until the shareholding during the period of five dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant in accordance with the planrules.
Additionally, any LTIP awards granted from 2015 must be retained for a further two years other than to pay tax and 2.
The deferred share bonus and LTIP awards granted to the Group Chief Financial Officer in 2016 and 2017 will lapse upon cessation of employment.
NICs due on receipt of shares.
Shares held as at Awards eligible for vesting Guideline on share Actual beneficial share Guideline LongTerm Incentive Plan 30 June 2018 2017 18 ownership as % of salary ownership as % of salary met David Brown 80,528 200% 234% Yes 2017 18 LTIP awards granted during the year ended 30 June 2018 audited Patrick Butcher 7,663 200% 33% No LTIP awards were granted to the executive directors during the year ended 30 June 2018, structured as nil-cost options, exercisable at the end ofa three year performance period commencing with the start of the 2017 18 financial period, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
Vested awards are then subject to a further two year holding period other than for sales to settle any tax or NIC Executive directors interests in outstanding share awards and options audited liability on exercise of the awards.
The 2017 18 grant policy was to grant awards with a face value of 150% of salary for the Group Chief The following tables set out details of the executive directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to Executive and 100% of salary for the Group Chief Financial Officer as follows: performance conditions and or continued service.
Number of shares Basis of award Share price over which award Face value of % of award which Vesting determined 1 2 Group Chief Executive, David Brown Executive director granted at grant date was granted award 000 vests as threshold by performance over David Brown 150% of 16.30 49,993 815 10% for EPS, 25% for Three financial Awards eligible Vested in salary TSR and 10% for each years ending on 1 for vesting 2017 18 Mid-market 2016 17 but customer element 27 June 2020 price on exercised Balance at Balance 3 Date of date of Option Balance at Granted in Vested in during Lapsed in 30 June post Patrick Butcher 100% of 16.30 22,762 371 10% for EPS, 25% for Three financial Plan grant grant price 1 July 2017 year year 2017 18 year year 2018 Vested Lapsed exercise salary TSR and 10% for each years ending on 2 Sharesave 25.03.14 17.34 103 103 customer element 27 June 2020 22.03.16 19.11 94 94 94 1.
The number of shares over which the award was granted was calculated using a share price of 16.58, this being the average of the middle market quotations during the period of five dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant in accordance with the planrules.
The face value of the award has been calculated on a share price of 16.30.
This was the share price on 17 November 2017, the date of grant.
The 2017 18 LTIP award granted to the Group Chief Financial Officer will lapse on his cessation of employment.
share bonus plan 29.10.15 24.13 11,331 11,331 11,331 Performance conditions attaching to the 2017 18 LTIP award The EPS, TSR and customer service measures and targets for the 2017 18 LTIP award are detailed below: 3 LTIP 05.11.14 25.03 21,335 11,520 9,815 Relative TSR vs 04.11.15 25.46 32,618 32,618 32,618 FTSE 250 EPS payout Compound annual Payout % of excluding certain Payout % of each Rail customer Bus customer 16.11.16 20.47 39,698 39,698 39,698 % of element growth in EPS TSR element sectors customer element service target service target 4 17.11.17 16.58 49,993 49,993 49,993 Weighting % of total award 40% 40% 10% 10% Total 120,780 49,993 15,704 11,520 9,815 133,734 32,618 101,116 Below threshold 0% Less than 0% Below 0% Less than Less than RPI 2% p. a. median 82% 90% 1.
Relates to the 2015 16 LTIP award following the three year performance period ended 30 June 2018.
Sharesave is an all-employee share option plan and has no performance condition as per HMRC Regulations.
David Browns sharesave options which were granted Threshold 10% RPI 2% p. a.
Between threshold Between Between Between Between Between Between Between 3.
The 2014 15 deferred share bonus and LTIP awards were exercised on 22 November 2017 with a share price of 16.23.
David Browns gain on his 2014 15 DSBP and LTIP awards were therefore 253,204 and 186,970 respectively.
The number of shares over which the award was granted was calculated using a share price of 16.58, this being the average of the middle market quotations and 100% and RPI and 100% and upper 100% 86% 93% during the period of five dealing days immediately prior to the date of grant in accordance with the plan rules.
10% p. a. quartile Maximum 100% RPI 10% 100% Upper 100% 86% 93% p. a. quartile The above EPS targets are based on current accounting policies and will be adjusted should there be any changes to these policies.
Awards will continue to vest three years after grant, subject to the performance conditions being met over broadly the same period.
100 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 101 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration for the Group Chief Executive compared External advisors to the committee Total shareholder return TSR performance graph with all other employees of the Group New Bridge Street NBS partof Aon plc act as independent remuneration advisors to the committee.
During the year, the The graph below shows a comparison of The Go-Ahead Group plc cumulative TSR against that achieved by the FTSE 250 index for The table below shows the percentage change in the Group Chief committee undertook a review of the advisors to the committee the last nine financial years to 30 June 2018.
The chart also shows cumulative TSR over the same period for the other major UK Executives total remuneration between the financial years 1 July and it was agreed that a sub-committee comprising the transportation groups.
In assessing the performance of the Groups TSR, the Board believes the FTSE 250 index comparator group 2017 and 30 June 2018, compared to the average change for all Remuneration Committee Chair, Chairman and Group Company it has chosen represents an appropriate and fair benchmark upon which to measure the Groups performance for this purpose.
Secretary should meet with three separate advisors.
Following % change from 2017 to 2018 themeetings, the sub-committee recommended that the Salary Benefits Bonus The Go-Ahead Group plc National Express First Group Stagecoach Group FTSE 250 incumbent advisor NBS should be retained and the committee Group Chief 2.0 n a formally approved the continued appointment of NBS as advisors Executive to the committee.
350 Average 3.4 2.2 300 Neither Aon Hewitt Limited nor the wider Aon plc provided any employees other services to the Group during the year and therefore the 250 The Group Chief Executive declined his bonus in full last year for the second committee was satisfied that it provided objective andindependent consecutive year.
See the executive directors single figure table on page 94 200 advice.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group for further details.
and complies with its code of conduct.
The fees payable to NBS for 150 advice throughout the year were 49,579 2017: 26,526.
Relative importance of spend on pay 100 The following table sets out the percentage change in dividends 50 Statement of voting at annual general meeting and overall spend on pay in the financial year being reported on, 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 compared to that of the previous year.
At last years annual general meeting 2 November 2017 the directors remuneration report received the following votes 2017 18 2016 17 % m m change fromshareholders: This graph shows the value, by 30 June 2018, of 100 invested in The Go-Ahead Group on 27 June 2009, compared with the value of Dividends 43.8 41.8 4.8 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and the peer group National Express, First Group and Stagecoach Group on the same date.
Votes for and discretionary Votes against Total votes Withheld Overall 1,224.4 1,237.6 1.1 The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Remuneration 30,623,427 153,168 30,776,595 7,245 expenditure report on pay 99.50% 0.50% 100% Remuneration of the Group Chief Executive over last nine years The remuneration policy was last approved for the year ended The Group has not made any other significant distributions and The table below shows the remuneration of the holder of the office of Group Chief Executive for the period from 28 June 2009 to 30 June payments or other uses of profit or cashflow deemed by the 27June 2015 at the annual general meeting held on 22 October 2018.
The total remuneration figure includes the performance-related bonus and LTIP awards and the percentage of the maximum 2015, the voting outcome of which was: directors to assist in understanding the relative importance of opportunity that these represent.
Votes for and discretionary Votes against Total votes Withheld Group Chief Executives remuneration history Remuneration 21,842,550 497,285 22,339,835 5,227,804 Payments to former directors and payments for loss of Long term policy 97.77% 2.23% 100% office audited Annual performance-related bonus incentive vesting Single total remuneration figure actual award v maximum opportunity vesting v maximum opportunity There were no payments made to former executive directors Year Group Chief Executive 000 000 and % vesting 000 and % vesting during the year ended 30 June 2018 2017: nil.
1 2 2017 18 David Brown 1,175 582 68.3% 0 3 4 5 2016 17 David Brown 782 0 220 54% Material contracts 4 2015 16 David Brown 1,214 0 647 90% There have been no other contracts or arrangements during 2014 15 David Brown 2,134 558 69.6% 1,067 100.0% thefinancial year in which a director of the Group was materially 2013 14 David Brown 1,960 766 97.5% 666 80.0% interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groupsbusiness.
In accordance with the executive directors request to reduce any performance-related bonus by 25%, the committee exercised discretion and reduced the Group Chief Executives overall bonus by 25% resulting in an actual bonus of 68.3% of maximum bonus 102.4% of salary.
The 2015 16 LTIP award will lapse in full from November 2018 on account of none of the performance measures being met following the three year performance period ended 30 June 2018.
The single total figure of remuneration for 2016 17 restated includes the vesting of the 2014 15 LTIP award.
At the request of the Group Chief Executive, there were no annual performance-related bonuses paid for the years 2016 17 and 2015 16.
Restated from last years value of 206,093 to reflect actual value of the Group Chief Executives 2014 15 LTIP award which was 186,970 based on the share price as at 22 November 2017 of 16.23.
The cash equivalent value of the gross cumulative dividend payment was as disclosed last year, being 33,169.
Following his appointment in April 2011, the Group Chief Executive was paid a pro-rata performance-related bonus for the financial year2010 11.
102 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
com 103 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The additional rail customer service underpin that was introduced Section 3: Implementation of remuneration policy Performance conditions attaching to the 2018 19 LTIP award from 2016 17 will also continue to apply to the 2018 19 bonus.
The Relative TSR vs in 2018 19 FTSE 250 remuneration committee has discretion to scale back the bonus EPS payout % of Compound annual Payout % of TSR excluding certain Payout % of each Rail customer Bus customer This policy will apply to any remuneration paid on or after the Groups ifcustomer satisfaction across the Groups train operating element growth in EPS element sectors customer element service target service target AGM on 1 November 2018 subject to shareholder approval.
companies in Spring 2019, as measured by the Transport Focus Weighting % of total award 40% 40% 10% 10% National Rail Passenger Survey NRPS averaged across the Below threshold 0% Less than 0% Below 0% Less than Less than Executive directors 2018 19 base salaries Groups train operating companies, is less than the London and RPI 2% p. a. median 79% 91% The base salaries of the executive directors were last reviewed South East Sector NRPS reported for Spring 2018.
25% Median 10% 79% 91% with effect from 1 April 2018 and will remain unchanged until the Any bonus payable will be satisfied 50% in cash and 50% in Between threshold Between Between RPI Between Between Between Between Between next annual review.
Recovery and withholding provisions will apply 25% and median 10% and 79% and 91% and and maximum 10% and 2% p. a. and tothe full performance-related bonus and the audit committee 100% RPI 10% p. a.
100% and upper 100% 83% 94% Benefits will undertake a formal end-of-year quality of profit and budget quartile It is intended that the benefits for both executive directors will be review in conjunction with the auditor before approval of any Maximum 100% RPI 10% 100% Upper 100% 83% 94% adopted in line with the proposed 2018 remuneration policy section bonuspayment.
The incumbent Group Chief Financial Officer p. a. quartile as outlined on pages 87 to 93. willnot be entitled to any pro-rated performance-related bonus for 2018 19.
As described earlier in this report, the remuneration policy to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2018 AGM remains essentially unchanged from that which was approved at the 2015 AGM.
For information on the minor changes which have been made, please see Pensions page 83 of the annual statement.
2018 19 LTIP awards The current pension arrangements described on page 98 will remain in place for the forthcoming financial year.
The structure of LTIP awards to be granted in 2018 will remain the Non-Executive directors fees same as for the 2017 awards with the EPS and TSR elements of the awards accounting for 40% each and a customer satisfaction The non-executive directors fees will remain unchanged until the next annual fee review is undertaken.
2018 19 performance-related bonus target award of 20% split equally between rail and bus.
The LTIP The performance measures and weightings for 2018 19, which award will be subject to recovery and withholding provisions for remain unchanged from 2017 18, are as follows: three years following vesting.
An additional two year holding period Metric Weighting % of maximum bonus following the vesting of awards will also apply during which any Operating profit 65% Katherine Innes Ker, vested awards may not be sold other than to pay any tax and NICs Remuneration Committee Chair Group cashflow 10% due on exercise.
This will result in an overall five year period before executives can realise the gain on vested shares.
Strategic KPIs 25% 5 September 2018 For the year commencing 1 July 2018, the LTIP award for the Operating profit will be proportionately weighted between the bus Group Chief Executive will have a face value of 150%.
Operating profit, cashflow and strategic KPI incumbent Group Chief Financial Officer will not receive an award targets will be stretching for the 2018 19 financial year and more as he will leave the Group shortly after the award will be granted.
information on the specifictargets and performance against them The EPS and TSR performance measures and targets for awards will be provided retrospectively in next years remuneration report to be made in 2018 19 are detailed below and are unchanged from to the extent that they are not commercially sensitive at thetime.
those made in 2017 18 when the committee consulted with major The strategic KPIs support the delivery of our three strategic shareholders and shareholder representative bodies on proposed pillars which are to protect and grow the core, win new bus and changes to the LTIPs threshold and maxima EPS metrics in rail contracts and develop for the future of transport: in addition response to the revised outlook for GTR analysts repositioning of toour new supporting change themes which are better teams, their forecasts.
The bus and rail customer service targets have happier customers, stronger communities, smarter technology been updated to reflect the most up to date 2018 London and and a cleaner environment.
South East Sector National Rail Passenger and Bus Passenger A health and safety underpin will continue to apply to the Survey scores.
fullbonus, with remuneration committee having discretion to reduce bonus payments potentially to zero should it be .
104 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 www.
