Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Dear shareholders, This is my first year as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and I am pleased to present, on behalf of the Board, the 2018 Directors Remuneration report.
This Directors Remuneration report sets out a summary of the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 8 February 2017.
It took effect Justin Read on that date and will continue to apply for another year.
You can Chairman Committee find a full copy of the policy in the 2016 Annual Report or on our website.
This statement and report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM on 6 February 2019.
Single total figure of remuneration for each Director 66 2017 and 2018 This report also discloses the amounts paid to our Executive and 2.
Annual bonus awards performance assessment for 67 Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 30 September 2018.
LTIP awards performance assessment for 2018 69 The report complies with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 4.
Share scheme interests awarded during the year 70 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and 5.
Payments for loss of office and to past Directors 70 Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Directors shareholdings and share interests 71 We have prepared it in line with the recommendations of the Code 7.
Performance graph and table total shareholder return 72 and the requirements of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive 73 Our approach to remuneration and employees As detailed in the Strategic report, our focus continues to be on 10.
Relative importance of spend on pay 73 growing rental income, simplifying and focusing the business and 11.
Statement of implementation of Remuneration Policy 74 for 2019 building on our experience to position the Company for future 12.
Directors service agreements and letters of 76 long-term growth.
All of these factors are supported by our focus appointment on continuously improving our customers experiences with us.
Details of the Remuneration Committee, advisers to the 76 successful we are in executing our strategy for the benefit of our Committee and their fees stakeholders is measured by the long-term value we create as a 14.
Statement of voting at general meeting 76 business.
This value is underpinned by the income growth we achieve through retaining and growing our customer base whilst also generating capital returns.
How the committee spent its time 00 These metrics form part of our key performance indicators that are Governance, investor relations 10% 25% tracked through to our incentives.
The long-term focus in our and reporting 25% strategy is supported through our Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Remuneration policy 20% under which our performance is tested over three years and, as a Executive share plans 15% 20% minimum, the after tax number of vested shares must be held for a Performance monitoring and review 30% period of five years.
Our annual bonus plan rewards for delivering 00 30% Senior management remuneraour short-term financial and operational goals, with part of any 15% tion and retention 10% bonus earned deferred into the Companys shares for a period of three years.
Incentive out-turns are then linked to share ownership guidelines that require a shareholding of equal value to 200% of salary to be built.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59 Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The performance metrics used in our incentive programmes With our LTIP, the 2016 awards will vest in January 2019.
The 2016 include shareholder return metrics alongside earnings growth and LTIP award was delayed by a month due to a closed period during strategic targets.
These are reviewed periodically to ensure they December 2015 and this was made in January 2016.
The continue to support our strategy and, in particular, that the range of performance targets for this award related to EPRA NNNAV 50% targets set remain appropriate for current commercial of award and absolute total shareholder return TSR 50% of circumstances.
For the performance period ended 30 September 2018, EPRA NNNAV has increased by 20% against the 11% increase in The above policy will be subject to a review in 2019 in line with the the Halifax and Nationwide House Price indices.
This will result in relevant regulations that require us to seek shareholder approval 15.8% vesting of this part of the award.
TSR up to 22 October 2018 for a new remuneration policy at the 2020 AGM, being three years was an annualised compound increase of approximately 10% over since our current policy was approved by shareholders.
A review of the three-year performance period ending 11 January 2019.
If this policy is timely given ongoing developments in market practice and level of TSR is maintained for the reminder of the period it will, best practice, including the recent updated recommendations subject to that share price performance, result in 50.3% of this part included in the New Code.
In aggregate, therefore, the estimated vesting of the total award is in the region of 33%.
Actual vesting levels will We would note that we go into a policy review year from a position be determined in January 2019 and included in next years Annual of strength with over 98% of our shareholders approving our 2017 Report on Remuneration.
application of remuneration policy at the 2018 AGM.
In light of the strong performance achieved over the relevant 2018 performance and reward performance periods, and in particular the returns generated for In 2018, supporting our strategy and aligned with the overview our shareholders, the Committee is comfortable, overall, with the noted above, the majority of the annual bonus was subject to a level of variable pay earned and the forecast for the 2016 LTIP.
combination of adjusted earnings and ROSE targets.
These measures combined to ensure that Executive Directors focused on Implementing the policy for 2019 improving profit from their day-to-day activities, at the same time For the 2018 19 period, the base salaries of the Executive Directors as maximising the value of Graingers underlying assets.
In addition, will be increased with effect from 1 January 2019, in line with the we based a minority of the bonus opportunity on how well each of typical increase given to the wider employee population.
See page our Executive Directors performed on an individual scorecard of key 73 for more details.
It is proposed that in applying the Remuneration Policy for the With regard to the performance during the year, we achieved forthcoming year, we will retain the same broad structure and adjusted earnings of 94m and ROSE of 6.1%.
The performance performance measures as was the case for 2018. against adjusted earnings was 16.6m ahead of the target set for the year of 77.4m, and ROSE was in the lower half of the 4.5% In support of the Companys current strategy, Executive Directors - 12% performance range.
When we combined these figures with will continue to earn the annual bonus based on performing to a the strategic targets, annual bonuses were calculated at c. 72% of combination of challenging adjusted earnings and ROSE targets, the maximum available.
Full disclosure of the actual targets set, with a small but significant proportion of the total bonus and performance towards those targets, is on pages 67 to 69. opportunity reserved for achieving tailored strategic personal objectives.
One-quarter of any bonus earned will continue to be subject to deferral into the Companys shares, to provide a link between attaining short-term objectives and longer-term performance.
In addition, recovery and withholding provisions will continue to apply to any bonus earned in relation to 2019.
60 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial Statements Other information For the LTIP the three-year performance targets will, as per the Corporate governance developments prior year, relate to an equal combination of total property return The Committee has considered recent changes in corporate TPR and relative TSR compared to our sector peers.
As with the governance best practice introduced by the New Code and new annual bonus, strict recovery and withholding provisions apply, secondary legislation.
along with a two-year holding period on any shares that vest.
In relation to the New Code, whilst noting that the new disclosure For 2019, our general approach to target setting in respect of requirements become effective for companies with financial years adjusted earnings and strategic targets will remain consistent with commencing on or after 1 January 2019, we already comply with the approach taken in 2018.
Details of the 2019 bonus structure some of the new recommendations and intend to consider more of are included on page 74 and the Committee is comfortable that the the detail as part of our forthcoming policy review.
In relation to degree of stretch in the overall bonus is no less challenging than how best to take into account employee feedback on Directors the structure in place for 2018, giving appropriate allowance for remuneration, the Committee is overseeing an audit of the current current circumstances.
practices within Grainger on taking employees views into consideration.
The audit will, once complete, be provided to the The choice of metrics is considered to remain fully aligned with our Committee for review and in order to agree the most appropriate PRS-led strategy and overall objective of maximising suitable approach going forward for Grainger.
This will form part of a shareholder returns.
In line with best practice, the Committee also broader Board exercise as to how to best consider stakeholder retains the discretion to override incentive plans formulaic views more generally.
The Board will conclude this process, along outcomes if it considers there to be an inconsistency between with its work on the requirements of the new secondary legislation, performance and reward.
well before these new corporate governance developments require Grainger to comply in the 2019 20 financial year.
As a result of ongoing developments in market practice, specifically in relation to the enforceability of clawback and the use of Shareholder engagement Committee discretion, a review of the Companys annual bonus and The Committee is committed to maintaining an ongoing dialogue LTIP documentation was completed during the year.
While the with shareholders and other stakeholders on the issue of executive conclusion of the review was that the current documentation was in remuneration, and we welcome any feedback you may have.
line with current good practice, the Committee made a number of minor amendments to bring current processes into line with best We look forward to your support on the resolution relating to practice e. g. introducing the requirement for directors to remuneration at the AGM on 6 February 2019. countersign acceptance of incentive plan terms, including the malus and clawback provisions and incentive plan override.
Justin Read Chairman of the Remuneration Committee In addition, I would highlight that Grainger continues to operate the 13 November 2018 SAYE and SIP share schemes in line with the principle of broad employee share ownership and regularly encourages employees to become owners in the Company, by providing frequent awareness sessions, annual presentations, Q&A sessions and assistance in joining available share schemes.
Board changes Belinda Richards retired from the Board on 7 February 2018, having completed six years of service as a Non-Executive Director and having chaired the Audit, Risk and Remuneration Committees, as well as being the Companys Senior Independent Director during her appointment.
In line with the terms of her letter of appointment, Belinda received a pro-rata payment of fees for the period in office.
Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 61
