Remuneration Committee Report Claudia Arney Chairman of the Remuneration Committee FY18 business context Dear Shareholder The Group achieved a good sales performance in a challenging retail environment with sales up 3.7% in total and 2.0% on a like-for-like On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to basis.
Underlying Profit Before Tax was down 3.8m but this was present the Remuneration Report for the financial period after absorbing circa 25m of additional input costs as a result of the ended 30 March 2018. weaker pound against the US dollar.
Cash generation remains robust The Report consists of three sections: and there were continued operational improvements including enhancing customer data capabilities and strong growth of 14% in Annual Statement A summary of the key messages on service-related Retail sales as the Group builds its credentials as a pay for FY18, and our plans for FY19.
Summary Remuneration Policy Report The Companys Remuneration Policy the Policy was approved at the Remuneration outcomes for FY18 2017 AGM.
No changes have been made to the Policy The annual bonus for Executive Directors is based on the and accordingly, we are not seeking approval for a new achievement of Group PBT targets 80%, and key strategic initiatives Policy this year.
This section is for information only and a 20% with the latter based on specific targets: these are NPS, copy of our full Policy is available on our website.
Engagement Index, Service Related Sales Growth and Digital Sales.
Annual Directors Remuneration Report This summarises the remuneration outcomes for FY18 and This year we achieved Group PBT of 71.6m, which resulted in a explains how we intend to apply the Remuneration Policy bonus payment of 40.1% of the maximum.
Our service related sales in FY19.
growth was above maximum and our digital sales growth was above threshold.
The Engagement Index progressed to meet the threshold level, whilst NPS did not achieve any of the targets.
As a result the performance was 10.25% out of the 20% maximum for KPIs.
Our remuneration philosophy is aimed at providing Executive Directors with As a result of this performance, annual bonus out-turns for Graham Stapleton and Jonny Mason were 70% and 42.3% of maximum, incentive opportunities strongly aligned respectively.
As set out in more detail in the following section, to growth, profitability and shareholder Graham Stapletons out-turn was prorated to reflect the period returns.
worked during the year, while Jonny Mason was only eligible for the cash element two thirds of his annual bonus as a result of his resignation in March 2018.
Jill McDonald was not eligible for an FY18 annual bonus following her resignation in September 2017.
"78 Halfords Group plc Integrated Annual Report for the period ended 30 March 2018 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 No Executive Director had outstanding 2015 Performance Share Plan ""PSP"" awards, so no vesting events occurred in respect of the FY16-FY18 performance period."
The 2017 PSP award granted during the year is subject to underlying Group EPS 75% and Group Revenue targets 25%, with a net debt to EBITDA ratio underpin.
Performance against these measures will be assessed at the end of FY20.
Remuneration for FY19 In FY19 we will continue to operate our remuneration arrangements in line with the Policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
A summary of this Policy is set out on pages 80 to 81.
No other material changes are being made to the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements in FY19, aside from the transition to the new PSP holding period now being complete, such that the full 2018 PSP award will be subject to a two-year holding period.
Executive Director changes During the year there were several changes in our Executive Directors.
In considering the appointment and departure terms for these individuals, we have sought to act fairly and not pay any more than is necessary, while wishing to ensure a successful transition between individuals for the benefit of Halfords and our shareholders.
Graham Stapleton Graham was appointed as Chief Executive Officer CEO on an annual basic salary of 535,000.
This is considered to be reasonable Leaving Arrangements for Jonny Mason in light of his retail, digital, services and category credentials.
In March 2018, it was announced that Jonny Mason had resigned Grahams package is fully aligned with our Policy.
from his role as Chief Financial Officer CFO, and will remain as CFO until the end of his notice period in September 2018.
Jonny will Grahams maximum annual bonus opportunity is 150% of salary, in forfeit the deferred element of his FY18 annual bonus, together with line with Policy, and this was prorated for the period of 2017 18 that all other unvested DBP, PSP, and SAYE awards.
One-third of his annual bonus was deferred into Halfords shares for a period of three years.
In line with our Policy, Graham Leaving Arrangements for Jill McDonald has a maximum opportunity under the PSP of 200% of salary, and In May 2017 Jill McDonald resigned as CEO and subsequently left an award at this level was made under the 2017 18 PSP cycle upon the business in September 2017.
She did not receive a bonus in appointment.
respect of FY18, and all of her unvested DBP and PSP awards lapsed in full upon her leaving date.
The unvested portion of awards made Graham received a buy-out of 185,872 shares to compensate as compensation for awards forfeited when leaving her previous for awards forfeited when leaving his previous employer, Dixons employer have also been forfeited.
Carphone plc, which will vest in January 2021, subject to him not having resigned before that date.
This matches the release profile of I hope that you find the Report clear, transparent and informative.
The Committee has sought to promote a remuneration environment that strongly aligns the commercial direction of the Group with In addition, a contribution will be madetowards the Dixons Carphone the interests of shareholders, whilst reflecting best practice plc annual bonus he forfeited upon leaving, prorated for the portion developments and market trends.
I look forward to your support at of the year he worked there.
This will be paid following the Dixons the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Carphone plc year end, and will be based upon the actual out-turn as disclosed in their Report and Accounts.
The Committee considers Claudia Arney that his treatment is appropriate as it directly matches what he would Chairman of the Remuneration Committee have received had he remained at this previous employer.
22 May 2018 An additional payment will be made to Graham to compensate him for the loss of a cash entitlement of 695,617 under the 2013 Carphone Warehouse scheme.
This payment is subject to clawback provisions, should he resign before July 2021.
Graham will be eligible for reimbursement of certain, capped costs of up to 15,000 should he relocate within 2 years of joining.
com 79 25675 5 June 2018 1:19 PM Proof 10 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OUR GOVERNANCE STRATEGIC REPORT OVERVIEW
