GOVERNANCE ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OFTHEEMUNEATION COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder The key changes impacting remuneration In terms of strategic initiatives, we On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to this year were accelerated technology change and present my first report as Remuneration successfully launched Active Savings We made our first awards under the Committee Chair following my and Simply Invest to enhance our client new five year Sustainable Performance appointment during the financial year.
We also made important Plan, which replaced the previous three I would like to thank my predecessor, progress in other key areas necessary year TIP.
Under this plan, Executives Christopher Barling, for the valuable to maintain and safeguard our business, receive a conditional award of nil cost contributions he made during his tenure, such as enhancing systems and controls options with a face value of up to 50 including the introduction of our new in relation to our holdings of client money of base salary each year, subect to remuneration policy for Executive and custody assets, and our Client underpinning performance conditions Directors which received overwhelming Protection Programme.
This replaced support from our shareholders at the an TIP which had a maximum grant of The rapid growth in our client base 2017 AGM.
250 of salary brings operational challenges but we I have set out below a summary of the were pleased to maintain our client This was the first year that the key changes to our remuneration policy services standards in spite of a significant reduction in maximum annual bonus which took effect for this financial year, the increase in the volume of client activities, opportunity to 50 of base salary main decisions made by the Committee in with fewer reported complaints per applied, with 0 bonus deferral over relation to remuneration outturns based transaction.
Although our Net Promoter three years and on 2018 business performance, context Score NPS showed an adverse trend on our focus on gender pay and diversity, over the year, we are continuing to focus The revised shareholding guideline for as well as our areas of focus for the on improving our Helpdesk and our clients our Executive Directors now applies, forthcoming year.
online experience to ensure that our increased from 200 of base salary to high standards of client service are not 00 of base salary, to be built up over impacted by the continued growth in our enerain cane drin e ys e ia x y r ears.
Hargreaves ansdowns remuneration A summary of the remuneration policy policies and practices are designed to The Committee considers that these approved by shareholders is presented promote the long term success of the achievements outlined above have been on pages 1 to.
Company by supporting the business the result of a very strong performance strategy and delivering value to our from our leadership team.
The 2018 ine cne in shareholders.
This is the first year in which bonus outcomes for both Chris Hill and As discussed in our Strategic report, we we have applied our new remuneration Philip ohnson reflect high levels of have seen a very strong performance policy approved by shareholders at leadership shown by both during the year, across our business during the 2018 last years AGM.
We consider that we as well as excellent performance against financial year, particularly in relation to now have the tools to recognise the their personal obectives.
our financial and strategic goals.
contribution made by our executive team to the Groups success, and to enhance Futher details on how bonuses have been We had an excellent year for attracting the alignment of our Directors interests determined for the 2018 performance new clients with a 1 increase in net with those of shareholders.
year are set out in the annual report new clients, and we also attained double onremuneration.
digit net new business and profit growth.
This was a significant achievement when considered against a backdrop of weaker investor sentiment, particularly in the second half of the year.
The increase in our client numbers has allowed us not only to gain market share across both the platform and share dealings market, but also to make investments to support client service, to deliver necessary regulatory proects and invest in our capabilities to deliver future growth.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY THE CHAIR OF THEEMUNEATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED ender ay rea c r e r C co n tei n n t y s of t ea hr is report We are committed to improving diversity, Minimal changes are proposed to the On the following pages we set out inclusion and giving an equal opportunity operation of the remuneration policy in A summary of the revised Directors to everyone who wishes to progress their respect of the 201 financial year.
We remuneration policy which was career at Hargreaves ansdown.
have reviewed our malus and clawback approved at the 201 AGM on 11 triggers in light of regulatory best practice, Our Chair and Chief Executive are October 201 and and as a result have harmonised our members of the 0 Club and we have triggers across both share plans operated The annual report on remuneration.
signed up to the Women in Finance for the Executive Directors and members This will be subect to an advisory vote Charter, both focused on increasing the of the Executive Committee the at the AGM where I will be available to number of women in senior leadership Deferred Bonus Plan and the Sustained answer any questions.
Furthermore, we are positioned Performance Plan.
in the top 25 in FTSE 100 ranking of Fiona Clutterbuck Women on Boards and in eadership.
We have also awarded a 2 salary Chair of the Remuneration Committee increase to Executive Directors, in line We are committed to making further with the standard approach taken for base progress and we will continue to strive to salary increases across the organisation.
improve our gender diversity and gender pay gap by ooking forward, we continue to monitor remuneration developments Increasing the number of women within the asset management industry.
applying for promotions at all levels, During 2018 1, we intend to review our through training, mentoring and remuneration approach throughout the leadership programmes organisation in light of the forthcoming introduction of the Senior Managers and Reviewing our recruitment and Certification Regime and regulatory best promotion process practice emerging on reward.
Introducing wider networks to support The Terms of Reference for the diversity and inclusion Committee are available on the Groups Working with peers and industry groups website at www.
co. uk or can be to develop best practice and obtained from the Company Secretary.
Introducing unconscious bias training for senior leaders which will be rolled out to all managers by the end of 2018 Details of our gender pay gap for the year to 5 April 201 can be found in the 201 gender pay report on our website.
We are committed to reducing this gap over time by increasing the proportion of women in senior leadership roles.
I will report back in next years directors remuneration report on the progress we have made during theyear.
70 ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY SUMMARY The Directors remuneration policy was The full Directors Remuneration Policy subect to a binding vote and approved by can be found on pages 58 to of the shareholders at our 201 AGM held on 11 201 Report and Financial Statements, October 201.
It is intended that it should which is available to view on our website apply for three years, until our 2020 AGM.
The tables below summarise the key elements of pay for Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
ecie irecr Component re and lin O ra p ere a tio y n and performance measures ai rniy Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, with any increase usually effective from uly.
No prescribed Reflects the individuals maximum increase.
Base salaries are set taking into account a range of factors including external responsibilities, remuneration levels and remuneration levels within the Group, as well as an experience and individuals responsibilities, experience and contribution.
Supports Base salary will ordinarily increase by no more than the average of relevant staff the recruitment and increases.
Any increase beyond this would only be made in exceptional retention of the calibre circumstances, which would be explained by the Remuneration Committee.
of individuals required to lead the Company.
Annual The level of Annual Performance Bonus payable is linked to key financial metrics The maximum bonus Performance Bonus as well as corporate and individual performance against obectives.
opportunity for Rewards achievement Directors under the The on-target bonus for each Director as a percentage of base salary will be of the Groups business policy is three and a half disclosed in advance in the annual report on remuneration for each year.
plan, key performance times base salary in Performance will be assessed against a combination of financial growth, nonindicators and the respect of the relevant financial and individual measures over a one year period.
There is no prescribed personal contribution financial year.
weighting of particular metrics, but financial performance is central to the ofDirectors.
The aggregate value of decision-making process.
Aligns the interests of bonuses payable to all In assessing the overall performance outcome, the Remuneration Committee will Directors with those of members of the use its udgement to consider shareholders.
Executive Committee The extent to which market movements, investor sentiment, interest rates and including the Directors regulation, all of which are beyond the control of the Directors, have impacted is capped at of profit the performance.
This may result in either reductions or increases in the rewards before tax for that year.
that would otherwise have been granted The extent to which management has operated within the agreed risk parameters and The extent to which the bonus outcome reflects the overall performance of the business in the context of shareholder experience.
of the Annual Performance Bonus is subect to compulsory deferral into nil cost options for a period of three years.
Dividend alternatives will accrue on deferred awards and will be paid at the time of vesting.
Any unvested deferred awards are subect to a formal malus mechanism.
The non-deferred element of bonus awards are subect to clawback for three years from the date of award.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY SUMMARY CONTINUED Component re and lin O ra p ere a tio y n and performance measures ai rniy Sustained Annual awards of nil cost options will vest over a five year period, subect to the The maximum award Performance Plan achievement of underpinning performance conditions over the vesting period.
each year under the Aligns the interests of Policy is half times The grant of awards will be subect to satisfactory personal performance of each Directors with those basesalary.
Director in the period prior to grant.
The underpinning performance conditions of shareholders and applicable for each award will be disclosed upfront in the remuneration report.
rewards long-term Dividend alternatives will accrue on unvested awards and will be paid at the time stewardship of of vesting.
Any unvested awards will be subect to a formal malus mechanism.
areldin Directors have six years from appointment to the Board to achieve a shareholding Not applicable.
ideline with a minimum value of three times base salary.
Aligns the interests Vested but unexercised nil cost options under the annual performance bonus are of management and included in the calculation of a Directors shareholding.
Unvested nil cost options shareholders to the under the Sustained Performance Plan and previous TIP are not included.
success of the Group Pension Pension provision is provided in line with the pension provision for all staff.
A defined contribution Provides adequate pension arrangement Any changes made to the staff arrangements will be carried across to pension saving is provided for all the Directors.
arrangements for employees, with an The Committee may amend the form of any Directors pension arrangements in Directors and staff.
employer contribution response to changing pension legislation or similar developments, so long as any of of base salary.
amendment does not increase the cost to the Company of a Directors pension Where employees make provision by any greater percentage than the increase to the provision for all additional contributions other staff.
of over of salary, All staff and Directors may waive an element of their Annual Performance Bonus in these will be double return for a corresponding employers contribution into their pension.
matched by the The Company will pay a cash allowance in place of an employer pension Company to a contribution where a Director has reached the ifetime Allowance or would maximum value of a exceedthe annual limit or has opted out where they have elected to protect their further of salary.
Any contribution paid as a result of waiver of the cash element of an Annual Performance Bonus will not be counted towards thesemaxima and willnot attract matchedfunding.
enefi All eligible staff and Directors may take up a range of benefits.
The maximum value of An across the board benefits will depend on Where costs are necessarily incurred in the performance of duties on behalf of benefits package is the cost of the provision the Company, those costs will be reimbursed in full, e. g. travel, accommodation, available both to staff of those benefits.
subsistence, relocation, and any tax and social costs arising.
There are a number of Provision of tax efficient benefits such as pension contributions, additional variables and unknowns holiday, childcare vouchers and workplace parking is available through a salary impacting the maximum sacrifice mechanism.
payable in the event of Group life insurance and Group permanent health insurance is provided to all staff relocation however, with greater than six months continuous service.
theCommittee would All eligible staff as defined by the scheme rules and which includes Executive approve no more Directors may participate in the Save As You Earn scheme or Share Incentive Plan.
Appropriate Director insurance and indemnity cover is provided by the Company.
Some Company services are provided at a reduced cost on the same basis as for all other employees.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE Illustration of application ri ill enerain rniy r of Remuneration Policy 3,500,000 The Committee discloses each year in the SPP 3,000,000 10% Groups Report and Financial Statements a bar chart that models the potential ANNUAL BONUS 2,500,000 remuneration for each of the Executive 13% FIXED 2,000,000 Directors for the forthcoming year 70% 1,500,000 using a range of assumptions.
The chart 60% shows the potential value of the current 1,000,000 Executive Directors remuneration for 500,000 the forthcoming year for three scenarios 100% 27% 20% minimum, maximum and mid-point 0 scenario as follows Minimum Mid-point Maximum The minimum amount represents the unconditional component of the ili nn enerain rniy r remuneration package salary, pension 2,500,000 and employee benefits SPP 10% The mid-point amount is the amount 2,000,000 the Executive Director will receive ANNUAL BONUS if they achieve an on-target bonus 1,500,000 level and awards under the Sustained FIXED 16% 70% Performance Plan vest in full.
It 1,000,000 will include both fixed and variable 51% components of remuneration and 500,000 The maximum level is the maximum 100% 33% 20% 0 amount of remuneration each Minimum Mid-point Maximum Executive Director can be awarded in the year.
The maximum is subect to remuneration caps that have been established for each component.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY SUMMARY CONTINUED necie irecr Component Purpose Operation Basic fee The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors basic fees are reviewed annually by Supports the attraction and retention those responsible.
of high performing individuals, Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from uly.
considering both the market value of The fee levels are set taking into account market data for comparable positions taking the position and the individuals skills, account of the time commitment required for the role.
All Non-Executive Directors fees including those below are paid in cash, on a quarterly basis.
The Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension or to participate in any Group employee share plan.
Committee Chair and Committee Each Non-Executive Director receives an additional fee for each Committee for which they member fees are Chair or a member.
Recognises the additional time The Committee Chair fees reflect the additional time and responsibility in chairing a commitment and responsibility involved committee of the Board, including time spent in preparation and liaising with management, in chairing or being a member of a and the time spent attending and preparing for a committee of the Board.
The Committee Committee of the Board.
member fees reflect the additional time and responsibility in holding that role.
enir ndeenden irecr T h e S ID r ecee iv e e s an additional fee for his or her role.
Recognises the additional time The fee reflects the additional time and responsibility in fulfilling the role of Senior commitment and responsibility involved Independent Director.
in holding the role of the SID.
enefi and ene Expenses may be claimed by the Chair and Non-Executive Directors in line with the To appropriately reimburse the Chair Companys expenses policy.
and Non-Executive Directors for Appropriate Director insurance and indemnity cover is provided by the Company.
out-of-pocket expenses incurred in the Some Group services are provided at a reduced cost, on the same basis as for all fulfilment of their responsibilities and other employees.
any tax and social costs arising.
No other benefits are made available to Non-Executive Directors.
The maximum aggregate remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is set in accordance with the Articles of Association.
eneral Consultation with employees The Committee considers shareholder ernal ard ainen While the Committee does not consult feedback received in relation to the AGM The Company recognises that external directly with employees in respect of the each year at its first meeting following Non-Executive Directorships are Directors remuneration, it does consider the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any beneficial to both the Director and the the wider salary increase, remuneration additional feedback received during any Company and that its Executive Directors arrangements and employment other meetings with shareholders, is then may be invited to become Non-Executive conditions across the wider employee considered as part of the Companys Directors of other companies.
Such nonpopulation when setting the Directors annual review of the Remuneration Policy.
executive duties can broaden experience Remuneration Policy.
We also regularly engage with our largest and knowledge which can benefit the shareholders to ensure we understand Company.
Subect to approval by the the range of views which exist on Consideration of shareholder views Board, Executive Directors are allowed to remuneration issues.
When any material The Committee recognises that Director accept a maximum of two non-executive changes are made to the policy, the remuneration is an area of particular appointments and retain the fees Committee will discuss these in advance interest to our shareholders and in setting received, provided that appointments are with our maor shareholders wherever and considering changes to remuneration, not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
The Committee will also consult it is critical that we listen to, and take into with professional advisers to ensure we account, their views.
consider current market and industry practices, where appropriate.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This report has been prepared in The performance measurement of the eein drin e year accordance with the provisions of the Executive Directors and key members of There were five scheduled meetings Companies Act 200 and the arge and senior management and the determination during the year and additional ad hoc Medium-Sied Companies and Groups of their annual remuneration packages is meetings where required.
It also meets the also undertaken by the Committee.
For Barling chaired the meetings in August requirements of the UK isting Authoritys individuals below Director level, there is a and October 201 and Fiona Clutterbuck isting Rules and the Disclosure and sub committee for the review of individual then chaired the remainder of the Transparency Rules.
The Remuneration remuneration outcomes consisting of the meetings during the year.
Other members Committee confirms throughout the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial were Mike Evans, until his departure from financial year that the Company has Officer, Chief People Officer and Group the Board in February 2018, Deanna complied with these governance rules Risk and Compliance Director, which Oppenheimer, following her appointment and best practice provisions.
reports to the Committee on its decisions.
as Chair of the Board, Shirley Garrood and Stephen Robertson.
The Committee also ensures that the Role of the Remuneration Committee remuneration relationship between the None of the Committee has any The Board remains ultimately accountable Executive Directors and senior employees personal financial interest other than as for executive remuneration but has of the Group is appropriate and that the shareholders, conflicts of interests arising delegated this responsibility to the Remuneration Policy complies with the from cross-directorships or day-to-day Remuneration Committee.
Any involvement in running the business.
exceptional remuneration arrangements The Remuneration Committee is for senior employees are advised to therefore responsible for determining the the Committee.
Remuneration Policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors of the Company The proceedings of the Remuneration and of the subsidiary companies, the Chair, Committee were reviewed as part of the other members of executive management externally facilitated Board evaluation and all other staff who are deemed to process, as described on page 5, and be Material Risk Takers or Identified the Committee will be reviewing and Staff.
The policy is determined with due implementing any actions required from regard to the interests of the Company, the evaluation in due course over the the shareholders and the Group, with the coming year.
obective of this being to attract, retain and motivate executive management of the quality required to run the Group successfully without paying more than is necessary.
Director Position liile eein ended eein Christopher Barling Chair Fiona Clutterbuck Chair Mike Evans Non-Executive Director Deanna Oppenheimer Non-Executive Director Shirley Garrood Non-Executive Director Stephen Robertson Non-Executive Director C hair to December and member to February M ember from September attending one meeting and Chair from anuary attending three meetings M ember to February M ember from February Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 75 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Activities during the year included Remuneration Committee allocation Advice to the Committee ie The Committee is supported by the Reviewing the Directors remuneration Company Secretary, the Chief People report in the 201 Report and Financial 12 11 Officer and the Chief Executive Officer, 10 Statements, and considering all 9 who are invited to attend Committee 1 of the feedback received from 8 meetings to provide further background institutional shareholders 7 information and context to assist the Committee in its duties.
No Director was Determining a revised framework for involved in discussions regarding the the application of malus and clawback 6 determination of their own remuneration.
provisions across variable pay awards 2 Throughout the year, the Committee Agreeing the design and has appointed and been advised by implementation of a new annual 5 Deloitte P, which is a signatory to the incentive arrangement for Remuneration Consultants Groups fund managers 3 Code of Conduct for the provision of Considering a formal assessment of 4 independent remuneration advice.
The risk performance in relation Remuneration Committee is satisfied that to remuneration the advice it has received was obective and independent.
The fees payable to Reviewing and agreeing performance 1.
Benchmarking 1 Deloitte for this advice were 82,000 bonuses for the Executive Directors 2.
Other services provided to as well as other Material Risk Takers 3.
FCA Rem policy incl MRT 1 Hargreaves ansdown by Deloitte P 4.
Company performance review 1 Reviewing the approach for the during the year consisted of risk advisory, 5.
Regulatory market update 12 identification of Material Risk Takers financial advisory, tax, HR consulting and 6.
Other 10 MRTs under CRD IV, AIFMD and UCITS operation design services.
Routine V, and overseeing a committee which 8.
Directors Remuneration Report reviewed the base salary levels and 9.
Gender pay gap performance bonuses for MRTs below 10.
CRO report on malus, clawback Implementation of the Remuneration Director level 11.
CEO Remuneration 2 licy in ecie irecr Reviewing and approving the required Salary Remuneration Code disclosures The Executive Directors base salaries were reviewed in une 2018.
In reviewing Reviewing and analysing the gender base salaries the Committee takes into pay gap reporting covering the account salaries paid elsewhere across snapshot date of 5 April 201 as well the Group, relevant market data and as determining actions to address the information on remuneration practices in gender pay gap peer companies in the financial services Overseeing the establishment of a sector.
Based on this information, the new Reward Governance Committee Committee agreed to award a 2 to help strengthen the governance of increase to the Executive Directors in line incentive schemes and material risk with the standard approach taken for base taker remuneration outcomes from salary increases across the organisation.
the 2018 1 performance year and Salary as at Salary as at Reviewing the effectiveness of the Name of Director ly ly increae Remuneration Committee.
Chris Hill, , Philip ohnson, , ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE Annual bonus For 201, awards will be subect to performance assessment against a combination of financial growth measures, client service measures, strategic obectives and individual obectives, as well as personal performance assessed against individual obectives and behaviours in light of the Hargreaves ansdown Values.
Risk and compliance considerations will also be taken into account at both Company and individual levels.
The Company performance assessment will include the following measures inancial r Client service raeic Net new business Client retention Developing client service Net new clients Client satisfaction Developing capabilities Profit before tax Net promoter score Maintaining the business The targets set in relation to these measures are considered to be commercially sensitive, but will be disclosed in next years report.
In making an assessment of performance, the Committee will give due consideration to market movements, investor sentiment, interest rates and the impact of regulation, all of which are beyond the control of the Executive Directors.
They will also consider the extent to which management has operated within the agreed risk parameters and the extent to which the bonus outcome reflects the overall performance of the business in the context of the shareholder experience.
Details of the Committees assessment will be given in the remuneration report next year.
Individual performance will be assessed against the following obectives ndiidal ecie r ri ill Individual objectives for Philip Johnson Maintain and develop relationships with key stakeholders Provide financial leadership in determining strategic direction Develop the organisation and its risk culture to execute the strategy Deliver financial results in a risk controlled environment to the benefit of all stakeholders Evolve the client service strategy Communicate the strategy to investors Maintain client satisfaction in the context of the accelerating digital Balance capabilities, talent, costs and service levels to fulfil landscape functional core responsibilities efficiently Improve strategic and financial delivery In line with the existing Remuneration Policy, the following on-target and maximum bonus opportunities will apply, which are the same as for 2018 nare n rniy ae alary ai n rniy ae alary Chris Hill Phillip ohnson The total value of bonuses paid to members of the Executive Committee, which includes the Executive Directors, in any performance year will remain capped at 5 of profit before tax.
In line with the approved policy, 0 of the bonus awarded to each Executive Director will be payable in cash following the end of the financial year and 0 of the bonus will be deferred into nil cost options over a period of three years, subect to continued employment.
Dividend alternatives will accrue on the deferred share element of bonuses and will be paid at the time of vesting.
Non-deferred bonus awards are subect to clawback for three years from the date of award.
For further details of the relevant malus clawback triggers, please see page 8. ained errance lan Each Executive Director will receive an award of nil-cost options with a face value of 50 of base salary, subect to satisfactory personal performance in the period prior to grant.
Awards will vest after five years, subect to the achievement of the underpinning performance conditions.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 77 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Under the Sustained Performance Plan these underpinning performance conditions will be A requirement for average AUA for the last complete financial year prior to vesting to be above the average AUA for the last complete financial year prior to award Maintenance of a satisfactory risk, compliance and internal control environment across the plan period and Satisfactory personal performance throughout the plan period.
The Board will review performance against these underpinning conditions in the round, taking into account market movements, the external business environment and any significant changes in regulation in assessing the extent to which awards should vest.
Dividend equivalents will be paid on nil-cost options at the end of the vesting period in line with our Remuneration Policy.
For further details of the relevant malus triggers, please see page 8. ecie irecr renerain r Remuneration payable for the 2018 financial year 1 uly 201 to 0 une 2018 Audited The remuneration received by Executive Directors in relation to performance in 2018 is set out below r Other cash Cash Deferred element ain n iric Basic salary enefi bonus of bonus - shares in ein Pension Totals Name of Director Year Chris Hill, , , Philip ohnson - -, - - C hris Hills remuneration for reflects his role as Chief Financial Officer and Deputy Chief Executive until February and as Chief Executive O fficer from February.
P hilip ohnsons remuneration for relates to the period from his appointment to the Board on April.
D irectors have received payment in lieu of pension contribution in the year.
These amounts are shown gross before any deductions.
Under Gain on historic options vesting, the amounts shown are a best estimate of amounts to be paid in respect of performance periods concluding as at 0 une 2018.
Other than SAYE options which are available to Directors on the same basis as all employees, and the awards made to Chris Hill on oining, no share options without performance criteria have been granted to Executive Directors since March 2012.
Benefits in kind are available to all employees on the same basis.
For 2018, benefits include ife Cover, Income Protection, Private Medical Insurance, Save As You Earn SAYE scheme, 5 of base salary for employer pension contributions, reduced platform fees for holding assets in H and reduced dealing charges for self and connected persons and access to a range of voluntary benefits such as Childcare Vouchers and Critical Illness.
No Director has a prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension by reference to their length of qualifying service.
nnal ne r e financial year ly ne died The value of bonuses payable to Executive Directors was determined by the Committee based on An assessment of the performance of the Group against a number of financial growth, client service and strategic measures, detailed below, and Each individuals performance, including progress against the specific obectives set for them as well as an assessment of their performance against the Companys values, risk management and compliance.
There were no specific weightings assigned to specific metrics, and the determination was undertaken, taking all factors into account and using all relevant information.
For each Executive Director, their overall bonus was determined by reference to the following target and maximum levels, as disclosed in the 201 annual report and accounts ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE nare n r niy r ae alary ai n rniy ae alary Chris Hill reduced from reduced from in Philip ohnson reduced from in reduced from in The total value of bonuses payable to both Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee is subect to a cap of 5 of profit before tax, in line with the Policy.
Group performance has been considered in relation to the following measures inancial r Client service raeic Net new business Client retention Developing client service Net new clients Client satisfaction measure Developing capabilities Profit before tax Net promoter score Maintaining the business Details of performance in each of these areas is set out below r eare erain lan are Actual a year ane Commentary Net new business.
b n Our net new business of.
bn reflected growth year on year, and represented a new record for the organisation.
This was considered to be a significant achievement when considered against a backdrop of weaker investor sentiment, particularly in the second half of the year.
During the year, our share of the platform market increased from.
and market share of retail stockbroking increased from.
to.. Net new clients, , , The Committee noted very strong growth in respect of net new client numbers, as, clients were welcomed during the year compared to, last year.
m. m. m The Committee reviewed very strong performance in delivering double digit sustainable earnings growth, taking into account market consensus at the beginning of the year as well as current market conditions and the overall increase in the FTSE All Share index over the period.
ary cellen errance The Committee recognised that the Group has delivered an outstanding year of financial results with double digit growth in all of the above areas, and a new record of net new business.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 79 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Client service Actual a year ane Commentary Client retention...
The Committee noted that client retention has been broadly stable over the prior year.
This is considered to be a strong result, given that the Company has also welcomed a net, new clients at the same time.
Client service measure The client service measure consists of a combination of net promoter scores across each of the three key product areas SIPP, ISA and Fund Share Account and client retention rate.
A score of is lower than the high score of achieved last year, but remains higher than our internally defined threshold score of.
Net promoter score.. As part of its overall assessment of client service, the Committee reviewed the NPS level, which declined from.
The review also considered a range of other customer metrics and factors, including the nature and number of complaints, the significant increase in processing demands driven by business growth and the scalability and performance of technology.
The Committee also noted that, despite the significant increase in the volume of business during the year, there were fewer errors and a reduction in complaints per transaction.
ary n are errance The Committee concluded that on balance client service was considered to be on-target.
Despite the decline in the NPS, client retention has been stable in the context of a further, new clients.
In addition, there was a positive trend in the reduction in complaints per transaction.
raeic deliery The Committee reviewed proects that had been delivered during the year against the strategic plan, grouped as follows eelin r clien erice eelin r caailiie ainainin e ine Successful launch of Active Savings, Development and delivery of a significant Delivery of a number of important Simply Invest.
number of key milestone proects, e. g. regulatory change proects including GDPR acceleration of technological change to and MiFID II.
enhance client experience and proposition, Enhancements to systems and controls enhancements in marketing capabilities, Progress on Client Protection Programme.
and progress on the people agenda In its assessment, the Committee considered the successful delivery of a number of key strategic initiatives during the course of the year.
Simply Invest and Active Savings were successfully launched during the financial year, both of which are designed to create better solutions for clients.
The Committee also considered the progress made in further developing the capabilities of our people, technology and marketing.
This includes the opening of H Tech in Warsaw to accelerate technology change to enhance our client experience and proposition, as well as a number of key people initiatives on the development of culture, skills and expertise, and the further development of marketing capabilities to increase our digital footprint.
The Committee also recognised the successful delivery of a number of complex proects to maintain and safeguard the business, including important regulatory change proects such as GDPR and MiFID II, further enhancements to the systems and controls in relation to our holding of client money and custody assets, as well as progress on our Client Protection Programme.
While these proects are not directly client facing, they are fundamental to maintaining a robust and scalable business and supporting future growth in business volumes.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE ary ery rn errance Overall, the Committee recognised the significant level of delivery of key strategic proects during the year, through the launch of Active Savings and Simply Invest, the accelerated development of our technological and marketing capabilities, delivery of a significant number of regulatory change proects, and initiatives focused on maintaining business, resilience and scalability through enhanced client protection and internal controls.
Individual performance The Committee assessed each individual Directors performance during the financial year, including against their personal obectives, as follows ri ill Objective Committees assessment Communicate the strategy to stakeholders Overall a very strong performance in articulating the strategic narrative to relevant stakeholders, with a significant increase in investor relations activity during the year with a clearly articulated equity story and clarification on the dividend policy.
Continued focus on regulatory communications.
Establish operating framework to deliver the strategy This has been achieved with a wider scope than originally envisaged, contributing to the key strategic achievements as outlined above.
Deliver year of the strategic plan in a risk controlled environment Excellent financial performance as highlighted above, while at the same time executing key improvements in a risk controlled environment.
Maintain client satisfaction The Committee considered that client retention levels remained high with a reduction in complaints per transaction, but noted the downward trend in the NPS score this year.
Support handover to new Chair and ensure smooth induction of new Strong performance displayed in this area with a significant level Non-Executive Directors within the business of change within a short space of time.
ary ery rn errance The Committee concluded that the key business achievements this year has been the result of a very strong performance from our leadership team, and that Chris Hills individual contribution to this has been significant.
It noted his very strong performance in the delivery of his personal obectives across a number of different areas, as outlined above, as well as in respect of our values, ris k and compliance.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Philip Johnson Objective Committees assessment Deliver success in the H Groups financial metrics Excellent Group financial performance, as outlined above.
Design and implement a plan to make sustainable development Significant improvement in standards, controls, leadership and to Operations function efficiencies within the Operations function.
Develop finance, company secretarial and Strong performance, with tangible improvements in all of these investor relations capabilities areas displayed during the year.
Significant increase in investor relations activity during the year with a clearly articulated equity story.
Optimise the balance sheet Significant improvement in capital and liquidity management, enabling the Company to move forward with a clarified dividend policy.
Build effective partnership with the CEO Excellent working relationship developed with Chris Hill Become authorised as a CFa named individual for client assets Achieved with significant improvements to client asset controls following appointment.
ary ery rn errance The Committee determined that Philip ohnson has made a significant contribution to the business during his first full year as CFO.
In particular, they noted the very strong level of achievement against his personal obectives, as outlined above, as well as in respec t of our values, risk and compliance.
Summary of overall assessment and bonuses awarded The Committee considered all of the above evidence in making their bonus determination for Chris Hill and Philip ohnson for the 2018 financial year.
In addition, it also considered the extent to which performance both Group and individual has been achieved within the agreed risk parameters, based on an assessment from the Chief Risk Officer, and the extent to which the bonus outcome reflects the overall performance of the business in the context of the shareholder experience.
The Committee concluded that the bonus outcomes for Chris Hill and Philip ohnson should reflect the very strong levels of Company performance during the year, as well as the high levels of leadership shown by both during the financial year, including their performance against individual obectives and Company values.
The resulting bonuses for the year ending 0 une 2018 were Cash Deferred Total ai Chris Hill, , Philip ohnson Deferral of annual performance bonuses 0 of the annual performance bonuses will be deferred for three years into nil-cost options.
Dividend alternatives will accrue on the deferred shares element of bonuses and will be paid at the time of vesting.
The right to exercise deferred awards will vest after three years provided the individual remains employed by the Group.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE Malus and clawback 0 of the bonus paid upfront is subect to clawback until three years from the date of payment.
Unvested deferred nil-cost options will be subect to a formal malus mechanism.
As highlighted in the Chairs annual statement on page 0, the Committee reviewed the malus and clawback triggers for the Companys share plans in August 2018 in light of regulatory best practice.
As a result, the triggers across both share plans operated for the Director population the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Sustained Performance Plan have been harmonised and the following triggers will apply t o all awards going forward, including the 2018 deferred bonus awards A material misstatement of the financial results of any Group Company A material failure of risk management in any Group Company or a relevant business unit Serious reputational damage to any Group Company or a relevant business unit attributable to the conduct of, or an act of omission by, the Award Holder or an Employee for which the Award Holder is or was responsible A failure by the participant to identify any serious risks relating to any Group Company A failure by the participant to implement appropriate controls for any serious risks relating to any Group Company and An error in the calculation of the Award Holders performance bonus in respect of which the award was made.
Prior year comparison For additional information, the history of the performance measures and the total value of Executive Committee bonuses for the last five years is Measure Profit before tax.
m. m. m. m Net new business n. bn.
bn Net new clients, , , , Net operating margin on net revenue....
Client service measure Total value of Executive Committee.... bonuses as of PBT Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED ein lner incenie aard r e financial year endin ne adied The performance period for the TIP awards granted in 2015 came to an end on 0 une 2018.
The TIP targets set at the time of grant and the outcomes achieved against them are detailed below eiin are each condition Minimum ai Performance Achievement EPS.
bn Client service measure For earnings per share, the target is based on average undiluted Basic EPS for each financial year in the performance period.
At the time of grant Chris Hill received an award of 50,000 options of which 1,80 will vest.
The options had scaled vesting dependent on performance against the targets set.
The vesting schedule was set such that provided the threshold was achieved, 25 of that part of the Option relating to that performance condition would vest, rising to vesting in full if the maximum target was met or exceeded.
For performance between the minimum and maximum targets, vesting is pro-rated on a straight line basis between 25 and 100. are aard ade drin e year endin ne adied Following the shareholder approval of the Sustained Performance Plan at our 201 AGM, the first awards were granted to Executive Directors under the plan.
Market value Number of ai Share price shares over Fair value ace award at ercie on day of which the Face value of at date of value that dae ran price ran award was award ran would vest Performance Name of director Type of award raned at threshold ein erid Chris Hill SPP, N il cost.
 n a uly to option une Chris Hill Deferred Bonus, .., , n a uly to une Philip ohnson SPP, N il cost.
n a, ul y to option une Philip ohnson Deferred Bonus, .., , n a uly to une F ace value is calculated as the share price at the date of grant multiplied by the number of options granted.
F air value is calculated as the difference between market value and the exercise price at the date of grant.
Aw ards under the SPP were granted subect to the achievement of underpinning performance conditions and will vest over five years.
The underpinning performance conditions for these awards are the same as for the awards outlined on page.
The aggregate exercise price for awards under the deferred bonus scheme is and were granted on August.
All-employee share plans The Company operates a SAYE share option scheme and share incentive plan SIP on the same terms for all employees.
All employees are encouraged to become shareholders, both through direct ownership or through participation in share schemes.
At the end of the latest financial year, 21 of H employees own shares in the Company.
rcin are The Investment Association guidelines on sourcing shares have been followed and, in line with the scheme rules, the Company has not issued shares under all employee schemes which, when aggregated with awards under all of the Companys other schemes, exceed 10 of the issued ordinary share capital in any rolling 10 year period.
The Company has also not issued new shares under executive discretionary schemes which exceed 5 of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company in any rolling 10 year period.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE ecie irecr areldin and are inere adied The guideline for Executive Directors to accumulate minimum personal holdings in Hargreaves ansdown plc shares amounts to a value of three times base salary within six years of appointment to the Board.
Current shareholdings are summarised in the following table Shareandin ldin andin subject to as a subject to continued multiple continued employement andin No of share Shareof base eneficially eneficially andin employment ariin r aard options No of share ldin salary owned at owned at subject to ariin r sustained with vested but option ideline achieved at ne ne continued deferred performance performance neercied a e ercied in lile ne Name of director employment bonus plan conditions ne th e year ae alary Chris Hill, , , , , , -, Three times Philip, , , , , - -- Three ohnson times The shareholding as a percentage of salary is based on the closing share price as at une of.. Chris Hill was appointed as the CFO in February, before being appointed as Deputy CEO in October and CEO in February.
This is his first full year of service in his current role.
Philip ohnson was appointed as the CFO in April.
This is his first full year of service following appointment.
Pension No Directors or employees participate in a defined benefit pension scheme.
The Group operates its own Group Self Invested Personal Pension the GSIPP which applies to Directors and staff.
The Company requires a minimum employee contribution of 5 of reference salary and in exchange the Company will contribute 5.
Employees are able to contribute up to more than the 5 on a double matching basis.
This means that the for an 8 employee contribution the Company contribution can be up to 11.
Employees wishing to make personal contributions to the GSIPP can do so via salary exchange or bonus waiver ensuring that they benefit from the maximum, immediate relief from income tax and National Insurance.
Staff, Senior Management and Executive Directors may opt out of the scheme should they wish.
Where an individual has reduced the level of their contribution to the GSIPP due to exceeding, or being due to exceed, the ifetime Allowance or Annual Contribution, or has opted out where they have elected to protect their ifetime Allowance, the Group will make an additional monthly payment equivalent to the employers pension contribution amount forsaken up to a maximum of 5 of reference salary.
The Committee confirms that no excess retirement benefits have been paid to current orpastDirectors.
Payments to third parties The Committee confirms that no amounts have been paid to third parties in respect of Directors services.
ayen a irecr adied The Committee confirms that no payments have been made to past Directors during the year other than Ian Gorham exercised 21,80 deferred bonus shares on October 201 when the share price was 1. and Tracey Taylor exercised 22,025 shares relating to the 201 TIP on 1 May 2018 when the share price was 1.5. ayen r l ce adied The Committee confirms that no payments have been made for loss of office during the year.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED enerain in cne Total shareholder return The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by total shareholder return TSR, which is the capital growth and dividends paid.
This is compared with the performance of the FTSE 50 Financial Services Index for the last nine years.
This chart shows the value of 100 invested in the Company on 1 uly 200 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 50 Financial Services Index for each of our financial year ends to 0 une 2018.
We have chosen the FTSE 50 Financial Services Index a s we believe it is the most appropriate comparator for benchmarking our corporate performance over the nine year period.
1,200 Hargreaves Lansdown 1,000 800 600 400 FTSE Financial Services Index 200 0 2009 2018 ie ecie cer renerain r e a nine year The table below shows details of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration for the previous nine years.
Annual bonus as a are ei n a a CEO Total remuneration ercenae ai ercenae ai Peter Hargreaves, nil nil Peter Hargreaves Ian, , , , , nil nil Gorham Ian Gorham, , , , nil Ian Gorham, , , , Ian Gorham, , , , Ian Gorham, , nil, , Ian Gorham, , nil, , Ian Gorham Chris Hill, , , , , , Chris Hill, , , , E moluments for Peter Hargreaves for are shown for the two months prior to date of his resignation from the role as Chief Executive Officer.
Em oluments for Ian Gorham for are shown for the ten months following his appointment to the Board as a Director.
Em oluments for Ian Gorham for are shown for the period to February when he stepped down as Chief Executive Officer.
Em oluments for Chris Hill for reflect his emoluments for the period from February, and exclude his earnings as Chief Financial Officer and Deputy CEO prior to that date.
Pr ior to, there was no individual cap on annual bonus payable, other than the overall bonus pool cap as a percentage of profit before tax.
Bonus figures shown are gross of any sacrifice into pension and before any compulsory deferral.
O ptions vesting in and pre-dated the TIP and therefore had no performance criteria.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE ercenae cane in ie ecie cer renerain The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the Director undertaking the role of Chief Executive Officer and the Companys employees as a whole between the year ended 0 une 201 and the year ended 0 une 2018.
Base salary Annual bonus Chief Executive Officer change.
This is the percentage difference in pay for eligible staff from une and une when the pay awards were implemented.
This table shows the change in average salary and bonus delivered to eligible employees between and.
These averages decreased due to our headcount growth during the year being more weighted to client-facing and administrative roles.
Benefits are provided on the same terms to Directors and all staff alike and as such are not included within the table above.
Relative importance of the spend on remuneration The table below shows the actual expenditure of the Group in terms of total employee remuneration, profit before tax, and total dividends for this and the previous year.
Profit before tax has been chosen as a metric in this instance to demonstrate the profits generated for shareholders and the relationship between this and the overall cost of employee remuneration.
To aid comparison we have also detailed the percentage change between the years.
Total dividend Total dividend paid rfi ere a a c declared ence er are 2018.... p 2017.... p change - ernal direcri ecie irecr in e year None of the Executive Directors have held any external directorships during the year.
Remuneration Policy for other employees All employees across the Group are subect to the same process in respect of annual salary reviews.
Consideration is given to the scope of each role, the level of experience, responsibility, progress in role, and pay levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
The performance and potential of the individual is also considered.
All permanent employees are considered for an annual performance bonus, or equivalent, with similar metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
All eligible employees under the rules of the scheme may also participate in the Groups Save As You Earn.
Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED air and necie irecr renerain Fees for Non-Executive Directors are structured with a base fee payable to all Non-Executive Directors, with additional fees paid for the role of Senior Independent Director and for the chairs and members of Board sub-committees.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors for the 201 financial year are as follows Fee policy Fees from Fees from ly uly a p. a.
Chair, Base fee for Non-Executives, Senior Independent Director, Chair of Audit Committee, Chair of Remuneration Committee, Chair of Investment Committee, Chair of Risk Committee, Chair of Nomination Committee, Member of Audit Remuneration Investment Risk Nomination Committee, Deanna Oppenheimer was appointed on an annual fee of, p. a.
This level of fee was set to reflect her level of experience and is closer to market levels than the previous incumbent.
Under current arrangements the Chair fulfils this role for no additional fee.
enerain ayale r e financial year ly ne adied The remuneration received by Non-Executive Directors in 2018 is set out below.
necie irecr and air ee fees Deanna Oppenheimer, Chair - Stephen Robertson, Shirley Garrood, ayne Styles, Fiona Clutterbuck - Roger Perkin - Mike Evans, ex-Chair, Christopher Barling, Non-Executive Directors received no other benefits or other remuneration other than reimbursement of all reasonable and properly documented travel, hotel and other incidental expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and any tax and social costs arising thereon, the benefit of officers liability insurance and reduced fees for the use of Hargreaves ansdown services for themselves and connected persons, on the same basis as all other Hargreaves ansdown staff.
ar reae andnReport and Financial Statements 2018 GOVERNANCE The table below shows, as at 0 une 2018, the Company shares held by the current Non-Executive Directors necie irecr Shares Deanna Oppenheimer, Chair, Stephen Robertson, Shirley Garrood nil ayne Styles nil Roger Perkin nil Fiona Clutterbuck, aeen in a e At the AGM held in 201, votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration report and Remuneration Policy were as follows Votes for incldin Total votes Total votes discretionary Votes ca ecldin Votes ca incldin Resolution votes r aain aain votes withheld withheld votes withheld Approve Directors Report on, , .
, , , Remuneration Policy Fiona Clutterbuck Chair of the Remuneration Committee August 2018 Hargreaves LansdownReport and Financial Statements 2018
