Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Hill & Smith Holdings PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2018 Q: What is the purpose of our remuneration policy?
The purpose of our remuneration policy is to be able to recruit and retain Executive Directors of sufficient calibre to develop and deliver our business strategy and create shareholder value: to ensure remuneration arrangements are in the best interests of the Group, in line with the wider workforce and do not pay more than is appropriate and does not pay for failure.
More information on the Groups Remuneration Policy is available in the Policy Table on pages 83 to 86 of the Groups Remuneration Report.
Q: Has our remuneration policy operated as intended?
We believe that the policy has operated as intended.
Our Executive Directors pay arrangements are made up of three fundamental elements: salary, a short-term annual bonus, and a three-year longer-term incentive arrangement.
Whilst we have achieved an underlying operating profit that was behind our 2018 target, it was comparable with our record year of 2017.
Thus whilst the bonus achieved by the Executive Directors in respect of the year to 31 December 2017 was 94% of salary Operating Profit: 81.3m, the bonus earned for the period 31 December 2018 is 24.1% of salary Operating Profit: 80.1m.
However, given that the long-term incentive arrangements cover a three-year performance period, where performance is measured by the growth in underlying earnings per share UEPS and Total Shareholder Return TSR, the three-year growth of the company, represented by an increase in UEPS of 50.5%, will result, in conjunction with an upper-quartile TSR position of 24th, in a vesting of 100% of the shares awarded in 2016 as part of the long-term incentive plan, reflecting the strong performance of the group over the three year performance period from 1 January 2016.
More information is available on pages 77 and 79 of the Groups Remuneration Report.
Q: How has the Board engaged with the wider workforce regarding pay increases for 2019?
In deciding on the annual increase of 2.4% for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committee received information on the average increases being given across the Groups 31 subsidiaries located in seven countries.
Find out more detail in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 82.
