52 Governance Directors remuneration report the significant increase in size and the introduction of a second Annual Statement complexity of the business since performance metric being a relative the last major review carried out in total shareholder return TSR measure 2012.
Since then revenue, market for 30% of LTIP awards in addition to Dear Shareholder, capitalisation, numbers of employees, the current EPS performance metric On behalf of the Board I am pleased to production sites and countries operated which will now have a 70% rating.
present the Directors remuneration report have all increased significantly as the The introduction of an objective share for the 52 weeks ended 30 December Group continues its transformation price-linked measure will increase 2018.
This report sets out the Companys into a global business.
In particular alignment between management policy on Directors remuneration as well geographical expansion has extended and shareholders and provide a more as information on remuneration paid to into Australasia and fresh convenience balanced incentive compared to the sole Directors during the year.
The report products launched in Central Europe.
The Committee considers complies with the requirements of Additionally Hilton is now committed to that it is appropriate that this metric, TheLarge and Medium-sized Companies joint venture relationships in partnership tobe measured over the three financial and Groups Accounts and Reports with our retail customers which years commencing with the year of Amendment Regulations 2013 and also brings more complexity to the grant, will also have a 10% threshold for has been prepared in line with the Group.
Lastly, our expansion through median performance.
It is anticipated recommendations of the 2016 UK acquisition into fish and vegetarian that this additional metric would be used Corporate Governance Code the Code protein categories brings new skill sets for the 2019 and future LTIP awards: and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules to evaluate: the introduction of a two year post the Listing Rules.
completion of a Board restructuring vesting holding period on all LTIP awards 2018 was another outstanding year with exercise during the year including the granted after the 2019 AGM which the Group delivering significant adjusted transition of the Chief Executive to isconsistent with the new Code: and profit and earnings per share EPS Executive Chairman and promotion increased shareholder protections.
ofthe Chief Operating Officer to The shareholding guidelines for the Additionally Seachill was successfully ChiefExecutive Officer: and Chief Financial Officer and any future integrated, we started production in changes to the Code which apply Executive Director appointment will Australia and took over operational from1 January 2019. be increased from 100% to 175% control of two joint venture plants there ofbase salary.
Shareholding guidelines The Committee conducted a and also agreed a strategic investment for the Executive Chairman and Chief comprehensive review covering the in a vegetarian product manufacturer.
Executive will remain at 300% of salary.
Executive Directors packages including The performance demonstrated our No changes will be made to the post incentive plans.
This review concluded strategic intent to grow existing and cessation shareholding policy, whereby that the annual bonus opportunity should new customers, new categories and 50% of any shareholding requirement remain unchanged at 125% of base salary, new markets.
needs to be retained for at least but that other elements of performance Directors remuneration major 12 months post cessation.
In addition related pay be reassessed.
A summary decisions and substantial changes to the increased shareholding guideline, of the proposed key changes to the malus and clawback provisions for the New remuneration policy remuneration policy areas follows: bonus and LTIP have been reviewed The objective of the policy continues to an increase in the maximum annual LTIP andenhanced where necessary.
be to ensure that executive remuneration award from 100% of salary to 175% of is in line with good practice, that it is salary.
The 200% of salary exceptional competitive but not excessive by market award limit will be removed from the standards and it is aligned with our policy.
Noting that the existing 100% strategic objectives and the interests of of salary limit has remained unchanged our shareholders and wider stakeholders.
since it was introduced in 2012, the The current remuneration policy was Committee wishes to adjust LTIP levels approved by shareholders in 2017 and is to appropriately reflect the increased size not therefore due for renewal until 2020. and complexity of the business and to However the Committee feels that it is ensure that packages are appropriately appropriate to bring forward this renewal weighted to the Groups long-term to the 2019 AGM in light of the following performance.
However, notwithstanding substantial business developments: that majority practice in the FTSE is for 25% of LTIP awards to vest for threshold performance levels, the Committee wishes to retain the 10% threshold currently operated for the EPS targets: Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 53 The Committee is mindful of the need 2018 pay outcomes Long Term Incentive Plan to nurture a strong talent pipeline Hiltons performance continues to be The LTIP award granted in 2016 and and therefore assist with the Boards strong, outperforming its comparator due to vest in 2019 was subject to succession planning, essential at Hilton indices.
The Company continues to performance against stretching EPS where Directors have had considerable successfully implement its strategy with targets.
Given the growth in business a wide spread of the Groups operations set at EPS growth of 5% per annum categories and geographies, planning across Europe and a growing Asia Pacific whereby 10% of the options would vest, ofresource implications is well in hand.
region which represents a material rising to EPS growth of at least 17% per longterm strength.
annum whereby 100% of the options Variable pay would vest.
Following the end of the The maximum annual bonus opportunity Annual bonus three yearperformance period ended will continue to be capped at 125% For the financial element the Groups 30 December 2018, compound annual ofbase salary.
underlying adjusted profit before EPS growth of 15.4% was achieved and acquisition intangible amortisation The 2019 Executive Director bonus it is expected that there will be vesting and taxexceeded the target by 4.9%.
scheme financial element of up to of88.1% outofamaximum of 100%.
This resulted in performance above 105% of salary will be measured by The Committee believes the annual threshold but below maximum resulting comparing targeted performance against bonus and LTIP outcomes are reflective in a bonus of 78.1% of salary out of the underlying adjusted profit before of Group and individual performance amaximum of 105% of salary.
acquisition intangible amortisation, over the relevant one and three year exceptional items and tax removing any This is augmented by the strategic performance periods.
tax implications which are largely out element bonus for the Executive ofmanagements control.
2019 implementation Directors which is calculated by reference to personal objectives which Base salaries A further strategic element of up to 20% include management development, of salary is available based on individual In reviewing salaries for 2019, the implementing the strategic plan, new performance against personal and strategic Committee considered Company business development, succession objectives aggregating to a 125% of and individual Director performance, planning together with investor and salary maximum bonus opportunity for changes in responsibility and levels of analystretention.
Effective implementation the Executive Directors.
Objectives are increase in the sector for the broader of business change and leadership considered to be commercially sensitive UKemployee population.
transition has relied upon the collaborative at this point although full disclosure of Accordingly the Committee agreed base working of all three Executive Directors.
the targets and performance against salary increases of 2% for RobertWatson The successful integration of Seachill, the objectives will be provided on and Philip Heffer effective from the speed of progress in Australia, new a retrospective basis in next years 1 January2019 in line with the increase business won with existing customers,  report.
For Nigel entry into the vegetarian market, plus Under proposed changes to the Majewski a 10% increase has been the strengthening of the Executive team remuneration policy and subject to awarded reflecting the increased scale are key call outs.
Hence, the Committee shareholder approval, the 2019 LTIP and complexity of his role particularly agreed that on a combined assessment awards for Executive Directors will be froman international growth perspective of performance the Executive Directors increased to 175% of salary with vesting as the Company continues to deliver achieved well above their objectives and determined by stretching EPS and relative onitsvarious strategic initiatives.
accordingly theCommittee recommended TSR performance targets.
In addition, that 20% ofsalary became payable The Committee has undertaken that any a number of changes will be made to out of a maximum of 20% to each future increases in Executive Directors the LTIP rules to reflect developments Executive Director.
salaries over the three years of the new inbest practice.
The grant of the 2019 remuneration policy will be capped In aggregate a total bonus of 98.1% LTIPawards are expected to bemade at no more than the increase of the of salary is payable in respect of 2018 afterthe 2019 AGM.
general workforce except in the case performance out of a maximum of Use of discretion of a promotion or substantive business 125%of salary.
expansion, where a larger increase may There were no issues during the year over be considered.
which the Committee was required to use its discretion.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 54 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Other Shareholder consultation and AGM approvals The Committees terms of reference were updated primarily to reflect the new Code In proposing the changes to the which became effective from 1 January remuneration policy which will be taken 2019 which expands the Committees to the 2019 AGM, the Committee has remit to cover workforce remuneration and consulted with Hiltons top ten institutional associated policies including a provision shareholders and the major shareholder for workforce engagement.
I would like to has been designated as the Non-Executive thank investors and the representative Director for engaging with the workforce.
bodies for their positive feedback on the proposals, which the Committee Our management is developing considered in detail and which has helped appropriate reporting mechanisms to formulate the remuneration policy to provide the Committee with this contained in this report.
As a result of additional context throughout the year theproposed changes to the remuneration which will be taken into account when policy, the following resolutions relating setting the remuneration for its Executive to remuneration will be presented at the Directors.
The Committee will also 2019 AGM: have responsibility for ensuring these The binding resolution on the policies and processes support the proposed remuneration policy report culture, purpose, values and diversity contained within this Directors initiatives across the Group.
We intend remuneration report: toreport on these activities in next years Remuneration report.
The advisory resolution on the remuneration paid to the Directors Looking ahead inthe 52 weeks ended 30 December The Remuneration Committee is 2018 and the operation of the policy committed to ensuring that the for 2019 as set out in the Annual report remuneration policy and its implementation on remuneration: remains compliant with all legislative A resolution to reapprove the Hilton requirements as they come into force, Long Term Incentive Plan rules, originally and is aligned with evolving best practice, approved by shareholders in 2012, while continuing to take account of our which have been updated to align them overarching remuneration philosophy to best practice in respect of a number anddelivering value to shareholders.
ofprovisions e. g. dividend equivalents, malus and clawback : and On this basis the 2019 Remuneration report will include further details of how A resolution to approve the Hilton the provisions of the new UK Corporate Sharesave Plan rules which have Governance Code have been implemented reached the end of their 10 year life and as well as disclosure of the 2019 CEO which have been updated to reflect pay ratio.
In addition the transparency and equality I hope we continue to receive your support of pay across all grades, gender and in respect of our Annual report at our geographies remains a key focus of forthcoming AGM.
thebusiness and is a regular item on Christine Cross theRemuneration Committee agenda.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 55 An increase to the annual LTIP award Overview of remuneration policy Directors from 100% of salary to 175% of salary, The Committee considers that the albeit the exceptional award limit which remuneration policy Groupsremuneration policies should permits awards of up to 200% of salary encourage a strong performance culture has been removed: and emphasise long term shareholder Policy scope The introduction of a relative total value creation in order to be aligned The Policy applies to the shareholder return TSR measure for withshareholders interests.
Chairman, Executive Directors 30% of LTIP awards the vesting of The policy, developed following a andNon-Executive Directors.
current LTIP awards is solely based comprehensive remuneration review, onabsolute earnings per share growth Policy duration hasthe following objectives: targets.
It is anticipated that this new The current remuneration policy was To develop a remuneration structure metric would apply to 2019 and future passed by a binding shareholder vote which supports the Companys LTIP awards: at the Companys 2017 Annual General strong performance culture and our The introduction of a two year post Meeting and became effective from the key objective of creating long term vesting holding period on all LTIP awards date of that meeting.
For the reasons set shareholder value: granted after the 2019 AGM: and out in the Annual Statement a new policy, To enable the Company to recruit and Increased shareholder protections.
as set out below, will be proposed as a retain executives with the capability The shareholding guidelines for Chief resolution subject to a binding shareholder to lead the Company on its ambitious Financial Officer and any future vote at the Companys 2019 Annual growth path: Executive Director appointment will General Meeting.
To reflect principles of best practice: and be increased from 100% to 175% of The new policy takes into account the base salary.
Shareholding guidelines To ensure our remuneration structures provisions of the new UK Corporate for the Executive Chairman and are transparent and easily understood Governance Code which is effective from ChiefExecutive will remain at 300% of both internally and externally.
1 January 2019 and other good practice salary.
In addition, malus and clawback A summary of the key changes arising guidelines from institutional shareholders provisions in the bonus and LTIP from the remuneration review proposed and shareholder bodies.
Subject to have been reviewed and enhanced for inclusion in the new remuneration approval by shareholders it will become where necessary.
policy are as follows: effective from the 2019 AGM date and shall be in place for the next three year period unless a new policy is presented toshareholders before then.
All payments to Directors during the policy period will beconsistent with the approved policy.
Remuneration policy table The following table summarises all elements of pay which make up the total remuneration opportunity for Directors, and details how each element is operated and links to the Companys strategy.
Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Base salary To recruit and Normally reviewed annually by the Committee with For Messrs Watson, Heffer reward executives effectfrom 1 January, taking account of Company and Majewski, following of a suitable calibre performance, individual performance, changes in the implementation of for the role and responsibility and levels of increase for the broader UK the 2019 increases as set duties required employee population or their local market where relevant.
out in this Remuneration report, increases in 2020 Reference is also made to levels within relevant FTSE and 2021 will be capped by andindustry comparators on a periodic basis although the increases made to the this is only one factor that is taken into account when general workforce except determining pay levels and increases.
in cases of promotion or if The Committee considers the impact of any base salary there has been a substantive increase on the total remuneration package.
Pay levels throughout the organisation are also taken For future directors this cap into account in order to ensure adequate provision for does not apply.
it may be appropriate for a new director to be positioned on a below market base salary but then to provide above market increases as the executive gains experience in the role.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 56 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Benefits To provide market The Company typically provides: The value of traditional competitive benefits is based on the Company car and fuel: benefits to ensure cost to the Company and Private healthcare: and the retention isnot pre-determined.
Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses of employees Relocation expenses or as required.
benefits will take into Any reasonable business related expenses including tax account the nature of thereon may be reimbursed.
the relocation and will Executive Directors are eligible for other benefits which be provided on a fair and are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly reasonable basis.
Pension To provide adequate Employer contributions are made to money purchase Up to 15% of basic salary retirement benefits pension schemes or in certain circumstances although the Remuneration asalary supplement may be paid in lieu of such Committee will seek to pension contributions.
appoint new Executive Directors on workforce aligned provision where thisis possible.
Annual bonus To encourage and The Committee will review performance metrics at the Up to 125% of base salary.
reward delivery start of the year.
Performance criteria will be aligned of the Companys totheCompanys strategic objectives at that time.
shortterm The majority of the bonus will be linked to challenging financial and or financial metrics, which will typically include a measure strategic objectives ofprofit.
Strategic or other individual targets may be usedto determine a minority of the bonus outcome.
For financial measures, typically a sliding scale of targets will be set.
Where operated, no more than 20% of that element shall be payable for threshold performance.
It maynot be possible to set sliding scale targets for individual or strategic measures but full disclosure on the objectives and performance against these will be provided on a retrospective basis.
At the start of the performance year, the Committee may determine that a proportion of the bonus is deferred in shares.
If a proportion of bonus is deferred in shares, the value of any dividends payable on those shared during the vesting period may be payable.
Bonuses are subject to malus and claw-back provisions in circumstances of misstatement, error or gross misconduct.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 57 Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Long term To encourage and Under its Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Hilton makes Up to 175% of salary for incentives reward delivery annual awards of conditional shares or nil cost options allExecutive Directors.
of the Companys toselected senior executives.
medium term Awards vest subject to continued employment and objectives.
satisfaction of challenging performance conditions To provide a measured over three years to be satisfied by the issue way of building ofnew shares or through purchasing shares in the market.
up a meaningful The performance measures will be based on financial shareholding in e. g. EPS and or share-price related e. g. relative TSR the Company and performance targets.
providing alignment Performance targets will be determined at the date of with shareholders grant with up to 10% vesting at threshold performance.
interests The Committee may introduce new or reweight existing performance measures so that they are aligned with the Companys strategic objectives at the start of each performance period.
The Committee will consult with leading shareholders before introducing a new performance measure.
Awards are subject to malus and claw-back provisions forthree years following vesting in circumstances ofmaterial misstatement, error or misconduct.
A two year post vesting holding period will operate for all LTIP awards granted to Executive Directors after the 2019 AGM.
Dividend equivalents may be paid on the value of dividendspaid during the vesting period or any holding period if applicable.
The payment may be in the form of additional shares or cash and may assume reinvestment.
The Committee has the discretion in certain circumstancesto grant and or settle an award in cash.
All employee To encourage All employees are eligible to join any permissible all The maximum level of share schemes employee share employee scheme.
Executive Directors will be eligible to participation is subject ownership and participate in any all employee share plan operated by the to thelimits imposed by thereby increase Company on the same terms as other eligible employees.
HMRC from time to time their alignment or a lower cap set by Under Hiltons Sharesave Scheme HMRC approved with shareholders the Company.
for theUK and Ireland regular savings over three years is followed by a six month period to exercise theoptions granted.
No performance conditions attach to options granted under the Scheme.
Shareholding To further align Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the N A guidelines Executive Directors Companys shares equal to a minimum value of 300% of interests with base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Operating those of long term Officer and 175% of base salary for all other Directors.
shareholders and To the extent that this guideline has not been achieved, other stakeholders executives are normally required to retain 50% of any vested share awards after the sale to meet tax obligations.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 58 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Post cessation Half of the shareholding guideline requirement will apply guidelines for 12 months post-employment.
Non-Executive To attract and The Non-Executive Directors receive fees for carrying out As for the Executive Director fees retain a high-calibre their duties.
Directors, there is no Non-Executive prescribed maximum Fees are reviewed periodically.
A base fee is augmented Chairman and annual increase.
for Committee Chairmanship or membership to take Non-Executive into account the additional time commitment and Any increases to fee levels Directors by responsibilities associated with those committees.
will take into account the offeringa market Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors general salary increase for competitive fee level areeligible for any performance related remuneration.
the broader UK employee population, the level of Non-Executive Director remuneration is determined time commitment required by the Non-Executive Chairman and the Executive to undertake the role and Directors.
The Non-Executive Chairmans remuneration is the level of fees paid in the determined by the Remuneration Committee.
If there is a general market.
temporary yet material increase in the time commitments for Non-Executive Directors, the Board may pay extra fees ona pro-rata basis to recognise the additional workload.
Additional fees may be payable in relation to extra responsibilities undertaken such as chairing a Board Committee and or a Senior Independent Director role orbeing a member of a committee.
Any reasonable business-related expenses including tax thereon can be reimbursed if determined to be ataxable benefit.
As Hilton operates in a number of geographies, remuneration practices vary across the Group.
However, employee remuneration policies are based on thesame broad principles and the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees as a whole.
For example, the Committee takes into account the general base salary increase for the broader UK employee population when determining the annual salary review fortheExecutive Directors.
There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and other senior employees, whichthe Remuneration Committee believes are necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility of employees across the Company.
The key differences in remuneration policy between the Executive Directors and employees across the Group are the increased emphasis on performance related pay and the inclusion of a share based long term incentive plan for Executive Directors.
There is a lower aggregate incentive quantum at below executive level with levels driven by market comparatives and the impact of the role.
Long term incentives are not provided outside of the most senior executives as they are reserved for those viewed as having the greatest potential to influence Group levels of performance.
Long term incentive and Sharesave schemes are operated in accordance with their respective Scheme and other rules under which the Committee has some discretion relating to their administration which is consistent with market practice.
Under the LTIP such discretion covers: participation: the timing of the grant of award and or payment: treatment of awards in the event of good leavers including determination of good leaver status, death and intervening events including variations in capitaland change of control which address vesting date, exercise period and reduction in number of vesting options: minor alterations to benefit the plan administration, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control orregulatory treatment: where an event has occurred such that it would be appropriate to amend the performance condition so long as the altered performance condition isnotmaterially less difficult to satisfy: and adjusting the long term incentive vesting outcome if the level of vesting is not considered to be commensurate with performance over the period.
The Committee, in using its discretion, would act fairly and reasonably and would seek to consult with shareholders prior to the use of any upwards discretion.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 59 Other policy information Element Description Non-UK based Directors may be employed who are based outside of the UK and therefore subject to the employment laws Directors and andaccepted practice for that country which may be different to those in the UK.
The Committee will ensure foreign currency that any future overseas based Directors are remunerated on an equivalent basis as in the UK albeit that it may translation be necessary to satisfy local statutory requirements.
Remuneration to overseas Directors paid in foreign currencies is, for disclosure purposes, translated into Sterling at the average exchange rate for the relevant year.
Approach The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the to recruitment Companys approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the fee arrangement would be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy in force at that time.
The salary for a new Executive Director shall take into account the experience and calibre of the individual and the market rate required for recruiting him or her.
The initial salary may be set below the normal market rate, with phased increases over the first few years as the Executive Director gains experience in their new role.
Depending on the timing of the appointment, the Committee may deem it appropriate to set different annual bonus performance criteria for the remainder of the first performance year of appointment.
The bonus would be pro-rated to reflect the portion of the year in employment.
In addition, an LTIP award can be made shortly following an appointment providing that the Company is not in a closed period.
The maximum bonus and LTIPgrant level will be in accordance with the maxima outlined in the policy table.
If an individual is forfeiting remuneration from his or her previous employer, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Such payments would reflect and be limited to remuneration relinquished when leaving the former employer and would reflect as far as possible the nature and time horizons attaching to that remuneration and the impact of any performance conditions.
The aim of any such award would be to ensure that so far as possible, the expected value and structure of the award will be no more generous than the amountbeing forfeited.
Shareholders will be informed of any such payments in the remuneration report.
For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role willbe allowed to pay out according to its terms.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
For external and internal Executive Director appointments the Committee has the discretion to pay ongoing relocation costs for a reasonable period, as well as one-off payments assuming they are fair and reasonable.
Any share-based awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Companys existing share plans.
If necessary, awards may be granted outside of these plans as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Payment for Payments for loss of office are made in accordance with the terms of the Directors service contracts as below.
loss of office On termination no bonus is payable unless the Committee determines good leaver circumstances apply where, subject to performance conditions, a pro-rata bonus may be payable at the Companys discretion.
LTIP awards will generally lapse on cessation although they may be capable of vesting in certain good leaver situations.
For good leavers, outstanding share awards may vest at the original vesting date, or on the date of cessation if the Committee decides, subject to time pro-rating and the performance conditions being satisfied.
In accordance with its terms of reference the Committee ensures that contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual, and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
The Committee may pay reasonable outplacement and legal fees where considered appropriate.
In addition, the Committee may pay any statutory entitlements or settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination of employment, where considered in the best interests of the Company.
Consideration of The Committee is always interested in shareholder views and is committed to an open dialogue.
Accordingly, shareholder views the Committee will seek to engage with major shareholders on any proposed significant changes to its remuneration policies or in the event of a significant exercise of discretion.
The Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to each AGM alongside views expressed during the year.
In addition, we engage actively with our largest shareholders and consider the range of views expressed.
Consideration The Committee takes into account the general employment reward packages of employees across the Group of employment when setting policy for Executive Director remuneration and is kept informed of changes in pay across the conditions Group.
Employees have not previously been actively consulted on Director remuneration policies but this may elsewhere be considered in future where appropriate.
inthe Group Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 60 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Director service contract and other relevant information Provision Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Term All appointed on 24 April 2007 with no fixed term John Worby and Christine Cross three years from 23 March 2019 Angus Porter three years from 1 July 2018 Re-election Every three years by rotation under the Companys Every three years by rotation under the Companys at AGM Articlesand each year for FTSE 350 companies Articlesand each year for FTSE 350 companies underthe UK Corporate Governance Code underthe UK Corporate Governance Code Notice period Up to 12 months for both the Company and Six months for both the Company and the Director the Director.
The service contract policy for new appointments will be on similar terms asexisting Directors Termination Up to 12 months salary in lieu of notice.
None payment If a claim is made against the Company in relation to payments in lieu atermination e. g. for unfair dismissal, the Committee of notice retains the right to make an appropriate payment in settlement of such claims as considered in the best interests of the Company.
Additional payments inconnection with any statutory entitlements e. g. in relation to redundancy may be made as required Change of control There are no enhanced terms in relation to a change There are no enhanced terms in relation to a change of control of control External External appointments can be held and earnings N A appointments retainedfrom such appointments with the Companys permission Inspection Executive Director service agreements and Non-Executive Director appointment letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy report, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors such as the payment of a pension or the unwinding of legacy share schemes that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annualreport on remuneration as they arise.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 61 Illustration of future application of remuneration policy The chart below illustrates 2019 Executive Directors remuneration at different levels of performance under the remuneration policy.
Fixed elements of pay comprise salary and fees, benefits and pension.
Salary and fees include known increases, benefits are included at 2018 levels and pension is calculated at the approved percentage rates.
One year targets represent the annual bonus.
The minimum scenario assumes no bonus on the basis that threshold is not reached, the on target scenario assumes an aggregate 60% of salary bonus, and the maximum scenario assumes the full 125% bonus.
Multiple year targets comprise long term incentives.
The minimum scenario assumes that threshold performance is not reached with no awards vesting, theontarget scenario is based on 45% of the awards vesting and the maximum scenario reflects the maximum performance with 100% of the awards vesting.
The basis of the calculation of the share price appreciation is that the share price embedded in the calculation for the maximum bar chart is assumed to increase by 50% across the performance period.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Nigel Philip Robert Majewski Heffer Watson 62 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Responsibilities of the Committee External advisors Annual report The main responsibilities of the During the year the Committee appointed on remuneration Remuneration Committee which are FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP contained in the UK Corporate Governance to provide advice on remuneration Code and also in the Committees terms matters.
FIT replaced New Bridge Role of the Committee ofreference are: Street during 2018, following a tender Remuneration policy is delegated process.
FITs fees for advice provided setting the remuneration policy and by the Board to the Remuneration to the Remuneration Committee from agreeing payments for the Companys Committee established by the Board of appointment were 19,839.
New Bridge Non-Executive Chairman, the Executive Directors.
Terms of reference formalise Streets fees for 2018, up to the date FIT Directors and Senior Leadership Team: the roles, tasks and responsibilities was appointed, were 9,690.
FIT does approving the design of, and determining of the Committee to comply with the not provide any other services to the the targets for, any performance-related UKCorporate Governance Code and to Group and the Committee is satisfied pay schemes operated by the Company achieve best practice.
The Committees that it provides independent and objective and approving the aggregate annual terms of reference are available and can remuneration advice.
FIT is a signatory to payments made under such schemes: be found on the Companys website at the Code of Conduct for Remuneration reviewing the design of all share www.
Consultants in the UK, details of which incentive plans for approval by the can be found on the Remuneration The Committee meets at least twice Boardand shareholders: and Consultants Groups website at per year.
reviewing all elements of workforce www.
Membership of the Committee remuneration and associated policies.
Share scheme dilution limits Members of the Committee are appointed Attendance at meetings of The Company applies established by the Board on the recommendation the Remuneration Committee good governance restrictions over the of the Nomination Committee and Number Percentage issue of new shares under all its share in consultation with the Chair of the attended attended schemes of 10% in 10 years and 5% Remuneration Committee.
In 2018 the Christine Cross 4 100% in 10 years fordiscretionary schemes.
Committee comprised the independent Colin Smith 2 100% As at30 December 2018 the headroom Non-Executive Directors Christine Cross John Worby 4 100% available under these limits was 2.4% and John Worby and the Non-Executive and0% respectively.
Angus Porter 2 100% Chairman of the Board Colin Smith who was considered to be independent on Statement of voting at Remuneration Committee appointment.
Angus Porter joined the Annual General Meeting key activities Committee as a further independent The following table shows the voting Non-Executive Director during the year Appointed independent remuneration results in respect of the 2017 Directors with Colin Smith retiring.
The Committee consultants to advise the Committee remuneration report other than the is chaired by Christine Cross.
Reviewed the existing Remuneration Directors remuneration policy at Policy and proposed amendments Other individuals such as the Executive the 2018AGM and the last time the Chairman, Chief Executive and external Remuneration Policy was approved Reviewed Executive Directors advisors may be invited by the Committee byshareholders at the 2017 AGM: base salaries to attend meetings as and when required.
Set objectives for the annual Approve Approve The Company Secretary is in attendance Directors Directors bonus arrangements for 2019 for remuneration remuneration atall meetings.
Executive Directors report policy AGM year 2018 2017 Reviewed the achievement of the Executive Directors bonus arrangements Resolution type Advisory Binding against 2018 targets Votes for 55,979,884 44,266,959 Reviewed the outcome of performance % 96.63% 98.21% conditions for the LTIP awards which Votes against 1,950,765 807,103 weregranted in 2015 % 3.37% 1.79% Approved LTIP awards granted in 2018 Votes withheld 4,346 3,170,316 Reviewed the Committees terms of reference The remainder of this section is subject to audit.
Reviewed the 2018 Remuneration Report Approved the issue of the Sharesave scheme for 2018 Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 63 Single total figure table of remuneration The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below.
Salary Annual Long term and fees Benefits bonus incentive Pension note 1 note 2 note 3 note 4 note 5 Total 52 weeks to 30 December 2018 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Robert Watson 430 18 422 588 64 1,522 Philip Heffer 423 50 415 454 63 1,405 Nigel Majewski 358 13 351 454 54 1,230 Non-Executive Directors Colin Smith retired 1 July 2018 55 55 John Worby 55 55 Christine Cross 55 55 Angus Porter appointed 1 July 2018 25 25 Total 1,401 81 1,188 1,496 181 4,347 Salary Annual Long term and fees Benefits bonus incentive Pension Total 52 weeks to 31 December 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Robert Watson 468 28 468 536 70 1,570 Philip Heffer 361 48 361 429 54 1,253 Nigel Majewski 351 10 351 429 53 1,194 Non-Executive Directors Colin Smith 110 110 John Worby 55 55 Christine Cross 55 55 Total 1,400 86 1,180 1,394 177 4,237 Notes 1.
Salary and fees 2018 salaries reflect a 2% increase for all the Executive Directors on 2017.
The salaries of Robert Watson and Philip Heffer changed following the Board restructuring.
Benefits Benefits provided comprised company car and fuel and private healthcare.
Annual bonus The 2018 annual bonus had two elements.
The financial element bonus was based on adjusted profit before tax performance against a sliding scale of targets.
A strategic element bonus was available based on achievement of personal objectives.
The bonus outcome for 2018 for all Executive Directors issummarised below.
Bonus element Metric Threshold performance Target performance Maximum stretch target 2018 achieved Financial Profit before tax 37.1m 43.5m 47.8m 45.7m % against target 85% 100% 110% 105.1% % of base salary 20% 50% 105% 78.1% Strategic % of base salary 20% 20.0% Total % of base salary 125% 98.1% Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 64 Governance Directors remuneration report continued The Executive Directors were given a number of different personal and strategic objectives individually tailored to their role and the needs of the business in the year now under review.
The achievements against these objectives were considered carefully by the Committee.
A summary of these objectives and achievements for the Executive Directors is set out below.
The Committee agreed that on a combined assessment of performance the Executive Directors achieved well above their objectives.
Oversight and implementation of the new CEO-1 and CEO-2 Structure embedded and roles filled through internal talent 100% management structure, with measurement and personal plans and key external hires especially in new geographies.
forall team members Leadership conference and town hall programme begun.
Ensure all drivers in place to deliver the revised five year strategic Bank refinancing secured, talent mapped and succession 100% plan including finance, people, resource support planning in place.
Incremental new business development Customer opportunities, categories and geographies mapped.
Dalco JV in place with completion approval.
Building stakeholder equity Wider stakeholder engagement including new investors 100% andregulators.
High level of advocacy among the investor community.
Leading the development of HFGs culture, talent and diversity Employee engagement metrics positive, achievedtargeted 100% improvements in diversity andnew sustainability initiatives.
The Executive Directors were deemed to have fully met the targets set through collaborative working as detailed in the Annual Statement on page 53 and therefore earned a full 20% bonus.
Long term incentive Long term incentives comprise the number of share options under the Companys share plans where the achievement of performance targets ended in the year multiplied by the difference between the share price on the date of vesting and the exercise price.
Awards were granted in 2016 under the Long Term Incentive Plan which are due to vest in 2019 subject to performance conditions covering the three financial years 2016-2018.
The expected long term incentive outcome is summarised below.
Awards Value at expected year end Awards to vest share price Threshold Maximum 2018 granted 88.1% of 9.02 Metric performance performance achieved Director No.
000 2016-18 EPS % annual growth 5% 17% 15.4% Robert Watson 74,055 65,242 588 Vesting % 10% 100% 88.1% Philip Heffer 57,090 50,296 454 Nigel Majewski 57,090 50,296 454 The long term incentive values for 2017 have been restated based on the actual vesting percentage 72.9% compared with 69.8% estimate and actual share price at vesting 8.52 instead of the 2017 year end share price of 8.64.
Pension Payments were made during 2018 to money purchase pension schemes or in lieu as a salary supplement at the rate of 15% of base salary for all Executive Directors.
Payments to past directors There were no other payments made to former directors excluding those in respect of employment with or any other contractual service performed forthe Company other than as a director in 2018.
Payments for loss of office There were no payments for loss of office made in 2018.
The Companys Remuneration Policy includes a guideline such that Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the Companys shares equal to a minimum value of 300% of base salary for the Executive Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Operating Officer and 100% of base salary for all other Executive Directors.
At 30 December 2018 Robert Watson held shares whose value by reference to the year end share price as a proportion of his salary was 5,949% with Philip Heffer at 7,910% and Nigel Majewski at 258% exceeding these guidelines.
All shares are beneficially owned with the exception of 1,316,917 shares held by various family trusts of which Robert Watson is a trustee.
Since the end of the year Robert Watson sold 50,000 shares.
There have been no other changes in the interests of Directors between 30 December 2018 and the date of this report.
Share options granted under Hiltons all employee Sharesave Scheme.
Nil cost options granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan which are subject to the performance conditions and compound earnings per shares growth below on a sliding scale over the performance period.
Compound annual Compound annual EPS growth at EPS growth at Grant year Performance period Threshold vesting threshold vesting Maximum vesting maximum vesting 2014 20142016 25% 8% 100% 13% 2015 20152017 10% 6% 100% 18% 2016 20162018 10% 5% 100% 17% 2017 20172019 10% 6% 100% 14% 2018 20182020 10% 6% 100% 14% Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 66 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 4.
G rant of nil cost option awards in the year were as follows: Number of shares under 2018 Director Face value LTIP award Proportion of salary Share price date Share price Robert Watson 382,000 39,139 100% 2 July 2018 976.00p Philip Heffer 477,000 48,873 100% 2 July 2018 976.00p Nigel Majewski intended grant 358,270 40,528 100% 7 May 2018 884.00p Nigel Majewski actual grant 395,552 40,528 110% 2 July 2018 976.00p The grant date in respect of the LTIP awards above were delayed until the completion of the Board restructuring process in respect of Robert Watson and PhilipHeffer.
Although Nigel Majewski was not directly impacted by the changes, his award was also delayed to allow the Executive Directors LTIP awards tobe granted at the same time on 2 July 2018.
However, and as permitted under the LTIP rules, to ensure that Nigel Majewski was not disadvantaged and keptwhole by this delay in respect of the number of shares under award, the Committee agreed that his award should be based on the share price at the timehis award should have been granted i. e. at the time of the main 2018 LTIP grant date in May 2018 rather than the share price at his delayed grant date.
Further information Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the 2019 financial year Base salaries, benefits and pension For 2019 Executive Director salaries for Robert Watson and Philip Heffer have increased by 2% in line with the increases of the general workforce.
Nigel Majewski received a 10% increase reflecting the increased scale and complexity of his role.
2018 2019 000 000 Robert Watson 382 390 Philip Heffer 477 487 Nigel Majewski 358 394 There are no changes in benefits and pensions.
Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus in 2019 will continue to be set at 125% of salary.
This bonus will be payable subject to stretching targets around the profit before tax metric up to 105% of salary and personal and strategic targets up to 20% of salary.
Both financial targets, set with reference to the budget, and detailed personal and strategic targets are considered commercially sensitive.
TheCommittee will therefore disclose targets on a retrospective basis.
However these have been aligned to broadly cover responsible customer, category and geographic growth with financial and people resource to support.
2019 LTIP awards Subject to approval of the new remuneration policy at the 2019 AGM, the Committee will grant LTIP awards to Executive Directors over shares equal to 175% of salary in 2019 based on the following EPS and TSR performance targets.
EPS 70% of awards 10% of this part of an award will vest for EPS growth of 6% p. a. increasing to full vesting for this part of anaward for EPS growth of 15% p. a. measured over the three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
The full vesting target represents considerable stretch given market demands: and TSR 30% of awards 10% of this part of an award will vest for median performance against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts increasing pro-rata to full vesting for this part of an award for upper quartile performance measured overthe three financial years commencing with the year of grant.
In addition, no part of this award may vest unless the Committee issatisfied with the underlying performance of the Company.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Director fees for John Worby and Christine Cross will increase by 5.5% in view of additional work in respect ofAuditand Remuneration Committee with fees for Angus Porter remaining unchanged.
These pay elements will be operated inlinewith the approved policy.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 67 TSR performance graph The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return performance TSR share price movements plus reinvested dividends of theCompany compared against the FTSE 250 and FTSE Small Cap Indexes covering the ten years 2009 to 2018.
The FTSE 250 andFTSESmall Cap Indexes are, in the opinion of the Directors, the most appropriate indexes against which the TSR of the Company should be measured.
2018 CEO remuneration comprises the remuneration of Robert Watson from 1 January 2018 to 30 June 2018, when he transitioned to Executive Chairman, and that of Philip Heffer from 1 July 2018 to 30 December 2018.
Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018 68 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Chief Executive Officer remuneration percentage trend Company 2018 percentage increase over 2017 CEO average Salary 2.0% 2% Benefits 0.0% n a Annual bonus 0.0% n a Note The majority of employees do not receive benefits or annual bonuses and so there is no meaningful data.
An alternative comparator group is the executive leadership team for whom the percentage changes for salary, benefits and annual bonus were 14%, 0% and 23% respectively.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out for the comparison total spend on pay with dividends.
2018 2017 000 000 % change Staff costs note 8 to the financial statements 127,584 94,685 35% Dividends payable 17,462 15,100 16% Note Dividends payable comprises any interim dividends paid in respect of the year plus the final dividend proposed for the year but not yet paid.
On behalf of the Board Christine Cross Chair of the Remuneration Committee 26 March 2019 Hilton Food Group plc | Annual report and financial statements 2018
