HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 84 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report In respect of longer-term performance, the LTIP awards granted in 2014 vested in full in June 2017 with HomeServes total shareholder return TSR at the end of the three year performance period to 22 June 2017 being 124.1% compared to the FTSE 250 Index TSR of 33.3%.
The 2014 awards were based solely on relative TSR performance.
The LTIP awards granted in June 2015 were based 25% on TSR performance and 75% on adjusted earnings per share EPS performance, with both conditions measured over a three year performance period to 31 March 2018.
Based on TSR performance to 31 March 2018 of 139.8% compared to the FTSE 250 Index TSR of 29.6% and EPS growth of 21.05% per annum, the 2015 awards will vest in full in June 2018.
A two year posting vesting holding period Dear Shareholder applies to the 2015 awards.
I am pleased to present the Although the 2014 and 2015 LTIP awards were granted, and will vest, one year apart, both are disclosed in the remuneration table as the performance period Remuneration report for for both awards ended during FY18.
This is a one off situation caused by a the year ended 31 March change in the performance period following the reintroduction of EPS as a 2018. performance condition.
From next year, the position will revert to normal and only one award will be disclosable.
Performance and reward It has been a year of record The Committee is satisfied that the remuneration paid to the Executive profit growth in which Directors in the year fairly reflects both corporate and individual performance.
we continued to deliver Remuneration policy FY19 excellent service to our The remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at last years AGM.
In particular, Our LTIP expires during the course of 2018 and we have given consideration we have seen outstanding to what should follow.
growth in North America The LTIP has proven to be a successful tool for incentivising and rewarding including our largest ever our senior management team and has generated strong alignment between policy book acquisition.
the returns received by shareholders and the reward paid to management over the last ten years.
Having consulted with shareholders we are therefore The stretching financial proposing a renewal of the current Plan with some minor operational changes and non financial targets to reflect updated market practice.
for the overall Group The minor changes to be made to the LTIP are: have been met.
In the UK, despite good operational The ability to grant uncapped awards in exceptional circumstances has performance, the been removed: challenging profit target The recovery and withholding provisions have been enhanced to cover a was not met.
As such, no period of three years from vesting previously one year : and bonuses were payable in respect of the UK.
The circumstances in which the recovery and withholding provisions can be invoked have been expanded to include a substantial failure of risk management, material reputational damage and or evidence of misbehaviour or material error by the relevant individual alongside the existing criteria.
We are comfortable that our approach is robust and workable should these provisions ever need to be operated.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 85 Directors remuneration report Under the LTIP, HomeServe is able to offer annual awards of performance shares to Executive Directors and Executives may voluntarily invest a portion of their annual bonus to be matched with additional shares up to a 2:1 ratio.
The maximum individual award limits have not changed since 2008 and will remain unchanged in the new Plan to be put to shareholders.
Performance share awards for FY19 will be limited to 150% of salary.
The Committee is aware that some institutional investors consider matching arrangements to be overly complex.
However, having operated the same scheme successfully for 10 years our Executives are very familiar with it.
We considered alternative long-term incentive structures as part of our review, including the possibility of consolidating the reward elements into a single performance share grant, but concluded that there was significant merit in retaining the current structure, namely: It requires Executives to invest in the Company providing absolute alignment both upside and downside risk with the Companys shareholders: The investment is done primarily through the annual bonus.
In years where no bonus is payable, the investment opportunity is capped at 25% of salary, providing an automatic scale back to the available reward in periods where the Company is not performing as well as expected: and The overall rewards on offer are considered appropriate taking into account the Companys size and the emphasis within our reward framework towards long-term performance.
The Committee therefore concluded that retaining the current structure is the optimal approach.
Consideration has been given to the performance targets for the FY19 grant and it has been agreed that awards will continue to be based 25% on TSR performance and 75% on EPS performance.
The threshold EPS growth target will require 9% cumulative annual growth which is higher than the 6% threshold set for previous grants.
The stretch target will remain unchanged at 15% per annum.
In terms of the other element of the reward package for Executive Directors for FY19: The maximum bonus opportunity remains unchanged at 100% of salary.
The bonus remains strongly linked to customer measures in line with the business strategy, subject to affordability underpins.
Details of the performance targets used and performance against them will be disclosed in next years report.
Emphasising the importance the company places on Directors shareholdings, the minimum guideline shareholding for Directors will be increased to 300% of salary fee for FY19.
Following Tom Rusins appointment as Global CEO, HomeServe Membership in April 2018, his basic salary was increased by 8.3% from $600,000 to $650,000.
This increase reflected the global nature of the role and the size of the business he is now leading.
Salaries for other Executive Directors will increase by 2% with effect from 1 July 2018 in line with the average increase for the UK workforce.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the remuneration policy continues to work effectively and supports our strategy as an entrepreneurial, customer focused business.
Stella David Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 22 May 2018 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 86 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy The Directors remuneration policy was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and is not subject to a shareholder vote this year.
The policy is set out below for information only.
In order to assist shareholders, the remuneration scenario charts later in the report have been updated to reflect the proposed remuneration levels for FY19 and we have added additional commentary, where relevant, to explain how the policy will be operated in FY19.
The Committees policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior Executives is based on the following principles: to align rewards with the Groups financial and operational performance to ensure that remuneration, in particular, variable pay, supports the Groups strategy as a customer focused operation to promote high levels of executive share ownership to encourage a long-term focus and alignment of interest between executives and shareholders to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives.
To that end, the Committee structures executive remuneration in two distinct parts: fixed remuneration of basic salary, pension and benefits and variable performance-related remuneration in the form of a cash bonus and long-term incentive arrangements.
Remuneration for Executive Directors is structured so that the variable pay element forms a significant portion of each Directors package.
The Committee is satisfied that neither the structure of the remuneration packages, with the high weighting on variable pay, nor the performance measures targeted under the annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements, encourages inappropriate risk taking.
The remuneration arrangements are designed so as to provide a strong alignment of interest between the Executives and shareholders and to support the growth and performance aspirations of the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the current arrangements meet these objectives.
Furthermore, there is a clawback provision in respect of annual bonuses and long-term incentive awards which helps to guard further against excessive risk-taking.
A risk review of the remuneration policy was completed in April 2017 by the Company Secretary and Assurance & Risk Director and considered by the Committee in May 2017.
The review identified the potential risks in respect of the policy and assessed the controls and procedures in place to mitigate those risks.
The Committee concluded that overall, the remuneration policy was appropriate and did not encourage excessive risk taking.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 87 Directors remuneration report Summary of components of Executive Directors remuneration The table below summarises the Committees policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Performance Period Operation including performance measures and maximum limits Basic salary To reflect the Usually reviewed Individual pay is determined by the Committee taking particular skills annually, with into account the role, responsibilities, performance and experience any changes and experience of the individual and market data on of an individual normally taking comparable roles.
and to provide a effect from 1 The Committee has not set a cap on the maximum salary competitive base July each year.
level that may be offered.
However, any salary increases salary compared with will normally be no higher than the typical level of similar roles in similar increase awarded to other UK employees.
Increases above this level may be offered in certain circumstances such as where an Executive Director has been promoted, has had a change in responsibility, to reflect increased experience in the role, or where there has been a significant change in the size and or scope of the business.
Details of the current salaries of the Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance The annual bonus Annual Annual bonuses are determined by reference to performance against a mix of financial, non financial related bonus is designed to drive determined and personal objectives.
Before any bonus is payable and reward the after the year a minimum level of both customer and financial short-term operating end performance must be achieved.
performance of the Company Bonuses are based on Group performance.
Individual and encourage performance accounts for no more than 20% of the the delivery of overall bonus opportunity.
The maximum potential quantum is 100% of salary.
Bonuses are payable in cash but may be voluntarily deferred by the executive into shares under the matching element of the LTIP.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 88 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Performance Period Operation including performance measures and maximum limits Long-term To drive long-term Three years Awards of performance and matching shares are granted incentives delivery of the under the Long Term Incentive Plan which was approved Groups objectives, by shareholders in 2008 and will be put to shareholders to align Directors for re-approval at the 2018 AGM.
interests with those The maximum limit is 200% of salary for performance of the Companys share awards currently, awards of 150% of salary are shareholders and made to the Executive Directors and a maximum 2:1 to encourage match on voluntary investment of bonus into shares.
The maximum amount of bonus that may be invested is set at 75% of the maximum bonus potential i. e. 75% of salary.
If the bonus earned is less than 25% of salary, then the executive may invest the equivalent of 25% of salary, from their own money, in shares to receive a matching award.
In determining the number of matching awards to be granted, the investment is deemed to be made gross of tax.
Dividend equivalents may be awarded on shares vesting under the Plan.
Both performance and matching awards are currently subject to the same performance conditions which are based on challenging earnings per share and relative Total Shareholder Return targets.
Performance is measured over a performance period of at least three years and, for awards granted in FY16 onwards, a two year post vesting holding period applies.
Different measures may be applied for future award cycles as appropriate to reflect the business strategy.
Pension To provide benefits N A Executive Directors may receive a pension allowance of comparable with up to 20% of salary, to be paid, subject to the scheme similar roles in similar limits, into the HomeServe Money Plan a money companies.
purchase pension scheme and or taken as a cash allowance in lieu.
Richard Harpin currently continues to participate in the Water Companies Pension Scheme a defined benefit scheme which is closed to new members.
Retirement benefits under the scheme are restricted by a notional earnings cap 143,560 for FY19.
An unapproved pension contribution equal to 20% of the amount by which basic salary exceeds the notional cap is provided.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 89 Directors remuneration report Element Purpose and link to strategy Performance Period Operation including performance measures and maximum limits Other benefits Provides a N A Other benefits include a fully expensed car or cash competitive package alternative, fuel allowance, private health cover for the of benefits to assist individual, partner and dependant children, death in with recruitment and service benefits up to 8 x salary and permanent health retention of staff.
Other benefits may be provided as appropriate and Directors can access HomeServe products and services on the same terms as offered to employees.
Any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon may be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit.
There is no maximum limit on the value of the benefits provided but the Committee monitors the total cost of the benefit provision.
All Employee To encourage N A The Executive Directors may participate in any HMRC Share Plans employee share tax-advantaged all employee share plans offered by the ownership.
Company on the same terms as other employees, subject to limits on the level of individual participation as set by HMRC.
Chairman and N A Non-Executive Director fees are determined by the Non-Executive Board.
The fees for the Chairman are determined by the Directors fees Remuneration Committee taking into account the views of the Chief Executive.
The Chairman excludes himself from such discussions.
The fee levels are reviewed periodically and are set to reflect the responsibilities and time commitment of the role and the experience of the individual.
Fee levels are set by reference to rates in companies of comparable size and complexity.
The fees for the Non-Executive directors comprise a basic Board fee, with additional fees paid for chairing a Committee or for the Senior Independent Directorship.
The Chairman receives an all encompassing fee for his role.
In exceptional circumstances, additional fees may be payable to reflect a substantial increase in time commitment.
The fees are paid monthly in cash.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors may be eligible to access HomeServe products and services on the same terms as offered to employees.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 90 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Rationale behind performance metrics and targets The Remuneration Committee works hard to ensure that the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors supports the business strategy, and that the level of remuneration received is reflective of the overall business performance and the returns received by shareholders.
A significant proportion of the remuneration package comes from variable pay with careful consideration given to the choice of performance metrics to ensure that the executives are not encouraged to take inappropriate risks.
Annual Bonus The annual bonus is designed to drive and reward excellent short-term operating performance of the Company.
No annual bonus is paid unless a high level of performance is achieved.
The Committee reviews the annual bonus plan measures annually in order to ensure that they are aligned with the Groups strategy and so that bonus arrangements are consistent amongst the senior executive team.
Performance targets are set at the start of the financial year and are linked to the Groups strategic and operational objectives.
The customer focused culture across our business is reflected in the use of non financial metrics in the annual bonus scheme.
These are balanced by the use of financial targets and personal objectives used to reflect other strategic priorities.
The Committee retains the discretion to alter the choice and weighting of the metrics for future bonus cycles to reflect the changing needs of the business.
The payment of any bonus is at the discretion of the Committee and bonuses will only be paid once a minimum level of customer and financial performance is achieved.
LTIP Long-term incentive awards will be granted in accordance with the rules of the shareholder approved HomeServe 2008 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and any subsequent replacement plan and the discretions contained therein.
The performance measures for the matching and performance awards are set using a sliding scale of targets and no more than 25% of the award under each measure will vest for achieving the threshold performance hurdle.
The choice of measures may change for future award cycles, but is currently based on the following: Metric Link to strategy Earnings per share EPS This provides an assessment of the profitability of the Group over the longer-term and is strongly aligned to the execution of the business strategy.
Challenging targets are set for each award cycle based on internal and external forecasts.
Total Shareholder Return TSR This measures the total return to shareholders provided through share price appreciation and dividends.
TSR is measured relative to the performance of the FTSE 250 Index.
TSR provides a clear alignment between the value created for shareholders and the reward earned by executives.
The Committee would consult with shareholders in advance of a change in the choice or weighting of the performance measures to be applied to future award cycles.
Under the rules of the plan, the Committee has the discretion to adjust the targets applying to existing awards in exceptional circumstances providing the new targets are no less challenging than originally envisaged.
The Committee also has the power to adjust the number of shares subject to an award in the event of a variation in the capital of the Company.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 91 Directors remuneration report Awards under the LTIP may be granted as conditional allocations or nil or nominal cost options with, or as, forfeitable shares.
The Committee may also decide to grant cash based awards of an equivalent value to share based awards or to satisfy share based awards in cash, although it does not currently intend to do so.
Awards are satisfied through a mixture of either market purchase or new issue shares.
To the extent new issue shares are used, the LTIP will adhere to a 5% in 10 year dilution limit.
A post vesting holding period was introduced for awards granted in FY16 onwards.
There will be a minimum period of five years from the date of grant of an award before shares can be sold.
To the extent that nil cost options are exercised after the three year vesting point, but before five years, the net of tax value of the vested shares must continue to be held.
The dividend roll up on unexercised nil cost options will continue until five years from grant.
This five year view provides a longer-term perspective to the incentive programme than the three year performance period.
Changes to operation in FY19 The existing LTIP expires in 2018 and we will be seeking to renew the Plan at the 2018 AGM.
Further information is provided later in this report.
Clawback The Committee has the power to reclaim some, or all, of a cash bonus and vested LTIP awards performance and matching in exceptional circumstances, such as misstatement of financial results, an error in assessment of performance, the use of misleading information and or gross misconduct on the part of the individual.
Changes to operation in FY19 In respect of the LTIP, we are taking the opportunity to update the clawback provisions in the Rules when the Plan is renewed at the AGM.
The period during which clawback can be invoked will be extended to three years and the criteria will be expanded to include a substantial failure of risk management, material reputational damage and or evidence of misbehaviour or material error by the relevant individual.
Pensions Richard Harpin participates on a non-contributory basis in a funded, HMRC approved occupational defined benefit scheme with benefits limited to a notional capped salary which is closed to new members.
An unapproved pension contribution is paid in respect of basic salary above the cap.
The main features of the scheme are: pension at normal retirement age of one-half of final pensionable salary and a tax free lump sum of one and a half times final pensionable salary on completion of 40 years service at an accrual rate of 80ths plus 3 80ths cash life assurance of five times basic salary pension payable in the event of ill health: and spouses pension on death normal retirement at age 60.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 92 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Shareholding guidelines It is the Boards policy that Directors build up and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company.
Each Director is encouraged to hold shares of at least equal value to two times their annual basic salary or fee.
If the holding guideline has not been fulfilled at the point of exercise of any option or the vesting of any other longterm incentive award, the Director must retain 50% of the net proceeds in the Companys shares until the holding requirement is achieved.
Details of the current shareholdings of the Directors are provided later in this report.
Changes to operation in FY19 The shareholding guideline will be increased in FY19 to three times annual basic salary or fee.
How employees pay is taken into account The remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
Our ability to meet our growth expectations and compete effectively is dependent on the skills, experience and performance of all of our employees.
Our employment policies, remuneration and benefit packages for employees are regularly reviewed.
There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and senior management team compared to other employees reflecting their differing responsibilities, with the principal difference being the increased emphasis on performance related pay for the more senior executives within the organisation.
However, there are many common themes.
For example, the structure of the annual bonus, with the focus on financial, non financial and personal performance is the same for employees at management grade and above.
Employee share ownership is encouraged and facilitated through extending participation in the LTIP to other senior leaders within the business and all eligible employees are able to participate in the HomeServe One Plan, a share incentive plan.
Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on directors pay, the Committee does take into consideration the pay and employment conditions of all employees when setting the policy for directors remuneration.
In terms of comparison metrics, the Committee takes into account the average level of salary increase being budgeted for the UK workforce when reviewing the salary levels of the Executive Directors.
The Committee is also mindful of any changes to the pay and benefit conditions for employees more generally when considering the policy for directors pay.
How shareholders views are taken into account The Committee considers shareholder feedback received regarding the Remuneration report annually and guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally.
These views are key inputs when shaping remuneration policy.
The Committee consults with shareholders when considering changes to remuneration arrangements and did so in respect of the renewal of the LTIP.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 93 Directors remuneration report Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors The chart below details the composition of each Executive Directors remuneration package and how it varies at different levels of performance under the policy set out above.
It demonstrates the balance between fixed and variable pay at threshold, on-target and maximum performance levels under the normal remuneration policy for the Executive Directors.
On target target annual bonus of 80% of salary plus target LTIP awards in FY19 of 90% of salary plus matching awards of 90% of salary.
Maximum maximum annual bonus of 100% of salary plus maximum LTIP awards in FY19 of 150% of salary plus matching awards of 150% of salary.
Salary levels on which other elements of the packages are calculated are based on those applying from July 2018.
The value of taxable benefits is based on the actual values paid in FY18 apart from for Tom Rusin where expected benefits are shown.
Richard Harpin participates in a defined benefit scheme which has been valued according to BIS regulations.
The other UK Executives receive a pension allowance of 20% of basic salary.
The Executive Directors may participate in all-employee share schemes on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under these schemes is subject to tax approved limits.
For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the above charts.
The chart excludes the impact of share price growth.
T Rusin J Ford D Bower M Bennett R Harpin HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 94 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Executive Directors service agreements and policy on payments for loss of office Under the Executive Directors service contracts up to twelve months notice of termination of employment is required by either party reduced to six months if following a prolonged period of incapacity.
Dates of current contracts are summarised in the table below: Name Date of contract R Harpin 18 January 2002 M Bennett 1 January 2013 D Bower 3 February 2017 J Ford 1 October 2012 T Rusin 4 April 2018 Should notice be served, the Executives can continue to receive basic salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period.
The Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties, or may assign a period of garden leave.
The Company applies a general principle of mitigation in relation to termination payments and supports the use of phased payments.
Outplacement services may be provided where appropriate, and any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination including, at the discretion of the Committee, reimbursement for legal advice would be paid as necessary.
The service contracts also enable the Company to elect to make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent in value to twelve months base salary, benefits and pension.
In the event of cessation of employment, the executives may still be eligible for a performance related bonus for the period worked.
Different performance measures may be set to reflect changes in the directors responsibilities until the point of departure.
The rules of the LTIP set out what happens to outstanding share awards if a participant leaves employment before the end of the vesting period.
Generally, any outstanding share awards will lapse when an Executive leaves employment, except in certain circumstances.
If the Executive leaves employment as a result of death, ill-health, injury, disability, retirement, transfer of employment or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee, then they will be treated as a good leaver under the plan rules.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 95 Directors remuneration report For a good leaver, any outstanding unvested LTIP awards will vest on the normal vesting date subject to an assessment of performance, with a pro rata reduction to reflect the proportion of the vesting period served.
The Committee may dis-apply the time pro-rating requirement if it considers it appropriate to do so.
In the case of cessation due to death, the Committee can determine that the awards vest early.
Outstanding vested but not exercised awards can be exercised by a good leaver until the expiry of the normal exercise period or within 12 months in the case of death.
In determining whether an Executive should be treated as a good leaver and the extent to which their award may vest, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of an individuals departure.
The treatment of share awards on a change of control is the same as that set out above in relation to a good leaver albeit with the vesting period automatically ending on the date of the change in control.
Recruitment policy Base salary levels will be set in accordance with HomeServes remuneration policy, taking account of the executives skills, experience and their current remuneration package.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over subsequent years subject to individual performance.
Benefits will generally be provided in accordance with the approved policy, with relocation expenses and or an expatriate allowance paid for if necessary.
For an overseas appointment which may include the relocation of an existing Director, the benefit and pension arrangements may be tailored to reflect local market practice subject to the overall maximum limits on pension set out in the policy table.
The structure of the variable pay element will be in accordance with HomeServes policy as detailed above.
The maximum permitted variable pay opportunity is 450% of salary 100% of salary bonus 200% of salary LTIP 150% of salary matching award.
However, the normal award limits are a bonus of 100% of salary, a performance share award of 150% of salary and up to a 150% of salary matching award.
In the case of the matching awards, a new recruit may be invited to invest up to 25% of salary from their own funds in the first year in order to receive a matching award in determining the number of matching awards to be granted, the investment is deemed to be made gross of tax.
LTIP awards may be made shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a closed period.
The performance and matching awards would be granted on a consistent basis to the other Executive Directors.
In the case of the annual bonus, different performance measures may be set for the first year, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and the point in the financial year at which they joined.
If it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer in order to secure the appointment, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
The LTIP permits the grant of restricted share awards to Executive Directors in the case of recruitment to facilitate this, although awards may also be granted outside of this scheme if necessary, and as permitted under s. 9.4.
The service contract for a new appointment would be in accordance with the policy for the current Executive Directors.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according to its terms of grant.
Fees for a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be set in line with the approved policy.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 96 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment Non-Executive Directors serve under letters of appointment for periods of three years.
The Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman have a notice period of three months but no liquidated damages are payable.
The terms and conditions of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection.
Fees are determined by the Executive Directors within the limits set by the Articles of Association, and are based on information on fees paid in similar companies and the skills and the expected time commitment of the individual concerned.
Details of their current three year appointments are as follows: Name Date of contract J M B Gibson 1 April 2016 K Cliffe 23 May 2017 S David 23 November 2016 E Fitzmaurice 23 May 2017 C Havemann 1 December 2015 R McMillan 27 October 2017 Outside Appointments Executive Directors may hold one outside appointment and can retain any fees received.
No Executive Director currently has a relevant outside appointment.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 97 Directors remuneration report Annual report on remuneration This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of the revised Schedule 8 set out in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, and 9.8.
The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2018 Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration Committee Members Stella David Chairman JM Barry Gibson K Cliffe appointed 23 March 2018 C Havemann appointed 23 March 2018 R McMillan appointed 23 March 2018 Mark Morris retired 27 February 2018 Ben Mingay retired 26 March 2018 All of the members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board determined that the Company Chairman, Barry Gibson, should remain a member of the Committee taking account of the fact that he was considered to be independent on appointment and also that, as a former Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, his knowledge of the development of the remuneration policy and practices at HomeServe is invaluable.
He takes no part in discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Responsibilities The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: determine the Groups overall remuneration strategy determine the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee approve the grant and exercise of executive long-term incentive arrangements and oversee the operation of other share-based plans across the Group.
The full schedule is available on our website: http: www.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 98 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued In determining remuneration policy, the Committee is free to obtain such professional advice as it sees fit, and it periodically monitors both the policies of comparator companies and current market practice in order to ensure that the packages provided are sufficient to attract and retain Executive Directors of the necessary quality.
The Committee aims to develop and recommend remuneration strategies that drive performance and reward it appropriately.
In determining its policy, the Committee has paid regard to the principles and provisions of good governance contained in the Code and the guidelines issued by institutions such as the Investment Association, ISS and the Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association.
The Committee operates under the delegated authority of the Board and its terms of reference are available on the website.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is a matter for the Board.
No Director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
The Committee has agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness.
Key issues considered during the year Aside from the usual cycle of discussions in respect of pay and bonuses, the key issue discussed by the Committee during the year was the renewal of the LTIP.
Consideration was given to whether an entirely new plan should be implemented but having looked at the alternatives, it was agreed that the existing Plan had provided a strong link between pay and performance and continued to be the most appropriate solution for the business.
Advisers During the year New Bridge Street NBS, a firm of independent remuneration consultants, served as advisers to the Committee.
The Committee selects its own advisers.
NBS also provided technical implementation and accounting advice in relation to the administration of the Companys share schemes.
Other than in relation to advice on remuneration, NBS has no other connections with the Company.
NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Ltd, the ultimate parent company of which is Aon plc.
Aon UK Ltd another Aon company provides insurance broking services to HomeServe.
The Remuneration Committee is comfortable that this does not present a conflict of interest as Aon UK and NBS operate entirely independently of one another.
The fees paid to NBS during the year for services to the Committee were 49,000.
The Committee has also received assistance from Richard Harpin, Group Chief Executive, Emma Thomas, Group Legal and HR Director and Anna Maughan, Company Secretary, all of whom attended meetings of the Committee as required.
No Executive took part in discussions in respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
Tom Rusin was appointed to the Board on 23 May 2017.
He is paid in USD and the USD amounts have been converted into GBP for the purposes of this table using the average exchange rate for FY18.
3 Katrina Cliffe was appointed to the Board on 23 May 2017.
4 Edward Fitzmaurice was appointed to the Board on 23 May 2017.
5 Ron McMillan was appointed on to the Board 27 October 2017.
6 Ben Mingay retired from the Board on 26 March 2018.
7 Mark Morris retired from the Board on 27 February 2018.
8 Benefits comprise company car, fuel allowance and medical insurance.
9 Details of pension benefits and contributions can be found later in the report.
10 The 2014 LTIP award was granted on 23 June 2014 and vested based on relative total shareholder return over the three year performance period to 22 June 2017.
The 2015 LTIP awards was granted on 25 June 2015 and will vest based on earnings per share and relative total shareholder performance over the three year period to 31 March 2018.
The awards were granted and will vest approximately a year apart in accordance with our LTIP grant policy.
However, as the performance period for both awards ends during the same financial year albeit nine months apart, we are obliged to include both awards in this years remuneration table.
The value shown for each LTIP award includes an amount in respect of dividend equivalents which are paid in cash.
11 Other represents the value of any sharesave options exercised.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 100 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Details of variable pay earned in the year Audited Annual Bonus For FY18, the annual bonus was based on the following stretching targets: Financial and non financial bonus targets for Richard Harpin CEO, Johnathan Ford COO and David Bower CFO % Payable at Weighting Threshold Threshold Target Stretch Actual % Payable Financial Group profit before tax 25% 25% 131.0m 135.0m 141.7m 100% measures 1 2 Group net debt 5% 255.7m 237.8m 100% Non financial Customer growth measures excluding Italy 25% 0% 7.9m 8.1m 8.1m 100% Customer satisfaction measured as a weighted average level of customer satisfaction across UK, US, France, Spain and Italy 25% 8.6 8.9 100% No bonus was payable for below target performance Adjusted for equity placing and acquisitions completed in the year Financial and non financial bonus targets for Martin Bennett UK CEO % Payable at Weighting Threshold Threshold Target Stretch Actual % Payable 2 Financial Group profit before tax 10% 25% 131.0m 135.0m 141.7m 0% measures Adjusted UK profit before tax 15% 25% 69.4m 73.1m 61.1m 0% UK net cash 5% 0.9m 25.8 m 0% Non financial UK customer growth 25% 0% 2.216m 2.236m 2.200m 0% measures UK customer 1 2 satisfaction 25% 9.0 9.3 0% No bonus was payable for below target performance Although these targets were met, nothing is payable as the UK profit target was not met Financial and non financial bonus targets for Tom Rusin US CEO % Payable at Weighting Threshold Threshold Target Stretch Actual % Payable Financial Group profit before tax 10% 25% 131.0m 135.0m 141.7m 100% measures Adjusted US profit before tax 15% 25% $53.5m $56.3m $64.4m 100% US net debt 5% $275.9m $242.4m 100% Non financial US customer growth 25% 0% 3.159m 3.325m 3.566m 100% measures US customer satisfaction 25% 8.6 8.7 100% No bonus was payable for below target performance HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 101 Directors remuneration report Personal bonus targets % Objectives Weighting Outcome Payable R Harpin Prove out the Home Experts 20% Key achievements included: 80% model Successful test of Home Experts model Achieve a step change in internal completed and external communications Reorganisation of management structure to Implement a personal leadership prepare for growth across four global business development plan lines Sign an agreement to open in one Global Talent Director appointed and new country development programmes for senior talent Successfully complete HVAC established, including a forum for potential acquisitions in three countries senior successors HVAC acquisitions completed in the US, France and the UK M Bennett Create a separate HVAC business 20% As the stretching UK profit target was not met, 0% unit in the UK no bonus was payable in respect of personal Complete the implementation of performance.
the new CRM solution in the UK and commence implementation of the new claims solution Support development and delivery of key strategic initiatives in Checkatrade Take action to drive 50k 100k of new customers per annum in the UK Implement a recruitment, induction and training programme to deliver the best frontline in the UK D Bower Improve the Group wide focus and 20% Key achievements included: 100% performance in respect of cash Cash workshops held in each business and a Provide support for HVAC new dashboard implemented acquisition strategy including HVAC acquisitions completed in the US, implementation of appropriate France and the UK and a streamlined approval approval process and performance process implemented monitoring PwC were selected as the co-source partner Implement a co-sourced for internal audit and commenced work arrangement for internal audit and alongside the internal team improve the efficiency of the audit Vision and strategy video produced in plan different languages and event driven Develop a co-ordinated and communication implemented internally and consistent communication and externally investor relations strategy Revolving Credit Facility refinanced in FY18 Refinance the revolving credit and HomeServes first ever equity placing facility and secure additional longcompleted term funding HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 102 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued J Ford Implement automation, self serve 20% Key achievements included: 70% and self fix solutions across the Progress made in respect of online claims, Group automated calls and self fix to differing Develop, agree and commence degrees in each territory implementation of a software plan New Group Chief Information Officer for new countries appointed and software solution selected for Implement detailed strategic plan new countries and implemented for claims in for HVAC Spain Deliver a global recruitment and Business plan, target operating model and training plan for senior executives acquisition criteria approved for HVAC and Deliver two significant digital acquisitions completed in the US, France and developments the UK Global Talent Director appointed and development programmes for senior talent established T Rusin Acquire and integrate at least three 20% Key achievements included: 85% contractors Acquisition of two contractors with another Step change the brand position of one in progress HomeServe in North America Renewal of the relationship with the National Complete the roll out of the League of Cities and an improvement in the full digital road map for the US Better Business Bureau rating business Digital road map agreed and roll out will Develop systems pricing capability complete in FY19 Complete one or more utility or Acquisition of DPS policy book HVAC policy book acquisitions Details of the bonuses payable are shown below.
The Group as a whole delivered record profit growth but despite good operational performance in the UK, the stretching profit target was not met.
As a result, no bonuses were payable in respect of the UK business.
Annual bonuses are paid in cash but the Executive Directors have the opportunity to invest their bonuses up to 75% of the maximum in HomeServe shares in order to participate in the matching element of the LTIP.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 103 Directors remuneration report Long-term Incentive Plan Details of the performance conditions for the 2014 and 2015 LTIP awards are set out below.
2014 awards vested in FY18 The 2014 LTIP performance and matching awards were granted on 23 June 2014.
The performance condition for these awards was as follows: Condition Performance period Threshold target Stretch target Actual performance Vesting TSR underpinned 3 years to 23 TSR equal to the TSR exceeds HomeServe 100% vesting by underlying June 2017 FTSE 250 index the index by an TSR of 124.1% financial 25% vests average of 15% compared to performance p. a.
100% vests Index TSR of 33.3% The awards vested in full on 28 June 2017.
As the performance period for the awards ended during the financial year, the awards have been included in the remuneration table on page 99 based on the value of the shares on vesting.
Details of the number and value of shares vesting to each Executive Director are set out in the table on page 106.
2015 awards due to vest in FY19 The 2015 LTIP performance and matching awards were granted on 25 June 2015.
The performance conditions for these awards were as follows: Percentage of award to which the Condition condition applies Performance period Threshold target Stretch target Actual performance Vesting TSR 25% 3 years to 31 TSR equal to TSR exceeds HomeServe 25% underpinned March 2018 the FTSE 250 the index by TSR of 139.8% by underlying index 25% an average of compared to financial vests 15% p. a.
100% Index TSR of performance vests 29.6% EPS 75% 3 years to 31 Compound Compound Compound 75% March 2018 annual growth annual growth annual growth of 6% of 15% of 21.05% Performance for both the total shareholder return and earnings per share condition was based on performance over the three financial years ended 31 March 2018.
Based on the strong performance of HomeServe over this period the stretch performance targets were exceeded and the awards will vest in full in June 2018.
A two year post-vesting holding requirement applies to 2015 awards.
As the performance period for the 2015 awards ended during the year under review, the awards have also been included in the remuneration table on page 99 alongside the 2014 awards.
The 2015 awards have been valued for the purpose of the remuneration table on page 99 using the average share price over the last three months of the financial year.
Whilst we are obliged to include both the 2014 and 2015 awards in the remuneration table on page 99, the awards were granted and will vest approximately one year apart in accordance with our annual grant policy.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 104 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Summary of outstanding awards Audited 31 March 2018 Awarded during year Lapsed during year Vested during year 31 March 2017 Date granted Type of award R Harpin 247,301 247,301 23.6.
17 Matching David Bower was appointed on 6 February 2017.
2 Tom Rusin was appointed on 23 May 2017.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 105 Directors remuneration report The performance conditions are as follows: 2014 awards 100% comparative TSR FTSE 250 Index 15% per annum for maximum vesting 2015 awards 25% comparative TSR FTSE 250 Index 15% per annum for maximum vesting and 75% compound annual EPS growth 15% CAGR for maximum vesting 2016 awards up to 150% of salary 25% comparative TSR FTSE 250 Index 15% per annum for maximum vesting and 75% compound annual EPS growth 15% CAGR for maximum vesting 2016 awards above 150% of salary compound annual EPS growth of 15% to 20% 20% CAGR for maximum vesting 2017 awards 25% comparative TSR FTSE 250 Index 15% per annum for maximum vesting and 75% compound annual EPS growth 15% CAGR for maximum vesting David Bower had two outstanding restricted share awards which pre dated his appointment as CFO.
These awards are not subject to performance conditions.
Further details on LTIP awards granted in the year Audited On 27 June 2017, the following performance and matching share awards were granted to the Executive Directors under the LTIP: Performance share awards Share price used to Award size Face value at Date of grant Number of shares determine awards % salary grant % that vests at threshold R Harpin 27.6.
17 93,920 7.595 150% 713,322 25% Matching share awards Face value at % that vests at Date of grant Shares purchased Award size Matching award Determine awards grant threshold R Harpin 27.6.
17 22,213 2:1 match 83,823 7.595 636,636 25% The performance awards and the matching awards are subject to a three year vesting period and two performance conditions.
25% of the awards are subject to a relative total shareholder return performance condition that requires HomeServes TSR to match that of the FTSE 250 Index over a three year performance period for threshold vesting, increasing on a straight-line basis to Index 15% pa. for full vesting.
The other 75% of the awards are subject to an earnings per share condition that requires compound annual EPS growth of 6% to 15% per annum.
6% growth would result in threshold vesting, increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting if growth of 15% per annum is achieved.
Vesting is also subject to underlying financial performance and a two year post vesting holding period applies.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 106 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Further details on awards vested in the year Performance and matching awards granted on 24 June 2014 vested in full during the year.
In addition, a restricted award granted to David Bower before he was appointed as CFO also vested.
Date of grant Type of Award Date of exercise No of Shares Share price at exercise Face value at exercise R Harpin 23.6.
17 85,513 7.26 651,583 The face value shown includes an amount in respect of dividend equivalents which are paid in cash.
One Plan Matching Shares Share Incentive Plan Aggregate face value of shares awarded 3 31 March 2018 Acquired during year 31 March 2017 during the year R Harpin 207 119 88 898 M Bennett 207 119 88 898 D Bower 207 119 88 898 J Ford 182 119 63 898 2 T Rusin 226 103 123 796 David Bower was appointed on 6 February 2017.
3 Based on the acquisition price of the associated Partnership Shares.
The highest share price was 8.24 and the lowest share price was 6.55.
Participants receive one Matching Share for every two Partnership Shares they purchase.
Shares are purchased on a monthly basis.
Matching Shares are normally kept in trust for a minimum period of three years.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 107 Directors remuneration report Shareholding Guidelines Audited It is the Boards policy that Directors build up and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company.
Each Director is encouraged to hold shares of at least equal value to 200% of their annual basic salary or fee.
The beneficial interests of Directors who served during the year, together with those of their families, in the shares of the Company are as follows: Value of shares counting Outstanding LTIP Total towards guideline holding 22 May 2018 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 awards 31 March 2018 as a % of salary or fee Guideline met?
Includes an indirect interest of 28,500.
3 Tom Rusin was appointed to the Board on 23 May 2017.
4 Katrina Cliffe was appointed to the Board on 23 May 2017.
5 Edward Fitzmaurice was appointed to the Board on 23 May 2017.
6 Ron McMillan was appointed to the Board on 27 October 2017.
7 Ben Mingay retired from the Board on 26 March 2018.
8 Mark Morris retired from the Board on 27 February 2018.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 108 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Directors pensions Audited Members of the Water Companies Pension Scheme Details of the calculation of the single figures relating to Richard Harpins individual pension entitlements in the HomeServe plc Section of the Water Companies Pension Scheme, as required under Schedule 8 of the Large Companies Regulations and the Listing Rules, are shown below.
His normal retirement age is 60.
2018 2017 000 000 1 Accrued pension per annum at end of period 61 58 1 Accrued lump sum at end of period 184 174 Directors contributions in the period 2 Single gure of pension remuneration attributable to the Scheme 62 71 Unapproved pension contributions paid as cash 85 84 The accrued pension and lump sum figures are the leaving service benefits to which the Director would have been entitled had they left the Section at the relevant date.
This is calculated as 20 times the increase in the accrued pension over the period after allowing for CPI inflation plus the increase in accrued lump sum also after allowing for CPI inflation, less the contributions made by the Director over the period.
Other Directors Martin Bennett, David Bower and Johnathan Ford received the following pension allowances: 2018 2017 000 000 M Bennett 84 82 D Bower 60 8 J Ford 81 76 David Bower was appointed on 6 February 2017.
Tom Rusin participates in a US 401k pension plan a defined contribution scheme to which the Company contributed 5,806 $7,690 between 23 May 2017 his date of appointment to the Board and 31 March 2018.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 109 Directors remuneration report Performance graph The graph below shows the Companys performance, measured by TSR, compared with the performance of the FTSE-250 Index also measured by TSR for the nine years ended 31 March 2018.
This comparator has been chosen as it is a broad equity index of which the Company is a constituent and it is also the one used in assessing relative TSR performance under the LTIP.
Total shareholder return Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 31 March 09 31 March 10 31 March 11 31 March 12 31 March 13 31 March 14 31 March 15 31 March 16 31 March 17 31 March 18 FTSE-250 index HomeServe plc This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2018, of 100 invested in HomeServe plc on 31 March 2009 compared with that of 100 invested in the FTSE-250 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Total Shareholder Return HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 110 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Chief Executives remuneration Audited The total remuneration figures for the Chief Executive during each of the last nine years are shown in the table below.
The figures include the annual bonus based on that years performance and the matching awards plus the LTIP awards based on the three year performance period ending in the relevant year.
The ESOP awards granted in 2006 lapsed as the performance conditions were not met.
Awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan vested on the basis of 1.19 shares out of a maximum of 3.
2 No LTIPs were due to vest in FY11.
The ESOP awards granted in 2007 lapsed as the performance conditions were not met.
Awards made under the Deferred Bonus Plan vested on the basis of 2.48 shares out of a maximum 3.
3 The total includes the 2014 and 2015 LTIP awards which were granted and will vest a year apart.
Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives total remuneration excluding the value of any pension, matching awards and performance awards receivable in the year between FY17 and FY18 compared to the average for all employees of HomeServe plc.
% Change from FY17 to FY18 Salary Benets Annual Bonus Chief Executive Ocer 1.5% -7.6% 1.4% Average of other HomeServe plc employees 3.0% 3% 20.1% Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows the Companys actual spend on pay for all employees relative to dividends, tax and retained profits: FY17 FY18 m m change Sta costs m 237.5 267.5 13% Dividends m 40.3 50.4 25% Tax m 23.9 27.4 15% Retained profits attributable to equity holders of the parent m 74.4 96.3 29% 10.7m of the staff costs figures relate to pay for the Executive Directors.
This is different to the aggregate of the single figures for the year under review due to the way in which the share based awards are accounted for.
The dividends figures relate to amounts payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 111 Directors remuneration report Loss of Office Payments Audited No payments have been made for loss of office in the year.
Application of the remuneration policy for FY19 Basic salary Basic salary for each Executive Director is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the roles, responsibilities, performance and experience of the individual.
Salary increases are determined taking into account pay and employment conditions of employees elsewhere in the Company and market data on salary levels for similar positions at comparable companies in the FTSE 250.
Salaries are normally reviewed in July each year unless responsibilities change.
Salaries for the other Executives will increase by 2% which is in line with the average increase for the UK workforce.
The salaries for the Executive Directors effective from 1 July 2018 will therefore be as follows: Salary as at Salary as at Name of Director 1 July 2017 1 July 2018 Increase % R Harpin 565,228 576,533 2.0% M Bennett 419,297 427,683 2.0% D Bower 300,000 306,000 2.0% J Ford 406,000 414,120 2.0% T Rusin $600,000 $650,000 8.3% Tom Rusin was appointed on 23 May 2017.
Fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors As detailed in the remuneration policy, the Company aims to set remuneration for Non-Executive Directors at a level which is sufficient to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the right calibre.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed periodically.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed during the year but no changes were made.
Details of the current fees are detailed in the table below.
Chairmans fees 250,000 Senior Independent Director additional fee 7,500 Non-Executive Directors base fee 55,000 Chair of Remuneration or Audit & Risk Committee 10,000 HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 112 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report continued Annual bonus performance targets The annual bonus plan for FY19 will operate on a similar basis to FY18 and is consistent with the policy detailed earlier in this report.
Financial measures 30% of bonus Non financial measures 50% of bonus Personal objectives 20% of bonus profit before tax 25% Customer growth 25% Up to five stretching personal objectives Net debt 5% Customer satisfaction 25% The Committee considers the forward looking performance targets to be commercially sensitive, therefore a more detailed disclosure will be provided in next years remuneration report.
The Committee has discretion to scale back any bonus payments if it is deemed appropriate.
Long-term incentives Renewal of the LTIP Subject to shareholder approval of the 2018 LTIP at our AGM in July, the long-term incentive plan will continue to provide a mix of performance up to 200% of salary and matching share awards 2:1 match on up to 75% of salary bonus invested in shares.
In line with the policy, the FY19 Performance Share award for Executive Directors will be at 150% of salary.
Performance criteria For Performance Share awards and Matching Share awards, the performance targets for FY19 grants will be: FY19 weighting 3 year performance target Change from FY18 75% based on EPS 9% to 15% per annum EPS growth Threshold increased for 25% to 100% vesting.
from 6% to 9% 25% based on relative TSR 25% vesting for TSR equal to that of the FTSE 250 Index No change increasing on a straight-line basis to full vesting for outperformance of the Index by 15% per year or more.
When setting the EPS target range for the FY19 grants, the Committee took into account internal projections and external forecasts.
Having considered these projections and forecasts, the Committee believes that the EPS targets are appropriately stretching.
Holding period for vested shares The net of tax value of any shares vesting under the LTIP must be held for a further two years, providing a longer-term perspective to the incentive programme.
Shareholding guidelines The minimum required shareholding for each Executive Director has been increased to three times annual basic salary.
Executives will be required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value of shares from vested awards until this threshold is exceeded.
Shareholding guidelines at three times their fee also applies to Non-Executive Directors.
HomeServe plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 113 Directors remuneration report Shareholder voting at the 2017 Annual General Meeting At last years Annual General Meeting held on 21 July 2017, the following votes from shareholders were received: Remuneration report Policy Total number of votes % of votes cast Total number of votes % of votes cast For 256,946,678 99% 251,822,236 99% Against 2,680,918 1% 2,890,417 1% Total votes cast for and against excluding withheld votes 259,627,596 100% 254,712,653 100% Votes withheld 1,488,726 6,403,669 Total votes including withheld votes 261,116,322 261,116,322 General The market price of the Companys shares at 29 March 2018 was 7.38 2017: 5.65.
During the year the price ranged from 5.635 to 8.67.
The shares required for share options and awards under any of the long-term incentive schemes described above may be fulfilled by the purchase of shares in the market by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
Awards may also be fulfilled through newly issued shares, subject to the dilution limits within each scheme which are fully compliant with investor guidelines.
As beneficiaries under the EBT, the Directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the EBT which at 31 March 2018 amounted to 25,089 ordinary shares.
By Order of the Board Stella David Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 22 May 2018
