Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Group variable pay pool and risk adjustments Directors remuneration report The Group Remuneration Committee reviewed and agreed the Page Group variable pay pool, taking into account performance against Annual statement from the Group Remuneration CommitteeChair 172 financial and non-financial metrics set out in the Group risk Directors remuneration policy 175 appetite statement and targets set out in our annual operating plan.
Annual report on remuneration 184 Additional remuneration disclosures 198 Based on this assessment, the Committee considered that a total Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures 199 variable pay pool for 2018 of $3,473m was appropriate.
This represents a 5.1% increase on the 2017 variable pay pool All disclosures in the Directors remuneration report are unaudited reflecting the improvement in financial performance during 2018. unless otherwise stated.
In setting the pool, the Committee used its discretion to apply: Disclosures marked as audited should be considered audited inthe context of financial statements taken as a whole.
a reduction of $208m for the fines, penalties and cost of customer redress faced by the Group: and a reduction of $793m for: Annual statement from the Group Remuneration Committee Chair negative adjusted jaws achieved during 2018: certain financial and non-financial risk metrics, where Dear Shareholder, performance was outside our risk appetite: I am delighted to present our 2018 Directors remuneration report.
conduct assessments and continued work required to I have set out below a summary of our 2018 performance, and the address conduct issues: and key decisions made during the year.
Our current remuneration policy entered its third and final year in counter-cyclical adjustments to recognise the positive impact that interest rate increases have had on the financial 2018.
Therefore, we will be seeking shareholders approval for our performances of Retail Banking and Wealth Management, proposed Directors remuneration policy for the following three and Commercial Banking.
years at the 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM.
At HSBC we assess individual performance based on what is Our current policy and the implementation of the policy received strong support with more than 96% of the votes cast in favour of achieved but also how it is achieved, as we believe the latter contributes to the long-term sustainability of the business.
We the policy and its implementation for 2016 and 2017.
Therefore, reward employees who exemplify our values through: we intend to make only minor changes to simplify our policy and ensure alignment of executive remuneration with our strategic the use of behaviour and performance ratings for all employees, priorities in line with shareholder feedback.
I have explained the which directly influence pay outcomes: key changes in this statement and the remuneration policy section variable pay adjustments: provides further details.
during 2018, we made positive adjustments to variable pay Performance achieved during 2018 awards totalling $13.4m for individuals who have exhibited During 2018, we announced our strategic priorities to return HSBC exemplary conduct and who went the extra mile to to growth and create value for our shareholders.
We aim to do this courageously do the right thing: and by increasing returns from the Group's areas of strength, we reduced variable pay awards to certain individuals by particularly in Asia and across our network, turning around low- $3.7m in aggregate to reflect individual conduct and return businesses of high strategic importance, particularly the behaviours: and US, investing to build a bank for the future with the customer at its our global recognition programme, where our employees can centre, and making it easier for our employees to do their jobs.
recognise peers and reward positive behaviours in a real-time, Our 2018 results demonstrate that our strategy is working.
Reported profit before tax was $19.9bn, up 16% from $17.2bn in 2017.
On an adjusted basis, profit before tax was $21.7bn, up 3% Fixed pay for executive Directors from $21.1bn in 2017.
We are proposing to increase the base salary of our executive Reported revenue rose by 5% to $53.8bn.
On an adjusted basis, Directors by 3.3%, which is in line with the average base salary revenue rose by 4% to $53.9bn, reflecting revenue growth in all of increase made for our UK employees.
This is the first base salary our global businesses.
Progress is being made on growing our increase we will have made for any executive Directors since 2011.
Asian franchise and international client revenue.
We missed our Executive Directors 2018 variable pay awards target to achieve positive adjusted jaws, as growth in adjusted operating expenses exceeded our adjusted revenue growth.
The 2018 annual incentive scorecard outcome was 76% for John Flint, 73% for Iain Mackay and 89% for Marc Moses, reflecting the Our return on tangible equity RoTE improved to 8.6% in 2018 performance of the Group and performance achieved against their from 6.8% in 2017, demonstrating our commitment to generating individual scorecards.
Details of the annual incentive scorecard value for shareholders.
outcome are provided on page 186.
Details of performance against each of the strategic priorities are For John Flint and Marc Moses, the Committee determined to set out on page 13 of the Strategic Report.
The scorecards of our grant 50% of the annual incentive in shares subject to a one-year executive Directors include measures that are aligned to the retention period and the remaining 50% in cash.
This is in line with delivery of these strategic priorities, as set out on page 186. the structure applied for other employees and permissible under The Group announced a dividend of $0.51 per ordinary share and the remuneration rules of the UK's Prudential Regulation Authority in 2018, we returned a total of $2bn to shareholders through share PRA.
The Committee noted that more than 80% of John Flint's buy-backs.
We remain a well-funded business with a strong and Marc Moses combined variable pay and fixed pay allowance capital base and a diversified balance sheet.
We received the for 2018 will continue to be delivered in shares that will be Worlds Best Bank for Transaction Services, Worlds Best Bank released over a period of eight years, ensuring long-term for Corporates and the World's Best Bank for public-sector alignment with share price performance and shareholder clients awards at the 2018 Euromoney Awards for Excellence, a experience.
significant endorsement of our investment in innovation and digital Stuart Gulliver stepped down as Group Chief Executive on solutions, and making transaction banking simpler, better and 20 February 2018.
As set out in our 2017 Directors remuneration faster.
report, Stuart Gulliver was eligible to be considered for a 2018 172 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 annual incentive award based on the 2018 annual incentive Committee is proposing only minor changes to the policy being scorecard outcome, pro-rated for time spent by him in the Group put forward to shareholders for approval, including: Chief Executive role.
Based on this approach, Stuart Gullivers simplifying our LTI scorecard through the use of fewer annual incentive award has been determined to be 282,000 see measures and a substantial proportion of the scorecard details on page 186. weighted towards value creation financial measures, such as John Flint and Marc Moses will be awarded a long-term incentive RoTE to reflect feedback received from our shareholders.
'LTI' award in respect of 2018 performance.
In granting these Assigning a substantial proportion of the overall scorecard awards, the Committee took into consideration the good progress weighting to a value creation measure such as RoTE will made during 2018 towards achieving our strategic priorities.
These incentivise executive Directors to improve financial performance awards will also be subject to a three-year forward-looking and generate a return that delivers value for our shareholders: performance period ending on 31 December 2021.
We have and simplified our LTI scorecard through the use of fewer measures increasing the fees for non-executive Directors to reflect the with a higher weighting attached to financial measures.
Details of increase in time that they are required to commit to their roles, the performance measures are set out on page 189. as the Board supports HSBC through its ambitious agenda of governance reform, growth and organisational development in Executive Director changes an environment of increasing regulatory, political and Iain Mackay stepped down as Group Finance Director on organisational complexity.
Details of the change in fees and our 31 December 2018.
He received payment in lieu of his salary, fixed rationale for changes are set out on page 182. pay allowance and cash in lieu of pension for the period from 1 Within the context of the review, the Committee was also mindful January 2019 to 13 January 2019.
In accordance with our of the changes within the UK Corporate Governance Code the approved remuneration policy and contractual terms agreed, Iain Code, namely: Mackay has been designated as a good leaver in respect of his unvested awards that were granted between 2014 and 2018, and Pension provision: The current executive Director remuneration was eligible to be considered for an annual incentive award in policy allows for 30% of salary to be paid in lieu of a pension respect of 2018 as set out on page 186. entitlement reduced from 50% of salary paid under our previous policy in operation before 2016.
This is equivalent to Ewen Stevenson was appointed as an executive Director and 16% of salary after UK income tax and national insurance Group Chief Financial Officer of the Company on 1 January 2019, deductions, which aligns with the maximum contribution rate having joined the Group on 1 December 2018 as Group Chief as a percentage of salary that HSBC makes for employees Financial Officer designate.
who are defined contribution members of the HSBC Bank UK For the 2018 performance year, Ewen Stevenson will receive an Pension Scheme.
For the majority of such employees, HSBC award in lieu of any variable pay award he would have otherwise makes a contribution of 9% of salary 10% on the first 21,200 received from The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc RBS.
This of salary and, where the employee also makes a contribution to will be based on his maximum opportunity of 1.6m under RBSs the plan, an additional matching contribution of up to 7% of policy and the outcome of the 2018 scorecard, as disclosed in its salary.
As the current cash in lieu of pension allowance of our 2018 annual report and accounts.
executive Directors is in line with pension contributions In 2019, Ewen Stevenson will be granted share awards to replace available to the majority of our UK workforce, we have not unvested RBS awards, which were forfeited as a result of him proposed any change.
The Committee will continue to monitor joining HSBC.
The awards granted will, in general, match the the cash in lieu of pension to ensure this remains aligned with performance, vesting and retention periods attached to the awards the benefit available for the majority of the workforce.
forfeited, and will be subject to any performance adjustments that Post-employment shareholding policy: Under our remuneration would otherwise have been applied by RBS.
Further details can be policy, executive Directors will realise their pay over a period of found on page 190. up to eight years which is not accelerated on departure.
We believe this achieves the objective of ensuring ongoing New remuneration policy alignment of executive Directors' interests with shareholder As the term of the current remuneration policy for Directors comes experience post-cessation of their employment.
Further details to an end at the 2019 AGM, the Committee is seeking shareholder are available on page 175. approval for a new policy.
Time horizons for awards: During the policy review, we also The Committee undertook an extensive review of the policy based reviewed the combined vesting and retention period for our LTI on the following key principles: awards, and are comfortable that they meet the five-year holding period as the weighted average holding period for each the policy should be simple and transparent: award is six years from the date of grant.
there should be a strong alignment between rewards and the interest of our stakeholders, including shareholders, customers We also discussed the approach we will use under the current policy and the new policy for making any salary increases for and employees: executive Directors and delivering our annual incentive award with the policy should maintain a focus on long-term performance: a number of our large shareholders and institutional shareholder the total compensation package should be competitive to bodies.
We informed them that our approach going forwards will ensure we can retain and attract talent: and involve: the structure should meet the expectations of investors and our considering salary increases for executive Directors, provided regulators.
they are in line with increases made for our employees and within the limits approved by shareholders: and As part of the review, the Committee considered alternatives to our current policy, including the use of restricted share awards or paying a portion of the annual incentive awards of our executive a single incentive scorecard.
The Committee was of the view that Directors in cash, as permitted by our current and new policy.
while these alternative structures had some merits, on balance, Currently the executive Directors receive their annual incentive our current policy approach provided a more suitable and awards entirely in shares subject to a retention period.
Under appropriate framework that was aligned with our key principles.
this approach, executives will be eligible to receive a portion, not more than 50% of the total annual incentive awards, in The Committee also considered that our current policy structure cash.
This is to bring the variable pay structure of our executive was broadly in line with the structure used by our global peers and Directors in line with the structure used for our employees and other listed peers on the FTSE 100 of a similar size and had that used by our international peers, while meeting the received strong support from our shareholders.
Therefore, the requirements of the remuneration rules of the PRA.
Even with this change, more than 80% of the executive Directors' HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 173 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report combined variable pay and fixed pay allowance for each year Pay ratio of Group Chief Executive and UK will be delivered in shares and released over a period of eight employees years.
We have disclosed the ratio between the remuneration of our They have been supportive of the proposed changes and the Group Chief Executive and UK employees on page 194. simplification of the LTI scorecard was well received.
In light of the Additional fee for the Chair of the Group Risk feedback received from shareholders, we have included an environmental, social and governance 'ESG' measure in the LTI Committee GRC scorecard.
The Committee noted that there has been an increase in the demands and expectations of the role of the GRC Chair, including Employee remuneration from regulators and the expanding remit of the GRC also being During 2018, we introduced a simpler and more transparent involved in improving connectivity between the GRC and our framework for determining variable pay awards for our junior regulated subsidiaries.
In total, Jackson Tai currently devotes employees in global functions and HSBC Operations, Services and around 150 days per year to the Group.
Taking these Technology, based on feedback we received from our employees.
circumstances into consideration, the Committee exercised its The new framework provides a clear and transparent link between discretion to increase the GRC Chair fee from 60,000 to 120,000 performance and behaviour ratings, and the variable pay awards.
per annum with effect from 1 December 2018.
Further details are The Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council, effective from provided on page 182.
1 January 2019, requires remuneration committees to review Our annual report on remuneration workforce remuneration to ensure these policies are aligned with our culture and executive Director remuneration.
The Committee The next section provides an overview of our remuneration policy has been undertaking these reviews as part of the oversight role it for executive Directors, for which we are seeking shareholder performs in respect of the Groups remuneration policy.
framework for this review, was developed after taking into account In the annual report section, we provide details of remuneration the industry reforms introduced since the financial crisis, decisions made for executive Directors in 2018 for which we will expectations of regulators for the financial service sector and the seek shareholder approval with an advisory vote at the 2019 AGM.
prescribed responsibility assigned under the PRA's Senior In the additional remuneration disclosure section of this report, we Managers Regime.
provide additional remuneration-related disclosures, including an Under the PRAs Senior Managers Regime, I have been assigned, overview of the policy that applies to our employees.
as the Chair of the Committee, the responsibility for setting the As Chair of the Committee, I hope you will support our Group's remuneration policy for all employees.
In carrying out this remuneration policy and the 2018 annual report on remuneration.
responsibility, the Committee regularly reviews the effectiveness of the remuneration policy for all employees, through feedback received from employee survey results and the information and Pauline van der Meer Mohr updates we receive on employee remuneration matters throughout Chair the year.
The Committee also reviews the year-end pay review outcomes for the wider group of employees to ensure the Group Remuneration Committee outcomes are in line with our remuneration principles.
The results 19 February 2019 of such reviews also inform the decisions the Committee makes on executive remuneration matters.
We will include details of the review undertaken by the Committee during 2019 in the next years report in line with the requirements of the Code.
An overview of our remuneration principles and the wider employee remuneration policy is set out on page 199.
Diversity and inclusion Our definition of diversity is broader than inherent characteristics and includes other differences that make individuals unique.
Our pay strategy is designed to attract and motivate the very best people, regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance or experience.
We also encourage diversity of thought from our leaders and our people so we can deliver on our purpose.
Our reported UK gender pay gap is driven by the gender profile of our businesses and functions.
There are fewer women in senior leadership roles, meaning that we have more men earning higher salaries.
There is a gender imbalance in our more junior roles and a higher proportion of female employees working part-time hours.
Collectively, this means that we have a gender pay gap in the UK.
We are committed to improving our gender balance and are taking a number of specific steps, which we expect will positively impact our gender pay gap in the UK over time, including: driving better gender balance at all levels in the organisation: developing female talent to strengthen the leadership pipeline: and supporting families, flexible working: and retaining female talent.
We are confident in our approach to pay, and if we identify any pay differences that cannot be explained, we make appropriate adjustments.
174 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration policy key principles Directors remuneration policy HSBC is one of the worlds largest banking and financial services In the following tables we have set out our remuneration policy for organisations.
We are a global company serving more than 39 our executive Directors and non-executive Directors.
We will seek million customers in both established and emerging markets.
Our shareholders' approval at the AGM on 12 April 2019, and if aim is to attract, retain and motivate the very best people in a approved, the policy is intended to apply immediately for three competitive environment, and our remuneration strategy is years to the end of the AGM in 2022. designed to reward the achievement of long-term sustainable performance.
The key guiding principles that form the basis of our review of the remuneration policy for Directors are as follows: Key guiding principles Simplification Alignment The policy should be simple and the outcomes from the application of The policy should: the policy should be transparent.
align the interests of Directors with the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders: and maintain a focus on long-term performance and reward achievement of our strategic priorities.
Market competitive Meet regulatory and investor expectations Total compensation under the policy should be competitive and provide The policy should meet the regulatory requirements and also be aligned us the ability to attract and retain talent.
Key changes to our policy for executive Directors From our discussions with investors on the implementation of our As part of the policy review, the Committee also considered a current policy, it was clear there is a considerable desire for number of alternative structures, including the use of restricted companies to simplify remuneration structures and for the total stock awards or a single incentive scorecard.
The Committee remuneration outcome to be transparent and aligned to concluded that while these alternative pay structures had some shareholder experience.
merits, our proposed policy presented an appropriate framework Equally, our current policy and its implementation have received that was aligned to our guiding principles.
We are therefore proposing to As part of our review, we also considered whether a postcontinue with our current remuneration policy structure for employment shareholding policy should be introduced.
For this executive Directors, but with a simplified approach for assessing purpose, the Committee took into consideration the following performance for variable pay awards.
features of our policy: No changes have been made to fixed pay components and Shares delivered to executive Directors as part of the FPA have benefits for our executive Directors.
We are also not proposing any a five-year retention period, which continues to apply following increase in the variable pay opportunity as a percentage of salary.
a departure of an executive Director.
Key changes to the policy are: Shares delivered as part of an annual incentive award are Using simpler scorecards: Our LTI awards will have fewer subject to a one-year retention period, which continues to apply performance measures and will be aligned with the financial following a departure of an executive Director.
targets set out in our strategic priorities.
The financial measures LTI awards have a seven-year vesting period with a one-year will carry a significant weighting in the scorecard, with capital post-vesting retention period, which is not accelerated on and risk and compliance measures being used as an underpin.
Therefore, when an executive Director ceases The objective of this approach is to create a strong alignment employment as a good leaver under our policy, any LTI awards between the LTI awards that pay out and the value generated granted will continue to be released over a period of up to eight for our shareholders as measured by financial metrics such as years, subject to the outcome of performance conditions.
The targets for the financial metrics used in the LTI Executive Directors have a five-year period to meet the scorecard will result in 50% of the total awards vesting if the shareholding requirement under our policy.
On cessation of performance achieved over a three-year performance period is employment as a good leaver after this period, they will hold in line with expectations at the start of the performance period.
shares not subject to further performance conditions equivalent in The awards will only vest at 100% if a stretch performance value to more than 400% of salary, assuming they receive a target target has been achieved over the performance period.
These shares will be released over a Delivering annual incentive awards in cash and shares: Up to a period of up to eight years.
maximum of 50% of any annual incentive award will be paid in We believe our existing policy structure achieves the objective of cash.
The balance will be paid in shares subject to a one-year ensuring there is ongoing alignment of executive Directors retention period.
This is to bring the variable pay structure of interests with shareholder experience post-cessation of their our executive Directors in line with the structure used for our employment.
employees and that used by our international peers, while meeting the requirements of the remuneration rules of the PRA.
We also considered whether the combined vesting and retention We believe there will continue to be a strong alignment period for our LTI awards meets the five-year holding period between the interest of our executive Directors and aggregate of vesting and retention period that is expected by shareholders, as the LTI awards will be granted entirely over investors.
We believe the seven-year vesting period and the oneshares and deferred over a period of seven years with a oneyear post-vesting retention period applied to shares granted under year retention period applied to each tranche on vesting.
In the LTI aligns with investor expectations as the share awards will addition, the fixed pay allowance FPA will continue to be be released over a period of eight years with a weighted-average delivered entirely in shares, subject to a five-year retention holding period of six years.
period, and released equally over a five-year period.
Therefore, more than 80% of the combined variable pay and FPA will continue to be delivered in shares and released over a period of eight years.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 175 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report The engagement with shareholders and proxy advisory bodies has Shareholder views been valuable, and our aim is to continue this dialogue as we The proposed policy was discussed with a number of our large implement the proposed policy over the following years.
shareholders and proxy advisory bodies.
They have been supportive of the policy and the simplification of our approach was well received.
Directors remuneration policy The following tables set out our remuneration policy for executive Directors.
Remuneration policy executive Directors Fixed pay Elements Details Base salary To attract and retain key talent by being market competitive and rewarding ongoing contribution to role.
Operation Base salary reflects the individuals role, experience and responsibility.
Base salaries are benchmarked on an annual basis against relevant comparator groups and may be reviewed more frequently at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee reviews and approves changes, taking into consideration local requirements, employee increases and market competitiveness.
Maximum opportunity Other than in exceptional circumstances, the base salary for the current executive Directors will not increase by more than 15% above the level at the start of the policy period, as set out on page 197, in total for the duration of this policy.
Fixed pay allowance To deliver a level of fixed pay required to reflect the role, skills and experience of the Directors and to maintain a competitive FPA total remuneration package for retention of key talent.
Operation Fixed pay allowances FPAs are non-pensionable and will be granted in four instalments of immediately vested shares per year, or at any other frequency that the Committee deems appropriate.
On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of shares delivered after those sold to cover any income tax and social security will be subject to a retention period and released annually on a pro-rata basis over five years, starting from the March immediately following the end of the financial year in respect of which the shares are granted.
Dividends will be paid on the vested shares held during the retention period.
The Committee retains the discretion to amend the retention period and or pay the FPA in cash if required to do so to meet any regulatory requirements.
Maximum opportunity FPAs are determined based on the role, skills and responsibility of each individual and taking into account market competitiveness of the total remuneration opportunity and other elements of remuneration set in this policy.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, the FPA for the duration of this policy will be capped at 150% of base salary levels at the start of this policy.
Cash in lieu of pension To attract and retain key talent by being market competitive.
Operation Directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of a pension entitlement.
Maximum opportunity 30% of base salary.
This is equivalent to 16% of salary after income tax and social security and aligned with the aggregate of contributions that HSBC can make to the defined contribution plan for the majority of our UK employees currently employer contribution of 10% on the first 21,200 of salary, 9% on salary above 21,200 and additional matching contribution of up to 7%.
The Committee retains the discretion to reduce the maximum opportunity to ensure it remains aligned with the pension contribution percentage available for the majority of the UK workforce.
Benefits and all employee share plans Elements Details Benefits To provide benefits in accordance with local market practice.
Operation Benefits take account of local market practice and include, but are not restricted to: all taxable benefits gross value before payment of tax including provision of medical insurance, accommodation, car, club membership, independent legal advice in relation to a matter arising out of the performance of employment duties for HSBC, tax return assistance or preparation and travel assistance including any associated tax due, where applicable : and non-taxable benefits including the provision of health assessment, life assurance and other insurance coverage.
The Group Chief Executive is also eligible to be provided with accommodation and car benefit in Hong Kong.
Any tax and or social security due on this benefit will be paid by HSBC.
Additional benefits may also be provided when an executive is relocated or spends a substantial proportion of his her time in more than one jurisdiction for business needs or in such other circumstances as the Committee may determine in its discretion.
Such benefits could include, but are not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities, and any tax and social security that may be due in respect of such benefits.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity is determined by the nature of the benefit provided.
The benefit amount will be disclosed in the single figure of remuneration table for the relevant year.
All employee share plans To promote share ownership by all employees.
Operation Executive Directors are entitled to participate in all employee share plans, such as the HSBC Sharesave, on the same basis as all other employees.
Under the Sharesave, executive Directors can make monthly savings over a period of three or five years towards the grant of an option over HSBC shares.
The option price can be at a discount, currently up to 20%, on the share price at the time that the option is granted.
Maximum opportunity The maximum number of options is determined by the maximum savings limit set by HM Revenue and Customs.
This is currently 500 per month.
176 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Variable pay Adhering to the HSBC Values is a prerequisite to be considered for any variable pay.
Executive Directors receive a performance and behaviour rating that is considered by the Committee in determining the variable pay awards.
Elements Details Annual incentive To drive and reward performance against annual financial and non-financial objectives that are consistent with the strategy and align to shareholder interests.
Operation Awards are discretionary and can be delivered in any combination of cash and shares under the HSBC Share Plan 2011 HSBC Share Plan.
Shares will not represent less than 50% of any award and are normally immediately vested.
On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of shares that vested after those sold to cover any income tax and social security payable must be held for a retention period up to one year, or such other period as required by regulators.
The awards will be subject to clawback i. e. repayment or recoupment of paid vested awards on or after vesting for a period of seven years from the date of award.
This may be extended to 10 years in the event of an ongoing internal regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period.
Details of the clawback provision are set out in the following section on LTI awards.
The Committee retains the discretion to: apply a longer retention period: increase the proportion of the award to be delivered in shares: and defer the vesting of a portion of the awards, which will be subject to malus i. e. reduction and or cancellation of unvested awards provisions during any applicable deferral period.
Any deferred shares may be entitled to dividend equivalents during the vesting period, which will be paid on vesting.
Where awards do not receive dividend equivalents during the vesting period to meet regulatory requirements, the number of shares to be awarded will be determined using a share price discounted for the expected dividend yield.
Any deferred cash award may be entitled to notional return during the deferral period as determined by the Committee.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity for the annual incentive award, in respect of a financial year, is up to 215% of base salary.
Performance metrics Performance is measured against an annual scorecard, based on targets set for financial and non-financial measures.
The scorecards vary by individual.
Measures with financial targets will generally have a weighting of 60% for the Group Chief Executive, 50% for the Group Chief Financial Officer and 25% for the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The Committee will assess performance against the targets set to determine the level of achievement.
The overall payout of the annual incentive could be between 0% for below threshold performance and 100% of the maximum.
At threshold level of performance set in the scorecard for each measure, 25% of the award opportunity for that measure will pay out, whereas 100% of the award opportunity will pay out for achieving maximum performance set in the scorecard.
Payout will be determined on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum performance.
The Committee can reduce to zero if appropriate the annual incentive payout based on the outcome of the performance measures, if it considers that the payout determined does not appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Company during the performance period.
The Committee has the discretion to: change the overall weighting of the measures with financial targets and non-financial measures: vary the measures and their respective weightings within each category.
The specific performance measures will be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year: and make adjustments to performance targets to reflect significant one-off items or exceptional events that occur during the measurement period.
Full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments will be made within the annual report on remuneration at the end of the performance year, subject to commercial confidentiality.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 177 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Elements Details Long-term incentives To incentivise sustainable long-term performance and alignment with shareholder interests.
LTI Operation Awards are discretionary and are granted if the Committee considers that there has been satisfactory performance over the prior year.
The awards are granted as rights to receive shares under the HSBC Share Plan, subject to a forward-looking threeyear performance period from the start of the financial year in which the awards are granted.
At the end of the performance period, the performance outcome will be used to assess the percentage of the awards that will vest.
These shares will then normally vest in five equal instalments, with the first vesting on or around the third anniversary of the grant date and the last instalment vesting on or around the seventh anniversary of the grant date, in accordance with the PRA remuneration rules.
On each vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of shares that vested after those sold to cover any income tax and social security payable must be held for a retention period up to one year or such other period as required by regulators.
Awards are subject to malus provisions prior to vesting.
The awards will also be subject to clawback on or after vesting for a period of seven years from the date of award.
Details of the malus and clawback provisions are set out in the bottom section of this table.
Awards may be entitled to dividend equivalents during the vesting period, which will be paid on vesting.
The Committee may adjust or amend awards in accordance with the rules of the HSBC Share Plan.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity for the LTI award, in respect of a financial year, is up to 320% of base salary.
Performance metrics The Committee will take into consideration prior performance when assessing the value of the LTI grant.
Forward-looking performance is measured against a long-term scorecard.
Financial measures will generally have a weighting of 60% or more.
The Committee will assess performance against the targets set to determine the level of achievement and the overall payout level could be between 0% for below threshold performance and 100% of the maximum.
At threshold level of performance set in the scorecard for each measure, 25% of the award opportunity for that measure will vest.
Up to 50% will vest for achieving the target level of performance set for each measure, while 100% of the award will vest for achieving the maximum level of performance set for each measure.
Where performance achieved is between the threshold, target and maximum level of performance set in the scorecard, the number of awards that will vest will be determined on a straight-line basis.
The Committee can reduce to zero if appropriate the LTI payout based on the outcome of the performance measures, if it considers that the payout determined does not appropriately reflect the overall position and performance of the Company during the performance period.
The scorecard outcome may also be subject to a risk and compliance and or a capital underpin under which the Committee will have the discretion to adjust down the overall scorecard outcome, taking into account performance against those factors.
Performance targets will normally be set annually for each three-year cycle.
The Committee has the discretion to: change the overall weighting of the financial and non-financial measures: vary the measures and their respective weightings within each category.
The specific performance measures will be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year: vary the underpin measures: and make adjustments to performance targets, measures, weighting and or outcomes in exceptional circumstances.
This may be to reflect significant one-off items that occur during the measurement period and or if events happen that cause it to determine that original targets or conditions are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that the targets or conditions achieve their original purpose.
Revised targets measures will be, in the opinion of the Committee, no less difficult to satisfy than the original conditions.
Full and clear disclosure of any such adjustments will be made within the 'annual report on remuneration', subject to commercial confidentiality.
Malus and clawback The Committee has the discretion to operate malus and clawback provisions.
applicable to both annual Malus can be applied to unvested awards in circumstances including: incentive and long-term detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute: incentive past performance being materially worse than originally reported: restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements: and improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards for a period of seven years from the grant date.
This may be extended to 10 years in the event of ongoing internal regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period.
Clawback may be applied in circumstances including: participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses: failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety: reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract of employment: a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context of Group risk management standards, policies and procedures: and any other circumstances required by local regulatory obligations to which any member of the HSBC Group or its subsidiary is subject.
178 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Other Elements Details Shareholding guidelines To ensure appropriate alignment with the interest of our shareholders.
Operation Executive Directors are expected to satisfy the following shareholding requirement as a percentage of base salary within five years from the date of their appointment: Group Chief Executive: 400% Group Chief Financial Officer: 300% Group Chief Risk Officer: 300% HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy under which individuals are not permitted to enter into any personal hedging strategies in relation to HSBC shares subject to a vesting and or retention period.
Provisions of previous policy that will continue to apply 20132015 Group Performance Share Plan GPSP, LTI awards, deferred cash and share awards.
Operation Vesting of outstanding deferred cash and share-based awards granted in prior years will continue to form part of the remuneration policy until vesting.
The awards normally vest over a period of up to seven years from the date of grant.
On vesting, shares equivalent to the net number of shares that vested after those sold to cover income tax and social security payable will be subject to the applicable retention period set out at the time of the award.
The awards will also be entitled to dividend equivalents and notional returns for deferred cash awards, in accordance with their terms as set at the time of grant of the awards.
Maximum opportunity The maximum opportunity is based on the award levels determined in the relevant prior year and as disclosed in the relevant Directors' remuneration report.
Performance metrics The vesting of these awards is subject to a service condition and performance conditions as set out in the terms of the awards at the time of grant.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration the right to settle the award in cash, based on the relevant payments and payments for loss of office, notwithstanding that share price, or shares as appropriate: and they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms the right to adjust the award on a variation of share capital or of the payment were agreed: other corporate event that affects the current or future value of before the policy set out above or any previous policy came into the award, or alternatively, the right to vest the award early in effect: such circumstances.
at a time where a previous policy, approved by shareholders, Choice of performance measures and targets was in place provided the payment is in line with the terms of The performance measures selected for the annual incentive and that policy: or LTI awards will be set on an annual basis by the Committee, taking at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the into account the Groups strategic priorities and any feedback Company and the payment was not in consideration for the received from our shareholders.
The following table sets out the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
performance measures we currently consider for inclusion in our scorecards.
The Committee retains the discretion to choose other In addition to the specific discretions expressly set out in the measures that are considered to be appropriate for achieving our policy, the incentive plans include a number of operational strategic priorities and meeting any regulatory expectation.
discretions available to the Committee, including: The targets for the performance measures will be set taking into the right to grant awards in the form of conditional share account a number of factors, including the targets set in our awards or options including nil-cost options : annual operating plan, our strategic priorities, the economic the right to amend a performance condition in accordance with environment, market conditions and expectations, and risk its terms, or if anything happens that causes the Committee to appetite.
consider it appropriate to do so: Performance measures Measures and Example measures for LTI Example measures for annual incentive scorecard Rationale underpin scorecard Financial Profit before tax RoTE Measures are selected to measures incentivise the Return on tangible equity 'RoTE' Total shareholder achievement of our return Revenue growth to exceed growth in operating expenses 'positive jaws' financial targets as set out Underpin to maintain a Revenue growth in our strategic priorities minimum CET1 ratio Tier 1 common equity tier 1 'CET1' metrics and annual operating plan.
Strategic Increase returns from areas of strength Improve environment, Measures are selected to measures social and governance support the delivery of our Turn around low return businesses scores strategic priorities.
Improve customer service Improve employer Strengthen external relationships advocacy Succession planning and diversity Risk and Achieve sustained delivery of global conduct outcomes and effective financial Underpin linked to risk Measures are chosen to compliance crime risk management and compliance ensure a high level of measures performance accountability of risk and Effectively manage material operational risks in support of strategic priorities and or conduct, to promote an Comply with 2018 FX DPA, the three-year deferred prosecution agreement underpin effective risk management with the US Department of Justice DoJ, regarding fraudulent conduct in environment and to embed connection with two particular transactions in 2010 and 2011. a robust governance system.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 179 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report determined by reference to Group performance.
Employees Remuneration arrangement for Group employees who receive an annual incentive above a certain level have a Our wider employee remuneration policy is driven by the Group portion of their award deferred over a period of three to seven reward strategy, which the Committee reviewed to ensure it years.
continues to support HSBCs overall employment proposition to LTI awards: This is generally considered for senior attract, retain and motivate the best people, who are aligned to management within the Group, given their proximity and HSBCs values and committed to maintaining a long-term career ability to influence long-term performance.
Full details of our remuneration policy for employees are disclosed on page 199.
Approach to recruitment remuneration executive The Committee considers the following factors in designing the Directors remuneration policy and determining the remuneration of On the recruitment or appointment of a new executive Director, executive Directors: the Committee would adhere to the following principles: Results of employee surveys on the effectiveness of our Remuneration packages should be in line with the approved remuneration framework: This informs the Committees policy for executive Directors.
decisions on remuneration of executive Directors.
Remuneration packages must meet any applicable Group employees base salary increases: The base salary localregulatory requirements.
increases for executive Directors take into consideration base salary increases of employees, taking into account relevant Where necessary, compensation may be provided inrespect of market conditions.
forfeiture of awards from an existing employer buy-out awards.
Group employees pension plans design and contribution levels: The net value of the cash in lieu of pension allowance Outlined in the following table are all components that would be for executive Directors will not exceed the maximum considered for inclusion in the remuneration package of a new contribution as a percentage of salary that can be made for executive Director and, for each, the approach that would be the majority of UK employees.
Annual incentive eligibility and quantum for Group employees: In the case of an internal appointment, any existing commitments All employees are eligible to be considered for an annual will be honoured and any variable element awarded in respect of incentive award based on their performance and behavioural the prior role may be allowed to be paid out according to its ratings.
The variable pay for all employees, including executive existing terms.
Directors, is funded from a Group variable pay pool that is Components of remuneration package of a new executive Director Component Approach taken to each component of remuneration Fixed pay The base salary and FPA will reflect the individuals role, experience and responsibility, and will be set in the context of market practice.
The pension will be determined in line with policy as set out in the remuneration policy table and equivalent contributions as a percentage of salary made for the majority of UK employees at the time of recruitment.
The Committee reserves the right to offer a pension level that may be lower than the current maximum level permitted under the policy.
Benefits Benefits to be provided will be dependent on circumstances while in line with Group policy and the remuneration policy table, including the global mobility policy where applicable and local regulations.
Variable pay New joiners will be eligible to be considered for variable pay awards consisting of an annual incentive and or LTI award or any awards combination of variable pay.
For the year in which the individual commences providing services as an executive Director, the Committee retains the discretion to determine the proportion of variable pay to be deferred, the deferral and retention period, whether any performance conditions should be applied, and the period over which such performance should be assessed.
In exercising this discretion, the Committee will take into account the circumstances in which the individual is appointed for example, if it is promotion of an internal candidate or an external appointment, expectation of shareholders and any regulatory requirements.
Total variable pay awarded for the year of joining HSBC will be limited to 535% of base salary.
This limit excludes buy-out awards and is in line with the aggregate maximum variable pay opportunity set out in the remuneration policy table.
Guaranteed bonuses are only permitted by exception and must be limited to the first year of service, subject to the Group deferral policy and performance requirements.
Buy-out A buy-out may be offered if the individual holds any outstanding unvested awards that are forfeited on resignation from the previous employer.
The Group buy-out policy is in line with the PRA remuneration rules, which state that both the terms and amount of any replacement awards will not be more generous than the award forfeited on departure from the former employer.
A buy-out award is delivered as HSBC deferred shares with vesting and retention periods to match the terms of forfeited awards with the previous employer as closely as possible, subject to proof of forfeiture and other relevant documentation.
Where the vesting time is fewer than 90 days, cash or deferred cash may be awarded for administrative purposes.
Where appropriate, the Committee retains the discretion to utilise the provisions provided in the Listing Rules for the purpose of making buy-out awards.
180 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 no further obligations that could give rise to remuneration Policy on payments for loss of office executive payments or payments for loss of office: Directors The following table sets out the basis on which payments on loss of office may be made.
Other than as set out in the table, there are Payments on loss of office Component of remuneration Approach taken Fixed pay and benefits Executive Directors may be entitled to payments in lieu of: notice, which may consist of base salary, FPA, pension entitlements and other contractual benefits, or an amount in lieu of: and or accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
Payments may be made in instalments or a lump sum, and may be subject to mitigation, and subject to applicable tax and social security deductions.
Annual incentive and In exceptional circumstances, as determined by the Committee, an executive Director may be eligible for the grant of annual and or long-term incentives under the HSBC Share Plan based on the time worked in the performance year and LTI on the individuals contribution.
Unvested awards All unvested awards will be forfeited when an executive Director ceases employment voluntarily and is not deemed a good leaver.
An executive Director may be considered a good leaver, under the HSBC Share Plan, if their employment ceases in specified circumstances which includes: ill heath, injury or disability, as established to the satisfaction of the Committee: retirement with the agreement and approval of the Committee: the employee's employer ceasing to be a member of the Group: redundancy with the agreement and approval of the Committee: or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
If an executive Director is considered a good leaver, unvested awards will normally continue to vest in line with the applicable vesting dates, subject to performance conditions, the share plan rules, and malus and clawback provisions.
In the event of death, unvested awards will vest and will be released to the executive Directors estate as soon as practicable.
In respect of outstanding unvested awards, the Committee may determine that good leaver status is contingent upon the Committee being satisfied that the executive has no current or future intention at the date of leaving HSBC of being employed by any competitor financial services firm.
The Committee determines the list of competitor firms from time to time, and the length of time for which this restriction applies.
If the Committee becomes aware of any evidence to the contrary before vesting, the award will lapse.
Post-departure benefits Executive Directors can be provided certain benefits for up to a maximum of seven years from date of departure for those who depart under good leaver provisions under the HSBC Share Plan, in accordance with the terms of the policy.
Benefits may include, but are not limited to, medical coverage, tax return preparation assistance and legal expenses.
The Committee also has the discretion to extend the post-departure benefit of medical coverage to former executive Directors, up to a maximum of seven years from their date of departure.
Other Where an executive Director has been relocated as part of their employment, the Committee retains the discretion to pay the repatriation costs.
This may include, but is not restricted to, airfare, accommodation, shipment, storage, utilities, and any tax and social security that may be due in respect of such benefits.
Except in the case of gross misconduct or resignation, an executive Director may also receive retirement gifts.
Legal claims The Committee retains the discretion to make payments including professional and outplacement fees to mitigate against legal claims, subject to any such payments being made in accordance with the terms of an appropriate settlement agreement waiving all claims against the Group.
Change of control In the event of a change of control, outstanding awards will be treated in line with the provisions set out in the respective plan rules.
The charts set out: Other directorships the minimum level of remuneration receivable under the policy Executive Directors may accept appointments as non-executive for each performance year: Directors of companies that are not part ofHSBC if so authorised by either the Board or the Nomination & Corporate Governance the remuneration level for achieving target level of Committee.
performance which assumes 50% of maximum variable pay opportunity is realised : and When considering a request to accept a non-executive appointment, the Board or the Nomination & Corporate the maximum level of remuneration which assumes 100% of Governance Committee will take into account, among other the variable pay opportunity is realised, as well as the things, the expected time commitment associated with the maximum value assuming a 50% increase in share price for LTI proposed appointment.
The time commitment for external awards.
appointments is also routinely reviewed to ensure that they will The charts have been prepared using 2019 salaries and, therefore, not compromise the Directors commitment to HSBC.
the annual incentive and LTI opportunities have been computed as Any remuneration receivable in respect of an external appointment percentages of 2019 salaries.
of an executive Director is normally paid to the Group unless otherwise approved by the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee or the Board.
Remuneration scenarios The following charts show how the total value of remuneration excluding benefits and its composition would vary under different performance scenarios for executive Directors under the proposed policy, which will be effective from the date of the 2019 AGM, subject to shareholders approval.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 181 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Group Chief Executive 000 Group Chief Financial Officer Group Chief Risk Officer 000 and leads the Board in relation to specific projects.
He performs Remuneration policy non-executive Directors this new role in addition to his existing roles as Senior Independent Director and Chair of the GAC.
The fee for the Deputy The Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee has reviewed Group Chairman reflects Jonathans experience and the additional and revised the time commitments required for all non-executive time he devotes to the Group in relation to this important role.
Directors as the Board supports HSBC through its ambitious Additionally, as set out on page 172, the demands and agenda of governance reform, growth and organisational expectations of the GRC Chair have increased significantly, leading development in an environment of increasing regulatory, political to the Group Remuneration Committee approving an increase to and organisational complexity.
Jackson Tais fee for this position in 2018.
In 2018, the Board appointed Jonathan Symonds to the role of The following table sets out the framework that will be used to Deputy Group Chairman, following his retirement as non-executive determine the fees for non-executive Directors during the term of Chairman of HSBC Bank plc.
In this role, Jonathan formally this policy.
deputises for the Group Chairman, takes a leadership role in relation to external high level regulatory and political relationships, 182 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Elements and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Fees The policy for non-executive Directors is to pay: The Board will review the amount of each component of fees To reflect the time base fees: periodically to assess whether, commitment and further fees for additional Board duties, including but not limited to chairmanship, individually and in aggregate, responsibilities of a nonmembership of a committee, or acting as the Senior Independent Director and or theyremain competitive and executive Director of HSBC DeputyChairman: and appropriate in light of changes in Holdings.
roles, responsibilities and or time Fees are paid in cash.
The Board retains the discretion to pay in shares rather than cash commitment of the non-executive where appropriate.
Directors, and to ensure that individuals of the appropriate The non-executive Group Chairman will be paid a fixed annual fee for all Board calibre are retained orappointed.
responsibilities based on their experience and the time commitments expected for therole, together with such other benefits as the Group Remuneration Committee may Other than in exceptional in its absolute discretion determine.
circumstances, during the term of this policy, fees will not increase A newly appointed non-executive Director would be paid in line with the policy on a by more than 20% above the 2019 time-apportioned basis in the first year as necessary.
No sign-on payments are offered levels.
Travel allowances are set at an The Board excluding the non-executive Directors has discretion to approve changes to appropriate level, taking into the fees.
The Board may also introduce any new component of fees for non-executive account the time requirement for Directors, subject to the principles, parameters and other requirements set out in this non-executive Directors to travel to remuneration policy.
Certain non-executive Directors may be entitled to receive fees for their services as Any new fees, allowance or directors of subsidiary companies of HSBC Holdings plc.
Such additional remuneration component part for example, for a is determined by the Board ofDirectors of each relevant subsidiary within a framework new committee would be set and set by the Committee.
then subject to a maximum of 20% increase for the duration of the policy.
Expenses Any taxable or other expenses incurred in performing their role are reimbursed, as well Not applicable as any related tax cost on such reimbursement.
Shareholding guidelines Non-executive Directors, individually or with their connected persons, are expected to Not applicable satisfy a shareholding guideline of 15,000 shares within five years from their To ensure appropriate appointment.
alignment with the interests of our shareholders.
The Committee reviews compliance with the guidelines annually.
The Committee has full discretion in determining any consequences in cases of non-compliance.
The following table sets out the fees payable in 2019, subject to shareholder approval of the Directors remuneration policy at the AGM.
2019 fees Position Non-executive Group Chairman 1,500,000 Non-executive Director base fee 127,000 Deputy Group Chairman and Senior Independent Director 375,000 Senior Independent Director Group Risk Committee Chair 150,000 Member 40,000 Group Audit, Group Remuneration and Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Chair 75,000 Member 40,000 Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Chair Member 33,000 Travel allowances are also currently provided.
The Committee Policy on payments on loss of office nonintends to review such travel allowances during 2019, in light of executive Directors the increased travel expectations for non-executive Directors to Other than as set out above, there are no obligations in the nonattend Board meetings.
Details on any changes will be set out in executive Directors letters of appointment that could give rise the Annual Report and Accounts 2019. toremuneration payments or payments for loss of office.
Nonexecutive Directors are entitled to notice under their letter of appointment.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 183 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Service agreements for each executive Director are available for Service contracts inspection at HSBC Holdings registered office.
Consistent with Executive Directors the best interests of the Group, the Committee will seek to The length of service and notice periods of executive Directors are minimise termination payments.
Directors may be eligible for a payment in relation tostatutory rights.
set at the discretion of the Committee, taking into account market practice, governance considerations, and the skills and experience The Directors biographies are set out on pages 153 to 155, and of the particular candidate at that time.
include those directorships provided for under Capital Requirement Directive IV CRD IV.
Notice period Contract date rolling Non-executive Directors Director and HSBC 1 John Flint 21 February 2018 12 months Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms not 2 Stuart Gulliver 10 February 2011 12 months exceeding three years, which may be renewed subject to their re- 3 Ewen Stevenson 1 December 2018 12 months election by shareholders at AGMs.
Non-executive Directors do not 4 Iain Mackay 4 February 2011 12 months have service contracts, but are bound by letters of appointment Marc Moses 27 Nov 2014 12 months issued for and on behalf of HSBC Holdings, which are available for inspection at HSBC Holdings registered office.
There are no 1 John Flint was appointed as Group Chief Executive with effect from 21 February obligations in the non-executive Directors letters of appointment 2018.
2 Stuart Gulliver stepped down from the Board on 20 February 2018 and retired that could give rise to remuneration payments or payments for from the Group on 11 October 2018. loss of office.
3 Ewen Stevenson was appointed as executive Director and Group Chief Financial Non-executive Directors current terms of appointment will expire Officer of the Company on 1 January 2019, having joined the Group on 1 December 2018. as follows: 4 Iain Mackay stepped down as executive Director and Group Finance Director on 31 December 2018.
2019 AGM 2020 AGM 2021 AGM Henri fide Castries Kathleen Casey Mark Tucker Irene Lee Laura Cha Heidi Miller Pauline van der Meer Mohr David Nish Jonathan Symonds Jackson Tai Lord Evans of Weardale Annual report on remuneration Activities Remuneration Committee The Committee met six times during 2018.
The following is a Details of the roles, responsibilities and membership of the summary of the Committees key activities during 2018.
A copy of Committee are set out on page 163.
During 2018, members of the the Committees terms of reference can be found on our website Committee included Pauline van der Meer Mohr Committee at www.
com about-hsbc corporate-governance boardChair, John Lipsky until 20 April 2018, David Nish, Irene Lee committees.
appointed on 20 April 2018 and Henri fide Castries.
Details of the Committees key activities Executive Directors All employees Approved Directors' remuneration report Approved 2017 2018 performance year pay review matters Considered executive Director remuneration policy matters, including key Reviewed remuneration policy effectiveness principles for remuneration policy review, Directors' remuneration policy Received updates on notable events and regulatory and corporate design alternatives and structure governance matters Consulted with key shareholders and proxy advisory bodies on executive Reviewed and approved 2018 Material Risk Taker 'MRT' identification Director remuneration matters, including policy design and structure approach, outcomes of MRT review and remuneration matters for MRTs Reviewed and approved executive Director remuneration matters Approved 2018 regulatory submissions Reviewed and approved executive Directors scorecards and pay Reviewed attrition data and plans to address area of concerns proposals employees.
To ensure the advice from Deloitte and Willis Towers Advisers Watson was objective, the Committee required the advice to be The Committee received input and advice from different advisers independent and distinct from any internal review and analysis on on specific topics during 2018.
Deloitte LLP Deloitte was remuneration policy matters.
The Committee was satisfied the appointed by the Committee in 2015 as an objective, independent advice provided by Deloitte and Willis Towers Watson was adviser to support the Committee on specific remuneration objective and independent in 2018.
Deloitte is a founding member matters for executive Directors.
The Committee made the of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily operates appointment in 2015 after considering invited proposals from a underthe code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration number of consultancy firms.
In 2018, the Committee agreed to consulting in the UK.
extend Deloittes appointment for a further period of one year.
For 2018, total fees of 155,750 and 59,400 were incurred in Deloitte provided benchmarking data on remuneration policy relation to remuneration advice provided by Deloitte and Willis matters and independent advice to the Committee.
The Committee may request ad-hoc assistance from Deloitte.
This was based on pre-agreed fees and a time-and-materials basis.
The Committee also received advice from Willis Towers Watson on market data and remuneration trends for senior management.
During the year, John Flint, the Group Chief Executive, provided regular briefings to the Committee.
In addition, the Committee Deloitte also provided tax compliance and other advisory services engaged with and received updates from the following employees: to the Group.
Willis Towers Watson also provides benchmarking Iain Mackay, Group Finance Director: data and services related to benefits administration for our Group 184 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk Officer: Ralph Nash, Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer: Stuart Levey, Chief Legal Officer: Ruth Horgan, Global Head of Regulatory Compliance: and Charlie Nunn, Chief Executive Officer, Retail Banking and Wealth Management: Ben Mathews, Group Company Secretary.
Elaine Arden, Group Chief Human Resources Officer: The Committee also received feedback and input from the Group Risk Committee and the Financial System Vulnerabilities Alexander Lowen, Group Head of Performance and Reward: Committee FSVC on risk, conduct and compliance-related Colin Bell, Group Chief Compliance Officer: matters relevant to remuneration.
No executive Directors areinvolved in deciding their own remuneration.
Pam Kaur, Group Head of Internal Audit: Single figure of remuneration Audited The following table shows the single figure total remuneration of each executive Director for 2018, together with comparative figures for 2017.
The vesting of these awards was subject to a service condition and satisfactory completion of the five-year deferred prosecution agreement 'AML DPA' with the US Department of Justice 'DoJ'.
The AML DPA condition was satisfied in March 2018 and the awards were released to the executive Directors.
For Marc Moses, the value of the award attributable to services provided as an executive Director between 1 January 2014 and the vesting date has been included in the table.
2 The first LTI award was made in February 2017, with a performance period ending in 2019.
Vesting of the first LTIaward will be included in the single figure table for the financial year ending on 31 December 2019.
3 John Flint succeeded Stuart Gulliver as Group Chief Executive with effect from 21 February 2018 and his remuneration in the single figure table of remuneration is in respect of services provided as an executive Director.
For services rendered between 1 January 2018 and 20 February 2018, he received a salary of 97,139, fixed pay allowance of 130,236, cash in lieu of pension of 28,000 and an annual incentive award of 271,000.
4 Stuart Gulliver stepped down from the Board on 20 February 2018 and retired from the Group on 11 October 2018.
His remuneration in the single figure table of remuneration is in respect of services provided as an executive Director.
Further details can be found on page 190.
5 Iain Mackay stepped down as executive Director and Group Finance Director on 31 December 2018.
6 To meet regulatory deferral requirements for 2018, 60% of the annual incentive award of Stuart Gulliver and Iain Mackay will be deferred in awards linked to HSBC's shares and will vest in five equal instalments between the third and seventh anniversary of the grant date.
On vesting the awards will be subject to a one-year retention period.
The deferred awards are subject to the executive Director maintaining a good leaver status during the deferral period.
Illustration of release profile The following chart provides an illustrative release profile for executive Directors.
Illustration of release profile 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Fixed pay Released in five equal annual instalments allowance starting from March2019.
Perform Paid 50% in cash and 50% in immediatelyance vested shares subject to a retention period of Shares period one year.
Annual Subject to clawback provisions for seven incentive years from grant, which may be extended to Clawback 10 years in the event of an ongoing internal regulatory investigation.
Award subject to a three-year forwardPerformance Vesting period looking performance period.
period Subject to performance outcome, awards will vest in five equal annual instalments starting from the third anniversary of the grant date.
Retention period On vesting, shares are subject to a retention Long-term period of one year.
incentive Malus Unvested awards subject to malus provisions.
Subject to clawback provisions for seven Clawback years from grant, which may be extended to 10 years in the event of an ongoing internal regulatory investigation.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 185 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Notes to the single figure of remuneration car, club membership, as well as any tax gross-up.
It also includes non-taxable benefits, including the provision of life assurance and Audited other insurance coverage.
Benefits The values of the significant benefits in the single figure table are In the single figure of remuneration table, benefits set out in the following table.
refers to all taxable benefits gross value before payment of tax, including the provision of medical insurance, accommodation and Audited Tax expense on car benefit Car benefit Hong Kong bank-owned and Hong Kong bank-owned Insurance benefit 1 1,2 1 1 UK and Hong Kong accommodation accommodation non-taxable 000 000 000 000 2018 Stuart Gulliver 2017 282 164 63 1 The car benefit, Hong Kong bank-owned accommodation, tax on benefits and insurance benefits for 2018 for all executive Directors are not included in the above table as they were not significant.
Taxable benefits during 2018 for Stuart Gulliver as an executive Director includes 41,711 in respect of Hong Kong bank-owned accommodation and 17,117 in respect of tax expense on car benefit and Hong Kong bank-owned accommodation.
Further details regarding Stuart Gulliver's benefits between 21 February 2018 and 11 October 2018 are available on page 190.
2 Taxable value determined based on the current market rental value of the bank-owned property in Hong Kong, as estimated by an external lease service provider, plus utility costs, rates, the taxable value of furniture and taking into account the business use of the property.
Notional returns Determining executive Directors annual performance In the single figure of remuneration table above, notional returns refers to the notional return on deferred cash for awards made Audited prior to 2017.
Awards made to executive Directors reflected the Committees The deferred cash portion of the annual incentive granted prior to assessment of each of the executive Directors performance 2017 includes aright to receive notional returns for the period against the objectives in their scorecards, which were agreed at between grant date and vesting date, which is determined by the start of the year and reflect the Groups strategic priorities and reference to the dividend yield on HSBC shares, calculated risk appetite.
The Committee also consulted the Group Risk annually.
Committee and tookinto consideration its feedback on risk and compliance matters.
A payment of notional return is made annually in the same proportion as the vesting of the deferred awards on each vesting In order for any annual incentive award to be made, each date.
The amount is disclosed on a paid basis in the yearin which executive Director must achieve a required behaviour rating, the payment is made.
No deferred cash awards have been made which is assessed by reference to the HSBC Values.
For 2018, to executive Directors under the current policy that has been all executive Directors achieved the required behaviour rating.
operated from the 2016 financial year.
The performance achieved by executive Directors in the year is shown in the table below.
For John Flint and Stuart Gulliver, the scorecard outcome, as determined below, has been applied to the maximum annual incentive opportunity on a pro-rata basis, taking into account the time spent by them in the Group Chief Executive role.
Annual assessment Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Group Chief Risk Officer Weighting Assessment Outcome Weighting Assessment Outcome Weighting Assessment Outcome % % % % % % % % % 1 Profit before tax 20.00 100.00 20.00 10.00 100.00 10.00 15.00 100.00 15.00 Positive jaws 10.00 15.00 Revenue growth 10.00 70.00 7.00 Capital management RoTE 10.00 58.75 5.88 25.00 58.75 14.69 10.00 58.75 5.88 Strategic priorities Financials 7.50 78.53 5.89 2.50 100.00 2.50 2.50 100.00 2.50 Other targets 17.50 96.46 16.88 22.50 98.62 22.19 12.50 94.88 11.86 Risk and compliance 25.00 80.00 20.00 25.00 95.00 23.75 60.00 89.58 53.75 Total 100.00 75.65 100.00 73.13 100.00 88.99 Maximum annual incentive opportunity 000 1,488 1,488 John Flint 2,560 Stuart Gulliver 2,660 Annual incentive 000 1,088 1,324 John Flint 86% 1,665 Stuart Gulliver 14% 282 186 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Financial performance Annual assessment Minimum Maximum 25% payout 100% payout Performance Assessment Measure 1 Profit before tax $bn US$19.7 US$22.7 US$23.3 100.00 Positive jaws % Positive 1.5 1.2 Revenue growth % 2.0 6.0 4.4 70.00 2 Capital management RoTE% 9.3 11.3 10.2 58.75 3 Strategic priorities Various Various 1 Profit before tax, as defined for Group annual bonus pool calculation.
This definition excludes business disposal gains and losses, debt valuation adjustments and variable pay expense.
It does however, take into account fines, penalties and costs of customer redress, which are excluded from the adjusted profit before tax.
The adjusted profit before tax as per adjusted results is found on page 2.
2 RoTE excluding significant items and bank levy.
3 Strategic priorities measures include: accelerate revenue growth from our Asian franchise, grow international revenue, turn around the US business, improve customer service, strengthen external relationships, employee engagement, talent development and diversity.
Non-financial performance The table below provides an overview of the non-financial performance achieved by each executive Director.
Group Chief Executive Performance Strategic priorities Set out strategic priorities to return HSBC to growth and create value for our shareholders.
The strategy was communicated in the Strategy Update in June 2018 to investors, shareholders and employees.
Deliver HSBCs strategy Execution of the strategy is underway.
Turn around the US business RoTE in the US business at 2.7% exceeded target of 2.2%, supported by favourable expected credit losses Accelerate revenue growth from our and significant capital reductions.
Commercial Banking revenue grew by 7% and transaction banking Asian franchise revenue in Global Banking and Markets rose 9%.
Deliver revenue growth from our Revenue growth of 11.4% in Asia was driven by Commercial Banking as well as Retail Banking and Wealth international network Management, reflecting wider spreads and balance sheet growth, with double-digit revenue growth in Improve customer satisfaction Hong Kong, Pearl River Delta and mainland China.
Strengthen the Groups external Revenue growth from international clients was strong at 7.2%: transaction banking revenue grew 14%, relationships driven by double-digit growth across Global Liquidity and Cash Management, Foreign Exchange and Improve employee engagement Securities Services.
Strengthen HSBCs leadership cadre Customer satisfaction rankings improved in key Retail Banking and Wealth Management markets first in Mexico, Singapore and Hong Kong and second in UAE.
Rankings in Commercial Banking largely remained Improve diversity in senior leadership unchanged, but required improvement with the exception of the UK third and Singapore third.
Customer engagement score CES in Global Banking and Markets at 85 was at par with the CES of our competitors.
In Global Private Banking, customer satisfaction declined by 0.8 points from a mean of 8.4 10 in 2017 to 7.6 10 in the client engagement programme survey.
Action is being taken in all global businesses to drive customer service improvements, especially through investment in digital capability.
Positive feedback was received on interactions with investors and regulators, which found that they were conducted with high professional competence and embodying trust, respect and transparency.
Employer advocacy, as a measure of employee engagement, at the end of 2018 was 66% 2017: 64%, which represents the number of employees who would recommend HSBC as a great place to work.
Succession plans are in place for all critical leadership roles.
Exceeded diversity target with female representation in the senior leadership at 28.2%, and on track towards our 2020 aspirational target of 30% senior leadership positions to be held by women.
HSBC was recognised as the 'Most Innovative Investment Bank' by The Banker: the 'Worlds Best Bank for Transaction Services', the 'Worlds Best Bank for Corporates' and 'Asia's Best Bank for Sustainable Finance' by Euromoney, and 'Best Overall Global RMB Products Services' by Asiamoney.
Risk and compliance Significant progress was made to strengthen financial crime risk management across the Group, specifically, towards achieving operational effectiveness in global businesses and regions.
A strong tone Successfully embed financial crime risk from the top included an aspiration to deliver industry-leading financial crime standards as part of the governance and management Groups strategy.
Demonstrated excellent awareness and understanding of key financial crime risks and information through the completion of issues.
Actively engaged at senior governance forums to strengthen risk management practices and the Global Standards programme controls.
Continued focus is required to complete the transition to business-as-usual financial crime risk Effectively manage material management, and further enhance the effectiveness of financial crime governance in some countries, in operational risks order to achieve sustainable operating maturity.
Achieve and deliver sustainable global Implementation of the operational risk management framework was achieved with strong ownership and conduct outcomes proactive prioritisation of management of key risks across the Group.
However further work is required to Comply with the 2018 FX DPA embed the framework and associated tools and strengthen the control environment.
Showed strong commitment to continue embedding the conduct pillars and outcomes, and underpinning controls across the Group.
Additional steps were taken that were consistent with the requirements of the 2018 FX DPA with the US Department of Justice to enhance the Global Markets compliance programme and related internal controls.
Areas of focus have included a strong tone from the top, updated policies and procedures to prevent violations of US law such as fraud and market manipulation and comprehensive risk assessment.
Further enhancements and steps to comply with the DPA are ongoing.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 187 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Group Finance Director Performance Strategic priorities Deployed cloud technologies for regulatory reporting of liquidity coverage ratio and net stable funding ratio in Canada and France.
Implementation plans to deploy the technology in other locations are on track.
The Deploy cloud technologies and innovative capabilities of Finance are being further developed with eight key laboratories set up to deliver a enhance Finance operating efficiency real-time vision for Finance, utilising cloud technology, advanced analytics, artificial intelligence and Streamline and embed IFRS 9 and machine learning.
RWA production Completed 2018 IFRS 9 plan with few milestones remaining and daily performance maturing, with no Deliver ring-fenced bank 'RFB' in the major downstream impact on processing time.
All key activities integrated within routine processes.
UK and Global Service Company Successfully established the Groups RFB HSBC UK Bank plc HSBC UK with a separate information 'ServCo' structures and processes technology and operations infrastructure and financial, pensions and legal structures.
Transfer of Retail Deliver cost savings Banking and Wealth Management and Commercial Banking customers and employees to HSBC UK was Strengthen the Groups external also completed.
Successfully established the Groups ServCo structure in the UK in support of ring-fencing relationships and the Recovery and Resolution Plan.
Improve employee engagement Strengthened Group's relationships and reputation with key stakeholders as evidenced by a high level of Strengthen HSBCs leadership cadre investor relations engagement and robust regulatory interactions.
Improve diversity in senior Employer advocacy, as a measure of employee engagement, at the end of 2018 improved to 68% 2017: management 66%.
The Finance functions structure was further simplified through the global consolidation of the finance operational processes into a single Finance operations team.
The function is driving forward the focus on digital leadership and capabilities across all levels.
Confirmed four key Finance enterprise critical roles and ensured that the succession plans are actionable, resulting in a successor gender profile of 38% female.
Development plans and support in place for all successors.
Met aspirational gender diversity target, with 28% female representation at senior management levels in Finance.
Finance leadership initiatives, sponsorship of diverse networks, parental transition coaching and career development support have all helped improve gender diversity.
Difference and inclusion is being addressed more broadly within Finance with an aim to increase the representation of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender and differently abled employees.
Risk and compliance Completed the implementation of the operational risk framework in Finance, which is actively used to monitor the effectiveness of key controls against significant accounting risks, including for Sarbanes-Oxley Effectively manage material operational compliance.
Madesignificant progress embedding the understanding of relevant roles and responsibilities risks through improved governance and reporting.
Achieve and deliver sustainable global Improved processes for monitoring and reporting conduct outcomes for Finance, including strengthened conduct outcomes governance meetings with an increased focus on metrics.
No significant conduct issues, breaches or Deliver commitments to regulators reportable events were identified.
Internal review of conduct governance and control for Finance were Successful delivery of PRA and rated as effective.
European Banking Authority EBA Delivered all regulatory updates on time and to the required standard, with queries addressed on a timely stress tests and Comprehensive Capital basis.
PRA and EBA stress tests in 2018 were successfully submitted on time.
HSBC North America Analysis and Review CCAR capital Holdings Inc received a non-objection to its CCAR 2018 capital plan submitted to the Federal Reserve plan Board on both a qualitative and quantitative basis.
188 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Group Chief Risk Officer Performance Strategic priorities Improved customer service satisfaction with measured progress being made across markets.
Global businesses are showing delivery successes, with improvements identified for action.
Improve customer satisfaction Interacted regularly and successfully with regulators.
The strength, quality and independence of financial Strengthen the Group's external risk management was recognised.
An increased focus on non-financial risk management and model risk relationships management is key to these ongoing interactions.
Turn around the US business Supported the turnaround of the US business through active risk management oversight, focusing on a Improve employee engagement, credit risk and risk remediation programme: strong forward-looking capital management through strengthen HSBCs leadership cadre engagement and oversight of the stress testing CCAR programme: and an enhanced modelling and improve diversity in senior infrastructure in support of stress testing and financial crime models.
RoTE at 2.7% exceeded the target for management 2018.
Support innovation Delivered on the Global Risk function people initiatives.
Employer advocacy, as a measure of employee Deliver cost savings engagement, increased to 68% at the end of 2018 2017: 64%, which represents the number of employees who would recommend HSBC as a great place to work.
Focused the development of our leadership talent, and achieved the diversity target, with 28.7% of senior management positions held by women.
Enhanced the focus on innovative ways of working, through the facilitation of idea generation and knowledge concept evaluation and delivery of new approaches.
Education and training of Global Risk in innovation was rolled out to enable change through the use of agile methodologies and cloud technologies.
Enabled the management of costs and headcount of the Global Risk function, through close ongoing monitoring of performance.
Risk and compliance Enabled effective financial crime risk management through the enterprise wide and operational risk management frameworks, with strong governance through risk management meetings and completion of Ensure Global Risk supports the financial crime risk model reviews.
financial crime risk target end state Made significant progress in adopting and embedding the operational risk management framework, with Effectively manage material active focus and engagement on the material operational risks, and increased focus on non-financial risks.
operational risks Successfully drove conduct outcomes through a strong tone from the top, and a continual monitoring of Achieve and sustain the delivery of the compliance on conduct regulations.
Maturity levels across conduct outcomes were excellent.
global conduct outcomes Delivered all regulatory updates on time and up to the required standard, with any remedial actions tracked Deliver commitments to regulators, to timely completion.
Engagements with other lead regulators gained positive feedback, including working including compliance with the 2018 FX with the Department of Justice and Federal Reserve Board to progress our commitments under the FX DPA DPA.
Successfully deliver regulatory and Successfully delivered the 2018 annual cyclical scenario to the PRA.
Submitted the biennial stress test to internal stress tests in 2018 the EBA and the CCAR submission to the Federal Reserve Board.
Manage credit and market risk, and Managed credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk effectively within the Group risk appetite profile and with oversee liquidity risk within Board oversight from the Group risk management meeting.
approved risk appetite Made significant progress in model risk management during 2018, through significant appointments, Successfully enhance HSBC's model ongoing employee training and key stakeholder engagements.
risk management Based on feedback received from investors, we have also included Long-term incentive awards an environmental, social and governance measure with a 12.5% Audited weighting.
This will be assessed based on ratings issued by For the 2018 performance year, the Committee determined to Sustanalytics with threshold level of performance set at receiving grant John Flint and Marc Moses an LTI award of 3,840,000 and an 'average performer' rating and the maximum level of 2,232,000, respectively, after taking into consideration performance requiring an 'outperformer rating', which is the performance achieved for the financial year ended 31 December highest rating that can be achieved.
2018 and the progress made towards achieving the strategic The LTI awards will also be subject to a risk and compliance priorities set out in the June 2018 Strategy Update.
The awards underpin, which would give the Committee the discretion to adjust will be subject to athree-year performance period starting down the overall scorecard outcome taking into account 1January 2019.
As the awards are not entitled to dividend performance against risk and compliance factors at the end of the equivalents per regulatory requirements, the number of shares to performance period.
For this purpose, the Committee will receive be awarded to executive Directors will be adjusted to reflect the information on any risk management failures which have caused expected dividend yield of the shares over the vesting period.
significant reputational damage to the Group or have an adverse In line with the approach set out for our new policy and feedback impact on the financial performance of the Group.
This is to received from investors, we have simplified the LTI scorecard by ensure that the Group operates within tolerance levels set for using fewer measures.
To ensure the rewards realised by executive relevant risk and compliance metrics when achieving its financial Directors are strongly aligned with our strategic priorities and targets.
value created for shareholders, a 75% weighting has been The measures and weighting that will be used to assess attached to the RoTE measure.
For target payout 50% of performance and payout are described in the following table.
maximum the average RoTE over the performance period will need to be 11%, and is aligned with our target of achieving a RoTE To the extent performance conditions are satisfied at the end of the three-year performance period, the awards will vest in five of more than 11% by 2020.
For maximum payout, the average equal annual instalments commencing from around the third RoTE over the performance period will need to be 12% reflecting a stretch and a continued improvement of the RoTE performance.
anniversary of the grant date.
On vesting, awards are subject to a retention period of one year.
The RoTE measure will also be subject to a CET1 underpin requiring the CET1 ratio at the end of the performance period to be Stuart Gulliver and Iain Mackay are not eligible to receive an LTI above the CET1 risk tolerance level.
The scorecard also attaches a 12.5% weighting to an employer advocacy measure.
This is a key indicator of employee sentiment and underpins our strategic priority to simplify our organisation and invest in future skills.
The 2018 score has been used to set the threshold level of performance for this measure.
The target performance level will require an improvement over the 2018 score and the maximum level requires further improvement.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 189 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2018 Minimum Target Maximum Weighting Measures 25% payout 50% payout 100% payout % Average RoTE with CET1 10.0% 11.0% 12.0% 75.0 1 underpin 2 Employer advocacy 65.0% 70.0% 75.0% 12.5 Environmental, social and Score to achieve an 'average Mid-point score between average Score required to achieve an 12.5 3 governance rank performer' rating and outperformer threshold scores 'outperformer' rating 4 Total 100.0 1 If the CET1 ratio at the end of performance period is below the CET1 risk tolerance level set in the risk appetite statement, then the assessment for this measure will be reduced to nil.
2 To be assessed based on results of the latest employee Snapshot survey question I would recommend this company as a great place to work 3 To be assessed based on results of the latest rating issued by Sustainalytics.
In the event that Sustainalytics changes its approach to provide the ratings during the performance period, this may impact the assessment of the performance condition.
To ensure that the performance targets assessment approach achieves its original purpose i. e. are no less or more difficult than when the original targets were set the Committee retains the discretion to review and where appropriate modify the targets once further details on any updated Sustainalytics ratings approach is published.
4 Awards will vest on a straight-line basis for performance between the minimum, target and maximum levels of performance set in this table.
Total pension entitlements any compensation or payment for the termination of his service Audited contract or his ceasing to be a Director of any Group company.
No employees who served as executive Directors during the year Departure terms for Iain Mackay have a right to amounts under any HSBC final salary pension Audited scheme for their services as executive Directors or are entitled to Iain Mackay stepped down as executive Director and Group additional benefits in the event of early retirement.
There is no Finance Director of the Company on 31 December 2018 retirement age set for Directors, but the normal retirement age for Departure Date.
In January 2019, he received a payment of 64,385 in lieu of his Payments to past Directors salary, FPA and cash in lieu of pension allowance for the period Audited from 1 January 2019 to 13 January 2019.
Details of payments made to Stuart Gulliver and Iain Mackay after In accordance with the Directors remuneration policy approved by they stepped down as executive Directors are set out in the shareholders, Iain Mackay has been considered a good leaver.
No other payments were made to, or in respect Accordingly, he has been made eligible to receive: of, former Directors inthe year in excess of the minimum an annual incentive award for 2018 details are provided on threshold of 50,000 set for this purpose.
page 186 : Retirement arrangements for Stuart Gulliver his unvested deferred awards that are due to vest after the Audited Departure Date, on the scheduled vesting dates, subject to the relevant terms including post-vest retention periods, malus Stuart Gulliver stepped down as executive Director and Group and, where applicable, clawback and the achievement of any Chief Executive on 20 February 2018 and ceased employment with required performance condition.
For this purpose, his 2016 and the Group on 11 October 2018.
2017 LTI awards will be pro-rated for the period he was Under the terms of his service contract, and as previously employed by the Group with the maximum number of shares disclosed, for the period between 21 February 2018 and being as follows: 11 October 2018, he received a salary of 802,988, FPA of 2016 LTI awards: 228,817 shares and the value of any 1,089,600, cash in lieu of pension allowance of 240,897, dividend equivalents accrued during the vesting period : and contractual benefits totalling 321,778 and other benefits of 64,329.
The value of contractual benefits includes the taxable 2017 LTI awards: 131,796 shares: and value of 201,078 for the use of a company-provided car and certain post-departure benefits for a period of up to seven years Hong Kong accommodation, the tax expense of 78,201 in from the Departure Date.
relation to the use of a company car and Hong Kong accommodation and insurance-related benefits of 42,499.
In Iain Mackay will not receive: October 2018, he was paid cash in lieu of unused holiday an LTI award for 2018: and entitlement, accrued during the period 2007 to 2017 for leave cancelled at the request of the Group due to urgent HSBC matters, any compensation or payment for the termination of his service contract or his ceasing to be a Director of any Group company.
Stuart Gulliver also received a postemployment medical cover as per the shareholder approved Recruitment arrangements for Ewen Stevenson policy.
Ewen Stevenson was appointed as executive Director and Group Stuart Gulliver received an annual incentive award for 2018 proChief Financial Officer of the Company on 1 January 2019, having rated for time spent in Group Chief Executive role as set out on joined the Group on 1 December 2018. page 186.
He did not receive an LTI award for 2018.
Ewen Stevenson's 2019 remuneration details are provided on As disclosed in the 2017 Directors remuneration report, and page197.
referenced here for completeness, Stuart Gulliver was granted In accordance with our approved policy, Ewen Stevenson will be good leaver status in respect of outstanding unvested share awards.
In respect of his 2016 LTI award, performance will be granted share awards to replace unvested RBS awards, which measured at the end of the original performance period i. e. 31 were forfeited as a result of him joining HSBC.
The grant value of December 2019, with the maximum number of shares available these awards is 6,464,478. pro-rated for time in employment i. e. 357,911 shares after proAll replacement awards granted will, in general, match the ration for time and any dividend equivalents accrued in the period performance, vesting and retention periods attached to the awards during the vesting period.
forfeited, and will be subject to any performance adjustments that Stuart Gulliver will not receive: would otherwise have been applied by RBS.
an LTI award for 2018 : and Ewen Stevenson will also receive an award in lieu of any variable pay award from RBS for the 2018 performance year.
This will be 190 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 based on his maximum opportunity of 1.6m under RBSs policy Scheme interests awarded during 2018 and the outcome of the 2018 scorecard, as disclosed in the 2018 annual report and accounts of RBS.
This award will be granted in Audited shares that will vest in five equal annual instalments between the The table below sets out the scheme interests awarded to third and seventh anniversary of the grant date.
On vesting, the Directors in 2018, for performance in 2017, as disclosed in shares will be subject to a one-year retention period.
Details on the the2017 Directors remuneration report.
No non-executive value of the final award will be disclosed in the Annual Report and Directors received scheme interests during the financial year.
External appointments During 2018, executive Directors did not receive any fees from external appointments.
Scheme awards in 2018 Audited Percentage Number of Face value receivable for End of 1 shares Basis on which awarded minimum performance Type of interest awarded award made Date of award 000 performance awarded period Iain Mackay ceased employment 2 4 26 February 31 December LTI deferred shares % of salary 2,860 25 395,388 on 31 December 2018 2018 2020 Marc Moses 2 4 26 February 31 December LTI deferred shares % of salary 2,860 25 395,388 2018 2020 John Flint appointed on 21 3 26 February 31 December Deferred shares See note 5 1,201 - 166,014 February 2018 2018 2017 Stuart Gulliver retired from the 3 6 26 February 31 December Deferred shares % of salary 1,635 - 226,072 Board on 20 February 2018 2018 2017 1 The face value of the award has been computed using the actual share price of 7.234.
2 LTI awards are subject to a three-year forward-looking performance period and vest in five equal instalments subject to performance achieved.
On vesting, awards will be subject to a one-year retention period.
Awards are subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award.
3 Deferred shares form part of the annual incentive, for which awards were determined based on performance achieved during the period to 31 December 2017.
These awards are subject to malus during the vesting period and clawback for a maximum period of 10 years from the date of the award.
The overall award level could have been 0% of the maximum opportunity if minimum performance was not achieved at the end of the performance period.
4 In line with regulatory requirements, scheme interests awarded during 2018 were not eligible for dividend equivalents.
In accordance with the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, the LTI award was determined at 319% of salary and the number of shares to be granted was determined by taking into account a share price discounted based on HSBCs expected dividend yield for the vesting period i. e. 5.645.
5 John Flint received a discretionary annual incentive award for 2017.
Of this 2017 annual incentive award 60% was deferred and 50% of the total deferred award was granted over HSBC shares.
The deferred shares will vest in five equal instalments between the third and seventh anniversary of the award date, and on vesting will be subject to a one-year retention period.
As the awards were not eligible for dividend equivalents, the number of shares to be granted was determined by taking into account a share price discounted based on HSBCs expected dividend yield for the vesting period i. e. 5.645.
6 As previously disclosed Stuart Gulliver received a 2017 annual incentive award equivalent to 170% of salary.
Of this award 60% was deferred into HSBC shares.
As the awards were not eligible for dividend equivalents, in accordance with the remuneration policy, the number of shares to be granted was determined by taking into account a share price discounted based on HSBCs expected dividend yield for the vesting period i. e. 5.645.
The above table does not include details of shares issued as part Individuals are given five years from their appointment date to of the FPA and shares issued as part of the 2017 annual incentive build up the recommended levels of shareholding.
Unvested shareaward that vested on grant and were not subject to any further based incentives are not normally taken into consideration in service or performance conditions.
Details of the performance assessing whether the shareholding requirement has been met.
measures and targets for the LTI award in respect of 2017 and The Committee reviews compliance with the shareholding 2016 are set out on page 191. requirement and has full discretion in determining if any unvested shares should be taken into consideration for assessing Directors interests in shares compliance with this requirement taking into account investor expectations and guidelines.
The Committee also has full Audited discretion in determining any penalties for non-compliance.
The shareholdings of all persons who were Directors in 2018, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy under which individuals are not permitted to enter into any personal hedging strategies in 31December 2018 or date of retirement from the Board, if earlier are set out below.
The following table shows the comparison of relation to HSBC shares subject to a vesting and or retention period.
shareholdings with the company shareholding guidelines.
There have been no changes in the shareholdings of the Directors from 31 December 2018 to the date of this report.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 191 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Shares Audited At 31 Dec 2018, or date of retirement from the Board, if earlier Scheme interests Shares awarded subject to Shareholding at 1 deferral 31 Dec 2018, or Share date of retirement 4 Shareholding interests without with from the Board, if 2 3 guidelines number performance performance earlier % of 5 4, 6 7 % of salary salary of shares Share options conditions conditions Executive Directors 8 Stuart Gulliver retired on 20 February 2018 400% 1,918% 3,711,169 2,293,071 738,499 Iain Mackay ceased employment on 31 December 300% 663% 718,532 1,025,725 769,296 2018 John Flint appointed on 21 February 2018 400% 445% 827,691 9,952 570,922 Marc Moses 300% 1,415% 1,533,039 1,019,442 769,296 9 Group Managing Directors 250,000 shares n a n a n a n a n a 1 The gross number of shares is disclosed.
A portion of these shares will be sold at vesting to cover any income tax and social security that falls due at the time of vesting.
2 Unvested share-based incentives are not normally counted towards compliance with the shareholding guideline.
3 The value of the shareholding is calculated using an average of the daily closing share prices in the three months to 31 December 2018 6.4589.
4 For variable pay awards annual incentive and LTI, in line with regulatory requirements, any deferred shares net of tax which the Director becomes entitled to are subject to a retention requirement such that they must be held for a predefined period of time.
To provide the executive Directors with appropriate flexibility, the Committee determined that the requirement to hold these shares could be met either by retaining the shares that vested from the underlying award net of tax, or by separately retaining a number of shares equivalent to those that vested under the award.
The Committee considers that such an arrangement results in the employee holding the same number of shares as per the original intention of the retention period, as set out in the remuneration policy, approved by shareholders in 2014.
5 All share options are unexercised.
6 Includes Group Performance Share Plan 'GPSP' awards, which were made following an assessment of performance over the relevant period ending on 31 December before the grant date, but are subject to a five-year vesting period.
7 LTI awards granted in February 2017 and February 2018 are subject to the performance conditions as set out in the following tables.
8 Stuart Gulliver's scheme interests deferred with performance conditions include an award granted in March 2013 subject to service and performance conditions.
The award vested on 12 March 2018 following the Committee decision on 30 January 2018.
9 All Group Managing Directors are expected to meet their shareholding guideline by 2019 or within five years of the date of their appointment, whichever is later.
The shareholding guidelines for this population has been updated from 250,000 shares to 250% of reference salary from 1 January 2019 to align with the approach used for executive Directors.
The following tables detail the performance measures and targets for the LTI award granted in respect of 2017 and 2016.
Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2017 granted in 2018 Minimum Target Maximum Weighting Measures 25% payout 50% payout 100% payout % 1 Average return on equity with CET1 underpin 9.0% 10.0% 11.0% 20 Cost-efficiency ratio 60.0% 58.0% 55.5% 20 2 Relative total shareholder return At median of the Straight-line vesting At upper quartile of the 20 peergroup.
between minimum and peer group.
Risk and compliance Performance will be assessed by the Committee based on a number of 25 qualitative andquantitative inputs such as feedback from the Financial System Achieve and sustain compliance with Global Financial Vulnerabilities Committee, Group Financial Crime Risk assessment against Crime Compliance policies and procedures.
Financial Crime Compliance objectives, outcome of assurance and audit Achieve a sustainable adoption of Group operation risk reviews, and achievement ofthe long-term Group objectives and priorities management framework, along with its policies and during the performance period.
Achieve and sustain delivery of global conduct outcomes and compliance with conduct of business regulatory obligations.
Strategy 15 3 Sustainable finance $30bn $34bn $37bn 4 Employee confidence 65% 67% 70% Customer Improvement in Improvement in Improvement in recommendation in recommendation in four recommendation in all of Based on customer recommendation in top five markets three of the top five of the top five markets the top five markets for by revenue markets for CMB, GBM for CMB, GBM and CMB, GBM and RBWM.
Total 100 1 Significant items are excluded from the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the company for the purpose of computing adjusted return on equity.
If the CET1 ratio at the end of performance period is below the CET1 risk tolerance level set in the RAS, then the assessment for this measure will be reduced to nil.
2 The peer group for the 2017 award is: Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. Lloyds Banking Group, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
3 To be assessed based on cumulative financing and investment made to develop clean energy, lower-carbon technologies and projects that contribute to the delivery of the Paris Agreement and the UN sustainable development goals.
4 Assessed based on results of the latest employee snapshot survey question I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy.
192 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Performance conditions for LTI awards in respect of 2016 granted in 2017 Minimum Target Maximum Weighting Measures 25% payout 50% payout 100% payout % 1 Average return on equity 7.0% 8.5% 10.0% 20 Cost efficiency adjusted jaws Positive 1.5% 3.0% 20 2 Relative total shareholder return At median of the peergroup.
Straight-line vesting between At upper quartile of the peer 20 minimum and maximum.
Global Standards including riskand Not applicable Not applicable Met all commitments to 25 compliance achieve closure of the AML DPA and protect HSBC from Status of AML DPA.
further regulatory censure for financial crime compliance failings.
Achieve and sustain compliance with Performance will be assessed by the Committee based on a number of qualitative Global Financial Crime Compliance andquantitative inputs such as feedback from the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee, policies and procedures.
Group Financial Crime Risk assessment against Financial Crime Compliance objectives, outcome of assurance and audit reviews, and achievement ofthe long-term Group objectives and priorities during the performance period.
Strategy International client revenues 50% 51% 52% 15 Share of revenue supported by international network Revenue synergies 22% 23% 24% Share of revenues supported by universal banking model 3 Employee 65% 67% 70% Results of employee survey Customer Rank within top three in Rank within top three in three Rank within top three in atleast two of the four RBWM of the four RBWM and CMB allfour RBWM and CMB Based on customer recommendation and CMB customer segments customer segments in home customer segments in home in home country markets in home country markets.
2 The peer group for the 2016 award is: Australia and New Zealand Banking Group, Bank of America, Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Credit Suisse Group, DBS Group Holdings, Deutsche Bank, JPMorgan Chase & Co. Lloyds Banking Group, Standard Chartered and UBS Group.
3 Assessed based on results of the latest employee snapshot survey question I am seeing the positive impact of our strategy.
Share options Audited At 1 Jan Date of award Exercise price Exercisable 2018, or date of appointment, Granted in Exercised in At 31 Dec 1 from until if later year year 2018 John Flint appointed 21 February 2018 22 Sep 15 4.0472 1 Nov 18 30 Apr 19 4,447 4,447 21 Sep 18 5.4490 1 Nov 23 30 Apr 24 5,505 5,505 Iain Mackay ceased employment on 31 December 2018 23 Sep 14 5.1887 1 Nov 17 30 Apr 18 3,469 3,469 1 May be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, such as retirement.
The above awards were made under HSBC UK Sharesave, an all- 500 each month over a period of three or five years.
The market employee share plan under which eligible employees may value per ordinary share at 31December 2018 was 6.469.
Market begranted options to acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
The value is the mid-market price derived from the London Stock exercise price is determined by reference to the average market Exchange Daily Official List on the relevant date.
Under the value of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares on the five business days Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the options are immediately preceding the invitation date, then applying a categorised asunlisted physically settled equity derivatives.
Employees may make contributions of up to HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 193 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report figure remuneration for the Group Chief Executive over the past Summary of shareholder return and Group Chief 10years, together with the outcomes of the respective Executive remuneration annualincentive and long-term incentive awards, is presented in The following graph shows the total shareholder return TSR the following table.
performance against the FTSE 100 Total Return Index for the 10- year period that ended on 31 December 2018.
The FTSE100 Total Return Index has been chosen as this is a recognised broad equity market index of which HSBC Holdings is a member.
The single HSBC TSR and FTSE 100 Total Return Index 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Group Chief Michael Michael Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart Stuart John Executive Geoghegan Geoghegan Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Gulliver Flint Total single figure 000 7,580 7,932 8,047 7,532 8,033 7,619 7,340 5,675 6,086 2,387 4,582 1 Annual incentive % of maximum 94% 82% 58% 52% 49% 54% 45% 64% 80% 76% 76% Long-term 1,2, 3 incentive 25% 19% 50% 40% 49% 44% 41% % % 100% % % of maximum 1 The 2012 annual incentive figure for Stuart Gulliver used for this table includes 60% of the annual incentive disclosed in the 2012 Directors remuneration report, which was deferred for five years and subject to service conditions and satisfactory completion of the five-year deferred prosecution agreement with the US Department of Justice, entered into in December 2012 'AML DPA' as determined by the Committee.
The AML DPA performance condition has been met, and as such, this award has now been released.
This award vested in 2018 and the value of the award at vesting has been included in the 2018 single figure of remuneration and included as longterm incentive for 2018.
2 Long-term incentive awards are included in the single figure for the year in which the performance period is deemed to be substantially completed.
For GPSP awards this is the end of the financial year preceding the date of grant GPSP awards shown in 2011 to 2015 therefore relate to awards granted in 2012 to 2016.
For performance share awards that were awarded before introduction of GPSP, the value of awards that vested subject to satisfaction of performance conditions attached to those awards are included at the end of the third financial year following the date of grant for example, performance share awards shown in 2010 relates to awards granted in 2008.
3 The GPSP was replaced by the LTI in 2016 and the value for GPSP is nil for 2016 as no GPSP award was made for 2016.
LTI awards have a three-year performance period and the first LTI award was made in February 2017.
The value of the LTI awards expected to vest will be included in the total single figure of the year in which the performance period ends.
Stuart Gulliver was not eligible for an LTI award in respect of 2017 and 2018 given his announced retirement.
194 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Comparison of Group Chief Executive and allPay ratio employee pay The following table shows on the ratio between the total pay of the Group Chief Executive and the median pay of our UK The following charts compare the changes in Group Chief employees.
Executive pay to changes in employee pay between 2017 and 2018, and provide a breakdown of total staff pay relative to the amount paid out in dividends.
Pay ratio for 2018 At median Percentage change in remuneration between 2017 and 2018 Pay ratio 118:1 Group Chief Executive Employee group 1 We considered compensation of over 40,000 employees other Base salary -4% 6% 2, 3 than the Group Chief Executive providing services in the UK as at Benefits -76% -1% 4 31 December 2018.
We estimated our median compensation Annual incentive -8% 2% using: 1 Employee group consists of local full-time UK employees as representative of employees from different businesses and functions across the Group.
The full-time equivalent fixed pay, which includes salary and changes for the Group Chief Executive are based on the annualised base salary allowances: of the current and former Group Chief Executive to provide a meaningful comparison.
2018 variable pay award, including notional returns paid during 2 The change in the value of the benefit is due to the change in the value of the 2018: benefit as reported in the single figure table for the current and former Group Chief Executive.
gains realised from exercising awards granted under HSBC 3 For benefits, the employee group consists of UK employees, which was deemed Sharesave and all other employee share plans: the most appropriate comparison for the Group Chief Executive given varying local requirements.
value of benefits including pension contributions : and 4 For annual incentive, the employee group consists of all employees globally.
The change is based on annual incentive poolas disclosed on page 33 and staff the value of the AML DPA award that vested in 2018. numbers are based on full-time equivalents at the financial year-end.
The The value of the benefits have been computed as a percentage of percentage change in annual incentive award of the GroupChief Executive is primarily driven by the difference in the 2017 and 2018 scorecard outcome, salary.
Benefits that are one-off benefits and are provided on a reflecting performance achieved in those years, and change in annual incentive temporary basis to employees currently on secondment to the UK maximum opportunity for John Flint and Stuart Gulliver, based on their have not been included in calculating the above ratios as these are annualised salary.
Details of the 2018 total single figure of remuneration for the not permanent in nature and in some cases, depending on Group Chief Executive are on page 185. individual circumstances, may not truly reflect a benefit to the employee.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following chart shows the change in: The above ratio has been calculated based on the annualised fixed and variable pay for John Flint as we consider this a better basis total staff pay between 2017 and 2018: and for a year-on-year comparison for 2019 when the regulations for dividends paid out in respect of 2017 and 2018. disclosing the above ratios come into force.
The total remuneration of John Flint does not include a value for an LTI In 2018, we returned a total of $2bn to shareholders through share buy-backs.
award as the performance period for the first LTI award granted to John Flint ends on 31 December 2021.
Therefore, to the extent performance conditions are satisfied for an LTI award, the relevant Relative importance of spend on pay value for John Flint will be reported in the Directors' remuneration report for 2021.
In a year in which a value for an LTI award is included in the single figure table of remuneration, the above ratios could be higher.
7.6% 0.1% Given the different business mix, size of the business, methodologies for computing the median pay, estimates and assumptions used by other companies to calculate their respective pay ratios, as well as differences in employment and compensation practices between companies, the ratios reported above may not be comparable to that reported by other listed peers on the FTSE 100 and our international peers.
Return to shareholder Employee compensation and benefits Dividends Share buy-back HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 195 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Non-executive Directors Audited The following table shows the total fees and benefits of non-executive Directors for 2018, together with comparative figures for 2017.
2 Benefits include taxable expenses such as accommodation, travel and subsistence relating to attendance at Board and other meetings at HSBC Holdings' registered office.
Amounts disclosed have been grossed up using a tax rate of 45%, where relevant.
3 Includes fees of 106,000 in 2018 330,000 in 2017 as a Director and Chair of the Audit Committee of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 4 Resigned as a member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee.
5 Appointed as a member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee on 20 April 2018.
Includes fees of 80,000 in 2018 75,000 in 2017 as a Director, Deputy Chairman and member of the Nomination Committee of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
6 The Philanthropic and Community Investment Oversight Committee was demised during 2018.
7 Appointed as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee on 20 April 2018.
Includes fees of 210,000 in 2018 187,000 in 2017 as a Director, and member of the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and as a Director, member of the Audit Committee and Chair of the Risk Committee of Hang Seng Bank Limited.
8 Includes fees of 412,000 in 2018 427,000 in 2017 as Chair of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. 9 Appointed as Deputy Group Chairman on 6 August 2018 and appointed as a member of the Group Risk Committee on 20 April 2018.
Includes fees of 240,000 382,000 in 2017 as non-executive Chair of HSBC Bank plc, from which he stepped down on 6 August 2018.
10 Appointed as a member of the Group Audit Committee on 1 December 2018.
Appointed as Chair of the GRC on 28 April 2017.
As set out in the statement from the Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee, the fee for GRC Chair was increased to 120,000 on 1 December 2018, taking into account the increase in the expectations of the role of the GRC Chair from a regulatory perspective and the expanded oversight role of the Group Risk Committee following the re-assignment of the work previously undertaken by the Conduct & Values Committee and the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee.
11 The Group Chairmans benefits in 2018 included 10,200 in respect of life assurance and 15,426 in respect of healthcare insurance, as approved by the Group Remuneration Committee.
12 Appointed a member of the Group Risk Committee on 20 April 2018.
13 Appointed as a member of the Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee on 20 April 2018.
14 Conduct and Values Committee was demised during 2018.
The following table sets out the base fee and further fees for additional Board duties such as chairmanship or membership of a committee received by directors in 2018.
2018 fees Position 1 Non-executive Group Chairman 1,500,000 Non-executive Director base fee 110,000 2 Deputy Group Chairman 40,000 2 Senior Independent Director 54,000 3 Group Risk Committee Chair 60,000 Member 30,000 Group Audit, Group Remuneration and Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Chair 60,000 Member 30,000 Nomination & Corporate Governance Committee Chair 40,000 Member 25,000 1 Group Chairman does not receive a base fee or any other fees in respect of chairmanship of any other committee.
2 The fees for the Deputy Group Chairman and Senior Independent Director were combined and increased to 375,000 with effect from 1 August 2018.
3 The fee for the Group Risk Committee Chair was increased to 120,000 with effect from 1 December 2018.
196 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Non-executive Directors interests in shares Audited The shareholdings of persons who were non-executive Directors in 2018, including the shareholdings of their connected persons, at 31 December 2018, or date of cessation as a Director, if earlier, are set out below.
The following table shows the comparison of shareholdings to the company shareholding guidelines.
Shares Shareholding guidelines Share interests number of shares number of shares Phillip Ameen retired on 20 April 2018 15,000 5,000 Kathleen Casey 15,000 9,635 Laura Cha 15,000 10,200 Henri fide Castries 15,000 18,064 Lord Evans of Weardale 15,000 12,892 Joachim Faber retired on 20 April 2018 15,000 93,221 Irene Lee 15,000 11,172 John Lipsky retired on 20 April 2018 15,000 16,165 Heidi Miller 15,000 4,420 David Nish 15,000 50,000 Jonathan Symonds 15,000 43,821 Jackson Tai 15,000 56,075 Mark Tucker 15,000 288,381 Pauline van der Meer Mohr 15,000 15,000 Voting results from Annual General Meeting The following table summarises the voting results at our AGM.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2019 for executive Directors The following table summarises how each element of pay will be implemented in 2019.
Implementation of remuneration policy in 2019 Group Chief Financial Summary of operation Group Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Risk Officer Base salary 3.3% increase with effect from 1 March 2019 1,240,000 723,000 723,000 Fixed pay allowance No change 1,700,000 950,000 950,000 Cash in lieu of pension No change 30% of base salary Benefits No change Same benefit provisions will be made available to executive Directors Annual incentive No change in maximum opportunity Maximum opportunity will be 215% of base salary Long-term incentive No change in maximum opportunity Maximum opportunity will be 320% of base salary commercial sensitivity, we will disclose the targets for a given year Annual incentive scorecards in the Annual Report and Accounts for that year in the Directors The weightings and performance measures for the 2019 annual remuneration report.
incentive award for executive Directors are disclosed below.
The 2019 annual incentive scorecards performance targets for the annual incentive are commercially sensitive and it would be detrimental to the Groups interests to Executive Directors will be eligible for an annual incentive award disclose them at the start of the financial year.
Subject to of up to 215% of base salary.
2019 annual incentive scorecards measures and weightings 1 Group Chief Executive Group Chief Financial Officer Group Chief Risk Officer % % % Measures Profit before tax $bn 10.0 10.0 10.0 RoTE 5.0 8.3 3.3 Revenue growth 10.0 Positive jaws 5.0 10.0 Capital metrics 5.0 16.7 6.7 Strategic priorities 30.0 20.0 15.0 Risk and compliance 25.0 25.0 45.0 Personal objectives 10.0 10.0 20.0 Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 1 Strategic priorities includes financial quantitative metrics with a 25% weighting.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 197 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report The performance measures and targets for awards to be made in Long-term incentives respect of 2019, granted in 2020, will be provided in the Annual Details of the performance measures and targets for LTI awards to Report and Accounts 2019. be made in 2019, in respect of 2018, are provided on page 189.
Additional remuneration disclosures This section provides disclosures required under the Hong Kong Ordinances, Hong Kong Listing Rules, the US Securities and Exchange Commission Form 20-F and the Pillar 3 remuneration disclosures.
Employee compensation and benefits Executive Directors The details of compensation paid to executive Directors for the year ended 31December 2018 are set out below.
Emoluments 1 2 John Flint Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 2,863 534 3,896 1,984 1,961 1,911 1,914 Pension contributions 3 Performance-related pay paid or receivable 5,505 282 2,127 1,088 3,566 3,556 3,590 Inducements to join paid or receivable Compensation for loss of office Notional return on deferred cash 54 41 63 33 42 33 42 Total 8,422 857 6,086 3,105 5,569 5,500 5,546 Total $000 11,232 1,143 7,834 4,141 7,168 7,335 7,139 1 John Flint succeeded Stuart Gulliver as Group Chief Executive with effect from 21 February 2018 and his remuneration in this table is in respect of services provided as an executive Director.
2 Details of payments made to Stuart Gulliver after he stepped down from the Board on 20 February 2018 are provided on page 190.
3 Includes the value of the deferred and LTI awards at grant.
The aggregate amount of Directors' emoluments including both Emoluments of senior management and five highest executive Directors and non-executive Directors for the year paid employees ended 31 December 2018 was $30,550,208.
As per our policy, The following table sets out the details of emoluments paid to benefits in kind mayinclude, but are not limited to, the provision senior management in this case, executive Directors and Group of medical insurance, income protection insurance, health Managing Directors of the Group for the year ended 31December assessment, lifeassurance, club membership, tax assistance, 2018, or for the period of appointment in 2018 as a Director or Hong Kong accommodation, car benefit, travel assistance and Group Managing Director.
Details of the remuneration paid to the relocation costs including any tax due on thesebenefits, where five highest paid employees, comprising two executive Directors applicable.
Post-employment medical insurance benefit was and three Group Managing Directors of the Group, for the year provided to former Directors, Douglas Flint of 4,563 $6,085, ended 31 December 2018, are also presented.
Alexander Flockhart of 5,463 $7,286, and Stuart Gulliver of 2,840 $3,787 during the year ended 31 December 2018.
Amounts are converted into US dollars based on the average yearto-date exchange rates for the respective year.
Emoluments Five highest paid employees Senior management 000 000 Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 14,982 39,285 Pension contributions 10 188 1 Performance-related pay paid or receivable 19,696 40,519 Inducements to join paid or receivable Compensation for loss of office Total 34,688 79,992 Total $000 46,260 106,678 1 Includes the value of deferred shares awards at grant.
Remuneration policy overview and governance Ensuring variable pay is awarded on a discretionary basis and Our remuneration strategy is designed to reward competitively the dependent upon Group, business and individual performance.
achievement of long-term sustainable performance, and attract and motivate the very best people, regardless of gender, ethnicity, Offering employee benefits that are valued by a diverse age, disability or any other factor unrelated to performance or workforce, appropriate at the local market level and support experience with the Group.
We believe that remuneration is an HSBCs commitment to employee well-being.
important tool for instilling the right behaviours, and driving and Promoting employee share ownership through variable pay encouraging actions that are aligned to organisational values and deferral or voluntary enrolment in an all-employee share plan.
the long-term interests of our stakeholders.
Linking reward packages to performance and behaviour with Our remuneration strategy, as approved by the Group no bias towards an individuals ethnicity, gender, age, or any Remuneration Committee, is based on the following principles: other characteristic.
An alignment to performance at all levels individual, business The remuneration policy applies for all employees on a Group-wide and Group taking into account both what has been achieved basis.
and how it has been achieved.
The how helps ensure that performance is sustainable in the longer term, consistent with Governance and role of relevant stakeholders HSBCs values and risk and compliance standards.
The Committee is responsible for setting the principles, Being informed, but not driven by, market position and parameters and governance framework for the Groups practice.
Market benchmarks are sourced through independent remuneration policy applicable to all Group employees.
The specialists and provide an indication of the range of pay levels Committee also reviews the effectiveness and compliance of the and employee benefits provided by our competitors.
Considering the full-market range when making pay decisions All members of the Committee are independent non-executive for employees, taking into account the individuals and the Directors of HSBC Holdings plc.
Details of the roles, responsibility Groups performance in any given year.
An individuals pay will and membership of the Committee, including other committees vary depending upon their performance.
and senior management that the Committee engages with, are set out on page 163.
Activities and advisers used by the Committee Compliance with relevant regulation across all of our countries are detailed on page 184. and territories.
The Committee reviewed the Group's remuneration policy in Based on these principles, our approach to determining 2018 and made no material changes to the policy and its remuneration is based on the following objectives: implementation for 2018.
Offering our employees a competitive total reward package.
This includes market competitive fixed pay levels, which ensure our employees are able to meet their basic day-to-day needs.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 199 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report The key features of our remuneration framework, which subject to Link between risk, performance and reward compliance with local laws and regulations help enable us to Our remuneration practices promote sound and effective risk achieve alignment between risk, performance and reward, are management while supporting our business objectives.
detailed in the following table.
Alignment between risk and reward Framework Application elements Variable pay The Group variable pay pool is expected to move in line with Group performance.
We also use a countercyclical funding methodology, pool and with both a floor and a ceiling, and the payout ratio reducing as performance increases to avoid pro-cyclicality.
The floor recognises that individual even in challenging times, remaining competitive is important.
The ceiling recognises that at higher levels of performance it is not always performance necessary to continue to increase the variable pay pool, thereby limiting the risk of inappropriate behaviour to drive financial scorecard performance.
The main quantitative and qualitative performance and risk metrics used for assessment of performance include: Group and business unit performance: An evaluation of overall Group and business unit performance provided by Finance is considered by the Group Remuneration Committee when determining the Group variable pay pool and the variable pay pool for each business unit.
Where performance in a year is weak, as measured by profits, this will have a direct and proportionate impact on the pool.
Judgement is exercised to ensure that the pool is adjusted for appropriate current and future risks taking into consideration performance against the risk appetite statement RAS, annual operating plan and global conduct outcomes.
Fines, penalties and provisions for customer redress are automatically included in the Committees definition of profit.
Individual performance: Assessment of performance is made with reference to a balanced scorecard of clear and relevant objectives.
Risk and compliance objectives are included in the performance scorecard of senior management and a mandatory global risk objective is included in the scorecard of all other employees.
All employees receive a behaviour rating as well as a performance rating, which ensures performance is assessed not only on what is achieved but also on how it is achieved.
Therefore, variable pay of individuals is expected to reflect Group performance, their individual behaviour rating and performance rating determined against their performance objectives for the year, which are aligned to the Group's strategic actions, risk objectives and adherence to the HSBC Values.
Remuneration The performance and reward of individuals in Control Functions, including risk and compliance employees, are assessed according to for Control a balanced scorecard of objectives specific to the functional role they undertake.
This is to ensure their remuneration is determined Function staff independent of the performance of the business areas they control.
The Committee is responsible for approving the remuneration recommendations for the Group Chief Risk Officer and senior management in Control Functions.
Group policy is for Control Functions staff to report into their respective function.
Remuneration decisions for senior functional roles are led by, and must carry the approval of, the global function head.
The variable pay pool for Control Functions is determined centrally, without influence from the relevant business areas.
Remuneration is carefully benchmarked with the market and internally to ensure it is set at an appropriate level.
Variable pay Variable pay awards may be adjusted downwards in circumstances including: adjustments detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings HSBC into disrepute: and conduct involvement in events resulting in significant operational losses, or events that have caused or have the potential to cause recognition significant harm to HSBC: and non-compliance with the HSBC Values and other mandatory requirements or policies.
Rewarding positive conduct may take the form of use of our global recognition programme, At Our Best, or positive adjustments to variable pay awards.
These are used where exceptional behaviours have been demonstrated that go beyond the normal course of an employees responsibilities.
This can also happen when an employee sets an outstanding example of the HSBC Values.
Malus Malus can be made to unvested deferred awards granted in prior years.
It may be applied in circumstances including: detrimental conduct, including conduct that brings the business into disrepute: past performance being materially worse than originally reported: restatement, correction or amendment of any financial statements: and improper or inadequate risk management.
Clawback Clawback can be applied to vested or paid awards granted to Material Risk Takers 'MRTs' on or after 1 January 2015 for a period of seven years.
From 2016 onwards, this period may be extended to 10 years for employees under the PRA's Senior Managers Regime in the event of ongoing internal regulatory investigation at the end of the seven-year period.
Clawback may be applied in circumstances including: participation in, or responsibility for, conduct that results in significant losses: failing to meet appropriate standards and propriety: reasonable evidence of misconduct or material error that would justify, or would have justified, summary termination of a contract of employment: and a material failure of risk management suffered by HSBC or a business unit in the context ofGroup risk-management standards, policies and procedures.
Sales We generally do not operate commission-based sales plans.
incentives Identification Individuals are identified as MRTs if they perform certain specified roles or activities for our regulated entities, or if their total of MRTs compensation exceeds certain threshold.
The variable pay awards of MRTs are deferred over a period of three to seven years to ensure alignment between the payout realised by them and the long-term performance of the Group.
Details of the variable pay structure, the deferral and retention period applied to MRTs, in accordance with the applicable local regulations, are detailed in the following table.
200 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration structure and design characteristics of our remuneration framework that apply on a Group-wide basis, subject to compliance with local Total compensation fixed pay and variable pay is the key focus of laws, are set out below: our remuneration framework, with variable pay differentiated by performance and adherence to the HSBC Values.
The key features Overview of remuneration structure for employees Remuneration components Application and objectives Fixed pay Fixed pay may include salary, fixed pay allowance, cash in lieu of pension and other cash allowances in accordance with local market practices.
These pay elements are categorised as fixed pay as they are based on predetermined criteria, are Attract and retain non-discretionary, are transparent and are not reduced based on performance.
employees by paying market competitive pay for Fixed pay represents a higher proportion of total compensation for more junior employees.
the role, skills and All elements of fixed pay are fixed and may change to reflect an individuals position, role or grade, cost of living in the experience required for the country, individual skills, competencies, capabilities and experience, as may be evidenced by sustained strong performance business.
Fixed pay is generally delivered in cash on a monthly basis.
However, the fixed pay allowance of executive Directors is delivered in shares.
Benefits Benefits may include, but are not limited to, the provision of a pension, medical insurance, life insurance, health assessment and relocation allowances.
Ensure market competitiveness and provide benefits in accordance with local market practice.
Annual incentive All employees are eligible to be considered for a discretionary variable pay award.
Individual awards are determined on the basis of individual performance against their performance objectives for the year, which are aligned to the Groups Incentivise and reward strategic actions, a global risk objective, and adherence to the HSBC Values and business principles.
performance based on annual financial and nonThere is a process to identify behavioural transgressions for all employees during the year to ensure compliance with Group financial measures policies and procedures, and other expected behaviours.
Such transgressions are taken into consideration in determining consistent with the any current year adjustments to variable pay.
mediumto long-term Annual incentives represent a higher proportion of total compensation for more senior employees and will be more closely strategy, stakeholder aligned to Group and business performance as seniority increases.
interests and adherence to Variable pay awards for all Group employees identified as MRTs under European Union Regulatory Technical Standard HSBC Values.
All awards are subject to malus and awards granted to employees identified as MRTs are subject to clawback see section on variable pay adjustment, malus and clawback.
Awards are generally paid in cash and shares.
For MRTs, at least 50% of the awards are in shares and or where required by regulations, in units linked to asset management funds.
A portion of the annual incentive award may be deferred and vest over a period of three years, five years or seven years.
Deferral A deferral approach is applicable to all employees across the Group to defer a portion of annual incentive awards above a specified threshold.
The deferred variable pay is delivered through HSBC shares.
Vesting of deferred awards will be Alignment with the annually over a three-year period with 33% vesting on the first and second anniversaries of grant and 34% on the third mediumto long-term anniversary.
strategy, stakeholder interests and adherence to For MRTs identified in accordance with the PRA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA remuneration rules, awards are 2 the HSBC Values.
generally subject to a minimum 40% deferral 60% for awards of 500,000 or more over a minimum period of three years.
A longer deferral period is applied for certain MRTs as follows: five years for individuals identified in a risk-manager MRT role under the PRA and FCA remuneration rules.
This reflects the deferral period prescribed by both the PRA and the European Banking Authority 'EBA' for individuals performing key senior roles with the Group: or seven years for individuals in PRA-designated senior management functions, being the deferral period mandated by the PRA as reflecting the typical business cycle period.
Individuals based outside the UK who have not been identified at the Group level as an MRT, but who are identified as MRTs under local regulations, are generally subject to a three-year deferral period.
In Germany, a five-year deferral period is applied for members of the local management board and individuals in managerial roles reporting into the management board.
In Malta, a five-year deferral period is applied for executive Committee members.
Local MRTs are also subject to a minimum deferral rates discussed above, except in China where a minimum deferral rate of 50% is applied for the Chief Executive Officer in China, Germany where a minimum deferral rate of 60% is applied for members of the local management board and individuals in managerial roles reporting into the management board and Oman where a minimum deferral rate of 45% is applied.
Where an employee is subject to two sets of regulations, the requirement that is specific to the sector and or country in which the individual is working is applied, subject to meeting the minimum requirements applicable under each regulation.
All deferred awards are subject to malus provisions, subject to compliance with local laws.
Awards granted to MRTs on or after 1 January 2015 are also subject to clawback.
HSBC operates an anti-hedging policy for all employees.
This prohibits employees from entering into any personal hedging strategies in respect of HSBC securities.
Deferral instruments For all employees, other than MRTs identified in accordance with the PRA and FCA remuneration rules or other similar local rules, the underlying instrument for all deferred awards is HSBC shares to ensure alignment between the long-term interest Alignment with the of our employees and the interest of shareholders.
mediumto long-term strategy, stakeholder For Group and local MRTs, excluding executive Directors where deferral is typically in the form of shares only, a minimum interests and adherence to of 50% of the deferred awards is in HSBC shares and the balance is deferred into cash.
In accordance with local regulatory the HSBC Values.
requirements, for local MRTs in Poland, 50% of the deferred awards are delivered in an instrument linked to the performance of the local entity and the balance in deferred cash.
For local MRTs in Brazil and Oman, 100% of the deferred amount is delivered in shares or linked to the value of shares.
For some employees in our asset management business, where required by the regulations applicable to asset management entities within the Group, at least 50% of the deferred awards is linked to fund units reflective of funds managed by those entities, with the remaining portion of deferred awards being in the form of deferred cash awards.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 201 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Overview of remuneration structure for employees continued Remuneration components Application and objectives Post-vesting retention Variable pay awards made in HSBC shares or linked to relevant fund units granted to MRTs, identified in accordance with period the PRA and FCA remuneration rules, are generally subject to a one-year retention period post-vesting.
Local MRTs except those in Brazil, France, Oman and Russia are also generally subject to a one-year retention period post-vesting.
For local Ensure appropriate MRTs in Brazil, France and Russia, a six-month retention period is applied.
No retention period is applied for local MRTs in alignment with Oman.
MRTs who are subject to a five-year deferral period, except senior management or individuals in PRAand FCA-designated senior management functions, have a six-month retention period applied to their awards.
Long-term incentive Only executive Directors are eligible to be considered for an LTI award.
See details on page 189. awards LTI Align the mediumto longterm strategy with stakeholder interests and adherence to the HSBC Values.
Shareholding All executive Directors and Group Managing Directors of HSBC Holdings are subject to a minimum shareholding requirement.
Details are set out on page 191. requirement The minimum shareholding requirement must be achieved by 2019 or within five years of their appointment, whichever is Align interests of senior later.
Buy-out awards Buy-out awards may be offered if an individual holds any outstanding unvested awards that are forfeited on resignation from the previous employer.
The terms of the buy-out awards will not be more generous than the terms attached to the awards forfeited on cessation of employment with the previous employer.
Guaranteed variable Guaranteed variable remuneration is awarded in exceptional circumstances for new hires, and is limited to the individuals remuneration first year of employment only.
Support recruitment of The exceptional circumstances where HSBC would offer a guaranteed variable remuneration would typically involve a talent.
critical new hire and would also depend on factors such as the seniority of the individual, whether the new hire candidate has any competing offers and the timing of the hire during the performance year.
Severance payments Where an individuals employment is terminated involuntarily for gross misconduct then, subject to compliance with local laws, the Groups policy is not to make any severance payment in such cases.
For such individuals, all outstanding Adhere to contractual unvested awards are forfeited.
For other cases of involuntary termination of employment, any severance that may be determined to be paid to an individual will take into consideration the performance of the individual, contractual notice period, applicable local laws and circumstances of the case.
Where an individuals employment is terminated involuntarily except where an individual is dismissed for gross misconduct, all outstanding unvested awards will normally continue to vest in line with the applicable vesting dates.
Where relevant, any performance conditions attached to the awards, and malus and clawback provisions, will remain applicable to those awards.
Severance amounts awarded to MRTs are considered as fixed pay where such amounts include: i payments of fixed remuneration that would have been payable during the notice and or consultation period: ii statutory severance payments: iii payments determined in accordance with any approach applicable in the relevant jurisdictions: and iv payments made to settle a potential or actual dispute.
1 Shareholders approved the increase in the maximum ratio between the fixed and variable components of total remuneration from 1:1 to 1:2 at the 2014 Annual General Meeting held on 23 May 2014 98% in favour.
The Group has also used the discount rate of 15.3% for individuals with seven-year deferral period and 7.7% for individuals with five-year deferral period.
This discount rate was used for four MRTs in UK and one MRT in Hong Kong.
2 HSBC does not dis-apply any remuneration rules on proportionality grounds.
However, in accordance with the terms of the PRA and FCA remuneration rules, and subject to compliance with local regulations, the deferral requirement for MRTs is not applied to individuals where their total compensation is 500,000 or less and variable pay is not more than 33% of total compensation.
For these individuals, the Group standard deferral applies.
Material Risk Takers functions and businesses.
The overall results are reviewed by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
We identify individuals as Material Risk Takers 'MRTs' based on the qualitative and quantitative criteria set out in the Regulatory The Group Remuneration Committee reviews the methodology, key decisions regarding identification, and approves the results of Technical Standard RTS EU 604 2014.
We also identify MRTs the identification exercise, including proposed MRT exclusions.
based on additional criteria developed internally.
The following key principles underpin HSBCs identification process: Management body and senior management MRTs are identified at Group, HSBC Bank plc consolidated For the purpose of the Pillar 3 remunerations disclosures, and HSBC UK Bank plc level.
executive Directors and non-executive Directors are considered to MRTs are also identified at other solo regulated entity level as be members of the management body.
Members of the Group required by the regulations.
Management Board other than the executive Directors are considered as senior management.
No guaranteed bonus, sign-on When identifying an MRT, HSBC considers an employees role or severance payments were made to this population for the year within its matrix management structure.
The global business ended 31 December 2018. and functions that an individual works within takes precedence, followed by the geographical location in which they work.
Remuneration disclosures In addition to applying the qualitative and quantitative criteria The following tables set out the remuneration disclosures for specified in the RTS, we also identified additional MRTs based on individuals identified as MRTs for HSBC Holdings plc.
our own internal criteria, which included compensation thresholds Remuneration information for individuals who are only identified and individuals in certain roles and grades who otherwise would as MRTs at HSBC Bank plc, HSBC UK Bank plc or other solonot be identified as MRTs under the criteria prescribed in the RTS.
regulated entity levels are included, where relevant, in those entities' disclosures.
The list of MRTs, and any exclusions from it, is reviewed by Chief Risk Officers and Chief Operating Officers of the relevant global 202 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The 2018 variable pay information included in the following tables share price at the date of grant unless indicated otherwise.
For is based on the market value of awards granted to MRTs.
For cash awards, it is the value of awards expected to be paid to the share awards, the market value is based on HSBC Holdings plcs individual over the deferral period.
Remuneration fixed and variable amounts Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Senior management Total Number of MRTs 4 11 16 31 $m $m $m $m Total fixed 13.8 6.3 36.4 56.5 1 Cash-based 6.7 6.3 36.4 49.4 of which: deferred cash Share-based 7.1 7.1 of which: deferred shares 2 Total variable 16.8 44.7 61.5 Cash-based 2.5 21.1 23.6 of which: deferred cash 12.8 12.8 3 Share-based 14.3 23.6 37.9 3 of which: deferred shares 11.8 15.3 27.1 3 Other forms 3 of which: deferred Total remuneration 30.6 6.3 81.1 118.0 1 Cash-based fixed remuneration is paid immediately.
2 Variable pay awarded in respect of 2018.
In accordance with shareholder approval received on 23 May 2014 98% in favour, for each MRT the variable component of remuneration for any one year is limited to 200% of fixed component of the total remuneration.
3 Share-based awards are made in HSBC shares.
Vested shares are subject to a retention period of up to one year.
1 Deferred remuneration at 31 December Executive Senior Non-executive Directors Total Directors management $m $m $m $m Cash 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration 2.7 24.4 27.1 of which: Unvested 2.7 24.4 27.1 Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post explicit and or implicit adjustment 2.7 24.4 27.1 Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post 3 explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial year 4.6 12.4 17.0 Shares 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration 60.7 57.1 117.8 of which: Unvested 56.5 48.7 105.2 Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post explicit and or implicit adjustment 60.7 57.1 117.8 Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post implicit adjustment 10.9 9.7 20.6 Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post 3 explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial 4 year 21.8 31.3 53.1 Other forms 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration of which: Unvested Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post explicit and or implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post 3 explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial 4 year 1 This table provides details of balances and movements during performance year 2018.
For details of variable pay awards granted for 2018, please refer to the remuneration tables above.
Deferred remuneration is made in cash and or shares.
Share-based awards are made in HSBC shares.
2 Includes unvested deferred awards, and vested deferred awards subject to retention period as at 31 December 2018.
3 Includes any amendments due to malus or clawback.
Page 200 provides details of in-year variable pay adjustments.
4 Shares are considered as paid when they vest.
Vested shares are valued using the sale price or the closing share price on the business day immediately preceding the vesting day.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 203 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors | Directors remuneration report Other MRTs non-senior management Remuneration fixed and variable amounts Independent Investment Retail Asset Corporate control banking banking management functions functions All other Total Number of MRTs 628 167 27 144 151 64 1,181 $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Total fixed 388.6 90.6 17.9 77.6 60.9 40.9 676.5 1 Cash-based 388.6 90.6 17.9 77.6 60.9 40.9 676.5 of which: deferred cash Share-based of which: deferred shares 2 Total variable 385.6 83.1 17.0 75.1 45.8 39.5 646.1 Cash-based 188.1 40.6 8.4 37.0 23.1 19.4 316.6 of which: deferred cash 95.9 20.1 4.1 17.9 9.6 10.4 158.0 3 Share-based 197.5 42.5 4.6 38.1 22.6 20.1 325.4 3 of which: deferred shares 106.7 22.6 2.4 20.0 11.1 11.5 174.3 3 Other forms 4.0 0.1 4.1 3 of which: deferred shares 2.4 2.4 Total remuneration 774.2 173.7 34.9 152.7 106.7 80.4 1,322.6 1 Cash-based fixed remuneration is paid immediately.
In accordance with shareholder approval received on 23 May 2014 98% in favour, for each MRT the variable component of remuneration for any one year is limited to 200% of the fixed component of the total remuneration.
3 Share-based awards are made in HSBC shares and or linked to notional fund units in the HSBC World Selection Balanced Portfolio.
Guaranteed bonus, sign-on and severance payments Independent Investment Retail Asset Corporate control banking banking management functions functions All other Total 1 Guaranteed bonus and sign-on payments Made during year $m 20.1 1.7 1.8 23.6 Number of beneficiaries 22 2 3 27 2 Severance payments Awarded during year $m 17.8 5.7 0.9 1.0 1.8 27.2 Number of beneficiaries 18 9 2 4 4 37 Highest such award to a single person $m 5.4 2.6 0.6 0.3 0.8 Paid during year $m 14.0 5.3 0.4 1.0 1.6 22.3 Number of beneficiaries 18 8 2 4 3 35 1 No sign-on payments were made in 2018.
A guaranteed bonus is awarded in exceptional circumstances for new hires, and in the first year only.
The circumstances where HSBC would offer a guaranteed bonus would typically involve a critical new-hire, and would also depend on factors such as the seniority of the individual, whether the new-hire candidate has any competing offers and the timing of the hire during the performance year.
2 Includes payments such as payment in lieu of notice, statutory severance, outplacement service, legal fees, ex-gratia payments and settlements excludes pre-existing benefit entitlements triggered on terminations.
204 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 1 Deferred remuneration at 31 December Independent Investment Asset Corporate control banking Retail banking management functions functions All other Total $m $m $m $m $m $m $m Cash 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration 170.2 33.6 8.7 26.9 14.8 17.8 272.0 of which: Unvested 170.2 33.6 8.7 26.9 14.8 17.8 272.0 Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post 170.2 33.6 8.7 26.9 14.8 17.8 272.0 explicit and or implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year 3 due to ex post explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid 71.3 13.4 4.4 10.6 5.3 8.5 113.5 out in the financial year Shares 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration 252.3 46.5 8.7 52.5 22.0 30.6 412.6 of which: Unvested 219.2 41.1 7.5 46.2 20.8 24.3 359.1 Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post 252.3 46.5 8.7 52.5 22.0 30.6 412.6 explicit and or implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year 39.2 7.2 1.4 7.4 3.5 4.9 63.6 due to ex post implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year 3 due to ex post explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid 4 199.5 40.3 7.9 37.2 20.9 19.8 325.6 out in the financial year Other forms 2 Total outstanding deferred remuneration 4.0 0.1 4.1 of which: Unvested 2.7 2.7 Total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post 4.0 0.1 4.1 explicit and or implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year 0.3 0.3 due to ex post implicit adjustment Total amount of amendment during the year 3 due to ex post explicit adjustment Total amount of deferred remuneration paid 4 1.9 0.1 2.0 out in the financial year 1 This table provides details of movements during performance year 2018.
For details of variable pay awards granted for 2018, please refer to both the remuneration tables above.
Share-based awards are made in HSBC shares and or linked to notional fund units in the HSBC World Selection Balanced Portfolio.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 205 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
