Strategic Report Remuneration Our remuneration policy supports the achievement of our strategic objectives by balancing reward for shortand long-term sustainable performance.
Remuneration principles The remuneration strategy for our What we do What we dont do employees is based on a series of Focus on total compensation with Reward inappropriate or excessive key principles.
a strong link between pay and risk taking or short-term performance performance at the expense of long-term company sustainability Judge not only what is achieved, but also how it is achieved, in line Use only a formulaic approach to with the HSBC Values determine bonuses for our executives Operate a thorough performance Award discretionary bonuses to management and HSBC Values employees rated unacceptable against assessment process the HSBC Values and behaviours Recognise and reward our employees Allow our employees to hedge against for outstanding positive behaviour their unvested or retained awards Design our policy to align Offer employment contracts with a compensation with long-term notice period of more than 12 months stakeholder interests Have pre-arranged individual Apply our employee recognition severance agreements and conduct framework to strengthen the alignment between risk and reward across the Group Embedding our values in our remuneration framework Instilling the right behaviours and Mechanisms Outcomes driving and encouraging actions that Behavioural rating Subject to compliance with local labour laws, employees receive are aligned to organisational values for all employees a behaviour rating based on their adherence to HSBC Values to and expectations are essential.
ensure performance is judged not only on what is achieved, but also on how it is achieved.
We therefore have a number of mechanisms to reinforce our values.
Performance Performance objectives define what our employees need to achieve, management how and when, in line with business and role priorities.
Objectives are initially created by our employees at the start of the year.
Objectives are then tracked and updated by employees throughout the year as priorities change.
Performance management for all our employees is underpinned by our Everyday Performance and Development programme.
This approach involves frequent, holistic and meaningful conversations throughout the year between a manager and employee.
The conversations provide an opportunity to discuss progress, provide feedback and recognise behaviours, identify any support that may be needed, and address any issues that could be affecting the employees sense of well-being.
Conduct The employee recognition and conduct framework provides a set of recognition guidelines designed to reward exceptional conduct and handle any conduct breaches consistently across the Group.
Rewarding positive conduct may take the form of use of our global recognition programme At Our Best, or via positive adjustments to performance and behaviour ratings and variable pay.
The framework also provides guidance on applying negative adjustments to performance and behaviour ratings and to variable pay, alongside disciplinary sanctions, where conduct breaches have been identified.
32 HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration How we set our variable pay pool When deciding on the variable pay pool, the Group Remuneration Our variable pay pool was $3,473m, an increase of Committee considers a number of factors, which are set out in the 5.1% compared with 2017. following table: Variable pay pool $m Performance and risk Our variable pay pool takes into account our appetite statement performance in the context of our risk appetite.
Group 3,473 3,303 Countercyclical To dampen effects of economic cycles, the variable Of which Global 1,098 funding methodology pay pools size has a floor and a ceiling, and we also Banking and Markets 1,063 limit the payout ratio as performance increases to prevent the risk of inappropriate behaviour.
Variable pay for our executive Directors Distribution of profits Our funding methodology ensures that the distribution of post-tax profit between capital, shareholders and Variable pay for our executive Directors is driven by variable pay is appropriate, and that the majority of scorecard achievement.
Targets in the scorecard post-tax profit is allocated to capital and shareholders.
are set according to our key performance Commerciality and We face challenges arising from being headquartered indicators to ensure linkages between our strategy affordability in the UK, which has more stringent reward practices.
and remuneration policies and outcome.
We take into account these challenges in determining the size of the variable pay pool to help ensure we can See the Directors remuneration report on page 186 for continue to attract and retain talent in key markets.
Remuneration for our executive Directors Our remuneration policy for executive Directors was approved at our 2016 Annual General Meeting AGM and is intended to apply for three performance years until the AGM in 2019.
We will be putting forward a new remuneration policy for shareholder approval at the AGM.
Details of the proposed policy can be found on page 175.
The table below shows the amount our executive Directors earned in 2018.
For details of Directors pay and performance for 2018, see the Directors remuneration report on page 172.
HSBC Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 33 Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
