Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Directors Remuneration Report Committee members Attendance Directors Tracey Graham Chair 5 5 Remuneration Jonathan Nicholls 5 5 Report Justin Read 5 5 Louis Eperjesi appointed to the Board on 1 June 2018 4 4 Tracey Graham Claire Hawkings appointed to the Board Chair of the on 1 September 2018 3 3 Remuneration Committee Jamie Pike stepped down from the Committee and the Board on 24 May 2018.
Dear Shareholder, As the Chair of the Remuneration Committee the Committee, Louis Eperjesi and Claire Hawkings joined the Committee upon I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for appointment to the Board on 1 June and 1 September, respectively.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Remuneration 2018 has been a year of challenge and consolidation for the Group, Committee.
with our July trading statement and the sale of Glen-Gery in Please see pages 68 and 69 for detailed biographies.
The Group continued to show strong cash generation and we paid our first supplementary dividend to shareholders, which Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 is an important milestone for the business and demonstrates our Conducted a detailed review of the Remuneration commitment to shareholder returns.
policy in light of the governance developments As previously disclosed in the 2017 Remuneration Report, Wayne Recommended the 2017 Directors Remuneration Sheppard was succeeded as Chief Executive Officer by Joe Hudson, Report for approval by the Board incorporating formerly Managing Director, Cement & Concrete Products at provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code Aggregate Industries UK, who joined the Board as Chief Executive Officer Designate in January 2018.
Wayne stepped down from the Approved the 2018 Annual Bonus scorecards Board as Chief Executive Officer, with Joe succeeding him as CEO and monitored interim performance from 4 April 2018.
Approved 2018 LTIP and Share Option Plan awards After over 30 years with the Group, including the last three as Chief Set 2019 pay levels for the Executive Directors and Financial Officer of Ibstock plc, Kevin Sims announced his intention to senior management, including pay benchmarking retire in 2019.
I would like to personally thank Kevin for his significant Reviewed the Committees terms of reference and contribution to Ibstocks performance.
Kevin played an important role assessed its effectiveness in Ibstocks successful listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2015 and the Groups subsequent development.
He will be succeeded as Structure of the report CFO by Chris McLeish, currently Group Vice President Finance and Remuneration Committee Chairs Annual Statement pages 81 Control at Tate & Lyle plc.
Further to the standard remuneration and 82. terms defined in line with the Remuneration Policy it was agreed to Directors Remuneration Report At a glance pages 83 to 87. buy-out, on a fair-value basis, the value forgone by Chris in respect Directors Remuneration Policy pages 88 to 97. of incentive awards which are forfeit on cessation of employment with Annual Report on Remuneration pages 98 to 107. his previous employer.
Full details of his remuneration will be disclosed in the 2019 Annual Report.
Kevin will work with Chris to ensure an Company highlights for the 2018 financial year orderly succession and a smooth handover over the course of 2019.
The Company has shown continued growth in 2018, with revenue from continuing operations increasing by 8% to 391 million, In 2018 we also welcomed Louis Eperjesi and Claire Hawkings and adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations increased to as Non-Executive Directors and members of the Remuneration 112 million 2017: 108 million, driven principally by a combination Committee.
Louis is the Chief Executive Officer of Tyman plc.
of both price and volume growth in our clay brick business.
Claire is a member of the Executive Committee of Tullow Oil plc.
Both appointments will be of great benefit to Ibstock as we Financial highlights for the year include: continue to develop our business.
Group revenue from continuing operations 391.4 million.
1 Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations 112.4 million.
Incentive outcomes in 2018 Profit after tax from continuing operations 76.4 million.
In line with our remuneration philosophy, incentive outcomes are largely driven by corporate performance and shareholder value creation.
Operational highlights include: The backdrop for our products was supportive through the year, The annual bonus for our Executive Directors, which is based 60% with building rates remaining robust and UK market demand on the Groups financial performance, 20% on strategic measures and exceeded domestic supply capacity.
20% on individual objectives, paid out at 29.5% to 32.5% of maximum The commissioning of Eclipse, our new state-of-the-art 100 million opportunity.
Further details of the annual bonus targets for the year brick capacity clay brick plant progressed as planned.
and performance against those targets are provided on page 98.
We continue to see a gradual increase in market share in concrete No long-term incentive plan LTIP award vested in the year.
roof tiles, reecting our innovative product portfolio.
The first grant of LTIP awards was made in 2016 and is due to vest In November 2018, we successfully completed the disposal of our US in April 2019.
As the performance period for the 2016 LTIP award segment for an enterprise value of $110 million, equating to over eight has not yet been completed as at 31 December 2018, performance times Glen-Gerys last 12 months, as reported, adjusted EBITDA assessment and vesting levels will be disclosed in the 2019 Directors to June 2018.
Further details of performance against the Companys key performance indicators are detailed on pages 26 and 32 and the Financial Review on pages 52 to 55.
1 Alternative performance measures are described in Note 3 to the financial statements.
81 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued 2019 Directors Remuneration Policy To facilitate his recruitment and in accordance with the Policy The current Remuneration Policy was approved at the 2016 AGM and the terms agreed with Joe Hudson, the Company determined on 26 May 2016 and the Committee believe that it has supported to buy out certain share awards with his previous employer which Ibstocks business and remuneration strategy well.
lapsed on his cessation of employment.
Further details of the buyout package granted can be found on page 101.
In 2018 the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the The Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference to align with Companys reward framework and concluded that the current Policy, the 2018 Code.
which has worked well for the past three years, remains overall fit for purpose for the next three years.
Therefore, the new Policy we are Fairness and diversity proposing will operate similarly.
Creating a thriving and diverse workforce is a high priority for our business.
However we recognise that we operate in an industry The following key changes are proposed: that historically has been associated with certain inherent challenges a reduction in maximum pension contributions for new around diversity.
We are fully committed to embracing the new appointments: developments in regulation and best practice to ensure that we, introducing a compulsory minimum level of bonus deferral: as a business, are contributing to the shift in the industrys outlook increasing the maximum LTIP opportunity for awards granted and approach from the perspective of gender equality and diversity in 2020 onwards subject to performance : of skills, background and knowledge.
In 2018 we introduced a number increasing shareholding requirements so that they are aligned of initiatives focused on supporting women at Ibstock at the start across the Board: and of their career as well as at more senior levels in the organisation.
Further detail on these initiatives is provided on page 85.
These proposed changes reflect the Committees efforts to Shareholder engagement demonstrate best practice Corporate Governance whilst ensuring In light of the Companys policy review we are consulting with the Company has a competitive market positioning.
Full details of the shareholders in early 2019 to ensure their continued support with proposed changes to the 2019 Directors Remuneration Policy are regards to our executive remuneration structure.
set out in the At a glance section on page 84.
This Policy will be In addition, we will continue to engage with our shareholders in put to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
a two-way communication process to maintain their support and The Companys remuneration strategy is designed to motivate our to ensure we have a transparent executive reward structure aligned senior leaders to deliver strategic objectives, ensure customer focus to shareholder experience.
If you would like to discuss any further based on quality and consistency, and to drive long-term value for aspect of our remuneration strategy I would welcome your views.
These core elements are captured in our incentive We monitor shareholder reaction and commentary regarding framework for the Executive Directors.
Further details of how our our remuneration practices.
At the recent Annual General Meetings incentives and their measures align to the Companys key strategic shareholders voted overwhelmingly in favour of our current priorities can be found on page 88.
Remuneration Policy and the 2017 Remuneration Report with Remuneration Committee decisions made during 2018 99.36% and 99.58%, respectively.
The details of the voting outcomes Key decisions made by the Committee during, and for, the financial are presented on page 105. year include: The Committee reviewed the Companys Remuneration Policy Tracey Graham and prepared for the shareholder consultation process in early Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent 2019.
The proposed changes are primarily a series of adjustments Non-Executive Director which aim to ensure that the overall Policy remains aligned with best practice and the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code 4 March 2019 the 2018 Code.
Full details of the proposed changes are set out on page 84.
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Changes to the 2018 Code have been considered when drafting as amended in 2013, the provisions of the current Code and the Listing Rules.
disclosures for the Directors Remuneration Report.
Further The report consists of three sections: changes will be considered by the Committee in 2019 to ensure The Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chairman and associated full compliance with the 2018 Code.
At a glance section: The proposed Directors Remuneration Policy: and The Committee carefully considered a number of factors The Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out payments made to the influencing the pay review, including inflation, market conditions Directors and details the link between Company performance and remuneration and underlying financial performance.
It was resolved that a salary for the 2018 financial year.
increase of 2.5% would be awarded to the Chief Executive Officer The Directors Remuneration Policy will be subject to a binding vote at the AGM on and Chief Financial Officer, in line with the increase provided to 23 May 2019.
The Chairs Annual Statement and the Annual Report on Remuneration the employee population.
Fee increases of 2.5% were also will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM on 23 May 2019. awarded to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
Further details on how our Remuneration Policy will be applied in practice for the 2019 financial year are set out on page 106.
The Committee determined that the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer should receive an annual performance bonus in respect of 2018 equal to 36.9% to 40.6% of base salary 29.5% to 32.5% of maximum opportunity, reflecting performance against the measures for the year.
2018 LTIP awards of 100% of salary were granted to Joe Hudson and Kevin Sims.
The grant levels and performance targets for the LTIP are consistent with the normal award policy further details of the awards are provided on page 101.
No LTIP award vested in the year as the first awards under the plan were made in 2016 and will vest in April 2019.
82 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information At a glance Introduction In this section, we: 1 set out the remuneration outcomes for the 2018 financial year: 2 set out the key changes to our 2019 Remuneration Policy and its linkage to our corporate strategic objectives: and 3 set out our fairness, diversity and wider workforce considerations.
2018 financial year Remuneration outcomes in 2018 reflect the challenges which we experienced as a business during the year.
Having considered all of the relevant factors, the Committee is satisfied that remuneration paid to our Directors and senior management in 2018 was appropriately aligned to the underlying business performance.
Single figure remuneration for our Executive Directors We set out below the single figure remuneration for our Executive Directors: Executive Directors 2017 total 2018 total 1 Joe Hudson CEO n a 775,307 2 Wayne Sheppard outgoing CEO 906,300 183,640 Kevin Sims CFO 625,223 491,232 1 Joe Hudson joined the Board on 2 January 2018 and became the CEO on 4 April 2018.
2 Wayne Sheppard stepped down as CEO and Board Director on 4 April 2018.
His bonus and remuneration have been pro-rated to reflect this.
The single total figure of remuneration table containing information for the 2017 and 2018 financial years for the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors is set out in detail on page 98.
Annual bonus outcomes Our 2018 bonus outcomes outlined below reflect the performance measures and targets put in place during the 2018 financial year and their level of satisfaction.
The bonus measures for the Executive Directors are aligned to the Companys key performance indicators KPIs which are outlined on pages 26 and 32.
Bonus value achieved 1 2 2018 bonus measures Joe Hudson Wayne Sheppard Kevin Sims Adjusted EBITDA 20% Nil Nil Nil Adjusted Operating Cash Flow 20% Nil Nil Nil ROCE 20% Nil Nil Nil Net Promoter Score 10% 13,594 3,468 9,475 Lost Time Accidents 10% 54,375 13,872 37,900 Personal objectives 20% 108,750 27,743 64,429 1 Joe Hudson joined the Board on 2 January 2018 and became the CEO on 4 April 2018.
His bonus has been pro-rated to reflect this.
Having considered company performance, the Committee concluded that it would be appropriate to award bonuses to the Executive Directors in respect of the non-financial and personal annual bonus targets.
The CEO was awarded a bonus of 40.6% of salary and the CFO was awarded a bonus of 36.9% of salary.
The outgoing CEO was awarded a bonus of 40.6% of his pro-rated salary.
Full details of the bonus targets and performance against these are set out on page 99.
Two-thirds of the 2018 bonus will be paid in cash and one-third will be deferred into shares for a period of three years.
LTIP outcomes No long-term incentive plan LTIP award vested in the year.
The first grant of LTIP awards was made in 2016 and will vest in April 2019.
As the performance period for the 2016 LTIP award had not yet been completed as at 31 December 2018, performance assessment and vesting levels will be disclosed in the 2019 Directors Remuneration Report.
Equity exposure of the Executive Directors The Chief Financial Officer has a shareholding substantially in excess of the Companys minimum shareholding requirements, which is proposed to be 200% of base salary for both Executive Directors under the 2019 Policy.
The Chief Executive Officer, having only joined the Company last year, is expected to build up his shareholding over the next five years.
The following chart sets out all subsisting interests in the equity of the Company held by the Executive Directors as at 31 December 2018.
83 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Shareholding requirements as % of salary Joe Hudson incoming CEO % of salary Shareholder requirement 200% Current shareholding 5% Value of gain on interests over shares 69% i. e unvested unexercised awards Kevin Sims CFO % of salary Shareholder requirement 200% Current shareholding 1934% Value of gain on interests over shares 257% i. e unvested unexercised awards The number of shares of the Company in which Directors had a beneficial interest as at 31 December 2018 are set out in detail on page 103.
In line with the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy interests which count towards the shareholding requirement include deferred shares at their net-of-tax value and shares subject to a holding period at their full value.
Summary of changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration element Current Policy operation Changes to Policy Rationale Pension Current level for Executive Reduce maximum from 20% to 10% of salary The Committee will keep pension Directors is 20% of salary.
contribution levels under review seeking to bring the level of pension allowance for Executive Directors in line with what is provided to all employees.
Annual bonus The current Policy allows for Formally introduce a minimum level This change ensures that the current deferral of up to 50% of the of deferral of one-third of the bonus.
operation of one-third deferral remains in bonus with no minimum level place for the duration of the proposed Policy.
Any dividends will be awarded in shares Current practice is two-thirds to strengthen the long-term focus of paid in cash and one-third the incentives.
LTIP Maximum opportunity Increase the maximum opportunity to 150% The increase reflects the need to provide of 100% of salary.
applied to awards granted starting from 2020 a competitive total package aimed at Current levels are 100% to provide a competitive package.
motivating key executives to deliver against of salary for the CEO and Increase the exceptional circumstances strategy.
The increase will be operated from the CFO.
maximum award level to 200% of salary 2020 subject to satisfactory performance.
The Committee has been operating the maximum is 150% of salary.
For the avoidance of doubt, the intention two-year post-vesting holding period which Awards vest after three years.
is only to use this exceptional maximum was formalised in the new Policy.
This is in Post-vesting holding period award for recruitment purposes.
line with the changes to the 2018 Code such applied to 2018 awards.
Introduction of a mandatory two-year that the total time period between grant TSR comparator group is the post-vesting holding period applying and release of shares is 5 years.
FTSE 250 excluding financial to all awards made from 2019.
Any dividends will be awarded in shares services, real estate and The Committee may award dividend to strengthen the long-term focus of investment trusts.
equivalents in shares on awards to the the incentives.
The proposed change to the TSR Change TSR comparator group to comparator group is intended to improve FTSE 250 construction and building alignment between executives performance materials sector companies.
and the comparator group, which is better correlated to the business than the broader FTSE 250 Index.
Minimum CEO: 200% of salary Increase shareholding requirement for CFO The Committee recognises the importance shareholding CFO: 150% of salary to 200% of salary.
of aligning the long-term interests of requirement To be built up over five years The shareholding definition includes deferred Executive Directors with shareholders.
shares at their net-of-tax value and shares subject to a holding period at their full value.
Introduction of a post-cessation of This change is in line with the 2018 Code shareholding employment shareholding requirement changes and The Investment Associations requirement of 100% of pre-cessation shareholding updated guidelines.
requirement for one year following cessation, The proposed change will strengthen reducing to 50% for a second year.
alignment between the long-term interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
84 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Fairness, diversity and wider workforce considerations Ibstock is committed to creating an inclusive working environment and to rewarding our employees throughout the organisation in a fair manner.
In making decisions on executive pay, the Remuneration Committee considers wider workforce remuneration and conditions.
We believe that employees throughout the Company should be able to share in the success of the Company.
We have, since our IPO, operated a very popular Save As You Earn SAYE plan and our intention is to continue this and to investigate additional opportunities for our employees to share in our success going forwards.
We also believe that employees should have the opportunity to save for their futures and to this end we operate defined contribution Group personal pension plans into which the Company and our employees make contributions.
As part of our commitment to fairness, for the second year we have included this section into our remuneration reporting which sets out more information on our wider workforce pay conditions, our CEO to employee pay ratio, our Gender Pay statistics, and our Diversity and Inclusion policy.
Whilst we recognise there is much work still to do, we believe that transparency is an important first step towards making improvements in relation to these important issues.
Area Considerations Competitive The Committee ensures that pay is fair throughout the Company and makes decisions in relation to the structure pay and cascade of executive pay in the context of the cascade of incentives throughout the business.
The Committees remit extends of incentives down to Executives and senior management for which it recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration.
Participation Participation Participation in Share Participation Level in bonus in LTIP Option Plan in SAYE SIP Executive Directors Senior Executives Senior managers Managers Employees Remuneration and its link to the Companys objectives Objectives Long-term value creation Strategic and encouraged Financial operational through equity Share Plan Purpose Eligibility performance goals retention ownership SAYE SIP To broaden share All employees.
ownership and share in corporate success over the medium term.
Annual bonus Incentivise and reward Executive Directors, short-term performance.
senior executives, At senior level an element senior managers, of bonus may be deferred managers, and in shares.
employees Share Option Broaden share ownership, Senior managers Plan alignment, retention, and Managers.
LTIP Incentivise and reward Executive Directors long-term performance.
The Company uses a number of remuneration comparison measurements to assess fairness of pay structures across the Group.
Detailed disclosure of our approach to fairness, diversity and wider workforce considerations is presented above on this page.
In setting the Remuneration Policy for Directors, the pay and conditions of other employees of the Company are taken into account to ensure consistency of approach throughout the Company, including data on the remuneration structure for management level tiers below the Executive Directors, average base salary increases awarded to the overall employee population and the cascade of pay structures throughout the business.
As a Remuneration Committee, we are keenly aware of the sensitivity of shareholders and the wider public regarding remuneration.
The Committee will continue to monitor external remuneration developments closely and intends to embrace these changes and continue to comply with best practice reporting requirements as they come into force.
85 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Area Considerations Pay CEO ratio comparisons Year Method Lower Quartile ratio Median ratio Upper Quartile ratio 2018 Option A 30:1 24:1 19:1 As part of our commitment to fairness, we have chosen to report the ratio of CEO single figure pay to the pay of our employees for 2018.
We have calculated the ratios set out above using Option A, as described in the Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations.
CEO pay in the last four years The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and incentive outcomes for the Director holding the post of CEO in each year since Ibstock listed on the London Stock Exchange in 2015.
2 3 Wayne Sheppard Joe Hudson 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 Year 000 000 000 000 000 Single figure remuneration 773 789 906 184 592 % of maximum annual bonus earned 100% 33% 58% 32.5% 32.5% 1 % of maximum LTIP awards vesting n a n a n a n a n a 1 No award under the LTIP has yet vested.
The vesting of the first award will be in April 2019.
2 Wayne Sheppard stepped down as CEO and Board Director on 4 April 2018 and his remuneration has been pro-rated to reflect this.
3 Joe Hudson became CEO on 4 April 2018.
His single figure includes compensation paid to him in 2018 in his capacity as the CEO.
Percentage change in CEOs remuneration The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEOs salary, benefits and bonus between 2017 and 2018 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for the employees in continuing operations.
Salary Taxable benefits Bonus 2017 2018 Percentage 2017 2018 Percentage 2017 2018 Percentage Year 000 000 change 000 000 change 000 000 change 1 CEO 434 435 0.1% 22 20 -12% 318 177 -44% Average per eligible 2 employee 36 39 8% 5 6 25% 24 12 -49% 1 The Chief Executive Officers remuneration disclosed in the table above has been calculated to take into account base salary, taxable benefits excluding pension and annual bonus including any amount deferred.
In order to provide meaningful comparison of the remuneration for the CEO role, 2018 remuneration comprises Wayne Sheppards remuneration for the period January-March 2018 and Joe Hudsons remuneration for the period April-December 2018.
2 The pay for eligible employees in continuing operations has been calculated using the following elements: annual salary base salary and standard monthly allowances: taxable benefits car allowance and private medical insurance premiums: annual bonus Company bonus, management bonus, commission and incentive payments.
86 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Area Considerations Gender pay The UK Government Equalities Office legislation requires employers with 250 or more employees in the UK to disclose annually information on their gender pay gap.
The second disclosure of the pay gap is based on amounts paid in the year to 5 April 2018.
The bonus gap is based on incentives paid in respect of the year to 5 April 2018.
As Ibstock Brick is the largest employing entity, we have chosen to report these figures in this report.
We are committed to regular analysis and monitoring of pay where we will continue to work to remedy any gap that we have.
The mean gender pay gap at Ibstock Brick is 17.0% which is slightly lower than the UK average of 17.4%.
We continue to work hard to encourage more females into the business.
Our current employee population reflects the traditional nature of the industry, with 86% of roles being occupied by men, including a high percentage of males employed in factory based production roles.
This can clearly be seen in the quartiles set out below, which show the number of male and female employees in each pay quartile: Quartile A lowest Quartile B 1 1 1 Male: 70% 1 Male: 87% 2 2 Female: 30% 2 Female: 13% 2 Quartile C Quartile D highest 1 1 2 2 1 Male: 94% 1 Male: 93% 2 Female: 6% 2 Female: 7% Note: The figures quoted above are for the Ibstock Brick entity of Ibstock plc only.
Diversity policy Our Diversity and Inclusion and range of Family Friendly and Flexible Working policies have been developed to make sure we have harmonious working environments, where every person can grow their skills and thrive together to share in our success.
They also ensure that all job applicants, employees and other workers such as agency staff and consultants are treated with dignity and respect regardless of any personal characteristics or circumstances.
We have worked closely with our engineering apprenticeship partners, the EEF, to attract a more diverse range of applicants, in particular females, for our engineering apprenticeship programmes.
We are pleased to report that this focused approach has enabled us to recruit our first two female engineering apprentices, who joined us in 2018.
We have also recently made two senior leadership appointments and both roles have been filled by women.
Our internal networking Women in Business group, formed in 2017, continues to be very active and the women within the group take their responsibilities seriously, both in terms of networking and mentoring other women from across the business.
In 2018 we conducted a major review of all compliance policies operated by the Company which cover equality and diversity and our commitment to the prevention of discriminatory practices, procedures and attitudes in our business.
These updated policies have been re-issued to our employees.
87 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy Introduction In accordance with the remuneration reporting regulations, the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy as set out below will become formally effective at the AGM on 23 May 2019, subject to shareholder approval and will apply for the period of three years from the date of approval.
Our Remuneration Policy and its link to our Group strategy The Groups strategy is laid out below.
Ensuring the alignment of the Remuneration Policy to the Companys strategy remains key for the Remuneration Committee in operating the Policy below in conjunction with our core principles of remuneration.
Our core principles of remuneration To ensure senior executives are attracted, retained and motivated to drive the strategic development of the Company.
To incentivise the management team in extending the Companys position in the building products industry.
To deliver long-term sustainable growth.
To adopt UK Corporate Governance best practice and ensure a clear linkage between remuneration outcomes and overall corporate performance.
The key elements of the Companys strategy and how its successful implementation is linked to the Companys remuneration are set out in the following table.
Strategic priorities Sustainable performance Retain and Health and Safety, people, Selective growth Market-led innovation Equity reward the manufacturing excellence and Grow balance the portfolio, Marketing and innovation, ownership Executive continuous improvement, review geographies, organic commercial excellence, new and team to sustainability, structure growth and debottlenecking and value propositions and supply retention deliver the Remuneration Policy and capability selective M&A.
of shares strategy Annual bonus The maximum bonus Net Promoter Score Return on Capital ROCE, Adjusted including any part of the NPS and Lost Time Employed ROCE, EBITDA, Adjusted bonus deferred into an Accidents LTA Adjusted EBITDA, Operating Cash Flow, Annual Deferred Bonus Plan Adjusted Operating NPS These measures target ADBP Award deliverable Cash Flow customer satisfaction and The efficient development under the ADBP will not Health and Safety in the The success in maximising of innovative products exceed 125% of a workplace and therefore operational excellence will be measured through ROCE participants annual support this objective.
reflected through increased and NPS performance will base salary.
profitability and cash flow be reflected in increased and the efficiency of any profitability and cash flow.
investment made through ROCE measurement.
LTIP Maximum annual award Adjusted EPS, TSR TSR is normally 150% of salary.
The success in maximising The generation of cash and Awards will vest at the end operational excellence will profit growth targeted by of three years.
be measured through the the annual bonus will help long-term Adjusted EPS enhance the value of the For 2019, the performance growth targeted by the LTIP.
Company which will be conditions for awards are In addition, sustained value measured through the equally weighted between: generation will be reflected success of the Companys Adjusted Earnings per in the share price of the TSR performance against its Share EPS growth: and Company which will be comparators a performance comparative Total measured through the condition under the LTIP.
Shareholder Return Companys TSR performance TSR.
Share Incentive Plan SIP The Sharesave Plan SAYE Minimum shareholding requirements CEO: 200% of salary.
88 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration Policy table The 2019 revised Remuneration Policy that will be put to a vote at the AGM on 23 May 2019 is outlined below.
How it supports the Element of Companys shortand remuneration long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Base salary Provides a base level of An Executive Directors base salary The Committee ensures that maximum salary levels remuneration to support is set on appointment and reviewed are positioned in line with companies of a similar size recruitment and retention of annually or when there is a change to Ibstock, validated against companies operating in a Executive Directors with the in position or responsibility.
The companies in the comparator group necessary experience and determining an appropriate level are organisations in the FTSE 250 excluding financial expertise to deliver the of salary, the Committee considers: services, real estate and equity investment trusts.
remuneration practices within The Committee intends to review the comparator the Group: groups each year and may add or remove companies the general performance from the group as it considers appropriate.
Any changes of the Group: to the comparator group will be in the section headed salaries within the ranges paid by the Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following companies in the comparator group financial year.
used for remuneration benchmarking: In general, salary increases for Executive Directors any change in scope, role and will be in line with the increase for employees across responsibilities: and the Group.
Individuals who are recruited or promoted to the Board may, on occasion, have their salaries set below the targeted policy level until they become established in their role.
In such cases subsequent increases in salary may be higher than the general rises for employees until the target positioning is achieved.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year, the salaries for that year for each of the Executive Directors.
Changes from previous Policy: None.
Benefits Provides a benefits package in The Executive Directors receive a See description of benefits in the previous column.
line with practice relative to its company car or car allowance, private The maximum will depend on the cost of providing comparator group to enable the health cover and death in service cover.
The Company has monitoring Company to recruit and retain The Committee recognises the need practices in place to ensure spend on benefits is efficient.
Executive Directors with the to maintain suitable flexibility in the experience and expertise to benefits provided to ensure it is able to deliver the Groups strategy.
support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel in order to deliver the Group strategy.
Additional benefits may be offered such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
The maximum will be set at the cost of providing the benefits described.
Changes from previous Policy: No changes to policy, however additional disclosure is provided on determining the value of benefits.
Pensions Provides retirement benefit to The Company operates a defined The maximum contribution into the defined contribution enable the Company to recruit contribution arrangement for plan or salary supplement in lieu of pension is 10% and retain Executive Directors Executive Directors.
of gross basic salary for new joiners.
The Committee with the experience and intends to keep this under review going forward so expertise to deliver the as to align with the broader employee population.
The Company will set out in the section headed Implementation of Remuneration Policy, in the following financial year, the pension contributions for that year for each of the Executive Directors.
When recruiting or promoting new Executive Directors the Committee will aim to align the pension contribution allowance to be provided with the level of employee pension contribution.
If the circumstances require an alternative approach to be used, for example to reflect an existing entitlement on internal promotion, this will be fully explained in the relevant Annual Report.
Changes from previous Policy: Changes reflect the closure of the defined benefit pension arrangement in January 2017.
Maximum pension contribution for newly recruited Executive Directors reduced from 20% to 10% to align with the levels provided to employees.
89 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued How it supports the Element of Companys shortand remuneration long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Annual and The ADBP provides a The maximum bonus The maximum bonus An award under the ADBP is subject Deferred Bonus significant incentive to including any part of the bonus including any part of to satisfying financial and strategic Plan ADBP the Executive Directors deferred into an ADBP Award the bonus deferred into operational performance personal linked to achievement in deliverable under the ADBP an ADBP Award performance conditions and targets delivering goals that are will not exceed 125% of a deliverable under the measured over a period of one financial closely aligned with the participants annual base salary.
ADBP will not exceed year.
A minimum of 50% of the targets will Companys strategy and The Board will determine the 125% of a participants be financial.
The Board will determine the the creation of value for bonus to be delivered following annual base salary.
bonus to be delivered following the end shareholders.
In the end of the relevant financial of the relevant financial year.
Percentage of maximum particular, the ADBP year.
The Company will set bonus earned for levels The Committee is of the opinion that supports the Companys out in the section headed of performance: given the commercial sensitivity arising objectives allowing the Implementation of in relation to the detailed financial targets setting of annual targets Remuneration Policy, in the Threshold: 0% used for the annual bonus, disclosing based on the businesses following financial year, the On-target: 50% precise targets for the ADBP in advance strategy at the time, nature of the targets and their would not be in shareholders interests.
meaning that a wider weightings for each year.
Details Maximum: 100% Actual targets, performance achieved and range of performance of the performance conditions, The annual bonus will awards made will be published at the end metrics can be used targets and their level of be paid in cash and of the relevant performance period so that are relevant satisfaction for the year being deferred shares.
shareholders can fully assess the basis and achievable.
reported on will be set out for any pay-outs under the annual bonus.
The Committee has in the Annual Report discretion to defer on Remuneration.
The Committee has discretion to: part of the annual The Committee will determine in exceptional circumstances change the bonus earned in shares each year what part of the performance measures and targets and under the ADBP.
The bonus earned under the ADBP the weighting attached to the advantage of deferral is: is provided as an award of performance measures and targets increased alignment deferred shares.
The minimum part-way through a performance year between Executives value of deferred shares is if there is a significant and material event and shareholders one-third of the bonus earned.
which causes the Committee to believe created through the original measures, weightings and The main terms of these deferral and the targets are no longer appropriate: and awards are: increased equity stake make downward or upward of management in the minimum deferral period adjustments to the amount of bonus Company: and of three years, during which earned resulting from the application amounts deferred in no performance conditions of the performance measures, if the shares are subject to will apply: and Committee believe that the bonus a Directors continued the participants continued outcomes are not a fair and accurate employment, which employment at the end reflection of overall business provides an effective of the deferral period.
discretion applied by the Committee The Committee may award will be fully disclosed in the following dividend equivalents in shares years Remuneration Report.
The to plan participants to the Committee will consult with leading extent that they vest.
investors if appropriate before any exercise of discretion to increase the bonus outcome.
The ADBP contains clawback and malus provisions.
Changes from previous Policy: Compulsory bonus deferral of one-third of the bonus earned.
A codification of current practice rather than a change.
Any dividend equivalents will be awarded in shares.
Remuneration Committee discretion has been amended to ensure overriding discretion may be applied other than just in exceptional circumstances.
90 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information How it supports the Element of Companys shortand remuneration long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Long-Term The purpose of the Awards are granted annually Normal maximum value The performance conditions for the 2019 Incentive Plan LTIP is to incentivise to Executive Directors in the in 2019 is 100% of salary LTIP awards are Adjusted EPS growth and LTIP and reward Executive form of a conditional share p. a. based on the comparative TSR.
The Committee may Directors in relation to award, nil cost option or market value at the change the balance of the measures, or long-term performance restricted share award.
date of grant set in use different measures for subsequent and achievement of accordance with awards, as appropriate.
No material Details of the performance Group strategy.
This will the rules of the LTIP.
change will be made to the type of conditions for grants made better align Executive In exceptional performance conditions without prior in the year will be set out Directors interests with circumstances the shareholder consultation.
The Committee in the Annual Report on the long-term interests Committee may grant has the discretion to: Remuneration and for future of the Group and act as an award with a grants in the section headed in exceptional circumstances, vary, a retention mechanism.
maximum of 150% Implementation of substitute or waive the performance The use of comparative of salary.
Remuneration Policy, in the conditions applying to LTIP awards if TSR measures the future financial year.
From 2020 the normal the Board considers it appropriate and success of the maximum value will be that the new performance conditions implementation of the These will vest at the end of set at 150% of salary are deemed reasonable and are not Companys strategy a three-year period subject to: p. a. based on the materially less difficult to satisfy than in delivering an above the Executive Directors market value at the the original conditions: and market level of return.
continued employment date of grant set in make downward or upward The use of Adjusted at the date of vesting: and accordance with adjustments to the vesting of the EPS ensures Executive satisfaction of the the rules of the LTIP.
LTIP resulting from the application Directors are focused performance conditions.
In exceptional of the performance measures if the on long-term financial circumstances the Committee believes that the outcomes performance to ensure The Committee may award Committee may grant are not a fair and accurate reflection this flows through to dividend equivalents in shares an award with a of overall business performance.
Any long-term sustainable on awards to the extent that maximum of 200% of adjustments or discretion applied by the Adjusted EPS growth.
For the avoidance Committee will be fully disclosed in the A post-vesting holding period of of doubt, the intention following years Remuneration Report.
two years will apply for the LTIP.
is only to use this The Committee will consult with exceptional maximum leading investors if appropriate before for recruitment any exercise of its discretion to increase purposes.
25% of the award The LTIP contains clawback and will vest for threshold malus provisions.
100% of The Relative Total Shareholder Return the award will vest for comparator group will include FTSE 250 maximum performance.
construction and building materials sector There is straight-line companies previously FTSE 250 vesting between excluding financial services, real estate these points.
In addition, the Committee will be considering the inclusion of ROCE as an LTIP performance condition for awards granted in 2020 onwards.
The Committee may change the balance of the measures, or use different measures for subsequent awards, as appropriate.
Changes from previous Policy: Maximum level of annual LTIP opportunity is increased from 100% to 150% from 2020.
Maximum level of LTIP award in exceptional circumstances increased from 150% to 200% from 2020.
Holding period on LTIP awards is compulsory.
The Relative Total Shareholder Return comparator group will include FTSE 250 construction and building materials sector companies previously FTSE 250 excluding financial services, real estate and investment trusts.
91 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued How it supports the Element of Companys shortand remuneration long-term strategic objectives Operation Maximum opportunity Performance metrics Share Incentive The SIP is an all-employee The Company operates a SIP in Maximum opportunity The Company in accordance with Plan SIP share ownership plan which the Executive Directors for awards and the legislation may impose objective which has been designed are eligible to participate which purchases are kept in conditions on participation in the SIP to encourage all is in line with HMRC legislation line with HMRC limits.
employees to become and is open to all eligible staff.
shareholders in the The Executive Directors shall Company and thereby be entitled to participate in any align their interests other all employee arrangement with shareholders.
The Sharesave The Sharesave Plan is The Company operates a The maximums set by The Company in accordance with Plan SAYE an all-employee savings Sharesave Plan in which the the UK legislation from the legislation may impose objective related share option plan Executive Directors are eligible time to time.
conditions on participation in the which has been designed to participate which is in line Sharesave Plan for employees.
to enable UK employees with UK legislation and is open to acquire an interest in to all eligible staff.
the Company and thus To obtain an option an eligible align their interests individual must agree to save a with shareholders.
fixed monthly amount for three or five years up to the maximum monthly amount under HMRC limits.
The amount saved will determine the number of shares over which the option is granted.
Options may be exercised in a six-month period at the maturity of a threeor five-year savings period, subject to continued service.
Minimum The Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines that will encourage the Executive Directors to build up over a five-year shareholding period and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
This will include deferred shares at their requirement net-of-tax value and shares subject to a holding period at their full value.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
This policy ensures that the interests of Executive Directors and those of shareholders are closely aligned.
The following table sets out the minimum shareholding requirements: Role Shareholding requirement % salary Group Chief Executive Officer 200% Group Chief Financial Officer 200% The Committee retains the discretion to increase the shareholding requirements.
In addition, a post-cessation minimum shareholding requirement will apply to Executive Directors who leave the Company.
Leavers will have a requirement to hold 100% of their pre-cessation shareholding requirement for one year from leaving, reducing to 50% for a second year.
Changes from previous Policy: An increase in the shareholding requirement for the CFO from 150% of salary to 200% of salary.
Clarification of the methodology for calculation of shares satisfying the shareholding requirement.
The introduction of a post-cessation shareholding requirement for Executive Directors equal to the full requirement for a period of one-year post-cessation, reducing to 50% for another year.
92 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Non-Executive Director remuneration How it supports the Element of Companys shortand Performance remuneration long-term strategic objectives Operation Opportunity metrics Non-Executive Provides a level of fees to The Board is responsible for setting The fees for Non-Executive None.
Director and support recruitment and the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman are Chairman fees retention of Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee set at broadly the median of the Directors and a Chairman is responsible for setting the Chairmans fees.
with the necessary Non-Executive Directors are paid an In general the level of fee increase experience to advise and annual fee and additional fees for chairmanship for the Non-Executive Directors assist with establishing and of Committees.
The Chairman does not and the Chairman will be set taking monitoring the Groups receive any additional fees for membership account of any change in strategic objectives.
responsibility and will take into account the general rise in salaries Fees are reviewed annually based on across the UK workforce.
equivalent roles in the comparator group used to review salaries paid to the Executive The Company will pay reasonable Directors.
Fees are set at broadly the median expenses incurred by the of the comparator group.
Non-Executive Directors and Chairman and may settle any Non-Executive Directors and the tax incurred in relation to these.
Chairman do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements other than reimbursed expenses.
Changes from previous Policy: None Performance conditions and targets Performance measures for the ADBP and the LTIP are chosen to ensure alignment with strategic priorities see table on page 88 and delivery against key financial and operational objectives.
Targets are set by reference to the approved budget, market practice and analysts expectations.
Differences in policy from the wider employee population The Company aims to provide a remuneration package for all employees that is market competitive and operates a similar core structure as for the Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors annual scorecard is devolved down into the management line with an increasing emphasis on the divisional performance.
All employees are encouraged to participate in the share plans operated by the Company, ensuring a consistent reward framework.
Detailed description of the cascade of incentives is presented on page 85.
Malus and clawback The ADBP and the LTIP include best practice malus and clawback provisions.
Malus is the adjustment of unpaid bonus and deferred share awards under the ADBP and outstanding LTIP awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
The adjustment may result in the value being reduced to nil.
Clawback is the recovery of payments or vested awards under the ADBP and vested LTIP awards as a result of the occurrence of one or more circumstances listed below.
Clawback may apply to all or part of a participants award and may be effected, among other means, by requiring the transfer of shares, payment of cash or reduction of awards or bonuses.
The circumstances in which malus and clawback could apply are as follows: discovery of a material misstatement resulting in an adjustment in the audited accounts of the Group or any Group company: the assessment of any performance condition or condition in respect of an ADBP and LTIP Award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: the discovery that any information used to determine the cash payment under the ADBP or the number of shares subject to an ADBP or LTIP Award was based on error, or inaccurate or misleading information: action or conduct of a participant which amounts to fraud or gross misconduct: or events or the behaviour of a participant have led to the censure of a Group company by a regulatory authority or have had a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group company provided that the Board is satisfied that the relevant participant was responsible for the censure or reputational damage and that the censure or reputational damage is attributable to the participant.
Annual bonus Deferred bonus Long-Term Incentive Plan Malus Up to the date of payment To the end of the three-year To the end of the three-year of a cash bonus deferral period vesting period Clawback Three years post the bonus n a Two years post-vesting determination The Committee believes that the rules of the plans provide sufficient powers to enforce malus and clawback where required.
93 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Discretion The Committee has discretion in several areas of policy as set out in this report.
The Committee may also exercise operational and administrative discretions under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set out in those rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to amend policy with regard to minor or administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the Committee, disproportionate to seek or await shareholder approval.
It is the Committees intention that commitments made in line with its current remuneration policy and policies prior to Admission will be honoured.
Those areas that differ are being addressed to bring them into line with the proposed policy, where appropriate.
Recruitment policy The Companys principle is that the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles as for the Executive Directors, as set out in the Remuneration Policy table above.
The Committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure a preferred candidate with the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role.
In setting the remuneration for new recruits, the Committee will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments as well as giving consideration for the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Companys detailed policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new Directors is summarised in the table below: Remuneration element Recruitment policy Salary, benefits Salary and benefit levels will be set in line with the policy for existing Executive Directors.
and pension New promotes and recruits to the Board may on occasion have their salaries set below the targeted policy level while they become established in their role.
In such cases salary increases may be higher than the increase for the general workforce of the Company until the target market positioning is achieved.
Maximum pension contribution for new recruits will be set at 10% of salary.
The Committee will keep pension contribution levels under review seeking to bring the level of pension allowance for Executive Directors in line with what is provided to all employees.
Annual bonus Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 125% of salary.
LTIP Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing Executive Directors and will not exceed 150% of salary in normal circumstances and 200% of salary in exceptional circumstances.
Maximum variable The maximum variable remuneration which may be granted in normal circumstances is 275% of salary 325% of salary if the remuneration maximum LTIP grant is made.
Buyout of Where the Committee determines that the individual circumstances of recruitment justify the provision of a buyout, incentives forfeited the equivalent value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of an Executive Directors previous employment on cessation of will be calculated taking into account the following: employment the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Executive Directors cessation of employment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value lapsed value.
The Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
Payment for loss of office The Committee will honour Executive Directors contractual entitlements.
Service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
There is no agreement between the Company and its Executive Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of an Executive Directors office or employment.
94 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Remuneration element Treatment on cessation of employment Salary, benefits These will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment in lieu.
and pension 1 Remuneration element Good leaver reason Other reason Discretion ADBP cash Performance No bonus payable The Committee has the following elements of discretion: awards conditions will be for year of cessation.
to determine that an executive is a good leaver.
It is the Committees measured at the bonus intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an measurement date.
appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: and Bonus will normally to determine whether to pro-rate the bonus to time.
The Remuneration be pro-rated for the Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate bonus for time.
It is the period worked during Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in the financial year.
circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
ADBP share All subsisting deferred Lapse of any unvested The Committee has the following elements of discretion: awards share awards will vest.
It is the Committees intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: to vest deferred shares at the end of the original deferral period or at the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate awards for time.
The Remuneration Committee will determine whether or not to pro-rate based on the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure.
LTIP Pro-rated to time and Lapse of any unvested The Committee has the following elements of discretion: performance in respect LTIP awards.
It is the Committees of each subsisting intention to only use this discretion in circumstances where there is an LTIP award.
appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders: to measure performance over the original performance period or at the date of cessation.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the type of good leaver reason resulting in the cessation: and to determine whether to pro-rate the maximum number of shares to the time from the date of grant to the date of cessation.
The Remuneration Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate awards for time.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention to use discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
Other There are no other contractual provisions other than those set out above agreed prior to 27 June 2012. contractual obligations 1 A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: death: ill-health: injury or disability: redundancy: retirement: employing company ceasing to be a Group company: transfer of employment to a company which is not a Group company: and at the discretion of the Committee as described above.
Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
Change of control The Committees policy on the vesting of incentives on a change of control is summarised below: Name of incentive plan Change of control Discretion ADBP cash Pro-rated to time and performance to the date The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate the bonus to awards of the change of control.
The Committees normal policy is that it will pro-rate the bonus for time.
It is the Committees intention to use its discretion to not pro-rate in circumstances only where there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders.
ADBP share Subsisting deferred share awards will vest The Committee has discretion regarding whether to pro-rate the award to awards on a change of control.
The Committees normal policy is that it will not pro-rate awards for time.
The Committee will make this determination depending on the circumstances of the change of control.
LTIP The number of shares subject to subsisting LTIP The Committee will determine the proportion of the LTIP Award which vests awards will vest on a change of control, pro-rated taking into account, among other factors, the period of time the LTIP Award to time and performance.
has been held by the participant and the extent to which any applicable performance conditions have been satisfied at that time.
95 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrate the total remuneration that would be paid to each of the Executive Directors, based on salaries at the start of the 2019 financial year, under three different performance scenarios: i minimum: ii on-target: and iii maximum.
The charts also show the impact of a 50% increase in share price on the LTIP outcome.
The following table sets out the assumptions used to calculate the elements of remuneration for each of these scenarios.
The elements of remuneration have been categorised into components as follows: i fixed: ii annual bonus deferred bonus : iii LTIP: and iv share price gain.
Joe Hudson CEO Kevin Sims CFO 000 000 2,000 1,500 1,780 1,244 223 13% 1,557 156 13% 1,088 1,500 446 28% 446 25% 1,000 311 25% 311 28% 1,056 738 223 22% 1,000 155 21% 557 31% 557 36% 388 31% 388 36% 279 26% 554 194 26% 389 500 500 554 100% 554 52% 554 36% 554 31% 389 100% 389 53% 389 36% 389 31% 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Maximum including 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Maximum including share price appreciation share price appreciation Fixed Annual variable Multiple reporting periods Share price appreciation Fixed Annual variable Multiple reporting periods Share price appreciation Maximum including share price Element Description Minimum On-target Maximum appreciation 1 2 Fixed Salary, benefits and pension.
Annual bonus Annual bonus including deferred shares.
No annual 50% of maximum 100% of 100% of Maximum opportunity of 125% of salary.
LTIP Award under the LTIP.
Maximum annual No multiple year 50% of the 100% of the 100% of the award of 100% of salary noting that under variable.
the new Remuneration Policy, the LTIP award may increase to 150% of salary from 2020, subject to performance.
Share price gain The impact of the 50% share price increase 50% of the on the LTIP outcome.
maximum value of the LTIP award.
1 Salary is Full Year 2019 base salary.
2 Based on 2018 benefits payments and pension values as per the proposed 2019 Policy.
Statement of considerations of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Remuneration Policy for all employees is determined in terms of best practice and ensuring that the Company is able to attract and retain the best people.
This principle is followed in the development of our Policy.
The remuneration strategy of the Company has been designed to ensure all employees share in its success through performance-related remuneration and share ownership.
Awards under both the Annual and Deferred Bonus Plan and the Long-Term Incentive Plan will provide alignment between senior leaders and our shareholders based on overall corporate performance of the business.
For all UK employees, the Company has in place an SAYE Scheme and a SIP.
Currently, under these Plans all UK employees have the opportunity to purchase shares in the Company subject to certain restrictions.
We provide detailed information on the pay arrangements for the wider workforce on page 85.
The Committees remit extends down to Executive and senior management for which it recommends and monitors the level and structure of remuneration.
While the Company does not directly consult with employees as part of the process of reviewing executive pay and formulating the Remuneration Policy, when making decisions in relation to the structure of executive pay the Committee takes into account conditions elsewhere in the Company.
The table on page 85 demonstrates how key objectives are reflected consistently in plans operating at all levels within the Company.
96 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee takes the views of the shareholders seriously and these views are taken into account in shaping Remuneration Policy and practice.
Shareholder views are considered when evaluating and setting the remuneration strategy and the Committee commits to consulting with key shareholders prior to any significant changes to its Remuneration Policy.
In light of the Companys policy review we consulted with shareholders in early 2019 to seek their views on the proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy and its implementation.
We are pleased to be able to report that the major shareholders consulted who expressed views were supportive of the proposed policy and its operation.
In addition, we will continue to engage with our shareholders in a two-way communication process to maintain their support and to ensure we have a transparent executive reward structure aligned to shareholder experience.
Executive Director contracts and letters of appointment for Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors Notice periods Compensation provisions Name Date of service contract Nature of contract From Company From Director for early termination Joe Hudson 2 January 2018 Rolling 12 months 12 months None 1 Wayne Sheppard 22 October 2015 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Kevin Sims 22 October 2015 Rolling 12 months 12 months None 1 Stepped down on 4 April 2018.
Non-Executive Directors Name Date of original appointment 1 Jamie Pike 22 September 2015 Jonathan Nicholls 22 September 2015 Tracey Graham 3 February 2016 Justin Read 1 January 2017 Louis Eperjesi 1 June 2018 Claire Hawkings 1 September 2018 1 Stepped down at 2018 AGM on 24 May 2018.
The Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a 12-month period will apply for Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company including the Chairman do not have service contracts.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment.
These are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Each independent Non-Executive Directors term of office runs for a three-year period.
The initial terms of the Non-Executive Directors positions are subject to their re-election by the Companys shareholders at the AGM and to re-election at any subsequent AGM at which the Non-Executive Directors stand for re-election.
All Directors wishing to continue to serve will be put forward for election re-election by shareholders on an annual basis 97 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Report on Remuneration Single total figure of remuneration Audited Executive Directors Audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Executive Director in respect of the 2018 financial year to 31 December 2018.
Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the UK disclosure requirements: the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Schedule 8 to the Regulations.
2 No LTIP award vested in the year.
The first grant of LTIP awards was made in 2016 and will vest, subject to performance, in April 2019.
3 Comprises of the value of Defined Benefit Pension Scheme DB accruals for 2017 only and salary supplements in lieu of pension.
Details of the closed DB scheme were disclosed in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report and on page 102.
4 For Joe Hudson this includes a buyout award granted in 2018 to Joe Hudson to compensate, on a fair value basis, the value forgone for share awards forfeited on cessation of employment with his previous employer.
For details regarding the buyout award please see page 101.
5 Joe Hudson joined the Board on 2 January 2018 and became the CEO on 4 April 2018.
6 Wayne Sheppard stepped down as CEO and Board Director on 4 April 2018.
His remuneration has been prorated to reflect this.
Taxable benefits Audited Benefits in the 2018 financial year comprised a company car allowance, private health cover and death in service cover.
Joe Hudson, Wayne Sheppard and Kevin Sims received car allowances of 18,000, 20,000 and 15,000 per annum, respectively.
Bonus Audited Details of the targets used to determine bonuses in respect of the 2018 financial year and the extent to which they were satisfied are shown in the table below.
These figures are included in the single figure table.
Percentage of Bonus value achieved Threshold Maximum maximum performance performance Actual performance Wayne 1 2 4 5 Performance condition Weighting required required performance achieved Joe Hudson Sheppard Kevin Sims Adjusted EBITDA 20% 114.7m 125.6m 112.4m 0% Nil Nil Nil Adjusted Operating Cash flow 20% 84.7m 95.6m 61.0m 0% Nil Nil Nil ROCE 20% 18.7% 21.0% 17.9% 6 0% Nil Nil Nil NPS Net Promoter Score 10% 42% 46% 43% 2.5% 13,594 3,468 9,475 3 LTAs Lost Time Accidents 10% 19 16 16 10% 54,375 13,872 37,900 Personal objectives Achievement of the personal objectives 20% for 2018 are outlined below.
This is consistent with the financial metrics reported in the other sections of this Annual Report.
2 Under the terms of the 2018 annual bonus, 0% for each element is payable for achieving the threshold performance, 50% for achieving target performance and 100% for achieving maximum performance.
One third of any bonus is deferred for three years into Company shares subject to continued employment.
4 Joe Hudson joined the Board on 2 January 2018 and became the CEO on 4 April 2018.
5 Wayne Sheppard stepped down as CEO and Board Director on 4 April 2018.
His bonus has been prorated to reflect this.
6 Figures for the Groups ROCE performance differ from those reported on page 26 due to differing adjustments made for the restatement for discontinued operations.
As noted earlier in this report, during 2018 the Companys performance has been influenced by a number of adverse external and internal factors which resulted in the trading update issued in July 2018.
This resulted in the Company missing the targets which had been set at the start of the year in respect of the financial elements in the FY18 annual bonus scorecard.
In seeking to ensure that reward outcomes are appropriately aligned with the Company performance and shareholders experience, the Committee carefully considered whether to award any bonus in respect of the FY18.
98 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information In making its decision the Committee considered the following factors to be relevant: The CEO is new in role and has performed well against an unexpectedly challenging context and against a stretching set of personal targets, which were agreed with him at the beginning of the year: The Full Year 2018 budgets and targets were approved before the CEO assumed his role in April 2018.
As such, the CEO was subject to bonus targets which he inherited, rather than being directly involved in determining: The CEO undertook a strategic review which recommended the sale of Glen-Gery.
Following the review, the price achieved on the sale of Glen-Gery was towards the upper end of the range set by the Board: Performance against stretching non-financial targets has been positive, resulting in a bonus payment against these targets: and In line with the July trading statement, financial outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2018 are expected to be at the levels previously anticipated, with revenues from UK clay and concrete products being up 8% compared to 2017 with net debt reduced significantly compared to the prior year due to strong underlying cash generation.
This creates a positive outlook for the future.
The Committee therefore concluded that it would be appropriate to award bonuses to the Executive Directors in respect of the non-financial and personal annual bonus targets.
The outgoing CEO was awarded a bonus of 40.6% of pro-rated salary.
Full details of the bonus targets and performance against these are set out on page 98.
Personal objectives for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer for the 2018 financial year and the associated outcomes are outlined below: Name Objective area Progress against objectives Assessment % of maximum Joe Hudson Review and Review of Executive Committee and top 75 100% development positions completed.
The Committee reviewed the objectives set at the beginning of Executive CFO succession plan completed.
of the year against the above achievements and felt that the Committee and Recruitment replacement of several key changes made to the Executive Committee justified the senior leadership Executive Committee roles MD Brick: MD maximum bonus under this element.
Concrete: CI Director: and Marketing Director.
Reorganisation of all concrete businesses into one division.
Complete market Review of routes to markets and segment 100% facing study on attractiveness, which lead to the establishment The Committee felt the study on customers had identified customers and of a marketing plan with phase one focusing the need to focus on commercial excellence as evidenced in: supply chain.
product price, margin and range management, specification Completed additional changes to supply chain capability, and adjustments in route to market.
function in UK clay to improve service value and begin On Time In Full Invoiced Correctly The Committee has reviewed the changes in the supply chain OTIFIC measures.
resulting from this exercise and the proposed logistics optimisation and improvement in order cancellation with some customers reducing order cancellations from 30% to 5%.
Therefore taking both elements into account the Committee feels that this part of the bonus has been earned in full.
Identify new Capex to bring about improvements to 100% investment identified maintenance plans in Brick, as well as The Committee has seen the investment plan developed and opportunities enhancement projects for Brick and concrete has looked at evidence of its implementation.
This includes the for each business.
Capex improvement plans and the preparation of future large Options for new factory and planning organic investment and enhancement projects targeting permissions secured.
This has given the Committee sufficient evidence that this objective has been met in full.
Successful Completed four disposals well ahead of target: 100% property Severn Valley, Stourbridge, Keele, Kingsley The Committee has reviewed the disposal programme and disposals.
proceeds of over 16 million with FV profit indicative timeline, the book values of these properties and the of over 10 million.
premium received on their sale and it is therefore satisfied the objective is fully achieved.
Strategic review Strategic review undertaken for US business 100% of disposals and with resulting preparation, project execution The Committee as part of the Board set the parameters for acquisition and successful disposal of the Glen-Gery business.
the disposal of Glen-Gery: the fact that the actual disposal for opportunities.
Review and development of a disciplined acquisition $110 million exceeded the guidance provided by the Board criteria and a pipeline of potential targets for both was as a result of the effort of the Executive team.
The Committee has reviewed the pipeline in place and believes that the detail and granularity in the plan will ensure its successful implementation.
Therefore, on balance across both elements the Committee feels that this objective was met in full.
The Remuneration Committee determined that overall performance against these objectives was strong and equates to a 100% achievement for this element of the bonus 20% of maximum annual bonus opportunity.
99 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Name Objective area Progress against objectives Assessment % of maximum Wayne Handover to Achieved a smooth and timely handover 100% Sheppard incoming CEO to the incoming CEO.
The Committee reviewed the objective set at the beginning Additional support provided as required.
of the year against the above achievements and felt that the maximum bonus under this element should be awarded.
Name Objective area Progress against objectives Assessment % of maximum Kevin Sims Support new Worked with the new CEO and outgoing CEO 100% CEO to ensure a smooth handover was achieved and The Committee assessed the working relationship between to support new CEOs transition.
the CFO and newly appointed CEO, and are satisfied that these Developed an effective working relationship objectives were met in full.
Supreme Worked with the Managing Director of Ibstock 100% implementation Concrete Division and the Group Director of The Committee felt that the objectives were fully met and IT to ensure an acceptable plan is devised for successfully implemented with no disruption to customer the Supreme JDE implementation.
progress and oversaw resolved problems during the design and implementation of the UK ERP solution into the Supreme and Anderton concrete businesses.
Ensured that the user acceptance testing and training phases were effectively delivered ahead of final data conversion and cut over to the live system.
Agreed with the Managing Director of Ibstock Concrete Division on the readiness for go-live, ensuring that business disruption and risk was avoided for the anticipated go-live on 2 January 2019.
Finance team Worked with the Finance Director of Ibstock 50% improve audit Brick & Forticrete to establish and embed a new The Committee reviewed progress against objectives confidence structure for the finance team with key roles and believes that significant progress has been made identified, including the appointment of a new which is supported by Deloitte, however further work Senior Financial Controller.
Monitored progress and development will need to be undertaken.
Therefore, throughout the year with milestones being the on balance the Committee assessed the achievement half and full year audits.
Progress to be assessed of this objective at 50%.
This also included a new suite of reporting tailored to each of the business units, designed and implemented in conjunction with local management.
Reports should be introduced on a phased basis during H1 2018.
Pension strategy Worked to progress the fide-risking of the 100% Ibstock DB pension scheme.
Actions included The Committee is satisfied that the progress achieved in data cleansing, resolution of certain legacy issues, pension scheme management has been in line with strategy GMP reconciliation and legacy funding aspects.
and therefore objectives relating to the fide-risking of the Worked closely with scheme Trustees and advisors Ibstock DB pension scheme and its work with scheme to ensure minimal impact on the schemes funding Trustees and advisors have been met in full.
position of the fide-risking exercise.
In respect of the US pension position, undertook 100% necessary activities to ensure that in the event The Committee has determined that, whilst the second of a sale the scheme is not an impediment.
element of this objective could not be achieved following Worked with key stakeholders to develop plans the sale of the business, the detailed work on the scheme to minimise deficit contributions at the next prevented it impeding the sale.
The Committee was valuation 2019. therefore comfortable with awarding 100% achievement for this objective.
The Remuneration Committee determined that overall performance against these objectives was strong and equates to an 85% achievement for this element of the bonus 17% of maximum annual bonus opportunity.
As set out above, no discretion was exercised by the Committee in relation to the outcome of the bonus awards.
100 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Long-term incentives awarded in 2018 Audited The table below sets out the details of the long-term incentive awards granted in the 2018 financial year where vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions that will be tested in future reporting periods.
Percentage of Maximum award vesting at percentage of threshold face value that Face value on performance could vest Name Award type Date of grant Shares awarded date of grant Percentage Percentage Performance conditions Joe Hudson CEO LTIP 09 04 2018 150,000 435,000 25 100 Relative TSR and EPS Kevin Sims CFO LTIP 09 04 2018 104,550 303,197 25 100 Relative TSR and EPS Share price by reference to which the award was granted is 2.90 closing share price on 8 April 2018.
The awards were granted to the CEO and CFO at 100% of their respective base salaries in the form of nil-cost share options and vesting will be subject to achieving a challenging sliding scale of adjusted EPS and relative TSR against the FTSE 250 excluding financial services, real estate and investment trusts over a three-year performance period ending on 9 April 2021.
The performance schedule for these measures is as follows: Measure Weighting Threshold Maximum Relative TSR 50% Median Upper quartile Adjusted EPS growth 50% 6% per annum 16% per annum Relative TSR will be measured from the date of grant over a three-year period with one-month averaging of TSR used to derive the start and the end values for the calculation.
Adjusted EPS growth will be measured over three consecutive financial years with the base point for the 2018 award derived from the adjusted EPS as at 31 December 2017.
A two-year post-vesting holding period applies to 2018 LTIP awards.
Long-term incentives vested in 2018 The first grant of LTIP awards was made under the plan in 2016.
These awards will vest in April 2019.
Other remuneration paid in 2018 As disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report, a buyout package for incentives foregone in respect of Joe Hudsons role at LafargeHolcim was provided to facilitate his recruitment as Chief Executive Officer.
In line with the Companys recruitment policy, when determining the package the Committee considered the structure of LafargeHolcim incentive arrangements, the proportion of the performance period completed, the associated performance conditions and the likelihood of vesting.
The Committee determined that Joe Hudson would be entitled to an award of nil-cost options over 21,570 Ibstock Shares of 1 pence each as part of the buyout arrangements.
The award was granted on 9 April 2018.
The fair value of the award has been reduced to take account of the original performance period and the proportion of satisfaction of the performance conditions as at the time of the buy-out.
The Committee determined the buyout share package on a fair value basis with time-based vesting condition.
The buy-out award vested on the first anniversary of Joes joining date.
The table below sets out the details and vesting schedule of the buyout award.
Number of nil-cost Face value on 1 options granted Date of grant Date of vesting date of grant Performance conditions Buyout award 21,570 09 04 2019 02 01 2019 57,592 Continued employment 1 At the time of recruitment the number of outstanding shares was reduced pro-rata based on proportion of vesting period served and converted to Ibstock shares based on the share price of 2.67 on date of appointment.
101 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Pension entitlements Audited The Companys Defined Benefit Scheme was closed in 2017.
From 1 February 2017, Executive Directors received a 20% salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
Additionally, under the new Directors Remuneration Policy maximum pension contributions for the newly recruited Executive Directors will be reduced to 10% of salary.
The table below outlines the accrued pension amounts for the Executive Directors, the valuation of the defined benefit accruals made in the financial year calculated in accordance with the reporting guidelines and the pensions salary supplement, to derive a pensions benefit value for the single total figure of remuneration.
We note that as Joe Hudson joined the Board in 2018 he did not participate in the defined benefit arrangement and is entitled to 20% of salary pension contribution under the defined contribution pension plan.
Extra information disclosed under the Directors Accrued pension Single figure numbers Remuneration Regulations Pensionable Value x 20 over Age at service at As at As at increase in year 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December Salary net of Directors Total pension Normal Executive Directors 2018 2018 2017 2018 supplement contribution benefits retirement age 1 Wayne Sheppard 59 25 97,830 97,830 22,195 0 22,195 60 Kevin Sims 57 32 71,787 71,787 60,639 0 60,639 60 1 Wayne Sheppard stepped down as CEO and from the Board on 4 April 2018.
Non-Executive Directors Audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration for each Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors 2017 fees 2018 fees Roles 1 Jamie Pike 175,000 69,746 Independent Non-Executive Chairman outgoing 2 Jonathan Nicholls 65,000 131,558 Independent Non-Executive Chairman 3 Tracey Graham 50,000 63,025 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 4 Justin Read 50,000 56,051 Non-Executive Director 5 Louis Eperjesi 29,167 Non-Executive Director 6 Claire Hawkings 16,667 Non-Executive Director 1 Jamie Pike stepped down as Chairman and a Director of Ibstock immediately after conclusion of the Companys AGM on 24 May 2018.
2 Jonathan Nicholls succeeded Jamie Pike as Chairman of the Board.
3 Tracey Graham succeeded Jonathan Nicholls as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, on 24 May 2018, in addition to her role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
4 Justin Read was appointed Audit Committee Chair on 24 May 2018.
5 Louis Eperjesi was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2018.
6 Claire Hawkings was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2018.
Payments to outgoing CEO Wayne Sheppard stepped down from his role as CEO upon retirement on 4 April 2018.
In line with Ibstocks policy for loss of office and the rules of the ADBP and the LTIP, the Committee determined he was a good leaver.
As a result he is entitled to the following: Element Treatment applied Salary, benefits, pension Salary, benefits and pension contribution paid until the end of his notice period: salary: 323,376: benefits: 16,161, pension contribution: 64,675.
ADBP cash awards Pro-rata 2018 bonus is awarded to reflect time as CEO during the financial year, subject to achievement of performance conditions at the end of the year as disclosed in the single figure table.
ADBP share awards Deferred share awards made under the annual bonus plan in 2016, 2017 and 2018 will vest at the normal vesting dates.
LTIP LTIP awards granted in 2016 and 2017 will vest at the normal vesting dates, subject to achievement of the relevant performance conditions.
All unvested awards will be reduced to reflect the proportion of each performance period completed as at 31 December 2018.
Wayne did not receive an award under the plan for 2018.
SAYE Wayne will be eligible to exercise his options under the 2015 SAYE in accordance with the scheme rules.
Payments to past Directors Audited There were no payments to past Directors in the financial year.
102 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests Audited Directors share interests and, where applicable, achievement of shareholding requirements are set out below.
The Chief Executive Officer, having only joined the Company last year, is expected to build up over a five-year period and then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to 200% of base salary over the next five years.
Additionally, Executive Directors shares will be subject to a post-cessation of employment shareholding requirement of 100% of pre-cessation shareholding requirement for one year following cessation, reducing to 50% for a second year.
Shares held directly Other shares held Options Interests Interests not Shareholding Current subject to subject to Shareholding 1 requirement shareholding Beneficially performance performance Outstanding requirement 5 2 Directors % salary % salary owned conditions conditions Vested Unvested SAYE awards met?
This was based on a closing share price of 1.987 at 31 December 2018 and the year-end salaries of the Executive Directors.
Values are not calculated for Non-Executive Directors as they are not subject to shareholding requirements.
2 SAYE grants made under the Ibstock plc Sharesave Plan.
Awards were granted on 9 December 2015 with an exercise price of 1.52 awarded at a discount of 20% to the IPO offer price of 190 pence.
The SAYE options are first exercisable on 1 February 2019.
3 Wayne Sheppard and Jamie Pike stepped down during the year and their shareholdings are disclosed at the date of resignation.
4 Shareholding requirement for Kevin Sims will increase from 150% of salary to 200% of salary from 2019 under the proposed Directors Remuneration Policy.
5 Louis Eperjesi was appointed from 1 June 2018 and Claire Hawkings was appointed from 1 September 2018.
6 This includes a buyout award granted in 2018 to Joe Hudson to compensate, on a fair value basis, the value forgone for share awards forfeited on cessation of employment with his previous employer.
There were no changes in shareholdings from the year-end to the date of this report.
Fees retained for external Non-Executive Directorships Executive Directors may hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors and retain the fees.
Current Executive Directors do not hold any external directorships.
Wayne Sheppard, the former CEO, was Principal of the Construction Products Association and a Director of the Brick Development Association during 2018.
He received no fees for these appointments.
Comparison of overall performance and pay The graph on the following page shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE index and the FTSE 250 Construction and Building materials index.
The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Committee considers that the FTSE 250 is the appropriate index because the Company has been a member of this index since listing.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
It should be noted that the Company listed on 27 October 2015 and therefore only has a listed share price for the period of 27 October 2015 to 31 December 2018.
Additionally, the FTSE 250 Construction and Building materials comparator group is shown as it will be used to assess the relative TSR performance under the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan from 2019 onwards.
103 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Total Shareholder Return 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared with the FTSE 250 index and the FTSE 250 Construction and Building Materials index.
175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 30 10 15 30 1 16 30 04 16 31 07 16 31 10 16 31 01 17 30 04 17 31 07 17 31 10 17 31 01 18 30 04 18 31 07 18 31 10 18 Ibstock FTSE 250 FTSE 250 Construction and Building Materials Chief Executive Officer historic remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive Officer over the period 26 February 2015 to 31 December 2018, valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
There is no relevant data before 2015.
2 3 Wayne Sheppard Joe Hudson Chief Executive Officer 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 Single total figure 773,309 788,685 906,300 183,640 592,039 Annual bonus payment level achieved % of maximum opportunity 100% 33% 58% 32.5% 32.5% 1 LTIP vesting level achieved % of maximum opportunity n a n a n a n a n a 1 No award under the LTIP has vested yet.
2 Wayne Sheppard stepped down as CEO and Board Director on 4 April 2018 and his remuneration has been pro-rated.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2018 and 2017 financial years.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Companys accounts.
Disbursements from profit Disbursements from profit in 2017 financial year in 2018 financial year m m % change Profit distributed by way of dividend 32 65 103.1% Overall spend on pay including Executive Directors 128 134 5.0% Change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared with employees % increase decrease in remuneration in 2018 compared with remuneration in 2017 1 CEO Employees Salary 0.1% 8% Annual bonus -44% -49% Taxable benefits -12% 25% 1 In order to provide meaningful comparison of the remuneration for the CEO role, 2018 remuneration comprises Wayne Sheppards remuneration for the period January-March 2018 and Joe Hudsons remuneration for the period April-December 2018.
104 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Statement of voting at the general meeting The current Remuneration Policy was put to a binding vote at the 2016 AGM on 26 May 2016 and as such is due for renewal at the 2019 AGM on 23 May 2019.
The Annual Report on Remuneration was put to an advisory vote at the 2018 AGM on 24 May 2018.
The voting outcomes are set out in the table below.
Total votes cast excluding AGM resolution Votes for % of votes cast Votes against % of votes cast withheld Votes withheld Annual Report on Remuneration 2018 342,325,324 99.58% 1,451,100 0.42% 343,776,424 121,070 Directors Remuneration Policy 2016 374,209,516 99.36% 2,394,225 0.64% 376,603,741 2,250 During the year the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the Companys Remuneration Policy and concluded that the current Policy, which has worked well for the past three years, remains overall fit for purpose for the next three years.
Therefore, the new Policy we are proposing will operate similarly.
The proposed changes reflect the Committees efforts to demonstrate best practice corporate governance whilst ensuring the Company has a competitive market positioning and that there are no payments for failure.
Details of the application of the policy for the 2019 financial year are outlined on page 106.
Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Board has delegated to the Committee, under agreed terms of reference, responsibility for the Remuneration Policy and for determining specific packages for the Executive Directors and other selected members of the senior management team.
The Company consults with key shareholders in respect of the Remuneration Policy and the introduction of new incentive arrangements.
The terms of reference for the Committee were reviewed in 2018 to align with the 2018 Code provisions and are available on the Companys website, www.
com investors, and from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Our main responsibilities are: To determine and agree with the Board the broad Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and the senior management team, including Company Secretary: To review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Remuneration Policy, taking into consideration the 2018 Code and associated guidance: To ensure that the Remuneration Policy drives behaviours consistent with Company purpose, values and strategy: To ensure that the Remuneration Policy promotes effective engagement with shareholders and the workforce: To ensure remuneration structures and their operation are simple and easy to understand: To ensure that remuneration arrangements prevent excessive rewards and do not reward poor performance: To review wider workforce remuneration and related policies: To engage with the workforce regarding executive remuneration policy and wider Company pay policy: and To review any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Company or Group and to administer all aspects of any share scheme.
The Committee receives assistance from Julie Bullock Group HR Director and Robert Douglas Group Company Secretary, who will attend meetings by invitation, except when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend by invitation on occasions.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee Following a selection process carried out by the Board prior to the IPO of the Company, the Committee has engaged the services of  LLP PwC as independent remuneration adviser.
During the financial year, PwC advised the Committee on all aspects of the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and members of the Executive team.
PwC also provided the Company with tax and accountancy advice during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that no conflict of interest exists or existed in the provision of these services.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
Fees of 70,000 2017: 59,500 were provided to PwC during the year in respect of remuneration advice received.
105 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Implementation of our Remuneration Policy for the 2019 financial year Our proposed implementation of the new Remuneration Policy for the 2019 financial year is set out below.
Key elements and time period Year 1 2 3 4 5 Overview of Remuneration Policy implementation for 2019 Base salary For 2019 base salaries will be: Joe Hudson: 445,875 2.5% increase Kevin Sims: 310,776 2.5% increase Proposed salary increase is in line with the rises for all employees.
Pension The maximum contribution into the defined contribution plan or salary supplement in lieu of pension is 20% of gross basic salary for the current Executive Directors and 10% of gross basic salary for the newly recruited Executive Directors.
Benefits Standard benefits will be provided, including car allowance 18,000 for Joe Hudson and 15,000 for Kevin Sims, private health cover and death in service cover.
See page 89 for further details.
Annual and For 2019 the maximum bonus opportunity will be 125% of salary for all Deferred Bonus Executive Directors.
Plan ADBP For 2019, the level of deferral in shares will be one-third of the bonus earned which will vest after three years based on continued employment with the Company.
The Committee can determine the proportion of the bonus earned under the ADBP provided as an award of deferred shares to a maximum of 50% of bonus earned.
The performance conditions and their weightings for the 2019 annual bonus are as follows: Cash Adjusted EBITDA 30% : Adjusted Operating Cash Flow 20% : Deferred award ROCE 20% : Non-financial objectives: defined operational strategic objectives to include actions and measures including Customer and Safety alongside other key areas for executives 30%.
The Committee is of the opinion that given the commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial targets used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the ADBP in advance would not be in shareholders interests.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the relevant performance period so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any pay-outs under the annual bonus.
LTIP In 2019 the maximum annual LTIP award of 100% of salary will be awarded to Joe Hudson and Kevin Sims.
The performance conditions for awards will be equally weighted between Adjusted Earnings per Share EPS growth and comparative Total Shareholder Return TSR assessed over a three-year performance period.
TSR performance of the Company compared to the FTSE 250 construction and building materials sector companies with threshold vesting for median performance against the index and full vesting for upper quartile performance: and A two-year holding period will apply to the 2019 LTIP awards following vesting.
The Committee recognises the importance of setting robust targets.
As at the date of this report the 2019 EPS targets are still being finalised.
We note that the targets will be set such that they are suitably challenging and will be disclosed at the time of making the 2019 awards.
Non-Executive The Non-Executive Director fees were increased by 2.5% in line with Directors fees increases awarded to the wider employee population the same as the previous year.
The 2019 fee levels are: Chairman 179,375 Board fee including Committee membership 51,250 Committee Chairmanship per Committee 10,250 Senior Independent Director 5,125 106 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Pay at risk The charts below set out the single figure of each Executive Director based on whether the elements remain at risk.
For example: payment is subject to continuing employment for a period deferred shares and LTIP awards : performance conditions have still to be satisfied LTIP awards : or elements are subject to clawback or malus for a period, over which the Company can recover sums paid or withhold vesting.
Figures have been calculated based on on-target performance fixed elements plus 50% of maximum annual bonus and 50% of the maximum LTIP.
The charts have been based on the same assumptions as set out above for the illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy.
Joe Hudson CEO Kevin Sims CFO 1 At risk: 501,610 1 At risk: 349,623 2 Pension and benefits: 108,171 2 Pension and benefits: 77,747 3 Salary: 445,875 3 Salary: 310,776 1 1 Annual bonus: 278,672 Annual bonus: 194,235 LTIP: 222,938 LTIP: 155,388 3 3 2 2 Tracey Graham Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 4 March 2019 107 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Report Management Report and Corporate Governance Statement The Directors present their report This Directors Report and the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 56 together comprise the Management Report for the purposes of for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 4.1.
The Directors Report, which incorporates by reference the Corporate Governance information on pages 57 to 109, fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement for the purposes of Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule 7.2.
Information incorporated by reference The following information is provided in other appropriate sections of this Annual Report and the financial statements and is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference: Information Reported in Pages Corporate Corporate Governance Statement 57 to 109 Governance Statement of Directors 110 Responsibilities Disclosures Resources and Relationships 40 concerning Greenhouse Gas Emissions Important Financial Review 55 events since the end of the financial year Likely future Business Review 51 developments Results and Chairmans Statement 13 dividends Research and Resources and Relationships 36 development Employment of Resources and Relationships 32 disabled persons Employee Resources and Relationships 34 involvement Disclosure of Statement of Directors 110 information to Responsibilities auditors Directors The names and biographies of the Directors as at the date of this report are shown on pages 68 and 69.
Other Directors who served on the Board during the year and the dates on which they stepped down are shown below: Director Date stepped down Wayne Sheppard 4 April 2018 Jamie Pike 24 May 2018 The powers given to the Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are subject to relevant legislation and, in certain circumstances, including in relation to the issuing or buying back by the Company of its shares, subject to authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting.
The Articles of Association also govern the appointment and replacement of Directors.
108 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Articles of Association Significant agreements change of control The Articles of Association may be amended in accordance with the The Company is required to disclose any significant agreements that provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of a special resolution take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company of the Companys shareholders.
Share capital and control The Company has committed debt facilities all of which are directly Details of the Companys share capital are contained in Note 24 or indirectly subject to change of control provisions, albeit the to the Group consolidated financial statements.
The rights attaching facilities do not necessarily require mandatory prepayment to the shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
The Company has established a trust in connection with the Groups In the event of a takeover or other change of control usually Share Incentive Plan the SIP, which holds ordinary shares on trust excluding an internal reorganisation, outstanding awards under for the benefit of employees of the Group.
The trustees of the SIP the Groups incentive plans vest and become exercisable including trust may vote in respect of Ibstock shares held in the SIP trust, but ADBP cash awards, ADBP share awards and LTIP awards, to the only as instructed by participants in the SIP in accordance with the extent any performance conditions if applicable have been met, and SIP trust deed and rules.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in subject to time pro-rating if applicable unless determined otherwise respect of shares held in the SIP trust.
by the Board in its discretion, in accordance with the rules of the plans.
In certain circumstances, the Board may decide with the The Trustee of the Employee benefit Trust the Trust, which agreement of the acquiring company that awards will instead be is used to purchase shares on behalf of the Company as described cancelled in exchange for equivalent awards over shares in the in Note 24, has the power to vote or not vote, at its absolute acquiring company.
discretion, in respect of any shares in the Company held unallocated in the Trust.
However, in accordance with good practice, the Trustee Directors and Officers liability insurance and indemnities adopts a policy of not voting in respect of such shares.
In accordance The Company has purchased and maintains appropriate insurance with Listing Rule 9.8.
4 c, the Company notes that the Trustee has a cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
The Company dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial has also entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements property of the Trust.
for the benefit of all its Directors, in a form and scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
These indemnities Purchase of own shares came into force on 22 October 2015 and remain in force as at the At the AGM held on 24 May 2018, shareholders passed a special date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
resolution in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 to authorise the Company to purchase in the market a maximum of 40,642,450 Financial instruments ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys issued ordinary Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are set share capital as at the latest practicable date prior to publication of out in Note 23 to the Group consolidated financial statements, the AGM circular.
No shares have been purchased under this which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
The Directors are seeking renewal of the authority at the The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are forthcoming AGM, in accordance with relevant institutional guidelines.
included in the Risk management overview on page 43 and in Note 23 of the Group consolidated financial statements.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2018, the Company had been notified, in Political donations accordance with the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules, No political donations were made during the year ended of the following interests in its ordinary share capital.
Annual General Meeting 2019 % interest in The AGM will be held on 23 May 2019 at 11:00 a. m. at 54 Hatton Number of issued share Nature of Name of shareholder shares disclosed capital holding Garden, London EC1N 8HN.
The Notice convening the meeting together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed Vulcan Value Partners, and full details of the deadlines for appointing proxies is contained in LLC 45,247,797 11.13% Indirect a circular which will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20 Aviva plc and Direct and working days before such meeting together with this Report.
its subsidiaries 25,418,600 6.25% Indirect In accordance with the Code, and the Companys Articles of J O Hambro Capital Association which require Directors to submit themselves for annual Management Limited 22,453,824 5.52% Indirect re-election by shareholders, the Directors will all retire and will offer Franklin Templeton themselves for election or re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Fund Management Chairman has confirmed that the performance of all of the Directors Limited 21,176,009 5.21% Indirect continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate their Janus Henderson commitment to the role.
Group plc 20,476,033 5.04% Indirect Auditor A resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the re-appointment In the period from 31 December 2018 to the date of this report of Deloitte as auditor of the Company.
Vulcan Value Partners notified the Company that their shareholding had reduced to 41,143,877 shares 10.12%.
No other notifications On behalf of the Board were received.
Information provided to the Company under the Disclosure Robert Douglas Guidance and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the Company Secretary regulatory information service and on the Companys website.
4 March 2019 109 Ibstock plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
