Governance Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION FOR THE YEAR On behalf of the Board, I am pleased TO 31 MAY 2018 to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year to 31 May 2018.
There will be the usual advisory vote at The overall structure of the executive the AGM covering this annual Committee remuneration package and the Chairmans statement together with principles that underpin it remained the Annual Report on Remuneration unchanged in the 2018 financial year.
that details amounts paid in respect of the year ended 31 May 2018 and DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY the corresponding performance, metrics, targets and outcomes.
I hope Our Directors Remuneration Policy was you will agree that the rewards for our put to the usual triennial binding vote at executives are commensurate with the 2017 AGM.
We are pleased to report the Groups performance, both taken that it was overwhelmingly approved, in isolation given the current year with support from over 96% of our MALCOLM LE MAY performance, and in aggregate given shareholders who voted.
No material Chairman of the Remuneration performance over the medium term.
changes were made to the policy, as the Committee Committee determined that the existing NEW EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS policy continued to meet the needs The Remuneration of the Company and the reasonable As we announced recently, we are Committees objective is expectations of its shareholders.
pleased to welcome two new Executive Directors to the Board: Bridget Messer, toensure remuneration As noted in last years report, there are Chief Commercial Officer, and Jon encourages, reinforces and a number of external factors which may Noble, Chief Information Officer, with rewards the delivery of influence the Directors Remuneration effect from 1 June 2018.
We are pleased Policy in the medium term, including: that both are internal promotions.
reviews being undertaken by regulators: Their salaries have been set following developments in executive pay market a review of market benchmarks, and practice: changes in stakeholder views taking into account the nature of the and guidelines, and implementation of roles and their individual background, the revised UK Corporate Governance skills and experience, and to reflect the Code.
Therefore, although the policy responsibilities of Board membership.
was approved at the 2017 AGM without material changes, we may Salaries are 370,000 for Bridget and need to return to shareholders for a 370,000 for Jon, effective from 1 June further policy vote before the next 2018, and they are eligible to participate triennial vote is due in 2020, once in the Sustained Performance Plan SPP the full implications of these external under the terms of the Policy, with a factors referred to above are known.
maximum award of four times base salary for excellent performance.
Both will also receive a pension and benefits allowance totalling 12% of base salary, which is in line with our employees below Executive Director level, and therefore lower than the current Executive Director Policy limit of 17% of base salary.
Our Remuneration Report covers the remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of IG Group Holdings plc the Company and the Group andis organised into the following main sections: CONTENTS PAGE Chairmans Overview 60 Directors Remuneration Policy 62 Annual Report on Remuneration 70 60 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info BUSINESS OUTCOMES IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY IN 2018 19 As noted within the Operating and Financial Review section of the The Committee has determined that Annual Report on pages 22 to 30, the base salary of the Chief Executive Officer, Peter Hetherington, and the the Group delivered another strong Chief Financial Officer, Paul Mainwaring, financial performance in 2018. will be increased by 2.74%, in line Revenue increased by 16% on 2017s with inflationary increases to the UK underlying results to 569 million, workforce at the 1 June 2018 review while diluted earnings per share DEPS date.
For the 2018 financial year, the increased by 33% against last years Committee will use the same SPP underlying results to 61.2p per share.
metrics described above, with the same weightings.
Accordingly, annual Against a backdrop of difficult financial DEPS will drive 45% of the maximum markets and with our regulatory potential award, relative TSR measured landscape still under scrutiny, IG over the trailing three years will drive has performed extremely well, 35%, and annual non-financial metrics with the company again achieving will drive the remaining 20%.
In relation to the DEPS targets, as with INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR 2018 past years, the Committee has used a set Since 2013, the Executive Directors of internal and external reference points have participated in a single incentive to set targets.
The target range will be scheme, the Sustained Performance disclosed and explained in next years Plan SPP, which measures performance Remuneration Report.
over both annual and trailing threeyear performance periods, and CONCLUSION with the award entirely delivered in shares.
This SPP replaced both the I hope that you will support the previous annual bonus plan and the Remuneration Report at the AGM vote.
As in prior years, the 2018 SPP award is driven by three metrics: total shareholder return TSR measured over the long term, annual diluted earnings per share DEPS, and annual non-financial metrics.
For performance over the one-year and three-year periods ended 31 May 2018, the Committee has awarded 80% of the maximum potential award under the SPP, compared with 27.1% in the prior year.
This is a result of the maximum award occurring in relation to the diluted EPS performance element of the plan and, on moderate award outcome of the TSR element, for which there was no award last year.
This improved performance, together with continued strong performance under the non-financial metrics, has led to a significantly improved vesting outcome.
Further detail is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this report.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 61 Governance Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Determines an overall remuneration Reviews pay, benefits and package for the Executive Directors in employment conditions and the The Directors Remuneration Policy order to attract and retain high-quality remuneration trends across the Group describes the framework, principles and Directors capable of achieving the structures that guide the Remuneration Approves the structure of share-based Groups objectives Committees decision-making process in awards under the Groups employee the area of Directors remuneration, in line Sets and agrees with the Board a incentive schemes, to determine each with the Committees objective to ensure competitive and transparent year whether awards will be made that remuneration for Executive Directors remuneration framework which is and, if awards are made, to monitor encourages, reinforces and rewards the aligned to the Groups strategy and is their operation, the size of such growth of shareholders value.
in the interest of both the Company awards and the performance targets and its shareholders to be used The policy was submitted for renewal at Determines the contractual terms, Monitors regulatory developments, the triennial vote at the 2017 Annual remuneration and other benefits for including those affecting UK-listed General Meeting without any material the Executive Directors companies and financial services changes, and was approved by over 96% firms, to ensure the Companys Determines and reviews the Groups of shareholders who voted.
The role of remuneration policy is consistent remuneration policy, ensuring it is the Remuneration Committee and the with these consistent with effective risk objective of the remuneration policy are management across the Group, and Establishes the selection criteria, described below.
considers the implications of this appoints and sets the Terms of remuneration policy for risk and risk Reference for any remuneration REMUNERATION COMMITTEES ROLE management consultants who advise the Makes recommendations to the Board Committee Determines and agrees the policy for on the Groups senior executive the remuneration of the Board remuneration policy The Committees Terms of Reference can Chairman and the Executive Directors be found on our corporate website at iggroup.
com KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE RECOVERY OR METRICS WITHHOLDING Base salary Provides a sound basis on which to recruit Base salaries are normally reviewed by the Committee annually, and are usually fixed for The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels, with annual increases typically in line No performance No recovery or and retain key employees of appropriate 12months commencing 1 June.
Any salary increase may be influenced by: with the wider workforce.
metrics apply to withholding applies calibre to deliver the strategic objectives base salary to base salary Increases beyond the percentage increases granted to the wider workforce may be awarded of the Company.
Scale, scope and responsibility of the role in exceptional circumstances, such as: Experience of the individual and his or her performance Where there is a change in the individuals responsibility Average change in wider workforce pay Where the salary set at initial appointment was below the level expected once the Business performance and prevailing market conditions individual gains further experience and a track record of performance in the role Commercial need An above-market positioning may be appropriate in exceptional circumstances, to reflect Periodic benchmarking of similar roles at comparable companies selected on the basis the criticality of the role and the individuals experience and performance.
of comparable size, complexity, geographic spread and business focus Base salary levels for the financial year ending 31 May 2019 are: Chief Executive Officer 590,800 Chief Financial Officer 411,000 Chief Commercial Officer 370,000 Chief Information Officer 370,000 Pensions and benefits Competitive, cost-effective flexible Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys flexible pension and The aim is to provide a flexible, market-competitive pension and benefits allowance, with No performance No recovery or pension benefits allowance to help recruit benefits plan, from which the executive can receive a range of benefits, Company pension value for Directors capped at 17% of base salary.
Flexible benefits are also provided for the metrics apply to withholding applies and retain Executive Directors.
wider workforce, who receive a 12% allowance.
The Board recognises certain stakeholder performance and to performance and views that advocate the alignment of pension benefits throughout the business and, benefits benefits Relocation and related benefits may be offered where a Director is required to relocate.
recognising its commitment to continue to honour existing contractual commitments, we will keep the policy under review.
From 1st June 2018, new Executive Directors will receive a 12% allowance in alignment with the wider workforce.
62 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info OBJECTIVES OF THE DIRECTORS Not be used to reward behaviour that of equity and cash within a package, REMUNERATION POLICY inappropriately increases the Groups consideration is given to obtaining the exposure to risks appropriate balance of each so as not to The remuneration policy is set to ensure encourage unnecessary risk-taking.
As that remuneration has the ability to attract The Committee considers that a well as financial risk, the Committee also and retain senior executives of a high successful remuneration policy ensures that there is an appropriate focus calibre, remains competitive and provides needs to be sufficiently flexible to on regulatory and governance matters.
take account of future changes in the Companys business environment and The total remuneration package is The Committee has agreed that all in remuneration practice.
There must structured so that a significant proportion matters relating to remuneration of be transparency and alignment to the is linked to performance conditions, Group employees should: delivery of strategic objectives at both and it is the Companys policy to Align with the best interests of the a Company and an individual level.
ensure that a high proportion of the Companys shareholders and other There must also be scope to reward for potential remuneration package is stakeholders exceptional effort and achievement that provided via share-based instruments.
Recognise and reward good and delivers value, both for the Company excellent performance of employees and the shareholders.
Likewise, This ensures that executives have that helps drive sustainable growth of failure to achieve, individually or at a strong ongoing alignment with the Group Company level, will not be rewarded.
shareholders through the Companys Focus on retaining high-performing share price performance.
senior management The Committee is also mindful of ensuring that there is an appropriate The table below summarises each Be consistent with regulatory and balance between the level of risk and element of the remuneration policy for corporate governance requirements reward for the individual, the Company the Executive Directors, explaining how Be designed to achieve effective risk and for shareholders.
each element operates and how each management part links to the corporate strategy.
Be straightforward, easy for When setting levels of variable shareholders and employees to remuneration, the degree of stretch in understand and easy for the Group performance conditions and the balance tomonitor KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE RECOVERY OR METRICS WITHHOLDING Base salary Provides a sound basis on which to recruit Base salaries are normally reviewed by the Committee annually, and are usually fixed for The general policy is to pay around mid-market levels, with annual increases typically in line No performance No recovery or and retain key employees of appropriate 12months commencing 1 June.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 63 Governance Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY CONTINUED KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION PURPOSE AND LINK TO OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS RECOVERY OR STRATEGY WITHHOLDING All-employee share schemes All employees, including The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan.
Partnership, free, dividend and matching shares may HMRC or non-UK plan No performance metrics apply to base salary.
No recovery or Executive Directors, are be granted under the SIP.
equivalent limits will withholding applies encouraged to become applyto any all-employee to base salary.
If other HMRC-approved all-employee plans are introduced, they will operate in accordance with HMRC shareholders through the schemes that may be guidance and limits.
approved Share Incentive Similar non-UK plans may be operated to enable non-UK employees and Directors to participate.
This currently constitutes Plan SIP and or such asmall proportion of other all-employee share Executive Directors total plans as the Company remuneration.
Share ownership policy This aligns the interests A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ended 31 May 2014. ofmanagement and Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to build a holding of shares to the value of a shareholders and promotes minimum of 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors, a requirement of 150% of base a long-term approach salaryapplies.
Only vested shares forming part of the Directors share interests and shares purchased by the Director out of their own funds are included in the guideline, which, unless there are exceptional circumstances approved by the Committee, must be achieved within five years from the date of appointment.
The Committee will review progress annually, with an expectation that Executive Directors will make progress towards achieving the shareholding policy each year.
Sustained Performance Plan SPP Approved by shareholders The SPP was initially operated by reference to five consecutive plan years.
The first plan year was the The maximum plan The quantum of any awards granted is dependent on performance against the The Committee at the 2013 AGM, the SPP financial year which ended 31 May 2014. contribution in respect of targets set by the Committee for each relevant financial year.
may decide within provides a single incentive aplan year is an award of three years of a plan Awards of shares either in the form of par value options, nil cost options or conditional awards, known Performance targets may comprise, for example, diluted earnings per share plan for Executive Directors shares with a market value contribution that asplan contributions are made after the announcement of results relating to each plan year.
DEPS targets, Total Shareholder Return TSR and non-financial measures.
rather than having separate of no more than 500% and the underlying award Performance is measured over single plan years financial years except for TSR annual and long-term 400% of an annual rate will be subject to Plan contributions are granted by reference to achievement against applicable performance targets and from plan year 2 awards in respect of financial year ending 31 May 2015. plans.
ofsalary for the Chief clawback.
This may accumulate within a participants plan account.
We currently intend to apply the following performance criteria: Executive Officer and happen where there It provides a simple and Each year, a percentage of the accumulated balance in the plan account vests ie options or awards are ChiefFinancial Officer has been a material DEPS a sliding scale of targets will apply for each plan year.
The targets competitive incentive released to participants.
misstatement in the willbe set at the start of each plan year.
Targets and performance will be mechanism that Companys financial disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the Therefore, a participants plan account will comprise the sum of the plan contribution if any being made encourages and rewards results or an error in relevant financial year-end in relation to the relevant plan year, plus the accumulated awards registered in the plan account from both annual and sustained assessing any Relative TSR the Companys share price plus dividends reinvested previous plan years.
long-term performance, applicable performance is measured against an appropriate comparator group.
For the linked to the Companys performance Over the ten plan years, a participants plan account vests as follows: first plan year, performance was based on that plan year alone: for the second strategic objectives.
It may also Following Financial year ending % of cumulative shares in plan account vesting plan year, performance was based on plan years 1 and 2.
For plan years be triggered if there The SPP encapsulates thereafter performance is measured over three plan years ending with the Plan year 1 31 May 2014 40.0% has been substantial traditional annual bonus plan year being reported on.
The Committee retains the discretion to scale Plan year 2 31 May 2015 40.0% failure of risk and long-term incentive back the level of award if it feels the Companys underlying financial management, or if Plan year 3 31 May 2016 33.3% plans.
It is entirely performance does not warrant the level of award resulting from TSR the participants share-based, encouraging Plan year 4 31 May 2017 33.3% performance alone employment is executives to build up a Non-financial these may comprise strategic goals, operational and client Plan year 5 31 May 2018 33.3% terminated for substantial stake in the satisfaction measures for each plan year.
Targets and performance will be Plan year 6 31 May 2019 33.3% serious misconduct.
Company, thereby aligning disclosed retrospectively Plan year 7 31 May 2020 33.3% The clawback may the interests of Where possible, a sliding scale of targets will be set.
For the DEPS and relative Plan year 8 31 May 2021 33.3% be satisfied by a management with TSR measures, no more than 25% will be payable for achieving threshold reduction in the Plan year 9 31 May 2022 33.3% shareholders.
performance, rising to full payout for achieving a more challenging target.
amount of any Plan year 10 31 May 2023 33.3% subsisting plan The scorecard of financial, share price and non-financial metrics may vary from account, a reduction If the SPP is terminated early, or reaches its tenth anniversary, unvested awards remaining in the plan year to year in accordance with strategic priorities and the regulatory in the vesting of any account will vest in three final tranches of 50%, 25% and 25% on the first, second and third anniversaries environment.
subsisting vested of the SPPs closure.
The same principles will apply on a later termination of the plan.
awards or future At the time of determining the contribution for plan year 5, in the event that the Participants may receive a payment at the time of delivery of vested shares of an amount equivalent to share awards and or Committee feels the Companys underlying financial performance over the first the dividends that would have been paid on those shares while in the plan account adopting a first-in, a requirement to five plan years has not been satisfactory, the Committee may scale back the final first-out basis.
This amount may assume dividend reinvestment.
Dividends will not accrue on vested but make cash payment.
balance of the plan account.
The Committee has not currently decided to scale unexercised awards.
back any plan account balances.
64 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info KEY ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION PURPOSE AND LINK TO OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE METRICS RECOVERY OR STRATEGY WITHHOLDING All-employee share schemes All employees, including The SIP is a flexible, tax-efficient, all-employee plan.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 65 Governance Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY CONTINUED NOTES TO THE POLICY TABLE The performance measures that are used in the Sustained Performance Plan SPP are a subset of the Companys Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
METRIC RATIONALE AND LINK TO THE HOW PERFORMANCE MEASURES STRATEGIC KPIs ARE SET Total Shareholder Return TSR measures the total return to IG The Committee sets the requirements TSR relative to a suitable Groups shareholders, both through share for each plan year.
The current benchmark group price growth and dividends paid, and as benchmark group comprises the such it is aligned to shareholder interests.
constituents of the FTSE 350 index excluding investment trusts.
TSR is influenced by how well IG Group performs on a range of other metrics, including financial indicators such as revenue, profit, cash generation and dividends, and non-financial indicators such as client satisfaction and operational performance.
Diluted earnings per share DEPS is a key indicator of the profits The Committee determines appropriate DEPS generated for shareholders, and a performance targets each year, taking reflection of both revenue growth account of the annual and longer-term andcost control.
DEPS is calculated on such adjusted basis as the Committee reasonably selects eg adjusting for the effects of any share buybacks.
Non-financial performance schemes Specific non-financial Specific non-financial criteria traditionally The Committee approved, in advance, a measures include those relating to areas such as basket of non-financial measures for the system uptime and reliability, people, year ended 31 May 2018. customer satisfaction, effective risk management, sustaining the Companys Following the end of the year, the excellent reputation and maintaining a Committee assesses performance relative good standing with regulators.
Each of to prior years, internal targets and sector these measures has a direct impact on a averages.
Assessment is undertaken in the number of the Groups KPIs.
For example, round, taking account of activities and system reliability is a key measure of the achievements during the year.
resilience of our trading platforms, which isan essential element of revenue For example, for NPS, performance is generation and client satisfaction.
assessed through comparison of the Groups performance against other Customer satisfaction is also measured companies in the sector, with the aim using the Net Promoter Score NPS ofmaintaining a high NPS score relative datasupplied by Investment Trends.
NPSis a measure of whether clients wouldrecommend IG Group.
The basket of measures chosen is considered to provide a broader assessment of executive delivery than financial metrics alone.
Execution and delivery of The delivery of the Groups strategic As part of the Boards strategy planning, key strategic initiatives initiatives is key to the delivery of the there is a clear plan of strategic initiatives strategy and will, over time, drive provided to the Remuneration Committee financial performance and growth.
at the start of the year, which details the Strategic delivery targets are set underlying projects set for delivery in the for the IG branded business, nonshort-to-medium term.
The Remuneration IG branded business, Delivery and Committee uses this plan to judge Governance Control and People.
performance and managements execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives.
66 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info Annual DEPS targets and non-financial Discretion relating to the by Executive Directors depends on performance measures, where used, are measurement of performance in Company performance.
The charts likely to be too sensitive to disclose in theevent of a change of control belowshow how total pay for the Chief advance for commercial reasons.
We will, orreconstruction Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, however, disclose the measures and Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Determination of a good leaver in targets where applicable used, and the Information Officer vary under three addition to any specified categories extent to which we have achieved them, different performance scenarios: for incentive plan purposes, based on a retrospective basis, at the end of the minimum, target and maximum: onthe rules of each plan and the relevant performance period.
appropriate treatment under the Minimum: This comprises the fixed planrules elements of pay, being base salary, INCENTIVE PLAN DISCRETIONS Adjustments required in certain benefits and benefits allowance as at The Committee will operate the current circumstances eg rights issues, 1 June 2018, and the benefits value SPP and other share plans still in corporate restructuring, special is the actual value for the year ended operation according to their respective dividends and on a change of control 31 May 2018. rules and the policy set out above, and inaccordance with the Market Abuse Any use of the above discretions would, Target: This comprises fixed pay and the Regulations, Listing Rules and HMRC where relevant, be explained in the target value of SPP 250% of salary for rules where relevant.
Copies of the SPP Annual Report on Remuneration.
As theChief Executive Officer and 200% rules are available on request from the appropriate, it might also be the subject ofsalary for the Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary.
As is consistent with of consultation with the Companys major Chief Commercial Officer and Chief market practice, the Committee retains shareholders.
discretion over a number of areas relating to operating and administrating these LEGACY ARRANGEMENTS Maximum: This comprises fixed pay and plans.
These include but are not limited the maximum value of SPP 500% of For the avoidance of doubt, in approving to the following: salary for the Chief Executive Officer and the Directors Remuneration Policy, the Who participates in the plans 400% of salary for the Chief Financial Company has authority to honour any Officer, Chief Commercial Officer and The timing of grant of award and or commitments entered into with current or Chief Information Officer.
payment former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders previously.
This includes The size of an award and or a payment No account has been taken of share price awards made under any other share plans within the plan limits approved growth, or of dividend shares awarded in operated by the Company, described byshareholders respect of the deferred element of bonus in more detail in the following section.
The choice of and adjustment of and SPP awards over the deferral performance measures and targets performance periods.
ILLUSTRATING THE APPLICATION OF inaccordance with the policy set REMUNERATION POLICY outabove and the rules of each plan As a result of the Companys including the treatment of delisted remuneration policy, a significant companies for the purpose of the proportion of the remuneration received TSRcomparator group 4,000 3,645 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,168 2,125 1,894 1,894 81% 2,000 1,500 1,303 68% 1,154 1,154 77% 78% 78% 1,000 691 63% 64% 64% 481 414 414 500 100% 32% 19% 100% 37% 23% 100% 36% 22% 100% 36% 22% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Chief Executive Of cer Chief Financial Of cer Chief Commercial Of cer Chief Information Of cer Fixed pay SPP IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 67 Remuneration 000s Governance Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE loss of office payment for a departing For the purposes of any awards permitted CONTRACTS Director, the Committee will always seek to vest to leavers as described above, the to minimise the cost to the Company, Committee retains discretion to reduce Executive Directors are employed while complying with the contractual the level of vesting that would otherwise under a service contract with IG Group terms and seeking to reflect the result.
It may refer to such time-based Limited a wholly owned intermediate circumstances in place at the time.
adjustments as it considers appropriate.
holding company for the benefit of the Company and the Group.
The Committee reserves the right Where awards are granted in the form to make additional payments, where of options, any vested awards already The period of notice for existing such payments are made in good held at the time of cessation ie vested Executive Directors does not exceed faith in discharge of an existing legal awards held outside the plan account but 12 months and, accordingly, Executive obligation or by way of damages for unexercised will remain exercisable for Directors employment contracts can breach of such an obligation, or by a limited period.
The exception is when be terminated on 12 months notice way of settlement or compromise dismissal has been for misconduct, in by either party.
For those Executive of any claim arising in connection which case such awards lapse in full.
Directors appointed on 1 June 2018, with the termination of an Executive the period of notice is six months.
Change of control In the event that the Company terminates The Executive Directors contracts do not For new executive appointments, the an Executive Directors service contract provide for any enhanced payments in Committee has discretion to offer a other than in accordance with the terms the event of a change of control of the longer notice period of up to 24 months of his or her contract, the Committee will Company, nor for liquidated damages.
where it is essential for the purposes of act in the best interests of the Company Copies of the Executive Directors service securing an appointment, but reducing and ensure there is no reward for failure.
contracts are available for inspection at to no more than 12 months on a phased All service contracts are continuous, the Companys registered office.
basis, over no more than two years and contractual termination payments following appointment.
Any payments in relate to the unexpired notice period.
REMUNERATION POLICY ACROSS lieu of notice will be at the Committees THE COMPANY discretion, and will be limited to On a Directors departure, the We have designed the remuneration base salary and the value of benefits Company may, at its sole discretion, policy for the Executive Directors and including pension as set out above.
pay base salary and the value of any senior management with regard to benefits including pension that would the policy for employees across the Sustained Performance Plan SPP have been receivable in lieu of any Company as a whole.
The Committee awards unexpired period of notice.
In the event is kept updated through the year As a general rule, if a participant ceases of termination for gross misconduct, on general employment conditions, to hold employment or be a Director the Company may give neither notice basic salary increase budgets, the within the Group, or gives notice of nor a payment in lieu of notice.
level of bonus pools and payouts leaving, they forfeit any entitlement to and participation in share plans.
All Where the Company, acting reasonably, awards subsisting in their plan account believes it may have a right to terminate The Committee is therefore aware of at such time are forfeited in full.
employment due to gross misconduct, how total remuneration at the Executive itmay suspend the executive from Director level compares to the total However, the situation may be different employment on full salary for up to 30 days remuneration of the general population if the participant ceases to be an to investigate the circumstances prevailing.
Common approaches employee or a Director within the Group to remuneration policy which apply under certain circumstances.
These The Company may place an executive across the Company include: include injury, disability, retirement, on gardening leave for up to the Consistency in pay for performance, redundancy, the disposal of the duration of the notice period.
During with annual bonus schemes being participants employing company or this time, the executive will be entitled offered to the vast majority of the business for which they work by to receive base salary and all contractual employees the Group, or other circumstances at benefits including pension.
At the the discretion of the Committee.
In Offering pension, medical, life end of the gardening leave period, the this case, participation in the plan will assurance and other flexible benefits Company may, at its discretion, pay the cease once the plan contributions in for all employees, where practical, executive base salary alone, in lieu of the respect of the plan year in which the given geographical location balance of any period of notice given cessation arises are determined.
This by the Company or the executive.
Ensuring that salary increases for each will take into account the proportion category of employee are considered, of the full plan year worked.
Ordinarily, When considering payments in the taking into account the overall rate of the participants plan account will then event of termination, the Remuneration increase across the Company, vest, yielding one-third immediately Committee takes into account individual benchmarking, and both Company and thereafter the remaining balance circumstances.
Relevant factors include and individual performance in equal parts on the first and second the reasons for termination, contractual Encouraging broad-based share anniversary of such determinations.
obligations and the relevant incentive ownership through the use of allplan rules.
When determining any employee share plans, where practical.
68 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION The Committee may therefore decide the individuals background, skills and POLICY to offer further cash or share-based experience, and the business criticality and payments to buy out these existing nature of the role being offered.
It will also The Committees overriding objective entitlements by making awards of consider the Companys circumstances is to appoint Executive Directors with a broadly equivalent value, in the and relevant external and internal the necessary background, skills and Committees view.
These awards can be benchmarks.
Above all, the Committee experience to ensure the continuing made either under the Companys existing must exercise its own judgement in success of the Company.
We recognise incentive plans or via other arrangements.
determining the most appropriate that the pace of change and technology In determining the appropriate form and salary for the new appointment.
development in our industry, as well amount of any such award, the Committee as the global nature of IG Group, In certain circumstances, the Committee will consider various factors.
These include mean that the right individuals may will have set a starting base salary the type and quantum of award, the often be highly sought-after.
which is positioned below the relevant length of the performance period and market rate.
It may then wish to adjust the performance and vesting conditions We set the remuneration package for a the Executive Directors base salary, at attached to each forfeited incentive award.
new Executive Director in accordance a level above the average increase in with the Companys approved the Company, as the individual gains Where an individual is appointed to the remuneration policy, as detailed from experience and establishes a strong Board, different performance measures page 62 of the Directors Remuneration performance track record in the role.
may be set for the SPP for the year of Report, subject to the additional Conversely, the base salary may need joining the Board, taking into account the provisions described below.
The to be positioned above the relevant individuals role and responsibilities and maximum level of variable remuneration market rate in order to attract the most the point in the year when they joined.
excluding any buyout arrangements appropriate candidate for the role.
that we can offer to a new executive on For an internal appointment, any variable an annual basis will be in accordance We will provide benefits in accordance pay element granted in respect of with the Sustained Performance with the approved policy.
We may pay the prior role may be allowed to pay Plan limit, being 500% of salary.
relocation expenses or allowances, out according to its terms, adjusted legal fees and other costs relating to as appropriate to take into account In many cases, where we make an the recruitment as appropriate.
the terms of the Executive Director external appointment, the individual appointment.
The Committee will carefully willforfeit incentive awards connected We will set fees for a new Nondetermine the base salary level for a new with their previous employment Executive Director or Chairman in Executive Director, taking into account onresignation.
accordance with the approved policy.
CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The table below summarises each element of the remuneration policy applicable to the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors.
PURPOSE AND OPERATION OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE RECOVERY OR LINK TO STRATEGY METRICS WITHHOLDING To attract and retain The Remuneration Committee The Chairman receives a single No performance No recovery Non-Executive determines the fee for the fee to cover all his Board duties.
or withholding Directors of Chairman without the applies.
receive a fee for carrying out The Board is responsible for their duties.
They may receive setting Non-Executive additional fees if they chair the Directors fees.
The Nonprimary Board Committees, Executive Directors are not and for holding the post of involved in any discussions or Senior Independent Director.
decisions by the Board about Additional fees may bepaid for their own remuneration.
additional time commitments in exceptional circumstances.
Fees are within the limits set by the Articles of Association and Committee membership fees take account of the commitment may be paid.
Details of current and responsibilities of the fee levels are set out in the relevant role.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts: they are engaged by letters of appointment.
Each Non-Executive Director is appointed for an initial term of three years subject to re-election, but the appointment can be terminated on three months notice.
Non-Executive Directors may receive reimbursement for business expenses incurred in the course of their duties, including tax therein if applicable.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 69 Governance Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY CONTINUED CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee engages proactively with the Companys major shareholders.
For example, when making any material changes to the remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee Chair will inform major shareholders of these in advance, and will offer a meeting to discuss details as required.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE COMPANY In setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for employees in the Company.
The Group operates in a number of different environments, and has many employees who carry out diverse roles across a number of countries.
All employees, including Directors, are paid by reference to the market rate, and base salary levels are reviewed regularly.
When considering salary increases for Directors, the Company will be sensitive to pay and employment conditions across the wider workforce.
However, no remuneration comparison measurements have been utilised to date.
The Committee does not formally consult with employees on the executive remuneration policy.
The Committee is periodically updated on pay and conditions applying to employees across the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION AUDITED This part of the report includes a summary of how we implemented the policy in the financial year ended 31 May 2018 including payment and awards in respect of incentive arrangements, and how we will apply the remuneration policy for the financial year ending 31 May 2019.
We also give details of the Remuneration Committees operation, the Directors share interests and how shareholders voted at the 2017 AGM.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2018 Total Single Figure of Remuneration Executive Directors 3 Contribution to SPP plan account Benefits Fees basic Benefits allowance Vested Deferred 4 1 2 salary in kind in cash element element Total Total Name of Director Year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 P G Hetherington 2018 575 5 93 767 1,534 2,301 2,974 2017 575 5 93 260 519 779 1,452 P Mainwaring 2018 400 4 64 427 854 1,281 1,749 2017 356 3 58 144 289 433 850 1 Benefits can include private medical cover, health assessments, life assurance and income protection cover.
2 As part of a total flexible benefits package of 17%, of basic salary, the Group provides for a contribution of up to 15% of basic salary to personal pensions for each of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, who also have the option to receive part, or all, of their pension entitlement in cash.
The additional cash payment is counted in lieu of pension, and is not treated as base salary for the purposes of calculating other benefits.
New Executive Directors appointed from June 2018 will receive a flexible benefits package of 12% of basic salary, including contributions to personal pensions should they so choose.
3 Figures provided are the values of the SPP contributions in respect of performance for the periods ending 31 May 2018 and 31 May 2017 ie plan years 5 and 4.
The vested element is the proportion of the plan year contribution for the relevant period that vests shortly following the end of the financial year.
The deferred element is the proportion that remains deferred in the plan account.
Details of SPP awards held in the plan account, both vested and unvested, are provided in the Outstanding Share Awards table on page 74.
4 The basic salary for Paul Mainwaring in respect of FY17 reflects his appointment to the Company part way through the financial year.
70 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info Total Single Figure of Remuneration Non-Executive Directors Basic 1 2 salary Benefits Total Name of Director Year 000 000 000 A Green 2018 255 255 2017 255 255 S G Hill 2018 65 11 76 2017 70 8 78 J Newman 2018 80 80 2017 80 80 S J Tymms 2018 80 5 85 2017 75 5 80 M Le May 2018 90 1 91 2017 90 1 91 J Felix 2018 65 65 2017 65 65 1 Other than in respect for the Chairman, basic Non-Executive Director fees were 65,000 per annum with an additional 15,000 paid for chairing a Board Committee, other than the Nomination Committee, and 10,000 for the Senior Independent Director.
2 Certain Non-Executive Directors expenses relating to the performance of a Directors duties, such as travel to and from Company meetings and related accommodation, have been classified as taxable benefits.
In such cases, the Company will ensure that the Director is kept whole by settling the expense and any related tax.
The figures shown include the cost of the taxable benefit plus the related personal tax charge.
SUSTAINED PERFORMANCE PLAN SPP DETERMINATION OF SPP CONTRIBUTION FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2018 Performance targets for plan year 5 financial year ending 31 May 2018 comprised diluted earnings per share DEPS targets, Total Shareholder Return TSR and non-financial measures.
TSR performance was measured over the three-year period from 1 June 2015 to 31 May 2018 and DEPS and non-financial measures over the financial year ending 31 May 2018.
Threshold Percentage of Performance 25% payout for TSR Maximum maximum award measure Weighting and 0% for DEPS 100% payout Actual performance to Directors DEPS 45% 37.5 pence 45.9 pence 61.2 pence 100% vesting 45.0% TSR 35% Median ranking Upper-quartile ranking 115 of 277 companies 51% vesting 17.85% Non-financial 20% 0% 100% 85.9% vesting 17.18% Total 100% 80.03% P G Hetherington: maximum award at 500% of basic salary.
All other Executive Directors: maximum award at 400% of basic salary.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES HOW THESE ARE SET AND REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2018 Diluted earnings per share 45% weighting At the start of the financial year, the Committee established a DEPS range in order to measure the performance and determine the payouts under the SPP.
In doing this, the Committee took into account a number of relevant factors, including internal and external considerations and an appropriate degree of challenge on the prior years performance.
In setting the DEPS range for the year ending 31 May 2018, the Committee considered the annual Board-approved budget, market consensus expectations and historical targets.
It should be noted that, for the 2018 financial year, on-target EPS performance was lower than the EPS outturn for the prior year, reflecting the 2018 budget.
In setting this target at the end of the 2017 financial year, the Committee had to take account of the significant uncertainties in IGs sector, in particular the regulatory uncertainty that the Group faced.
However, IG Groups 2018 EPS performance was superior, and significantly outperformed the stretch performance for maximum payout for a number of reasons, including unexpected delays in the delivery of regulatory certainty and due to changes in client trading patterns.
The Committee considered the merits of changing performance criteria, and determined that, given the level of outperformance, any reasonable increase in performance measures would have had no impact on the final outturn.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 71 Governance Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY CONTINUED Total Shareholder Return 35% weighting Under the TSR measure, a median ranking against the FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts would result in 25% of this element being granted, with the full award being granted for upper quartile ranking or better.
The award to be granted for performance between median and upper quartile would be determined on a straight-line basis between these points.
For the award to be granted in respect of plan year 5, TSR was measured over the three-year period from 1 June 2015 to 31 May 2018.
Actual TSR performance for the Group, as measured by Aon Hewitt, for the three-year period was 27.1% 2017: -2.9%.
Against the peer group this performance ranked IG at 115 out of 277 companies and resulted in 51% 2017: 0% of the potential payout under this measure being awarded.
Non-financial measures 20% weighting The Committee approved a series of non-financial measures comprising strategic goals as well as operational and client satisfaction measures, indicative of the performance during the year ended 31 May 2018.
These measures are also used for a portion of the staff general bonus pool.
An average of the performance under the specific non-financial measures combined with performance under the strategic delivery measures resulted in an overall assessment of 85.9% 2017: 85.0% of the potential payout under this element.
The table below details the individual measures considered and their performance assessment for the year ended 31 May 2018.
COMPONENT DETAIL PROPOSED FY18 OUTCOME System uptime and The primary measures used to assess the performance against this 95.0% reliability metric and the parameters IG strives to achieve are: FY17: 95.0% Core dealing availability per month minimum 99.8% Maximum percentage downtime in any one day maximum 4.0% IG achieved 99.98% rolling cumulative 12-month uptime and experienced three outages totalling 86 minutes over the financial year.
This compares to a record 99.98% rolling cumulative 12-month uptime in 2017 with a total outage time of 113 minutes.
Maintaining good IG is subject to regulatory oversight in all countries where it has a physical 60.0% standings with presence.
IG continues to have strong working relationships with its regulators, FY17: 60.0% regulators however the regulatory landscape in EMEA is clearly challenging.
This regulatory focus is mainly being directed at the industry, rather than specifically at IG, but given the challenges an outcome of 60% was determined to reflect IGs continuing strong relationships with non-EMEA regulators such as ASIC, CFTC and MAS and IGs extensive interaction with all regulators.
Customer satisfaction The Remuneration Committee uses a number of indicators to measure 95.0% performance against this metric.
In the 2017 financial year, IG scored 95% FY17: 95.0% based on both improved measures of client satisfaction and the number ofchanges to our service offering.
2018 has seen IG continue to focus ondelivering excellent client service.
This has included a wide ranging re-organisation of the client service teams to allow us to better serve the needs of our most valuable clients to continue our focus on 24 7 client service, and to decrease the average time taken to open accounts.
This has resulted in 79% of IGs clients rating IG as good or better, which is an excellent result given the high call volumes, especially in Q3.
Reputation and PR In the past year we have implemented a new proactive media and key 95.0% stakeholder engagement strategy.
This has focused on building trust, FY17: 95.0% showcasing expertise and building relationships.
Cementing IGs status as anexpert voice in the sector, we have hosted media roundtable briefings, andIG analyst presence in the media has continued through a multi-faceted programme spanning press meetings, broadcast, bi-annual media events, written content and features.
72 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info COMPONENT DETAIL PROPOSED FY18 OUTCOME Risk management The 2018 financial year has seen IG continue its strong history of risk 90.0% management, despite periods of high volatility.
We have successfully FY17: 90.0% managed increasing risk exposures to cryptocurrencies as that asset class experienced broad client interest in the autumn winter of 2017.
The Committee therefore determined an outcome of 90% in line with last year, given the similar performance.
People This measure is assessed against four metrics: voluntary attrition, employee 85.0% engagement, succession planning and performance.
FY17: 73.3% Voluntary attrition has remained below the target set by IG for the majority of the year.
Employee engagement is assessed via an anonymous survey administered by an external provider.
Engagement has responded positively to a number of initiatives, rising nearly 4%.
Succession planning has progressed well, and especially for IGs Executive Committee.
IG has also successfully implemented a mentoring program.
Finally, the majority of required reviews were successfully completed.
Strategic delivery As part of the Boards strategic planning, there is a clear plan relating to 83.6% measures strategic projects provided to the Remuneration Committee at the start of the FY17: 85.8% year.
This details the underlying projects set for delivery in the short-to-medium term.
The Remuneration Committee uses this plan to judge performance, and managements execution and delivery of the key strategic initiatives.
There were a number of key strategic projects delivered during the year.
Examples ofthe projects include: submitting an application for a US Retail Foreign Exchange Dealer license, delivering an online professional categorisation tool, and focusing on simplifying payment charges.
OVERALL SUMMARY Based on the performance for the financial year ending 31 May 2018, we will grant awards under the SPP at 80% of the maximum potential payout to the Executive Directors after the announcement of the results.
The actual number of shares that will be deposited within the Directors plan account will be based on the ten-day average share price immediately prior to grant.
Since its introduction five years ago, we are pleased to report that the SPP continues to work well, with outcomes tracking performance closely and an average plan contribution of 58% of the maximum: Financial year: 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 5-year average SPP plan contribution % maximum : 54% 41% 90% 27% 80% 58% IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 73 Governance Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY CONTINUED AWARDS GRANTED DURING THE YEAR ENDED 31 MAY 2018 The SPP awards granted during the financial year ended 31 May 2018 in respect of performance to 31 May 2017 plan year 4 are asfollows: Contribution Number of Number of options in the Number of options in the Number of plan account options vested plan account % of Value of options after plan year 4 and exercised Number of at the end 1 2 salary options awarded awarded contribution during the year options lapsed of the year P G Hetherington 135% 778,728.54 122,973 372,673 124,224 248,449 P Mainwaring 108% 433,379.36 68,437 68,437 22,812 45,625 1 The number of options contributed to the plan account was based on the ten-day average share price immediately post the announcement date of the Groups results for the year ended 31 May 2017 of 633.25 pence per share.
Awards were granted in the form of nil cost options and are subject to continued employment and subject to the satisfaction of the underlying financial performance underpin to be tested at the end of plan year 5, as set out in the remuneration policy.
The Committee has considered this and determined that underlying financial performance has been satisfactory.
2 In addition to the awards made in respect of plan year 4, this also includes the brought forward number of options in the plan account from plan years 1, 2 and 3 with its respective accrued dividend shares.
Details of the outstanding SPP share awards, using an estimate of the options to be granted in respect of plan year 5 ie performance to 31 May 2018 are set out below: Estimated Plan cumulative Options awarded contribution in number as dividend respect of period of options Plan account equivalents ended 31 May Plan account Estimated remaining in the brought forward accruing on 2018 estimated following number of plan account number of unvested options number of contribution for options at the end 1 2 Event shares during the year options the year vesting of the year P G Hetherington Plan year 5 248,449 12,151 266,136 526,736 175,579 351,157 P Mainwaring Plan year 5 45,625 2,204 148,110 195,939 65,313 130,626 1 P G Hetherington and P Mainwaring will be granted awards in respect of plan year 5 following the announcement of results for the year ended 31 May 2018 on 24 July 2018.
The share price used to calculate the number of awards to be granted will be the ten-day average share price immediately following the announcement of results for the year ended 31 May 2018 on 24 July 2018.
As the actual average share price is not known at the time of signing of the Annual Report, the above number of awards has been estimated using a share price of 864.5 pence, being the share price on 31 May 2018.
Share awards have an exercise price of 0.005 pence.
2 In accordance with the scheme rules 33.3% of the cumulative awards in the plan account after the contributions in respect of plan year 5 will vest in August 2018 with the vesting of the remaining options deferred.
The August 2018 vesting will include additional dividend shares accrued as follows in respect of plan year 1, 2, 3 and 4 awards held in the plan account P G Hetherington 12,151 and P Mainwaring 2,204 based on reinvestment at the dividend payment date.
OTHER SHARE AWARDS OUTSTANDING Number Number Number outstanding at Share price at Number as at awarded Number lapsed exercised during 31 May 2018 Award date award date 31 May 2017 during the year during the year the year % change P G Hetherington SIP: matching shares 25 Jul 14 605.00p 594 594 SIP: matching shares 2 Aug 16 879.50p 408 408 SIP: matching shares 1 Aug 17 626.50p 574 574 Total 1,002 574 594 982 Number Number Number outstanding at Share price at Number as at awarded Number lapsed exercised during 31 May 2018 Award date award date 31 May 2017 during the year during the year the year % change P Mainwaring SIP: matching shares 1 Aug 17 626.50p 572 572 74 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info TABLE OF DIRECTORS SHARE INTERESTS % of salary held under shareholding 4 5 2 1 Legally owned SIP SPP awards Total policy Awards held in Vested but 31 May 2017 31 May 2018 plan account unexercised 31 May 2018 % salary Executive Directors 3 P G Hetherington 385,612 386,493 982 260,600 648,075 581% P Mainwaring 30,000 53,139 572 47,829 101,540 115% Non-Executive Directors J Felix A Green 6,881 6,881 6,881 S G Hill 15,966 15,966 15,966 M Le May J A Newman S J Tymms 1 Calculated as shares owned on 31 May 2018 at the closing mid-market share price of 864.5p.
2 This figure excludes awards under the SPP scheme for performance year ending 31 May 2018, which will be granted following the announcement of the Groups results on 24 July 2018.
The awards held in the plan account include those in respect of plan-years 1, 2, 3 and 4, as at 31 May 2018.
3 P G Hetherington also held 10,000 preference shares at 31 May 2018 and 31 May 2017.
4 This figure includes partnership shares that are purchased as part of the Groups share incentive plan SIP which are not subject to vesting conditions.
5 This figure shows the number of matching shares held at 31 May 2018 as part of the Groups SIP, which will vest after three years from the respective award date, as long as employees remain employed by the Group.
A share ownership policy was introduced from the financial year ending 31 May 2014.
Under this policy, the Chief Executive Officer is required to hold shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of base salary, and for other Executive Directors, a requirement of 150% of base salary applies.
Only shares forming part of the Directors share interests are included in the calculation, which must normally be achieved within five years from the date of appointment.
There have been no changes to any of the Directors share interests in the period since 31 May 2018.
The awards to be made under the Companys SPP in respect of the performance period ending on 31 May 2018 are set out earlier in this report and are not included in this table.
Payments for loss of office and to past Directors No payments were made for loss of office in the year.
No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
CHANGE IN REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CEO 1 Base salary Taxable benefits Performance-based remuneration % change % change % change % change % change % change % change % change % change FY18 FY17 FY17 FY16 FY16 FY15 FY18 FY17 FY17 FY16 FY16 FY15 FY18 FY17 FY17 FY16 FY16 FY15 CEO 0% 3.2% 25.8% 0% 0% 0% 195.4% 63.7% 112.0% Group employees 2.1 % 8.8% 7.0% 16.2% 14.1% 19.4% 66.8% 27.6% 60.0% 1 For the CEO, the 2016 2015 base salary change reflects the change in CEO during 2015 16.
Remuneration is included in the financial year in which performance is measured against.
In respect of FY17 FY18, the percentage change in respect of the average base salaries of Group employees reflects the change in the mix of our staff resulting from our location strategy, rather than the change in the level of actual base salary of existing employees.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS OUTSIDE APPOINTMENTS As at 31 May 2018, the CEO and CFO have no other external appointments.
On 18 June 2018, the CEO was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Scotgold Resources Limited.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table sets out the profit, dividends and overall spend on pay over the past five financial years: 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 m m m m m m Profit after tax 226.4 169.2 164.3 131.9 147.2 141.7 Dividends 147.1 118.5 114.9 102.7 102.8 84.6 Employee remuneration costs 131.6 119.1 113.5 94.3 89.3 86.3 Average number of employees 1,597 1,522 1,412 1,287 1,070 1,005 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 75 Governance Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY CONTINUED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT 2017 AGM At the September 2017 AGM, resolutions were proposed for shareholders to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 May 2017.
The following votes were received: 2017 Remuneration Policy Total number of votes % of votes cast 1 For 289,325,839 96.5% Against 10,631,334 3.5% Total 299,957,173 100% Withheld 7,223,131 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration Total number of votes % of votes cast 1 For 299,577,514 97.5% Against 7,597,984 2.5% Total 307,175,498 100% Withheld 4,806 1 For includes votes at the Chairmans discretion.
A majority over 50% of the votes cast was required for the resolutions to be passed, and all were duly approved by shareholders.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN CHART The chart below shows the Companys TSR performance compared with that of the FTSE 350 Index.
As IG Group is a member of this index, the Committee believes it is appropriate to compare the Groups performance against it.
This graph shows the value, by 31 May 2018, of 100 invested in IG Group on 31 May 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 Financial Services Index.
600 500 400 300 200 100 0 May-09 May-10 May-11 May-12 May-13 May-14 May-15 May-16 May-17 May-18 IG Group FTSE 250 Index FTSE 350 Financial Services Index Source: FactSet 76 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Value rebased Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER EARNINGS HISTORY The earnings history of the Chief Executive Officer is shown in the table below: 2 Financial year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Single figure remuneration 000 1,628 1,141 2,201 1,103 1,970 1,519 2,745 1,452 2,974 Annual bonus outcome %maximum 100% 7% 99% 47% LTIP vesting outcome % maximum 48% 40% 61% VSP vesting outcome % maximum 6% 3% 0% SPP plan contribution 1 % maximum 54% 41% 90% 27.1% 80% 1 The SPP replaced the annual bonus and VSP schemes from the financial year ending 31 May 2014.
2 Includes the base salaries paid to both T A Howkins and P G Hetherington for their respective tenures as CEO during the year, and the SPP awards applying to P G Hetherington in the year.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDING 31 MAY 2019 Salaries The Committee decided to increase the salary of the Executive Directors by 2.74%, in line with the average increase for the UK workforce, as at 1 June 2018.
The salaries for the new Executive Directors were set following a review of the market and taking into account the nature of the roles and their individual background, skills and experience, reflecting the increased responsibilities and complexity of sitting on the Board.
Salary effective Salary effective from 1 June from 1 June 2017 2018 Salary increase P G Hetherington 575,000 590,800 2.74% P Mainwaring 400,000 411,000 2.74% B Messer 370,000 J Noble 370,000 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees Each year, the Board reviews the Non-Executive Director fees the Remuneration Committee reviews the Chairmans fees.
Last year the review resulted in no change to the fee structure or quantum despite upward pressure on fees and emerging practice at that time.
This year, as part of the review, the Board instructed our remuneration advisors to carry out an external benchmarking exercise to assist the Board with the fee-review process.
Following the review, the structure of Non-Executive Director remuneration was updated to reflect emerging practice through the introduction of Committee membership fees other than in respect of the Nomination Committee and excluding the Board Chairman of 3,000 per Committee.
The benchmarking review also indicated that Committee Chairman fees had fallen below benchmark, and in light of the increasing weight of responsibility on Committee Chairs, the Board awarded an increase in such fees excluding the Nomination Committee to25,000.
The Non-Executive Director basic fee of 65,000 remains unchanged.
The Remuneration Committee also received a benchmarking review of the Board Chairmans fees, and following review agreed to increase the fee to 300,000.
This takes account of the market level of fees for Board Chairs and also the time commitment involved in the role.
The Board Chairman will receive no fee for membership of any Board Committee.
Following the benchmarking exercise, the structure of non-executive remuneration is now as follows: Chairman: 300,000 Non-Executive Director base fee: 65,000 Committee Chairman fees other than the Nomination Committee : 25,000 Senior Independent Director fee: 10,000 Committee membership fees: 3,000 excluding the Group Board Chairman and membership of the Nomination Committee IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 77 Governance Report DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND POLICY CONTINUED Sustained Performance Plan For the awards to be granted in respect of plan year 6, which will end on 31 May 2019, a maximum opportunity of 500% will apply for the Chief Executive Officer, and 400% of annual rate of base salary will apply for the other Executive Directors.
The performance targets for these awards are shown below.
MEASURE FURTHER DETAIL MEASUREMENT WEIGHTING PERIOD PLAN YEARS Diluted earnings per share The Committee has determined a sliding scale of targets Financial year ending 45% that will apply for the financial year ending 31 May 2019.
31 May 2019 Performance is measured against constituents of the The three financial years 35% Relative Total Shareholder FTSE 350, excluding investment trusts.
No part of ending 31 May 2019 Return thiselement will be awarded if performance is below median.
25% will be awarded for median, increasing on a straight-line basis, with full vesting for upper-quartile performance or better.
The Committees discretion toscale back vesting will apply, as set out in the PolicyReport.
The measures will include: Financial year ending 20% Non-financial measures 31 May 2019 System reliability Maintaining good standing with regulators Customer satisfaction Reputation and PR Risk management People Execution and delivery of key strategic initiatives The Committee will ensure the DEPS and non-financial targets are suitably stretching.
We deem the DEPS and non-financial measures themselves to be commercially sensitive, and will not disclose these prospectively.
However, we will provide retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them in next years remuneration report.
MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee is composed of three independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who was independent on appointment.
The current members of the Committee are set out below, together with their attendance at meetings: COMMITTEE MEMBERS SCHEDULED SCHEDULED MEETINGS ELIGIBLE MEETINGS ATTENDED TO ATTEND 1 Malcolm Le May 5 4 Andy Green 5 5 1 Stephen Hill 5 5 Jim Newman 5 5 1 Malcolm Le May did not attend one Committee meeting due to short-notice unforeseen circumstances.
In Malcolms absence, he provided comments on the business of the meeting to Stephen Hill, who acted as Chairman for the meeting.
Other than the Company Secretary, who attends all Committee meetings, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer attend the Committee meetings by invitation.
The Chairman and Executive Directors do not attend or take part when matters relating to their own remuneration is discussed.
Representatives from other areas of the business attend the Committee meetings byinvitation as appropriate to the matter under consideration.
78 IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Company Overview Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Shareholder and Co. Info Following each Committee meeting, a The Committee considered various AH provided advice in respect of a wide formal report is made to the Board in papers on the structure and quantum range of issues, including advice on the which the Chairman of the Committee of management remuneration below operation of the Sustained Performance describes the proceedings of the Executive level and made adjustments to Plan, TSR performance monitoring, Committee meeting and makes the LTIP that applies below the executive drafting the Remuneration Report and recommendations to the Board level, for the 2019 financial year onwards.
Policy, remuneration benchmarking and share plan implementation services.
AHs fee for advice provided to the These adjustments are designed to Remuneration Committee during the To ensure the Committee discharges promote retention of staff and increase financial year ending 31 May 2018 was its responsibilities appropriately, an alignment of management interests with 0.1 million excluding VAT.
Other than annual forward calendar, linked to shareholders, while the size of grants will in respect of the advice described above, the Committees Terms of Reference, be limited.
Awards will continue to be AH has no other relationship with IG that is approved by the Committee.
made in shares, with vesting after three might prejudice their independence.
The Company Secretary assists the years, but the previous EPS performance Chairman of the Committee in drafting condition will no longer apply.
The COMMITTEE EVALUATION the agenda for each Committee Committee will consider Company and meeting, ensuring that each of the individual performance prior to any award During the year, the Committee items under the Committees Terms being made.
undertook a questionnaire-based review of Reference and responsibilities is of its own effectiveness.
The evaluation covered at least once in the financial The Committee undertook a five-year process was internally facilitated by year, and more frequently if required.
review of the structure of the SPP, and the Company Secretary as part of the following detailed review agreed that the overall annual Board effectiveness The full Terms of Reference for the SPP continued to act as an appropriate review.
Overall, the Committees Committee can be found on the Groups reward and retention tool.
performance was rated highly, as was website, iggroup.
These will be the management of its meetings.
The reviewed following the publication of the There had been a local staff consultation Committee had made great strides revised UK Corporate Governance Code of extending SIP-type arrangements during the year in ensuring it was kept up to ensure they remain in alignment.
tostaff in Poland and India.
Given that to date with, and in debating, significant demand from employees was particularly information on market developments ACTIVITY DURING THE FINANCIAL low, the Committee decided not to relating to executive pay.
The need to YEAR pursue such schemes at this time.
continue to focus on improvements in the quality of materials provided During the year, the Committees key In addition, the Committee received to the Committee was highlighted.
activities included the review of: regular updates on developments in The Directors Remuneration Report remuneration governance, including This report was approved by the Board of published in the 2017 Annual Report updates on the Groups gender Directors on 24 July 2018 and signed on and Accounts and the Directors pay gap reporting and from the its behalf by: Remuneration Policy Committee Chairman on outcomes The fee for the Company Chairman of meetings with shareholders.
and Executive Directors remuneration for the 2019 financial year ADVICE TO THE COMMITTEE Salaries and packages for the new During the financial year ended Executive Directors 31 May 2018, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive Officer about Malcolm Le May Performance against targets for the remuneration matters relating to Chairman, Remuneration Committee vesting of awards under the SPP and individuals other than himself.
The the LTIP and for the determination of Company Secretary also provided 24 July 2018 the bonus pool advice and support to the Committee.
The remuneration and bonus awards, including for senior management External advisers attend Committee Proposed targets for the FY19 meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
Sustained Performance Plan and theLong Term Incentive Plan The Remuneration Committee was The performance of the Groups Sales advised during the year by Aon Hewitt Incentive Plans to gain assurance formerly New Bridge Street AH.
thattheir design helps promote The Committee considers the advice goodconduct obtained from AH to be objective and independent.
AH is a member Remuneration Code Staff of the Remuneration Consultants Group and is a signatory to its Code of Conduct, which requires its advice to be objective and impartial.
IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 79
