DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE Remuneration outcomes for the 2018 financial year, in line with the policy approved by shareholders at the AGM in February 2018, are set out below.
PERFORMANCE ANNUAL BONUS METRICS LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN METRICS 3-YEAR ADJUSTED EPS 5.0% ADJUSTED EPS 5.0% OPERATING CASH CONVERSION 97% NET REVENUE 3.0% GROWTH & SPECIALIST BRAND NET REVENUE 8.0% TSR -0.1% PRIORITY MARKETS IN SHARE GROWTH 50% NUMBER OF REGISTERED BLU CONSUMERS 635% Measured at constant currency ANNUAL BONUS LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN 0% 50% 100% 0% 50% 100% Adjusted EPS Adjusted EPS 15% 20% 12.5% 50% Operating Cash Net revenue 20% 20% 7.5% 30% Conversion growth Growth & Specialist Brand 25% 25% TSR 0% 20% Net Revenue Priority Markets 16% 20% in Share Growth Number of Registered blu 11% 15% Consumers Total 87% 100% Total 20% 100% Actual percentage of bonus Actual percentage of award Maximum percentage of bonus Maximum percentage of award 56 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 56 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS OUR REMUNERATION POLICY 2022 Two-year holding 2021 Three-year deferral of 50% 2020 Three-year performance 2019 2018 One-year performance FIXED PAY SALARY, PENSION LONG-TERM AND BENEFITS ANNUAL BONUS INCENTIVE PLAN Recruit, retain and motivate Drives delivery of annual Aligns interests with Link to high calibre executives.
Deferred element stakeholders by incentivising strategy incentivises sustained delivery of long-term strategic performance aligned to objectives and retaining shareholder interests.
com 57 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REWARDING PERFORMANCE Our pay arrangements encourage Executive Directors and the management team to deliver our strategy.
This is particularly important as we transition the Company to take advantage of opportunities provided by NGP.
MALCOLM WYMAN Chairman MEMBERS DEAR SHAREHOLDER Malcolm Wyman Steven Stanbrook A key responsibility of the Remuneration Committee is to Chairman from 4 July 2018 Karen Witts ensure that remuneration structures and arrangements offer David Haines Trevor Williams every encouragement to Executive Directors and the broader Chairman to 3 July 2018 Committee Secretary management team to deliver our strategy and create sustainable shareholder value.
In doing this, the Committee has given consideration to your interests and those of the wider OTHER REGULAR ATTENDEES 1 stakeholders and the communities we serve.
Board Chairman Group Reward and Capability 1 Director Chief Executive This is particularly important as we transition the Company to FIT Remuneration Consultants Group Company Secretary take advantage of the opportunity for rapid growth provided by 1 LLP, the Committees principal Group Human Resources Director 2 NGP whilst, at the same time, maximising the profitability and adviser cash flows from our tobacco business.
Specifically excluded when their own remuneration or conditions of service focused on maintaining alignment between our incentive are under discussion.
metrics and the key priorities for the business, as well as on 2.
trying to ensure that the performance delivered by the Executive Directors is appropriately rewarded.
FOCUS IN 2018 Following continued engagement with shareholders, we The Committee values its relationship with, and continued proposed the roll-over of our remuneration policy at the support from, shareholders and we were pleased to receive 2018 AGM: overwhelming support for our Directors remuneration policy Appointment of FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP as the at the AGM in February 2018, which was approved with a principal adviser to the Committee: and 95.7 per cent vote in favour.
Reviewed criteria for performance-related reward elements, Pay for performance further alignment with strategy and incentivising delivery of As reported by Alison Cooper in her introduction to this years our NGP ambitions.
Annual Report, 2018 has been another year of delivery against our strategy, in which the management team delivered LOOKING AHEAD TO 2019 continued momentum in tobacco and significantly enhanced Monitor and, where appropriate, implement remuneration performance in NGP.
We grew share in many of our priority governance developments: tobacco markets and overall tobacco net revenue grew by Ongoing review of alignment of remuneration to strategy 0.9 per cent on a constant currency basis.
Within this, our and the appropriateness of reward outcomes: Growth and Specialist Brand revenues were up 8.0 per cent.
Cash conversion was strong at 97 per cent and adjusted Further engagement with shareholders: and earnings per share, again on a constant currency basis, grew Review and implementation of changes to the Corporate by 5.0 per cent.
In NGP, the successful launch of my blu and Governance Code and reporting requirements.
blu ACE enabled the number of consumers participating in the brand to grow significantly during the year.
58 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 58 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS This performance is reflected in the Annual Bonus payments We recognise that, as a result of this, there is now a greater level of received by the Executive Directors.
The bonus result of 87 per overlap of metrics between the Annual Bonus and the Long-term cent of maximum was achieved by strong delivery across all Incentive Plan than some shareholders will like.
However, the metrics and against tough targets.
Committee believes that, at this time, this is the most appropriate way to align metrics with the delivery of strategy.
The Committee The result of the LTIP, at 20 per cent vesting, reflects the fact that believes that metrics will need to continue to evolve as our NGP the targets for both EPS growth and net revenue growth were set business grows and that this overlap will likely unwind in the by the Committee in 2015 before the considerable additional medium term.
brand and market investments behind NGP and tobacco in 2017 and 2018 were agreed by the Board.
The impact of the brand and UK Corporate Governance Code and regulatory change market investments, taking into account both the level of The Committee believes in balancing clear regulation with investment and any in-year returns, has led to a reduction in strong delegated authority for the Board to make decisions that LTIP vesting in 2018.
The Committee believes that the decision are in the best interests of the Company and its stakeholders.
taken by management to invest for future, sustainable growth The Committee is currently reviewing the implications of recent was in the best interests of both the Company and its changes and, whilst the changes to the Code would not apply to stakeholders, but it has clearly resulted in a reduction in LTIP Imperial until the financial year ending 2020, will look at remuneration this year.
Despite the level of LTIP vesting being negatively impacted by Whilst the Committees primary purpose is the governance of these investments, the Committee has taken the view that future pay for Executive Directors and senior management, we have years will benefit from these investments and has not, therefore, always had oversight of pay policy across the wider workforce.
Whilst not perfect, this approach avoids The Committee has taken a keen interest in the gender pay gap the need to consider complex adjustments in future years.
reporting requirements see our website for further information The Committee will continue to monitor incentive results.
and will continue to monitor progress in this important area.
The Committee decided to award salary increases of 2.5 per cent Lastly, I would like to thank David Haines for his leadership to both Alison Cooper, Chief Executive, and Oliver Tant, Chief of the Remuneration Committee over the past four years.
This increase is appropriate in relation to the Under Davids chairmanship, the Committee developed clear Executive Directors contribution and in the context of a 2.9 per remuneration principles and strengthened the alignment cent increase awarded to the wider UK workforce.
An increase of between pay and strategy.
The Committee will continue to 6.0 per cent was awarded to Matthew Phillips, Chief ensure that our approach to executive remuneration best Development Officer, to reflect the increased importance and supports the sustainable success of the Company, the interests scope of his role in relation to the development agenda, of our shareholders and those of the wider stakeholders and including greater opportunities in heated tobacco, oral nicotine communities we serve.
and cannabinoids, as well as our key focus on e-vapour.
Fees paid to the Chairman and to the Non-Executive Directors were reviewed.
It was determined that the Chairmans fee should increase to 550,000 from 525,000.
The Board, without the Non-Executive Directors, decided that the Non-Executive Directors should each receive an increase in the base fee of MALCOLM WYMAN 3,000 per annum to 78,000.
A portion of these fees is retained Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and used to purchase shares which must be retained for the duration of their appointment.
Looking forward to 2018 19 Whilst there is no change to policy, the Committee intends to KEY SECTIONS OF THIS REPORT ARE AS FOLLOWS: make some changes to performance metrics in both the Annual 60 Governance Bonus and the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
These changes reflect 61 Annual report on remuneration the current dual focus of our business: maximising our position 61 Single total figure table and the cash flows from tobacco, whilst at the same time seizing the 62 Annual bonus opportunities in NGP to deliver accelerated growth.
The dynamics 63 Long-Term Incentive Plan of these two businesses are very different, with incremental 66 Implementation of remuneration policy for FY18 19 growth and a focus on cost efficiency in tobacco, but exponential 70 Statutory and regulatory reporting requirements growth with high levels of uncertainty and a focus on investment 71 Summary Directors remuneration policy in NGP.
In selecting metrics, the Committee has had to take these differences into account.
In order to reflect appropriately the importance of, and incentivise the delivery of, both tobacco and NGP revenues and effectively deal with the different dynamics of each market the Committee has decided to measure delivery in each category separately.
Therefore, for financial year 2018 19, in both the Annual Bonus and the Long-Term Incentive Plan, we will adopt separate Tobacco Revenue Growth and NGP Revenue Growth metrics.
Details are provided on pages 67 to 69, which includes an explanation of a change in approach for assessing the NGP Revenue Growth metric.
com 59 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued GOVERNANCE making recommendations to the Board in respect of our THE ROLE OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Chairmans fees: The Board recognises that it is ultimately accountable for setting measures and targets for the performance-related executive remuneration, but has delegated this responsibility elements of variable pay: to the Committee, all members of which are independent oversight of our overall policy for senior management Non-Executive Directors.
We consider this independence remuneration and of our employee share plans: and fundamental in ensuring Executive Directors and senior ensuring appropriate independent advisers are appointed to executives remuneration is set by people who have no provide advice and guidance to the Committee.
personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters discussed.
The Committees full terms of reference provide further details of its role and responsibilities and are available on our website.
To reinforce this independence, a standing item at each Committee meeting allows the members to meet without any This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Executive Director or other manager being present.
provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and The Committees key responsibility is to support the Companys Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
strategy and its performance by ensuring the Directors It also meets the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys remuneration policy attracts, retains and incentivises the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
high calibre executives required to ensure delivery.
It also In this Report we describe how the principles of good determines the specific remuneration package, including governance relating to directors remuneration, as set out in service contracts and pension arrangements, for each the UK Corporate Governance Code 2016 the Code, are applied Executive Director and our most senior executives.
The Committee confirms that, throughout the The Committees other responsibilities include: financial year, the Company has complied with these governance rules and provisions.
maintaining a competitive remuneration policy appropriate to the business environment of the countries in which we The Regulations require our auditors to report to shareholders operate, thereby ensuring we can attract and retain high on the audited information within this Report and to state calibre individuals: whether, in their opinion, the relevant sections have been aligning senior executives remuneration with the interests prepared in accordance with the Act.
The auditors opinion is of long-term shareholders whilst ensuring that remuneration set out on page 77 and we have clearly marked the audited is fair but not excessive: sections of the Report.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEETINGS 2017 2018 2017 2018 November May September Directors remuneration policy including AGM voting and shareholder feedback Market practice update update from consultation Market practice update Potential outturn for FY18 bonus Finalise FY17 Directors Remuneration Report and LTIP Review of policy Approval of FY18 Executive salary increases Consideration of FY19 salary and incentive structures Variable remuneration Review of Chairmans fees Approval of FY17 outcomes Consideration of FY18 bonus targets LTIP 2018 grant and performance criteria Approval of 2018 Sharesave grant 60 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 60 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION HOW THE COMMITTEE IMPLEMENTED THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 IMPLEMENTING EXECUTIVE POLICY AND PRACTICE In implementing the Directors remuneration policy as approved by shareholders at the 2018 AGM and set out on pages 56 to 61 of the Companys Annual Report and Accounts 2017, available on our website and summarised on page 71, the Committee recognises that striking the right balance in finding a fair outcome in setting a competitive level of total remuneration is a matter of judgement.
In forming this judgement, the Committee considered pay data at comparator companies of similar scale, primarily looking at a market capitalisation group made up of 10 companies above and 10 companies below the Company in the FTSE, excluding financial services.
Comparisons with other companies, however, do not determine what remuneration the Company offers but, at most, serve to define a playing field against which an individuals reward should be positioned.
In determining that positioning, the primary factors taken into account are the scale of the challenges intrinsic to that individuals role and their ability, experience and performance.
We align the interests of long-term shareholders and employees at all levels by, wherever possible, giving our employees the annual opportunity to build a shareholding in the Company through our employee share plans, with over 30 per cent of eligible employees participating in one or more plans.
Taxable benefits principally include an allowance of 15,000 in lieu of the provision of a company car, fuel and health insurance.
Benefits in kind for the Non-Executive Directors relate to the reimbursement of travelling expenses to meetings held at the Companys registered office.
Annual bonus earned for performance over the financial year ending 30 September 2018.
In line with policy half of the net value is deferred in shares for three years: no further performance conditions apply.
Share plans vesting represent the value of LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year and are based on a share price of 28.1657, being the three-month average to 30 September 2018 and an estimate of the dividend roll-up based on announced dividend payable on 31 December 2018 and the closing share price on 1 November 2018.
The 2017 estimated figure has been restated to reflect actual share price at the date of vesting.
Gains made on exercise are calculated as the difference between the option price and the market price on the date of exercise.
These sharesave options were the only options exercised in the year: 354 shares in respect of Alison Cooper and 212 shares in respect of Matthew Phillips.
Further details are contained in the Executive Directors pension section on page 64.
Includes payment in respect of Committee membership at an annual rate of 5,000.
Therese Esperdy and Steven Stanbrook receive a non-European allowance of 12,000.
Includes payment in respect of Senior Independent Director fees of 26,000 per annum and chairmanship of Remuneration and Audit Committees at an annual rate of 26,000.
David Haines stepped down from the Board on 3 July 2018.
Simon Langelier was appointed to the Board on 12 June 2017.
All expense payments made to Directors were made on the basis of reimbursement of expenses incurred, grossed-up for tax where expenses represent a taxable benefit.
No payments were made by way of taxable expenses allowances.
No Directors waived their fees.
com 61 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued ADDITIONAL NOTES TO THE SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION This section sets out supporting information for the single total figure columns relating to annual bonus, share plans and pension benefits.
In particular, it details the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied for the annual bonus and the LTIP.
Payments to former Directors Audited No payments were made to former Directors during the year.
Payments for loss of office Audited No payments were made for loss of office during the year.
Determination of 2018 annual bonus 2018 was another year of delivery against our strategy, with continued momentum in tobacco and a significantly enhanced performance in NGP.
With performance delivered across the full range of metrics, the annual bonus payment for the financial year ending 30 September 2018 is 87 per cent of maximum opportunity 2017: 60 per cent.
Performance below threshold results in zero payment.
Payments rise from zero per cent at threshold to 100 per cent of opportunity at the maximum.
Performance against individual measures is set out below: Maximum Actual percentage percentage Performance target Assessment of bonus of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Performance is measured based on EPS growth at constant currency.
20 15 KPI constant currency Overall top line growth of 2.1%, driven by tobacco growth combined with rapidly increasing NGP sales, plus strong cost control through the year resulted in EPS growth of 5.0%.
This performance delivered a 75% achievement against a threshold of 2% and a maximum of 6% EPS growth, which reflected the impact of the continued investment in NGP.
Operating cash Performance is measured as cash flow as a percentage of adjusted operating profit.
20 20 KPI conversion Maximising cost and cash is core to our strategy, enabling us to improve efficiencies and release funds to support continued investment for growth.
This continued focus on efficiently managing our cost base and a commitment to capital discipline delivered cash conversion of 97% in the year.
This delivered a 100% achievement against a threshold target of 90% and a maximum target of 95%.
Revenue growth in Performance is measured based on revenue growth of our Growth Brands and Specialist Brands.
25 25 Growth Brands & Growth Brands and Specialist Brands have steadily increased their contribution to our overall KPI Specialist Brands results.
With growth in the year of 8.0%, they now account for 67% of total revenue.
This performance delivered a payment of 100% of opportunity against a threshold target of 0% and a maximum target of 5.0%.
Market share growth Non-financial measures consisted of a market share target reflecting how many of our priority 20 16 in priority markets markets are delivering share growth.
Continued focus on implementing our MRM supported year-on-year growth in share in many of our ten priority markets, including UK, Russia, Japan, Italy and Saudi.
This performance delivered an 80% achievement against a threshold target of 10% and a maximum target of 60% of our priority markets in growth.
Strategic objectives For 2018, our NGP focus was on expanding the blu franchise.
This included product launches in a 15 11 growth in NGP number of markets, together with improving the consumer experience, in order to build a consumer base that gives a platform for future sustainable revenue growth.
The metric used for this initial phase of growth was growth in the number of consumers within the blu ecosystem.
This aligned two of the critical elements of building our consumer base, as to be counted within the metric, a consumer must have purchased blu products in the year and registered with myblu.
com, thereby initiating an ongoing relationship with the brand.
Successful launches of my blu and blu ACE led to an increase in the number of registered consumers from 82,000 in 2017 to 603,000 in 2018.
This delivered a 75% achievement against a threshold target of 150,000 and a maximum target of 750,000 registered consumers.
Achievement of 100 87 bonus for 2018 KPI Key performance indicator used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy see how we measure our performance on pages 12 and 13.
No element of the annual bonus is guaranteed.
Fifty per cent of earned bonus is paid in cash with the remaining 50 per cent paid in shares with a three-year retention period.
Annual bonuses for Executive Directors and certain key executives are subject to malus provisions before payment and clawback during the three years following the end of the financial year in which they are earned.
Clawback may be applied in the event of gross misconduct by the employee or misstatement of results where this had the effect of increasing the level of bonus that would otherwise have been paid.
62 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 62 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards made to Alison Cooper, Oliver Tant and Matthew Phillips in February 2016 will vest in February 2019, subject to continued service, based on performance conditions, measured over the three years, as set out below.
The targets for both EPS growth and net revenue growth were set by the Committee above the normal levels of 3-8 per cent and 1-4 per cent respectively in order to take account of the one-off benefit from the acquisition of US assets.
These targets were set in 2015 before the additional brand and market investment behind NGP and tobacco in 2017 and 2018 were agreed by the Board.
The impact of the investments, taking into account both the level of investment and any in-year returns, has led to a reduction in LTIP vesting in 2018.
The Committee believes that the decision taken by management to invest for future, sustainable growth was in the best interests of the Company and its stakeholders, but nevertheless has resulted in a reduction in the level of vesting this year.
Whilst the level of LTIP vesting has been negatively impacted by these investments, the Committee has taken the view that future years will benefit from these investments and has not, therefore, made any adjustment.
It also avoids the need to consider complex adjustments in future years.
The Committee will continue to monitor the overall impact of investment decisions on incentive results.
Threshold Maximum Percentage of Actual vesting percentage award Performance target performance of award of award vesting KPI, 1 Adjusted EPS 5% 10% average annual growth 5.0% 12.5% 50% 12.5% KPI, 2 Net revenue growth 3% 6% average annual growth 3.0% 7.5% 30% 7.5% 3 th TSR against comparator group Threshold at median of peer group 25 out of 38 5% 20% 0% companies Pro rata between median and upper quartile Maximum above upper quartile Achievement 20% 1.
The target range of 5% to 10% includes a one-off increase from normal targets of 3% to 8%.
This was made by the Committee in consideration of the one-off impact of the acquisition of US assets.
The target range of 3% to 6% includes a one-off increase from normal targets of 1% to 4%.
The TSR calculations, performed independently by Alithos Limited, use the share prices of each comparator group company, averaged over a period of three months, to determine the initial and closing prices.
Dividend payments are recognised on the date shares are declared ex-dividend.
The Committee considers this method gives a fairer and less volatile result as improved performance has to be sustained for several weeks before it effectively impacts on the TSR calculations.
PwC performs agreed upon procedures in respect of the EPS and net revenue growth performance conditions for the LTIP performance assessments.
Sharesave Plan We believe that our Sharesave Plan is a valuable way of aligning the interests of a wide group of employees with those of our long-term shareholders.
Annually we offer as many employees as practicable, including Executive Directors, the opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
Options over shares are offered at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the closing mid-market price of our shares on the day prior to invitation.
The Sharesave Plan allows participants to save up to 250 per month over a period of three years, and in the UK only three or, for grants in 2013 and earlier, five years, and then exercise their option over shares.
In common with most plans of this type, no performance conditions are applied.
In the financial year ending 30 September 2018, Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips had Sharesave Plans vesting.
Details are included in the single total figure table on page 61. www.
com 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Total Pension Entitlements Audited The Executive Directors who served during the financial year are all members of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund the Fund, which is the principal retirement benefit scheme operated by the Group in the UK.
Members who joined before 1 October 2010 are included in the defined benefit section of the Fund.
For members who joined prior to 1 April 2002 the Fund is largely non-contributory with a normal retirement age of 60.
New members of the Fund after 30 September 2010 accrue pension benefits in the Fund on a defined contribution basis, in the defined contribution section of the Fund.
Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips are members of the pre-April 2002 section of the defined benefit section of the Fund.
Prior to th 6 April 2006 they accrued a non-contributory pension at the rate of 1 47 of their pensionable salary limited by the effect of HMRCs earnings cap.
Although HMRC removed this cap from 6 April 2006, the Fund did not dis-apply it in respect of past pensionable service and maintained its own earnings cap going forward.
For pensionable service from 6 April 2006 onwards Alison Cooper and Matthew th Phillips accrue an additional pension at a rate of 1 60 of their pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap.
They pay member contributions at the rate of 5 per cent of their pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap.
Both Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips receive a salary supplement of 12 per cent of their pensionable salary in excess of the Funds earnings cap.
With effect from 1 September 2017, the Company introduced a cap on pensionable salary for active members such that pensionable pay will in future be limited to 75,000 or, if higher, the members pensionable salary at 1 September 2017.
Both Alison Cooper and Matthew Phillips now receive a salary supplement of 14 per cent on the difference between their capped pensionable salary and their actual salary.
Oliver Tant registered for Fixed Protection 2016 and opted-out of contributory membership of the defined contribution section of the Fund with effect from 1 April 2016.
No pension contributions have been paid to the Fund by or in respect of him since this date.
Instead the Company has paid him an additional salary supplement of 26 per cent of his salary from 1 April 2016.
The salary supplements have been calculated by the independent actuaries to reflect the value of the benefits of which they are in lieu and are discounted for early payment and for employers national insurance contributions.
The supplements are non-compensatory and non-pensionable.
As stated in the Committee Chairmans letter last year, going forward the Committee intends to limit employer contributions for new Executive Directors to the same level 14 per cent that is provided to other UK based employees.
Matthew Phillips elected to use the Funds scheme pays facility to settle his Annual Allowance charge for the 2011 12, 2012 13, 2013 14, 2014 15 and 2015 16 tax years.
His accrued pension was reduced by 19,678.79 a year including revaluation to offset these Annual Allowance charge payments.
This reduction to pension is reflected in the accrued pension figure as at 30 September 2018 it is also reflected in the value of the benefits as at 30 September 2018.
For Executive Directors who are members of the defined benefit section of the Fund, in accordance with the rules of the Fund and practice for all pre 2002 members, there would be no reduction to the accrued pension on early retirement if the reason for leaving the Companys employment is as a result of redundancy after the age of 50 or for the reason of business efficiency after the age of 55 or ill health at any age.
The following table provides the information required by Schedule 8 of the Regulations and gives details for each Executive Director of: the annual accrued pension payable on retirement calculated as if he she had left service at the year-end: the normal retirement ages: the value of the pension benefits at the start and end of the year, as calculated in accordance with the Regulations: the value of the pension benefits earned over the year, excluding any Directors contributions and any increases for inflation, calculated in accordance with the Regulations: and any payments in lieu of retirement benefits.
None of the Executive Directors has made additional voluntary contributions.
Executive Directors Pension Disclosures Audited Extra information to be disclosed under 2013 Directors Single figure numbers Remuneration Regulations Payment in lieu of retirement Value x 20 benefits over year net Total Value x 20 Value x 20 Pensionable i. e. pension of Directors pension Normal at start at end Accrued annual pension Age at service at supplement contributions benefits retirement of year of year 000 30 09 2018 30 09 2018 01 10 2017 30 9 2018 000 000 000 age 000 000 Alison Cooper 52 19 243 263 105 207 312 60 4,860 5,260 Matthew Phillips 47 18 128 134 44 23 67 60 2,560 2,680 1 Oliver Tant N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A 1.
Oliver Tant is a member of the defined contribution section of the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund.
He registered for Fixed Protection 2016 and as a result opted-out of contributory membership of the Fund and ceased pension contributions with effect from 1 April 2016.
Since this date Oliver Tant has received a salary supplement equal to 26 per cent of his basic salary and in the year to 30 September 2018 this amounted to 186,680.
64 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 64 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Variable Award Grants Made During the Year Audited In line with our remuneration policy in force from 2014 and re-approved by shareholders in February 2018, LTIP awards are made in February each year in order for any change in policy to be considered by shareholders immediately prior to grant.
The LTIP awards granted in February 2018 and the associated performance conditions are set out below.
Number of nilAmount of End of performance Threshold Weighting 1 2, 3 cost options Face value base salary period vesting of award Performance criteria Alison Cooper 143,654 3,769,500 350% 30 September 2020 25% 30% 3-year adjusted EPS growth 25% 30% 3-year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group 25% 20% 3-year NGP revenue growth Oliver Tant 68,407 1,795,000 250% 30 September 2020 25% 30% 3-year adjusted EPS growth 25% 30% 3-year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group 25% 20% 3-year NGP revenue growth Matthew 54,401 1,427,500 250% 30 September 2020 25% 30% 3-year adjusted EPS growth Phillips 25% 30% 3-year net revenue growth 25% 20% TSR relative to bespoke comparator group 25% 20% 3-year NGP revenue growth 1.
Valued using the closing share price at the date of grant 14 February 2018 being 26.24 per share.
Vesting occurs as per the vesting schedule below.
Key performance indicators used to measure the progress we make in delivering our strategy see how we measure our performance on pages 12 and 13.
EPS element This criterion is used for 30 per cent of the award with the following vesting schedule: 1 Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 8% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 8% per annum or higher 100% 1.
As per the Committees decision in 2014, and all awards since 2015, EPS growth and net revenue growth are measured at constant currency.
Net revenue growth element The net revenue growth criterion is used for 30 per cent of the award with the following vesting schedule: 1 Compound annual growth in net revenue Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 1% per annum nil 1% per annum 25% 1% to 4% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 4% per annum or higher 100% 1.
TSR element The performance criterion for the TSR element is based on a single comparator group of companies across a broadly defined consumer goods sector and is applied to 20 per cent of the award.
The companies within the comparator group and the vesting schedule are detailed on page 63.
Under the rules of the LTIP, should the Company be acquired, the performance period would end on the date of acquisition.
Any outstanding awards would vest on a time pro-rata basis subject to the achievement of the applicable performance criteria.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Relative TSR performance Shares vesting as percentage of element Below median of peer group nil At median of peer group 25% Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% pro rata Above upper quartile 100% Performance criterion NGP revenue growth element This criterion will be used for 20 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Compound annual net revenue growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 35% per annum nil 35% per annum 25% 35% to 150% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 150% per annum or higher 100% www.
com 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Awards With No Performance Conditions Made During the Year Audited The deferred shares, being the deferred element of bonus, awarded during the year are set out below.
Number of Portion of End of 1 deferred shares Face value net bonus deferral period Alison Cooper 10,487 331,895 50% 30 September 2020 Oliver Tant 6,985 221,053 50% 30 September 2020 Matthew Phillips 5,558 175,895 50% 30 September 2020 1.
Valued using the share price at the date of purchase 8 January 2018, being 31.6471 per share.
Sharesave options granted during the year are set out below.
Number of 1 shares Face value Normal plan maturity Alison Cooper 404 9,000 1 August 2021 Oliver Tant 404 9,000 1 August 2021 Matthew Phillips 404 9,000 1 August 2021 1.
Valued using the option price of 22.24, being 80 per cent of the closing price on 9 May 2018.
HOW THE COMMITTEE INTENDS TO IMPLEMENT THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR 2018 19 LINKING REMUNERATION WITH STRATEGY Our strategy, as set out on page 3 of this Annual Report and Accounts, aims to maximise sustainable shareholder returns through the creation of long-term quality growth.
We will achieve this by: Maximising our performance in priority tobacco markets, where our Growth Brands and Specialist Brands provide high quality tobacco products to those consumers who choose to continue to smoke: Realising our ambition in NGP, with a primary focus on e-vapour and the expansion of our blu brand in new and existing markets but also realising opportunities in heated tobacco and oral nicotine products: and Optimising cost and cash, through a simplified operating model, controlled overheads and robust capital allocation, to enable our investment, reduce cost and support shareholder returns.
Our approach to remuneration is designed to incentivise delivery against the key elements of this strategy and to promote long-term sustainable success to the benefit of our shareholders and the wider stakeholders and communities we serve.
In doing this, we place significant emphasis, both in the structure of remuneration and in the choice of metrics used, in ensuring that remuneration aligns the interests of management with those of shareholders and our other stakeholders.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Alignment with Sustainable high-quality growth is at the heart of our strategy and this is reflected in our pay structures through the inclusion of our strategy top-line growth metrics in both the annual bonus and LTIP.
This growth will be delivered by a combination of maximising revenue in tobacco and through accelerated revenue growth in NGP.
To reflect this need for success in both parts of the business, and the very different dynamics in each, we have introduced independent revenue targets for tobacco products and NGP in both the annual bonus and the LTIP for 2019.
This supports a balance in focus and in reward outcomes, ensuring that both elements of the growth strategy must be delivered in order for significant incentive payouts to be achieved.
The inclusion in the annual bonus of market share metrics for our priority tobacco markets aligns with the strategic focus on those markets in which we see the best opportunity for sustainable and profitable growth.
In order to release funds in support of our investment to grow in both tobacco and NGP, continuing to manage our costs and cash flows remains a key strategic focus.
Profitability, mainly in the form of earnings per share, forms a major part of the measurement in both the annual bonus and LTIP, whilst cash conversion forms a measure for the annual bonus.
Whilst not directly measured within our incentives, return on capital remains a strategic KPI for the Company and all investment decisions are evaluated against the necessary hurdle rate before being approved.
Alignment with We believe that the best way to align management and employees with the interests of shareholders is through direct our shareholders shareholdings.
At the executive and leadership level, this is achieved through a combination of share-based long-term incentives and a 50 per cent deferral of bonus into shares.
Further to this and in line with our remuneration policy, 20 per cent of the vesting of the LTIP award is directly attributable to Total Shareholder Return delivered.
More broadly, employees at all levels are encouraged to have an interest in the Companys shares through both direct shareholdings supported by shareholding requirements for senior managers and through our share plans, with the value of the Corporate Management Groups overall remuneration being influenced by the performance of our share price.
Attracting, Our remuneration policy is designed to ensure a high-quality pool of talented employees at all levels who are engaged and retaining and incentivised to deliver our strategy through clear links between reward and performance, without encouraging them to take motivating undue risks.
the right people We believe it is important to ensure that management is competitively rewarded in relation to peers and the other opportunities available to them whilst ensuring we neither pay more than necessary nor reward failure.
Our policy is, therefore, significantly weighted towards performance-based elements.
66 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 66 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS ALIGNMENT OF REMUNERATION METRICS WITH STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Significant Capital Quality growth additive growth New ways of discipline and Maximising from tobacco opportunity working driving strong cash Growing shareholder maximisation from NGP cost efficiencies generation responsibly returns Adjusted EPS growth KPI Cash conversion KPI Revenue growth in Tobacco KPI Revenue growth in NGP KPI Market share Adjusted EPS growth KPI Revenue growth in Tobacco KPI Revenue growth in NGP KPI TSR against comparator group SALARY The Committee sets base salaries having regard to individual performance, changes to the individuals role, awards to other employees and market data for each position which reflect the Companys size, sector and global reach.
Consideration is given to the effect any amendment to an individuals base salary would have on their total remuneration package.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
An increase of 2.5 per cent, marginally below the increase to other UK employees, who on average received 2.9 per cent 3.1 per cent globally, was awarded to Alison Cooper and Oliver Tant.
An increase of 6.0 per cent was awarded to Matthew Phillips to reflect the increased importance and scope of his role and the development agenda, with opportunities in heated tobacco, oral nicotine and cannabinoids, as well as our key focus on e-vapour.
Salary Salary Percentage 2018 19 2017 18 change Alison Cooper 1,104,000 1,077,000 2.5 Oliver Tant 736,000 718,000 2.5 Matthew Phillips 605,000 571,000 6.0 The Committee also agreed that the Chairmans fee should increase by 4.8 per cent to 550,000.
The Board excluding the Non-Executive Directors determined that the base fee of the Non-Executive Directors should increase by 4 per cent from 75,000 to 78,000.
Neither the Chairman nor the Non-Executive Directors received an increase in the 2018 financial year.
ANNUAL BONUS Our shareholders and other stakeholders place significant weight on our annual performance.
We therefore think it is appropriate to have a major element of Executive Directors remuneration which incentivises delivery of the Companys annual objectives and enhancing performance against key financial and non-financial targets.
The maximum bonus opportunity for all Executive Directors remains unchanged at 200 per cent.
Performance metrics for the annual bonus have been amended to align with strategic priorities and appropriately reflect the importance of, and incentivise delivery of, both tobacco and NGP revenues.
In order to effectively deal with the very different dynamics of each market, the Committee has decided to measure delivery in each category separately.
The specific changes are: Revenue growth in our Growth Brands and Specialist Brands is replaced by measuring revenue growth in the whole tobacco portfolio.
Whilst we retain the momentum on growth in our strategic brands, this change to the metric ensures focus on the entire tobacco portfolio and thereby the sustainability of tobacco cash flows: and Revenue growth in NGP is introduced, replacing last years metric on the number of consumers in the blu ecosystem.
This change reflects the stage of maturity within our NGP business, with the focus on moving from building consumer numbers to converting smokers to our products and generating sustainable revenue streams.
It also takes account of the growing opportunities within NGP that are beyond blu, including heated tobacco and non-tobacco snus.
com 67 LTIP Annual bonus DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued For 2019, the critical importance of rapidly growing our NGP business is reflected in the provision of an additional mechanism which would reward for outperformance on this metric.
Performance delivered above the maximum target can potentially earn a higher bonus against this metric only, calculated on a straight line basis, to a cap of 40 per cent i. e. double the usual opportunity on this metric.
To be clear, the overall maximum bonus available is still capped at 200 per cent of salary, in line with policy.
The Committee expressly wants to incentivise and reward significant outperformance, given the dynamic nature of the NGP business.
The potential to earn any higher bonus against this metric would be limited by the bonus cap.
In addition, the Committee will consider performance overall and achievement against the other bonus metrics when determining if any higher outcome is appropriate for the NGP revenue metric.
Metrics for EPS, operating cash conversion and market share are retained unchanged.
Fifty per cent of net bonus paid will be in the form of the Companys shares deferred for a three-year period: the remaining 50 per cent will be paid in cash.
For the next financial year the performance measures have been set out in the table below: Maximum Performance target of bonus Adjusted EPS growth Commercially confidential 20% Cash conversion Commercially confidential 20% Revenue growth in tobacco Commercially confidential 20% Revenue growth in NGP Commercially confidential 20%-40% Priority market share Commercially confidential 20% Maximum of bonus limited to 200 per cent of salary.
At this point, the above performance targets are considered commercially confidential, but to the extent that any bonuses are paid, further details will be provided retrospectively in the 2019 Annual Report.
At the time of setting the bonus targets, the timing and proceeds generated by any divestments, discussed on page 2, and the use of those proceeds is uncertain.
In line with the Directors remuneration policy, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the bonus targets if any significant divestment causes a bonus measure and or target to no longer achieve its original purpose.
SHARE PLAN AWARDS FEBRUARY 2019 LTIP GRANT Performance metrics for the LTIP have been amended to reflect appropriately the importance of, and incentivise delivery of, both tobacco and NGP revenues.
In order to effectively deal with the very different dynamics of each segment, the Committee has decided to measure delivery in each category separately.
For the LTIP grant to be awarded in financial year 2018 19, we will replace the total net revenue growth metric with a tobacco revenue growth metric a standalone NGP revenue growth metric was introduced last year to reflect its importance to long-term success.
Twenty per cent weighting is given to each revenue measure, providing an overall weighting of 40 per cent on top-line growth, with a further 40 per cent on adjusted EPS growth and the final 20 per cent on TSR.
We recognise that, as a result of this, there is a greater level of overlap of metrics between the Annual Bonus and the LTIP.
However, the Committee believes that, at this time, this is the most appropriate way to align metrics and thereby pay with the delivery of strategy.
The Committee believes that, within our policy of 20 per cent weighting of TSR and the balance in financial measures, metrics will need to continue to evolve as our NGP business grows and that this overlap will likely unwind in the medium term.
Performance criteria Weighting in LTIP 1 Adjusted EPS growth 40% 1 Tobacco revenue growth 20% 1 NGP revenue growth 20% Relative TSR 20% 1.
When setting the performance targets the Committee takes account of the Companys long-term plans and analysts forecasts.
However, at the time of setting the targets for LTIP awards, the timing and proceeds generated by any divestments discussed on page 2 and the use of those proceeds is uncertain.
In line with the Directors remuneration policy, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the LTIP targets if any significant divestment causes an LTIP metric no longer to achieve its original purpose.
68 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 68 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Performance criterion EPS element This criterion is used for 40 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur in accordance with a vesting schedule agreed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The proposed vesting schedule is: Compound annual adjusted EPS growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 3% per annum nil 3% per annum 25% 3% to 8% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 8% per annum or higher 100% Performance criterion Tobacco revenue growth element This criterion will be used for 20 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Compound annual net revenue growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 0% per annum nil 0% per annum 25% 0% to 2% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 2% per annum or higher 100% Performance criterion NGP revenue growth element This criterion will be used for 20 per cent of the LTIP awards.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Compound annual net revenue growth Shares vesting as a percentage of element Less than 75% per annum nil 75% per annum 25% 75% to 130% per annum Between 25% and 100% pro rata 130% per annum or higher 100% The target range reflects the development of the NGP business and the investment made to support its growth.
Performance criterion TSR element The performance criterion for the TSR element will be based on a single comparator group including 37 companies across a broadly defined consumer goods sector and, in accordance with our remuneration policy, will be applied to 20 per cent of the LTIP.
The companies within the comparator group remain unchanged, as detailed on page 63.
Vesting of awards on this element would occur as per the vesting schedule below: Relative TSR performance Shares vesting as percentage of element Below median of peer group nil At median of peer group 25% Between median and upper quartile Between 25% and 100% pro rata Above upper quartile 100% www.
com 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued STATUTORY AND REGULATORY REPORTING REQUIREMENTS VOTING ON THE REMUNERATION REPORT AT THE 2018 AGM At the 2018 AGM we received a strong vote in favour of our Remuneration Policy and remuneration report, with over 95 per cent of votes in favour of the policy and over 98 per cent supporting implementation.
Votes cast by proxy and at the meeting in respect of the Directors remuneration were as follows: Votes for including Total votes Total votes discretionary Percentage Votes Percentage cast excluding Votes cast including 1 Resolution votes for against against votes withheld withheld votes withheld Directors Remuneration Report 750,467,025 98.48 11,547,680 1.52 762,014,705 560,276 762,574,981 Directors Remuneration Policy 728,923,965 95.66 33,080,528 4.34 762,004,493 570,488 762,574,981 1.
Votes withheld are not included in the final figures as they are not recognised as a vote in law.
ADVICE PROVIDED TO THE COMMITTEE Following a regular periodic review and tender, the Committee appointed FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT as principal adviser with effect from 1 November 2017.
FIT advised on all aspects of our remuneration policy and practice and reviewed our structures against corporate governance best practice.
FIT also presented a review of developments in UK corporate governance, remuneration developments and reporting regulations to keep Committee members up-to-date with new developments and evolving best practice.
FIT is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Code of Conduct which sets out guidelines to ensure that its advice is independent and free of undue influence.
FIT carries out no other work for Imperial Brands or its subsidiaries.
During the year FIT was paid time based fees of 70,227 and New Bridge Street the Committees previous adviser received fees of 67,261.
Other companies which provided advice to the Committee are as follows: Alithos Limited undertakes total shareholder return TSR calculations and provided advice on all TSR related matters.
During the year it was paid a fixed fee of 19,500.
Alithos Limited provided no other services to the Company: Allen & Overy LLP is available to provide legal advice to the Committee as and when required.
It was not asked for remuneration-related advice during the financial year.
Allen & Overy LLP provided other legal services to the Company: Pinsent Masons LLP provided legal advice in respect of the operation of the Companys employee share plans:  LLP PwC, our auditors, perform agreed upon procedures on earnings per share EPS and net revenue calculations used in relation to our employee share plans performance criteria.
During the financial year PwC was paid a fixed fee of 1,950 in respect of services to the Committee: and Willis Towers Watson provided market pay data to ensure the consistent application of our remuneration policy for Executives.
During the year it was paid time based fees of 45,600 for these services.
Willis Towers Watson also provided actuarial services to the Company.
All of these advisers were appointed by the Committee, which remains satisfied that the provision of those other services in no way compromises their independence.
They are all paid on the basis of actual work performed rather than on a fixed fee.
The Group Human Resources Director and the Group Reward and Capability Director also attended and provided internal support and advice on market and regulatory developments in remuneration practice and on our employee share plans.
Their attendance ensured the Committee was kept fully abreast of pay policies throughout the Company, which it then takes into account when determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors and our most senior executives.
70 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 70 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS SUMMARY REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Our Directors remuneration policy is designed to offer competitive, but not excessive, base salary, with significant weighting towards performance-based elements, the measures of which incentivise and support the delivery of our strategy, both on an annual and longer-term basis, whilst also reflecting individual, functional and corporate performance.
We aim to set and rigorously apply targets that are stretching but achievable.
There are no changes proposed to the policy approved by shareholders at our 2018 AGM, a summary of which is set out below.
It does not replace or override the full approved policy, which is available on our website within the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Purpose and Element link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Salary Attract, retain and motivate Reviewed, but not necessarily increased, annually by the Committee No prescribed maximum high-performing taking into account each Executive Directors performance together annual increase.
individuals, reflecting with changes in role and responsibility, general increases for the market value of role and the UK wider management population and with reference to external Executive Directors skills, market comparators.
Salary increases, if any, are generally effective experience and from 1 October.
Benefits Competitive benefits Benefits include provision of company car, health insurance, The level of benefit provision taking into account market life insurance and permanent health insurance which are is fixed.
value of role and benefits provided directly or through the Company pension scheme.
offered to the wider UK Opportunity to join the Sharesave Plan.
Provision of relocation assistance upon appointment if when applicable.
Annual Bonus Incentivise delivery of At least 60% of the annual bonus is linked to key financial metrics and 200% of base salary or such strategic objectives and no more than 15% will be linked to individual measures.
lower sum as determined by Plan enhance performance.
Performance below the threshold results in zero payment.
Payments rise from 0% to 100% of the maximum opportunity for levels of performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
Half of any annual bonus is paid in deferred shares which must be held for a minimum of three-years with no further performance conditions.
The balance is paid in cash.
Malus provisions apply before payment and claw-back provisions are in place for the three-years following payment of annual bonus.
Long-Term Incentivise long-term Awards have a performance period of three financial years starting at Chief Executive Officer: 350% Incentive Plan financial performance in the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made and are of base salary.
line with our strategy and based 20% on relative total shareholder return TSR vs a peer group Other Executive Directors: long-term shareholder returns.
250% of base salary or such Align Executive Directors In respect of each performance element, performance below the lower sum as determined by interests with those of threshold target results in zero vesting.
Vesting of each performance the Committee.
element starts at 25% and rises to 100% for levels of performance Plus shares equivalent to the between the threshold and maximum targets.
value of the dividend roll-up.
There is no opportunity to re-test.
Claw-back and malus provisions are in place.
Dividends accrued on vested shares are paid at the time of vesting.
Any awards which vest will be subject to a further two-year holding requirement.
Pensions Attract and retain Pension provision for Executive Directors is provided in line with Current policy is for a high-performing other employees through the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund in the UK defined contribution and Executive Directors.
Executive Directors who joined the Fund prior to 1 October 2010 cash supplement limit of are members of the defined benefit section whereas Executive Directors 26% of salary.
joining the Fund on or after this date are offered membership of the Existing members of the defined contribution section.
Members of the defined benefit section defined benefit section th th of the fund accrue pension at a rate between 1 47 and 1 60 of have a cash in lieu of pensionable salary.
Further detail is provided on page 64. pension accrual limit of Executives have the option to receive a cash supplement in lieu of 35% of salary.
membership of the Fund, or in lieu of accrual on pensionable salary above the Funds earnings cap, or in lieu of future service accrual.
com 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS Compensation on termination following Executive Directors Date of contract Expiry date a change of control Alison Cooper 1 July 2007 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Oliver Tant 1 October 2013 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions Matthew Phillips 31 May 2012 Terminable on 12 months notice No provisions POLICY IN RESPECT OF EXTERNAL BOARD APPOINTMENTS We recognise that external non-executive directorships are beneficial for both the Executive Director concerned and the Company.
Each serving Executive Director is restricted to one external non-executive directorship and may not serve as the chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
None of the Executive Directors currently holds an external non-executive directorship.
SHARE INTERESTS AND INCENTIVES AUDITED Directors current shareholdings are summarised in the following table: Shares held Conditional awards and options held Awards Options unvested and unvested and Vested but subject to subject to Vested Shareholding Current Owned subject to performance continued but not required shareholding 1 2 outright holding period conditions employment exercised % salary % salary Requirement met Executive Directors Alison Cooper 229,699 33,105 343,015 404 300 652 Yes 3 3 Oliver Tant 35,919 21,567 161,108 404 300 214 No Matthew Phillips 62,250 16,694 129,881 404 300 369 Yes Non-Executive Directors Mark Williamson 20,676 N A 4 Therese Esperdy 7,926 N A Simon Langelier 24,358 N A 4 Steven Stanbrook 18,463 N A Karen Witts 930 N A Malcolm Wyman 4,487 N A 1.
Based on a share price of 26.71, being the closing price on 28 September 2018.
Non-Executive Directors do not have a shareholding requirement, but are required to invest a minimum percentage of their fees in the Companys shares which they are required to retain for the duration of their appointment.
Oliver Tant reached his five-year anniversary on the Board on 1 October 2018.
His year-end shareholding of 57,486 does not meet the requirement to hold 300 per cent of salary.
During the year the Committee discussed and agreed with Oliver Tant an approach to meet the 300 per cent requirement.
In addition to the approximately 213,000 worth of shares purchased prior to the year-end, Oliver Tant has committed to purchase a further 130,000 worth of shares from the cash element of his FY18 bonus.
Based on the share price in note 1, once this agreed additional purchase is made and taking into account the deferred element of his FY18 annual bonus and the vesting of his FY16-18 LTIP, his shareholding requirement will then be met.
Therese Esperdy and Steven Stanbrook hold their shares in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
There have been no changes to the above holdings since the year-end.
Our middle market share price at the close of business on 28 September 2018, being the last trading day of the financial year, was 26.71 and the range of the middle market price during the year was 22.98 to 32.045.
Full details of the Directors share interests are available for inspection in the Register of Directors Interests at our registered office.
72 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 72 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS AWARD DATES Our policy is to grant awards under all our employee share plans on predetermined dates based on an annual cycle.
REVIEW OF PAST PERFORMANCE The chart below shows the value of 100 invested in the Company on 1 October 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index for each of our financial year-ends to 30 September 2018.
We have chosen the FTSE 100 Index as it provides the most appropriate and widely recognised index for benchmarking our corporate performance over a ten-year period.
Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting that were granted prior to appointment as Chief Executive.
Total remuneration includes value of share plans vesting on retirement.
Based on performance conditions applicable on date of retirement.
STATEMENT OF CHANGE IN PAY OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE COMPARED WITH OTHER EMPLOYEES 1 Chief Executive All employees To Percentage Percentage 30 September change change 2018 2018 vs 2017 2018 vs 2017 Salary 1,077,000 2.5 4.3 Benefits 16,910 1.7 5.8 Bonus 1,873,980 48.6 43.9 1.
Based on members of our Corporate Management Group.
This group has been chosen as it represents a good proxy for employees across the Group but is not overly influenced by local custom, hyperinflation in some jurisdictions etc.
com 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued CHIEF EXECUTIVE PAY RATIO The Committee is reviewing the methodology for calculating and presenting the pay ratio between the Chief Executive and its UK employees and intends to report this ratio in future reports.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below shows the expenditure and percentage change in overall spend on employee remuneration and dividends.
Percentage million unless otherwise stated 2018 2017 change Executive Directors total remuneration 8 9 3.8 1 Overall expenditure on pay 836 856 2.3 Dividend paid in the year 1,676 1,528 9.6 1.
Excludes employers social security costs.
OPERATING EXECUTIVE EXCLUDING EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 000 2018 2017 Base salary 2,624 2,994 Benefits 122 156 Pension salary supplement 326 318 Bonus 3,453 2,234 Termination payments 1,548 1 LTIP annual vesting 189 733 1 SMS annual vesting 720 650 7,434 8,633 1.
Share plans vesting represent the value of SMS and LTIP awards where the performance period ends in the year and are based on a share price of 28.1657 being the three-month average to 28 September 2018.
Note: aggregate remuneration paid to or receivable by Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and members of the OPEX for qualifying services in accordance with IAS 24, which includes National Insurance and similar charges, was 18,443,119 2017: 20,342,210.
1 KEY MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 AUDITED 000 2018 2017 Short-term employee benefits 14,373 12,020 Post-employment benefits 1,537 1,798 Other long-term benefits Termination benefits 1,548 Share-based payment in accordance with IAS 24 1,903 4,519 17,813 19,885 1.
Key management includes Directors, members of the OPEX and the Company Secretary.
74 Imperial Brands | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 74 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUSTS Our policy remains to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans either from market purchased ordinary shares or ordinary shares held in treasury, distributed through our employee benefit trusts: The Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Employee and Executive Benefit Trust the Executive Trust and the Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2001 Employee Benefit Trust the 2001 Trust together the Employee Benefit Trusts.
As at 30 September 2018, we held 77,289,137 ordinary shares in treasury which can be used to satisfy options and awards under our employee share plans either directly or by gifting them to the Employee Benefit Trusts.
Options and awards may also be satisfied by the issue of new ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts are as follows: Ordinary shares Balance at Acquired Distributed Balance at under award at Surplus 01 10 2017 during year during year 30 09 2018 30 09 2018 shortfall Executive Trust 485,014 0 142,108 342,906 893,933 551,027 2001 Trust 1,422,329 16,500 1,071,594 367,235 4,546,890 4,179,655 SHARE PLAN FLOW RATES The Trust Deeds of the Employee Benefit Trusts and the rules of each of our employee share plans contain provisions limiting options and awards to 5 per cent of issued share capital in five years and 10 per cent in 10 years for all employee share plans, with an additional restriction to 5 per cent in 10 years for executive share plans.
Currently, an aggregate total of 0.5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital including shares held in treasury is subject to options and awards under our executive and all employee share plans.
SUMMARY OF OPTIONS AND AWARDS GRANTED Cumulative options and awards granted Options and awards granted during the year as a percentage of issued share capital as a percentage of issued share capital Limit on awards including those held in treasury including those held in treasury 10% in 10 years 1.8 0.3 5% in 5 years 0.9 0.3 5% in 10 years executive plans 1.4 0.2 For the Board MALCOLM WYMAN Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 November 2018 www.
com 75 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES CONTENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Imperial Brands PLC 77 Consolidated Income Statement 83 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 84 Consolidated Balance Sheet 85 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 86 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 87 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting Policies 88 2 Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgements 93 3 Segment Information 95 4 Profit before Tax 97 5 Restructuring Costs 98 6 Directors and Employees 98 7 Net Finance Costs and Reconciliation to Adjusted Net Finance Costs 99 8 Tax 99 9 Dividends 101 10 Earnings Per Share 102 11 Intangible Assets 103 12 Property, Plant and Equipment 106 13 Investments Accounted for using the Equity Method 107 14 Inventories 108 15 Trade and Other Receivables 108 16 Cash and Cash Equivalents 108 17 Trade and Other Payables 108 18 Borrowings 109 19 Financial Risk Factors 110 20 Derivative Financial Instruments 115 21 Deferred Tax Assets and Liabilities 117 22 Retirement Benefit Schemes 118 23 Provisions 122 24 Share Capital 123 25 Share Schemes 123 26 Treasury Shares 125 27 Commitments 126 28 Contingent Liabilities 126 29 Net Debt 126 30 Reconciliation of Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt 127 31 Changes in Non-Controlling Interests 128 32 Post Balance Sheet Events 128 33 Related Undertakings 128 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Imperial Brands PLC Balance Sheet 129 Imperial Brands PLC Statement of Changes in Equity 129 Notes to the Financial Statements of Imperial Brands PLC 130 Related Undertakings 134 Shareholder Information 148 76 Imperial Brands|Annual Report and Accounts 2018
