NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED the skills and capability to perform the role effectively.
As BOARD SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE Senior Independent Director, he will serve as a sounding The review of skills and experience is carried out by the board for the Chairman and act as an intermediary for Committee annually by way of a skills assessment other Directors.
He will also be responsible for holding completed by the Board members.
annual meetings with Non-Executives, without the The Board has a broad range of skills and experience Chairman present, to appraise the Chairmans covering automotive, retail, reward and human performance, and will be available as an alternative resources, finance, consultancy, strategy and media.
point of contact for investors.
The skills review identified digital technology as an area DIVERSITY POLICY STATEMENT which could be further strengthened on the Board as The Committee recognises the benefits of having digital is a rapidly evolving area for the automotive industry and as such is a key consideration for succession a diverse Board and sees this as an essential element in delivering the Groups strategic objectives.
The future trends affecting the industry are given on page 11. diversity of skills and industry experience as well as background, race, age, gender, educational and The experience of the Board members covers a wide professional background as we believe this adds fresh range of sectors and industries and in addition we also perspectives which enrich our decision making and the have several Board members from outside the traditional aim of the policy is to reflect this ethos.
UK plc background and this diversity of thought adds to The Boards policy on diversity is a verbally agreed our decision making.
However, we recognise that this is principles-based policy.
It is clearly understood by our a constantly evolving environment and ensuring that we recruitment consultants and is taken into account when have the right mix of individuals to support and challenge considering succession planning and external hires.
The management, to avoid group think and to make the Board considers all aspects of diversity to be relevant and right decisions to facilitate the long-term success of the all Board appointments are made on merit and in the Group remains paramount.
context of the skills and experience needed for the Board APPOINTMENT PROCESS to be effective.
The Board has not set specific targets, The Inzito Partnership was appointed to assist with however aims to achieve the recommendations set the search for Non-Executive Directors during the year.
out in the Hampton-Alexander and Parker Reviews.
The team at Inzito has worked with the Group for several During 2018, Jane Kingston was appointed to the Board, years and is familiar with the current Boards skills set and therefore as at the date of this report women represent the potential requirements for the future.
During the recruitment process, I meet with the The Board philosophy on diversity is also reflected consultants to review our needs and to draw up throughout Inchcape where we employ a diverse a long-list of suitable candidates for consideration.
We value the unique When a short-list has been established, potential contribution that each person brings to Inchcape and candidates will meet with other Board members, after we aim to employ people who reflect the diverse nature which the Committee will decide on the most suitable of society, regardless of age, sex, disability, sexual candidate and recommend the appointment of the orientation, race, colour, religion, ethnic origin and Non-Executive Director to the Board for its approval.
The Inzito Partnership is a signatory to the Voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search Firms and does not have The Committees terms of reference can be found any other connection to the Company.
The Company continually updates its list of potential candidates, taking into account the Ignite strategy, the business needs of the Group and the Boards diversity policy, and should the situation arise when a Director departs unexpectedly, the recruitment process can begin immediately.
The Chairman led the recruitment process for the new Senior Independent Director and met with a broad range of candidates.
The short-list was discussed in detail with the Committee members and ultimately it was agreed that Jerry Buhlmann was the most suitable candidate.
The Committee believes that Jerrys recent CEO and international board experience is an asset and he has 66 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CR COMMITTEE REPORT BUILDING SUSTAINABILITY we engage with them and the outcome of the TILL engagement processes.
Creating dialogue with stakeholders enables us to build on our vision to be the VESTRING worlds most trusted automotive Distributor and Retailer and we will continue to build on this during 2019.
Chair of the Further details are given on page 29.
CSR Committee Another area of consideration for the Committee has been the new UK Corporate Governance Code requirement for engagement with the workforce.
I am pleased to report that the Board has agreed to delegate responsibility to the CSR Committee with myself as the designated Non-Executive Director.
The Committee will spend the first few months of 2019 agreeing actions, processes and reporting procedures to ensure that we are in a good position to engage with the workforce in a meaningful way.
Our employee experience surveys DEAR SHAREHOLDER and focus groups will go some way to provide valuable I am pleased to present the report of the CSR Committee information but we feel this would be enhanced by other for the year ended 31 December 2018. mechanisms such as Board members attendance at town hall meetings and further site visits to meet During the year, the Committee reviewed progress on employees and listen to their views.
our three core pillars, our people, health & safety and the I am excited for the opportunities this presents for the environment.
I am pleased that progress is being made Committee and I look forward to reporting on our on the people and health & safety agendas and we also activities in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
continue to work on minimising our environmental footprint.
Further information can be found in the CSR Report on pages 28 to 33.
The Committee also looked at each of our key Till Vestring stakeholders, how we create value for each of them, how Chair of the CR Committee COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS Feb Nov Till Vestring Committee Chair Jerry Buhlmann Independent Non-Executive Director Stefan Bomhard Group Chief Executive Officer Alison Clarke Chief Human Resources Officer Coline McConville Independent Non-Executive Director Nigel Stein Chairman Focus for 2018 Progress made Focus for 2019 CSR strategy A review of the CSR strategy was undertaken during Workforce engagement the year by an employee working group to determine Stakeholder engagement whether the strategy was still relevant to the changing business.
Stakeholder After receiving feedback from investors and 2019 CDP submission engagement customers we participated in the 2018 CDP Review of areas for improvement and climate change project.
subsequent action plans Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 67 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION ALIGNING PERFORMANCE AND REWARD DEAR SHAREHOLDER COLINE I am pleased to present the Directors Report on Remuneration DRR for the year ended 31 December MCCONVILLE 2018.
The first part of this report gives details of the remuneration policy which was approved by Chair of the shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting Remuneration AGM and part two of the report gives details Committee of how the policy was implemented during 2018.
Jane Kingston was appointed to the Board and to the Committee on 25 July 2018.
Jane brings a wealth of remuneration experience and her biography is given on page 49.
After almost five years on the Board and three years as Chair of the Committee, I have decided to retire from Inchcape and will be stepping down from the Board in July 2019.
By that time, Jane will have served on the Committee for 12 months and we will have completed a comprehensive handover prior to the policy review in 2020.
2018 PERFORMANCE OUTCOMES AND AWARDS The Group delivered sales of 9.3bn, operating profit before exceptional items of 385.1m, EPS of 65.0p adjusted and ROCE of 28%.
The performance resulted in 62.3% of the 2016 performance share plan PSP and the 2016 co-investment plan CIP vesting and a 2018 annual bonus payment of 57.7% for salary for Stefan Bomhard and 66.7% of salary for Richard Howes.
The various elements of remuneration paid to Directors are set out on the following pages, with a summary on page 70.
This includes a 4.0% and 2.5% salary increase for Stefan Bomhard and Richard Howes respectively, which took effect from 1 April 2018.
The Committee took into account the average salary increase across the Group when determining the 2018 Executive Directors salaries, along with performance, delivery of the Ignite strategy and external and internal market practices, and concluded these increases to be appropriate.
In 2018, the average salary increase across the Group was 2.5%.
The Committee is satisfied that the total remuneration received by Executive Directors in 2018 appropriately reflects the Companys performance over the year and is consistent with the approach taken for other employees.
The Committee is also satisfied that the approach to setting the remuneration underpins the effective and proper management of risk by rewarding fairly for sustainable profit growth and long-term returns for shareholders.
The Committee did not exercise any discretion on reward outcomes for 2018.
68 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS of disclosing the CEO pay ratio in this report however the 2018 UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Committee concluded that it would be appropriate to CODE disclose in next years report in line with regulations.
The new Corporate Governance Code was published in July 2018.
The Committee has considered its obligations During 2019, the Committee will review relevant under the new Code which is effective from 1 January processes, procedures and policies to ensure that they 2019.
Some of the new provisions have already been are aligned with the new reporting and governance adopted by the Company such as holding periods for regulations and will report to shareholders on these long-term incentive plans and malus and clawback aspects in next years DRR.
provisions, however there are certain actions the 2019 REMUNERATION Committee will undertake during 2019 as part of During 2018 and at the beginning of 2019, the the remuneration policy review: Committee reviewed the impact of new accounting A review of the information provided to the standard IFRS 16, which is effective from 1 January 2019, Committee in respect of workforce remuneration on the performance targets for the 2019 incentives as and related policies: well as the targets for the outstanding 2017 and 2018 A review of the alignment of pay structures with long-term incentive awards.
For 2019, the bonus and desired Company culture as well as performance : long-term incentive awards will be set taking into account the new standard to ensure targets and actual Consideration of a post-employment performance are measured on a consistent basis.
For the shareholding policy: outstanding 2017 and 2018 long-term incentive awards, Review of cash supplements offered to Executive the Committee intends to make adjustments to targets Directors as part of the pension contributions: as appropriate and will disclose in the relevant DRR.
Consideration of the use of discretion to override The Committee considered salary increases for Stefan formulaic outcomes beyond what is already permitted Bomhard and Richard Howes and approved an increase in the policy and relevant plan rules.
The salary increases will take effect from The Committee, in particular, notes the views of 1 April 2019. remuneration governance bodies and investor guidelines 2019 REMUNERATION POLICY REVIEW on pensions paid to executive directors.
At the last policy review in 2017, the Committee reduced the maximum Jane Kingston will lead the remuneration policy review during 2019 with a view to consulting with shareholders pension contributions from 40% to 30% of salary for the Executive Directors and will review the maximum before the end of the year.
Along with a comprehensive review of the policy the Committee will also consider how contribution again as part of the upcoming policy review.
it can engage with the wider workforce on how decisions The Committee also updated its terms of reference on executive pay reflect wider pay policies and toalign with the new Code.
Its terms of reference can alignment across the Group.
com governance and The Committee values the opportunity to engage with details of the remuneration consultants can be found onpage 87. stakeholders as it allows the Company to be transparent around its remuneration decisions.
Engagement also REGULATORY REPORTING REQUIREMENTS allows stakeholders to express their views on the clarity, The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations appropriateness and simplicity of its remuneration policy.
2018 the Regulations were published in June 2018.
The remuneration policy will be put to shareholders for The Committee has reviewed the revised reporting approval at the 2020 Annual General Meeting.
requirements which are effective from 1 January 2019.
We look forward to engaging with shareholders The Committee has decided to implement the following throughout the year and at the Companys Annual reporting requirements early: the disclosure of any use General Meeting in May 2019. of discretion by the Committee in the Annual Statement, the additional pay scenario of maximum vesting under the long-term incentives plus a 50% share price appreciation to the performance scenario charts and an additional note in the single figure table detailing how Coline McConville much of the Executive Directors vested long-term Chair of the Remuneration Committee incentives for that year are attributable to share price appreciation.
The Committee also reviewed the feasibility Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 69 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE WHAT EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EARNED DURING 2018 000 2,269 4.0% and 2.5% salary increase in 2018 for CEO 858 and CFO respectively 30% pension supplement 1,447 Benefits include medical cover, company car and life assurance 430 579 LTIP the figures are based on the value of awards using 222 the average share price from 16 1 October 2018 to 31 284 December 2018 of 563.5p 127 62.3% of the PSP and CIP 3 739 awards vested 423 4 31 Stefan Richard Bomhard Howes Base salary Benefits Other Pensions Annual bonus LTIP Details of actual performance achieved are given on pages 79 to 82.
ALIGNMENT OF PERFORMANCE AND REMUNERATION FOR 2018 Annual bonus Long-term incentives To motivate and reward the achievement of the To motivate and reward performance linked Companys strategic and operational objectives to long-term success DRIVE DRIVE INCREASE EARNINGS AND RETURNS GROWTH PERFORMANCE KPI: Revenue KPI: Operating Profit KPI: EPS KPI: ROCE 9.3bn 385.1m 65p 28% DELIVER STRATEGY LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE KPI: annual objectives Performance Period Progress of Ignite 2016 2018 REWARD REWARD CIP PSP 57.7% of salary CEO 1.25:1 match 62.3% 66.7% of salary CFO Further information on annual bonus and long-term incentive plans can be found on pages 80 to 82.
70 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Part 1 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the report sets out the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the AGM on 25 May 2017.
There are three minor changes clarifications: confirmation that it is current practice for any dividends accrued over the vesting of PSP and CIP awards to be paid in shares, a statement of the Committees commitment to consult employees on executive remuneration in the future and additional detail on the term of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors.
The performance scenario charts also include an additional scenario of maximum vesting under long-term incentives plus a 50% share price appreciation.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element Objective and link to Operation and performance metrics Opportunity strategy To pay a competitive Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually and any increases typically take Increases are not expected salary which attracts, effect from 1 April of each year.
to exceed average increase retains and motivates for senior management, Adjustments to salary will take account of: talent to make decisions unless a change in scope Increases awarded across the Group as a whole, which drive the or complexity of role applies.
and conditions elsewhere in the Group: Companys strategy Experience and performance of the individual: and create value Pay levels at organisations of a similar size, complexity for stakeholders.
and type: and Changes in responsibilities or scope of the role.
To motivate and reward Based at least 70% on annual financial performance.
Financial 150% of salary maximum Annual bonus for the achievement measures may include but are not limited to revenue and payable for achieving of the Companys operating profit.
Non-financial measures may include strategic stretch performance against strategic annual measures directly linked to the Companys priorities.
Any annual bonus earned above 100% of salary is paid in shares 60% of salary payable for which are automatically invested in the CIP.
Bonus payouts are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
12% of salary payable for entry level performance.
Performance To provide a meaningful Vesting of the PSP awards is based on performance measures PSP opportunities will be reward to senior linked to the Groups strategic priorities and may vary year-on-year.
Share Plan executives linked to the PSP For awards granted to the Executive Directors from 2017, vested Award levels are subject to long-term success of the awards will be subject to an additional two-year holding period.
an individual limit of 300% business.
Any dividends paid would accrue over the vesting period and The use of performance would be paid only on those shares that vest.
Dividends can be Threshold level performance shares enables the paid in cash or shares.
Current practice is for dividends to be paid will result in 25% vesting of delivery of median as shares.
pay for median PSP awards granted from 2017 are subject to malus and performance and clawback provisions.
upper quartile pay for upper quartile performance.
To encourage executive Any bonus over 100% of salary will be paid in shares which will be Executive Directors may Coshare ownership and automatically invested in the plan.
Further voluntary investments invest up to an overall Investment reinforce long-term may be made up to the investment limit.
Maximum match of 2:1, Invested shares can be withdrawn at any time but the entitlement threshold of 0.5:1.
A voluntary investment to a match would be lost if the invested shares are withdrawn opportunity in return for before the end of the relevant three-year vesting period.
Maximum matching award a performance-based is therefore 100% of salary Vesting of the CIP awards is based on performance measures match.
in any year, and threshold linked to the Groups strategic priorities and may vary year-on-year.
matching award is 25% Any annual bonus over For awards granted to the Executive Directors from 2017, vested of salary.
100% of salary will be awards will be subject to an additional two-year holding period.
paid in shares which Any dividends paid would accrue over the vesting period and will be automatically would be paid only on those shares that vest.
Dividends can be invested in the plan.
Current practice is for dividends to be paid Further voluntary as shares.
investments may CIP awards granted from 2017 are subject to malus and be made up to the clawback provisions.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 71 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Element Objective and link to strategy Operation and performance metrics Opportunity To encourage share UK employees are able to make monthly savings, over a Participation limits are those Save As You Earn ownership.
At the end of the savings period, the set by the UK tax authorities SAYE funds are used to purchase shares under option.
is an all-employee scheme and Executive Directors participate on the same terms as other employees, the acquisition of shares is not subject to the satisfaction of a performance target.
To provide market The Groups pension scheme, Cash, is a cash balance Eligibility to join the Cash Pension competitive pension retirement scheme which accrues 16% of earnings scheme at a minimum level benefits where it is capped at 250,000 p. a. paid as a lump sum at the to meet regulatory cost-effective and age of 65. requirements.
Members are required to contribute 7% of Cash supplement up to pensionable salary.
30% of base salary for Executive Directors.
Executive Directors may also receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension contributions.
To provide market Benefits currently include but are not limited to : Other benefits It is not anticipated that the competitive benefits costs of benefits provided Company cars: where it is cost-effective will materially exceed 5% Medical care: and and tax-efficient to do so.
of salary for existing Life assurance premiums.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. relocation.
To encourage share ownership and ensure alignment of executive interests with those of shareholders, Executive Directors are required to hold a number of shares equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Executive Directors have five years from the date of appointment to reach this shareholding.
controlling working capital and capital expenditure NOTES TO THE POLICY and, when combined with EPS, provides a balance Payments from existing awards between growth and returns.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment Performance targets are set to be stretching and fromany award made prior to the approval and achievable, taking into account the Companys implementation of the remuneration policy detailed strategic priorities and the economic environment inthis report.
Such awards include vested but in which the Company operates.
The Committee has considered the use of other Selection of performance measures and target setting performance measures to reinforce the Companys The Committee regularly reviews the appropriateness long-term objectives, including relative TSR and cash ofperformance measures used by the Group.
However, given the diversity of the Groups operations, it would be difficult to set a relevant and The annual bonus measures have been selected to robust comparator group for assessing relative TSR incentivise sustainable growth in profits.
The matrix performance and there would be some difficulty in structure provides a balanced focus between cascading many of the other measures appropriately commercial and cash initiatives.
A basket of strategic down the organisation.
measures will be selected each year to reinforce the Targets are set taking into account a range of Groups strategic objectives.
reference points including the Ignite strategy and The Committee believes that EPS continues to be the broker forecasts for the Group.
The Committee believes best measure of long-term performance for the Group that the performance targets set are appropriately and is currently therefore the primary long-term stretching, and that the maximum will only be incentive measure.
It provides strong line of sight for achievable for truly outstanding performance.
executives who are familiar with the existing basis of Please see pages 80 to 83 for further details on the EPS performance measurement and is consistent target ranges.
with the Groups long-term strategy focusing on sustainable growth.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust the annual bonus outcome up or down to ensure that it is a fair ROCE supports the Groups cash initiatives of reflection of the Groups underlying performance.
72 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Committee also has the discretion to adjust the Malus and clawback performance conditions for long-term incentive plans These provisions allow the Committee in certain in exceptional circumstances, provided the new circumstances such as gross misconduct or a material conditions are no tougher or easier than the misstatement of the Group financial statements the original conditions.
discretion to: Any discretion exercised by the Committee in the reduce bonus, PSP and or CIP: adjustment of performance conditions will be fully cancel entitlement of bonus: explained to shareholders in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
If the discretion is material prevent vesting of the PSP and or CIP: or and upwards, the Committee will consult with major allow the Company within two years of payment shareholders in advance.
vesting of award to claim back up to 100% of the award.
Composition of remuneration arrangements A significant proportion of Executive Directors pay is variable, long term and remains at risk i. e. subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Charts are based on maximum payout scenarios for Executive Directors.
Fixed vs. variable % 23% 77% Fixed: base salary, benets and pension Variable: annual bonus, PSP and CIP Short-term vs. long-term % 41% 59% Short-term: xed plus annual bonus paid as cash Long-term: PSP, CIP and annual bonus deferred into CIP Senior managers also receive PSP awards while REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER participation in the CIP is limited to Executive Directors, EMPLOYEES Group Executive Committee members and the next level Our approach to salary reviews is consistent across of executives c. 20 individuals.
Performance conditions the Group with consideration given to the level of are consistent for all participants while award sizes vary responsibility, experience, individual performance, salary by organisational level.
Share ownership guidelines levels in comparable companies using remuneration apply to Executive Directors and Group Executive surveys, where appropriate and the Companys ability Committee members.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the SAYE Senior managers c. 400 individuals participate in an scheme on the same terms.
annual bonus scheme which has similar performance targets to those of the Executive Directors.
Below this level, Pension and benefits arrangements are tailored to local local incentive schemes are in place for management market conditions, and so various arrangements are in and non-management employees.
Opportunities and place for different populations within the Group.
performance conditions vary by country and organisational level, with business unit-specific metrics incorporated where appropriate.
Commission-based arrangements are also operated for certain roles.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 73 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Objective and link to strategy Operation and performance metrics Opportunity To provide fair Non-Executive Directors receive a fixed fee and do not participate in any Appropriate adjustments may remuneration, reflecting incentive schemes or receive any other benefits, except the Chairman who be made to fee levels, taking the time commitment receives medical cover.
account of: and responsibilities Fee levels are reviewed regularly, with any adjustments effective increases awarded across of the role.
immediately after the review is approved.
the Group as a whole and conditions elsewhere in the Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director and Group: as Chairman of any of the Boards Committees excluding the Nomination fee levels within organisations Committee.
of a similar size, complexity The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee and type: and and the fees for other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the changes in complexity, Executive Directors.
responsibility or time Non-Executive Directors may elect to receive up to 20% of their net fees p. a. commitment required for as Company shares.
Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are within the limits set by shareholders from time to time.
This limit, currently at an aggregate of 1,000,000, was last approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
Non-Executive Directors term of appointment The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial three-year term which can be terminated by either party on one months notice six months for the Chairman.
Name Date of appointment Notice period 01 March 2017 One month Jerry Buhlmann 26 May 2016 One month Rachel Empey 25 July 2018 One month Jane Kingston 01 August 2013 One month John Langston 01 June 2014 One month Coline McConville Nigel Northridge 01 July 2009 One month 08 October 2015 Six months Nigel Stein Till Vestring 01 September 2011 One month employees on its employment policies including all CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE employee and executive remuneration and will report on IN THE GROUP this in the relevant sections of next years Annual Report.
Prior to the annual salary review, the Committee receives an update from the Chief Human Resources Officer on CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS the average salary increases across the Group.
This is When determining remuneration, the Committee takes considered by the Committee when determining salary into account the guidelines of representative investor increases for the Executive Directors and the Group bodies and shareholder views.
The Committee is always open to feedback from The Company has a diverse international spread of shareholders on remuneration policy and arrangements.
businesses as well as a wide variety of roles from petrol We are committed to undertaking shareholder pump attendants and valeters through to Chief consultation in advance of any proposed changes to Executives of our individual businesses and therefore pay remuneration policy, as evidenced by the consultation levels and structures vary to reflect local market in 2016 2017 with shareholders representing two-thirds conditions.
Although the Company has not carried out of the Companys issued share capital.
The Committee a formal employee consultation regarding executive will continue to monitor trends and developments in remuneration, it does comply with local regulations and corporate governance and market practice to practices regarding employee consultation more ensure the structure of the executive remuneration broadly.
The Board is reviewing how it consults with its remains appropriate.
74 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS The charts below show the remuneration that Executive Directors could expect to obtain based on varying performance scenarios.
Illustrations are intended to provide further information to shareholders regarding the pay for performance relationship.
However, actual pay delivered will be influenced by actual changes in share price and the vesting periods of awards.
The charts have been updated for 2019 salaries and also include an additional scenario consistent with the new remuneration reporting regulations which came into effect for accounting periods starting 1 January 2019.
The scenario Maximum with share price growth is based on the same assumptions as used in the Maximum scenario but also assuming the share price increases by 50%.
Stefan Bomhard Group Chief Executive Richard Howes Chief Financial Officer Total remuneration 000s Total remuneration 000s 5,343 60% 4,278 50% 3,041 60% 2,433 50% 1,995 27% 21% 27% 23% 1,131 1,005 27% 21% 27% 100% 50% 23% 19% 567 23% 100% 50% 23% 19% Minimum On-target Maximum Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Maximum with share with share Fixed remuneration Fixed remuneration price growth price growth Annual bonus Annual bonus Long-term incentives PSP and CP Long-term incentives PSP and CP Notes on the performance scenarios: Element Assumptions Fixed Total remuneration comprises base salary, benefits and pensions remuneration Base salary effective from 1 April 2019 Benefits as provided in the single figure table on page 79, excluding one-off relocation allowance Pension cash in lieu of pension Maximum with share Minimum On-target Maximum price growth Variable pay Annual bonus No payout Target payout 40% of maximum Maximum payout CIP No vesting Assumes full voluntary investment Threshold match of 0.5:1 Maximum vesting Maximum vesting 50% share price growth PSP No vesting Threshold vesting 25% of maximum Maximum vesting Maximum vesting 50% share price growth Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 75 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION External appointments When appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of any of the existing components of remuneration, as follows: Component Approach Maximum annual grant value The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to n a Base salary the scope of the role, experience of the individual, pay levels at organisations of a similar size, complexity and type, pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, implications for total remuneration, internal relativities and the candidates current base salary.
New appointees will be eligible to participate in the Groups pension n a Pension plan or receive a cash supplement in lieu on similar terms to existing Executive Directors.
New appointees will be eligible to receive normal benefits available to n a Benefits senior management, including but not limited to company cars, medical care and life assurance.
The annual bonus described in the policy table will apply to new 150% of salary Annual bonus appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the proportion of employment over the year.
New appointees will be granted awards on the same terms as other 300% of salary The combined PSP Executive Directors as described in the policy table.
maximum is not intended to exceed CIP New appointees will be granted awards on the same terms as other 100% of salary 400% of salary Executive Directors as described in the policy table.
Other The Committee will consider on a case-by-case basis if all or some of the n a incentives forfeited on leaving a previous employer will be bought-out.
If the Committee decides to buy-out forfeited awards, the award will be structured on a comparable basis, taking into account any performance conditions attached, time to vesting and share price at the time of buy-out.
The Committee retains the discretion to make use of the relevant Listing Rule to facilitate such a buy-out.
Notes to recruitment remuneration policy In determining the appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
Internal appointments In cases of internal promotions to the Board, the Committee will determine remuneration in line with the policy for external appointees as detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Incentive opportunities for employees below Board level are typically no higher than for Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on page 74.
Abasefee in line with the prevailing fee schedule would be payable for Board membership, with additional fees payablefor acting as Senior Independent Director or as the Chairman of Audit, Remuneration and CSR Committees asappropriate.
76 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EXIT PAYMENT POLICY, SERVICE CONTRACTS AND CHANGE OF CONTROL The Companys policy is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements.
In addition, the Company retains discretion to settle any other amount reasonably due to the Executive Director, for example, to meet legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
In the event that the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
When considering exit payments, the Committee reviews all potential incentive outcomes to ensure they are fair to both shareholders and participants.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus, PSP and CIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion: Component Circumstance Treatment Payment vesting date if relevant Resignation.
Bonus will lapse unless the date of leaving is after Either the end of the Annual bonus the year end and not serving notice period.
The performance period or at the bonus will only be paid to the extent the targets set Committees discretion.
at the beginning of the year have been achieved.
Death, ill-health, redundancy, The bonus will only be paid to the extent the Either the end of the retirement or any other reason targets set at the beginning of the year have performance period or at the which the Committee may, in been achieved.
Any bonus payment will be pro-rated for time served during the year.
The bonus will only be paid to the extent the Either the end of the targets set at the beginning of the year have been performance period or at the achieved.
Unvested awards will lapse on date of leaving.
Any Either the end of the PSP and CIP vested awards can be exercised.
performance period or at the Committees discretion.
Death, ill-health, redundancy, Any unvested awards will be pro-rated for time Either the end of the retirement CIP only or any and performance.
performance period or at other reason which the the Committees discretion.
Committee may, in its absolute discretion, permit.
Any unvested awards will be pro-rated for time Either the end of the and performance.
SERVICE CONTRACTS The Companys policy is for Executive Directors service contract notice periods to be no longer than 12 months, except in exceptional circumstances.
All current contracts contain notice periods of 12 months.
Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term 1 April 2015 12 months To retirement age Stefan Bomhard Richard Howes 11 April 2016 12 months To retirement age The Company may terminate an Executive Directors contract by paying a sum equal to base salary and, in certain circumstances, benefits including pension and life assurance, company car and entitlement to holiday pay for the 12-month period.
Executive Directors service contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 77 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED Part 2 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The following section provides details of how the Companys remuneration policy was implemented during the financial year to 31 December 2018 and how it will be implemented in the financial year to 31 December 2019.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP AND ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS Feb May Nov Committee Chair Coline McConville Jerry Buhlmann Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Jane Kingston Senior Independent Director Nigel Northridge Chairman Nigel Stein Independent Non-Executive Director Till Vestring Jane Kingston joined the Committee in July 2018.
The Remuneration Committee consists of five independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman, who was independent on appointment.
The Committee invites other individuals such as the Group Chief Executive, Chief Human Resources Officer and external consultants to attend its meetings.
No Director takes any part in any decision affecting his or her own remuneration.
The table below details the decisions the Committee made in 2018 and its focus for 2019.
2018 objectives Progress made 2019 focus The Committee reviewed the outcome of the 2017 The Committee will review the bonus structure as Bonus scheme bonus scheme and set targets for the 2018 bonus part of the remuneration policy review scheme.
Details are given on pages 80 to 81 Long-term incentives The Committee reviewed the outcome of the 2015 The Committee will review the appropriateness PSP and CIP awards and agreed the grants for 2018. of the long-term incentive structure as part of the Details are on page 83 remuneration policy review, taking into account strategy, culture and stakeholder views The Committee approved the overall 2018 The Committee will set targets for performanceExecutive Directors remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Further related remuneration and consider appropriate remuneration details are given on pages 79 to 83 salary levels and other benefits The Committee reviewed the remuneration for senior The Committee will set targets for performanceGroup Executive Committee executives taking into account pay for employees related remuneration and consider salary levels and remuneration across the Group other benefits The Committee considered the Chairmans fee The Chairmans fee will be reviewed in Chairmans fee upon the appointment of Nigel Stein.
It agreed November 2019 that the fee remained appropriate and no changes were made The Committee approved amendments to share The Committee will review the share plan rules to Share plan rule change plan rules on leaver provisions and to incorporate ensure they comply with best practice, regulation GDPR requirements.
These changes did not and governance practices benefit participants therefore did not require shareholder approval Committee evaluation The Committee reviewed the results of the 2017 An internal evaluation of the Committees external evaluation and agreed actions for 2018 performance in 2018 will take place in early 2019 Remuneration trends update The external advisors updated the Committee on The Committee will review and approve the governance and remuneration trends disclosures for the CEO pay ratio, pay scenarios and impact of share price appreciation The Committee reviewed the gender pay gap The Committee will review the impact of the Gender pay gap report results and the initiatives being introduced to initiatives and the results of the 2019 gender close the gap.
The report can be found on pay analysis www.
co. uk The terms of reference were updated to The terms of reference are effective from Terms of reference reflect the provisions of the new UK Corporate 1 January 2019 Governance Code 78 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED The table below sets out the total remuneration received by the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2018: Base Taxable Single-year Multiple-year salary fees benefits a variable b variable c Pension d Other e Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Name 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current Executive Directors Stefan Bomhard 739 713 16 19 430 728 858 1,332 222 214 4 0 2,269 3,006 Richard Howes 423 412 3 2 284 421 579 127 124 31 391 1,447 1,350 Current Non-Executive Directors f Nigel Stein 217 60 1 218 60 Jerry Buhlmann 60 50 60 50 Rachel Empey 60 60 60 60 Jane Kingston 26 26 John Langston 75 75 75 75 Coline McConville 75 75 75 75 Nigel Northridge 81 81 81 81 Till Vestring 70 70 70 70 Previous Non-Executive Directors Ken Hanna 128 320 1 3 129 323 Total 1,954 1,916 21 24 714 1,149 1,437 1,332 349 338 35 391 4,510 5,150 Ken Hanna left during the year and Jane Kingston was appointed during the year.
Taxable benefits comprise car allowance, medical cover and mileage allowance.
Payment for performance during the year under the annual bonus, including amounts paid in shares.
c. The 2018 figures include the 2016 PSP and CIP which will vest in April 2019 based on performance over the three-year period ended 31 December 2018.
These figures have been valued using the average share price from 1 October 2018 to 31 December 2018 of 563.5p.
Actual performance against targets is given on page 82.
For Stefan Bomhard the 2018 value includes a movement of -213,156 which is due to a reduction in the share price over the vesting period.
For Richard Howes, the 2018 value is -145,782.
The 2017 figure for Stefan Bomhard has been revised from last years report to reflect the share price on the date of vesting valued using the market price at the date of vesting of 705.0p and includes dividend equivalent of 91,100.
Full details of the awards exercised in 2018 are given on page 84. d. During the year the Executive Directors received a cash supplement of 30% of base salary in lieu of pension contributions.
e. The 2017 figure for Richard Howes has been revised from last years report to reflect the share price on vesting of the RH award which was granted to him as a buyout on joining the Company.
The share price used is 702.0p and includes dividend equivalent of 23,517.
In 2018 he received a one off payment of 28,288 in lieu of a cancelled holiday.
The 2018 figure for both Stefan Bomhard and Richard Howes includes the value of the 2018 SAYE and is based on the embedded value at date of grant.
f. The fees of the Chairman, Non-Executive Directors and the Senior Independent Director are given on page 79.
BASE SALARY Salaries are reviewed annually and typically take effect from 1 April each year.
The quantum of total executive remuneration was reviewed against four comparator groups: retailers, distributors, companies of a similar market cap, and companies with similar revenues.
Salaries for 2019 were determined taking into account this benchmarking data, as well as the other factors detailed in the policy table.
The salaries for 2017, 2018 and 2019 are set out below, together with the average increases across the Group.
Name 1 April 2017 1 April 2018 1 April 2019 Stefan Bomhard 717,500 746,200 761,124 2.0% increase Richard Howes 415,125 425,503 434,013 2.0% increase Average increase across Group 2.18% 2.5% 2.43% CHAIRMANS AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES The Chairman receives a fee of 320,000 p. a.
The Senior Independent Director receives a fee of 81,000 p. a.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a fee of 60,000 p. a. with an additional 15,000 p. a. for the chair of the Audit and Remuneration Committees and an additional 10,000 p. a. for the chair of the CSR Committee.
The Board agreed a 2,000 increase p. a. with effect from 1 January 2019 for all Non-Executive Directors.
The CSR chair also received an increase of 2,000 p. a. for performing this role.
The fee for the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and fees for the Audit and Remuneration chair remained the same.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 79 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED ANNUAL BONUS 2018 BONUS The annual bonus is based on annual financial For 2018, 80% of the bonus is based on financial performance measures and non-financial measures.
performance via a matrix of revenue and operating profit The non-financial measures may include personal with the remaining 20% of the bonus based on strategic objectives linked to the delivery of the Ignite strategy.
objectives, therefore linking an individuals bonus The measures are selected to incentivise sustainable outcome to their contribution to the Ignite strategy.
growth and the financial matrix is designed to provide The maximum opportunity was 150% of salary which a balanced focus between commercial and cash is payable for achieving stretch performance against initiatives.
The non-financial measures are selected each all measures.
year to reinforce the Groups strategic objectives.
In line with the Committees commitment to disclose The principles for setting the new framework are such bonus targets, the table on page 81 illustrates targets, thatit: performance and resulting bonus outcomes for the Drives the desired behaviours underpinned by our Executive Directors for the 2018 bonuses.
performance drivers May be easily cascaded through the organisation toreinforce alignment of our collective goals Has clear measures and targets THE STRUCTURE OF THE 2018 BONUS Up to 80% of total bonus or 120% of salary is earned according to the following matrix: Revenue STRETCH 72% 120% 24% TARGET 16% 48% 96% THRESHOLD 12% 36% 72% THRESHOLD TARGET STRETCH Operating profit Up to 20% of total bonus or 30% of salary is earned for the achievement of strategic measures linked to the Ignite strategy which are as follows: Lead in customer experience Become the OEM partner of choice Customer service innovation, including Improving strategic business partnerships progress on the digital customer journey with our OEM brand partners Deliver full potential on all our Leverage our global scale revenue streams Improvement in business processes Developing business opportunities and improving focus on all our revenue streams 80 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ACTUAL PERFORMANCE AGAINST BONUS TARGETS Achievement of financial targets 80% of total bonus or 120% of salary In 2018, the level of performance for revenue was between target and stretch and for operating profit was between threshold and target on the matrix, which resulted in 36.7% of salary paying out for both the CEO and CFO under this element of the bonus.
The table below provides further detail on the revenue and operating profit targets.
Actual performance for determining bonus outcomes has been calculated using the same currency rates as used to set the bonus target.
This ensures that bonus outcomes are linked to, and reward for, underlying financial performance.
Targets Outcome for element of bonus Measure Threshold Target Stretch Actual performance %ofsalary Revenue 8,810.7m 9,274.4m 9,738.1m 9,476.7m 36.7% Operating profit 377.6m 419.5m 461.4m 396.1m Achievement of strategic targets 20% of total bonus or 30% of salary Below we provide as much detail as commercially appropriate on the objectives linked to the strategic part of the 2018 bonus arrangements and the resulting outcomes.
For 2018, Stefan Bomhard had three bonus objectives linked to the Ignite strategy and Richard Howes had two bonus objectives linked to the Ignite strategy.
Lead in customer experience For Stefan Bomhard, this objective was focused on stretching targets linked to the improvement of the Inchcape customer experience, which included the development of a new customer-centric omni-channel which we have started to successfully pilot in Australia and improvement of the 360 degree view of the customer journey across the Group for which the Group developed and rolled out Salesforce CRM, Brightedge SEO and review aggregator reputation.
The Committee concluded that Stefan Bomhard fully achieved the targets set for the year and as a result received a bonus equating to 15% of base salary for this element.
Deliver full potential on all our revenue streams For Stefan Bomhard, this objective was focused on maximising our performance against all of our value drivers, with particular focus on improving our Aftersales position.
Over the period we reduced the span of performance across the Group, increased capacity in Singapore and leveraged processes in South America.
As a result the Group delivered growth in Aftersales gross profit.
The Committee concluded that this objective had been partly achieved therefore a bonus equating to 3% of base salary was awarded.
For Richard Howes, this objective was focused on improvement in our F&I activities in key markets.
We have continued the rollout of proprietary products, improvements in selling processes and the re-tendering of contracts.
The Committee concluded that this objective had been fully achieved, with 15m of incremental profit delivered from this value driver.
Therefore 15% of base salary was awarded.
Leverage our global scale For Richard Howes, this objective was focused on a savings goal in procurement to leverage our scale.
During the year the Group set up a global team to drive savings in a number of key categories, which has delivered a cumulative 32m of savings to date.
The Committee concluded that this objective had been fully achieved and therefore an award of 15% of base salary was awarded.
OEM Partner of Choice For Stefan Bomhard, this objective was focused on strengthening our relationships with our OEMs, entering into new partnerships and integrating new businesses into our portfolio.
Key achievements included the successful integration of Grupo Rudelman and the award of Distribution contracts for JLR in Kenya and Colombia and for BMW in Lithuania and Guam.
The Committee concluded that Stefan had partially met this objective leading to a payout of 3% of base salary.
OVERALL 2018 BONUS OUTCOME Therefore, as a result, the overall 2018 bonus outcomes are as follows: Total payment Payment for financial targets Payout for strategic targets % of salary %of salary % of salary Stefan Bomhard 36.7% 21.0% 57.7% 430,492 Richard Howes 36.7% 30.0% 66.7% 283,773 The Committee concluded that the overall bonus outcome was reflective of the Companys financial and operational performance and therefore did not make any discretionary adjustments.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 81 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED ANNUAL BONUS FOR 2019 The maximum annual bonus opportunity in 2019 will remain unchanged from previous years and will be 150% of salary.
For the Executive Directors, 80% of the bonus will be based on the same financial performance matrix as 2018 which is linked to revenue and operating profit, and 20% of the bonus will be based on a basket of specific, measurable objectives that relate to the Ignite strategy.
Given the close link between performance targets, the longer-term strategy, and the advantage this may give competitors, the 2019 targets are not disclosed in this report because of their commercial sensitivity.
The Committee intends to publish the financial targets and provide more details of the strategic measures in next years DRR.
PSP AND CIP AWARDS VESTING IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR In 2016, Inchcape granted awards under the PSP and CIP schemes which vested dependent on certain performance targets over three years to 31 December 2018.
2016 Normal PSP CIP Three-year EPS growth p. a.
75% weighting Vesting % Three-year average ROCE 25% weighting Vesting % Less than 5% 0% Less than 21% 0% 5% 25% 21% 25% 13% 100% 25% 100% Between 5% and 13% Straight line basis Between 21% and 25% Straight line basis 2016 Enhanced PSP Three-year EPS growth p. a. Vesting % Less than 13% 0% 18% 100% Between 13% and 18% Straight line basis 2016 vesting of PSP CIP Over the performance period an EPS growth of 7.6% and three-year average ROCE of 29.2% was achieved, which resulted in the following vesting outcomes: Award Performance measure Wtg.
Vesting outcome % of element Normal PSP EPS 75% 49.7% ROCE 25% 100% Enhanced PSP EPS 100% 0% Total overall vesting outcome of normal PSP 62.3% Performance measure Wtg.
Vesting outcome % of element CIP EPS 75% 49.7% ROCE 25% 100% Total overall vesting outcome of CIP 62.3% 1.25:1 match Stefan Bomhard and Richard Howes were granted PSP and CIP awards in 2016 and are therefore entitled to the following shares on vesting: Assumed 1 Interest held Vesting % Interest vesting Vesting date market price p Estimated value Stefan Bomhard Normal PSP 143,734 62.3% 89,546 13 April 2019 563.5p 504,593 Enhanced PSP 15,971 0.0% 0 13 April 2019 563.5p 0 CIP 100,603 62.3% 62,676 22 April 2019 563.5p 353,177 Assumed 1 Interest held Vesting % Interest vesting Vesting date market price p Estimated value Richard Howes Normal PSP 106,719 62.3% 66,486 13 April 2019 563.5p 374,648 Enhanced PSP 11,858 0.0% 0 13 April 2019 563.5p 0 CIP 58,206 62.3% 36,262 22 April 2019 563.5p 204,338 1.
As the market price on the date of vesting is unknown at the time of reporting, the value is estimated using the average market share price of the last three months of 2018.
82 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PREVIOUSLY GRANTED RECRUITMENT AWARDS VESTING IN RESPECT OF THE YEAR SB award Stefan Bomhard received an award of 205,125 nil-cost options when he joined the Group on 1 April 2015.
These options were in lieu of forfeited incentives from his previous employer and have an exercise price of 10.0p.
Vesting is dependent on continued employment.
On 1 April 2018, the final tranche 68,375 options vested at a share price of 691.0p.
RH award Richard Howes received an award in lieu of forfeited incentives from his previous employer when he joined the Group on 11 April 2016.
This award consists of 124,909 nil-cost options with an exercise price of 10.0p and has the following conditions: 51,759 nil-cost options: half of this award vested on each of the first and second anniversaries of the grant date i. e. 11 April 2017 and 2018.
This award is in lieu of forfeited incentives from his previous employer which did not have any performance conditions attached to the awards.
On 11 April 2018, the final tranche 25,880 options vested at a share price of 702.0p.
During the year he exercised the final tranche of the award.
Further details are given on page 84.
73,150 nil-cost options: the option was structured as the PSP with 90% as normal awards and 10% as enhanced awards and 52,404 options vested on 11 April 2018 in accordance with the 2015 PSP performance outcomes which were disclosed last year.
This award is in lieu of forfeited incentives from his previous employer which had performance conditions attached to the award.
PSP AND CIP AWARDS MADE DURING THE YEAR Awards were made to the Executive Directors and other senior executives under the PSP and CIP.
The PSP awards were granted as a percentage of salary and both Stefan Bomhard and Richard Howes were granted PSP awards at 180% of salary.
Under the CIP, Stefan Bomhard and Richard Howes invested 50% of salary and received an award of 100% of salary.
Performance conditions for awards made in 2018 are as follows: 2018 PSP CIP Three-year EPS growth p. a.
60% weighting Vesting % Three-year average ROCE 40% weighting Vesting % Less than 4% 0% Less than 22% 0% 4% 25% 22% 25% 12% 100% 26% 100% Between 4% and 12% Straight line basis Between 22% and 26% Straight line basis Threshold level performance will result in 25% of the 2018 PSP and CIP awards vesting.
As referenced on page 69, the Committee is reviewing how these targets may need to be revised to take into account the new accounting standard IFRS16, and the outcome will be disclosed in the relevant DRR.
Mid-market share price on date of grant.
Face value has been calculated using the share price at date of grant.
Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION CONTINUED LONG-TERM INCENTIVES FOR 2019 In line with policy, Stefan Bomhard and Richard Howes will both be granted PSP to the value of 180% of salary and will be invited to participate in the CIP.
As per the 2018 awards, 60% will be based on EPS growth and 40% will be based on three-year average ROCE.
The targets will take into account the new IFRS 16 accounting standard and will be disclosed as appropriate at the time of award and in next years DRR.
PENSION During 2018 the Executive Directors received a cash supplement of 30% of base salary and were eligible to join the Cash pension scheme.
Neither Stefan Bomhard nor Richard Howes participated in the pension scheme.
For 2019, this arrangement remains unchanged.
EXECUTIVE SHARE OWNERSHIP AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS AUDITED The table below shows the total number of shares, options and awards held by each Director at 31 December 2018.
Share awards held Options held Shares held at Subject to Not subject to Vested but 31 December performance Subject to performance Subject to not yet 2018 conditions deferral targets deferral exercised Guideline met Stefan Bomhard 288,548 795,855 0 68,735 3,249 1,557 Yes Jerry Buhlmann 15,000 n a n a n a n a n a n a Rachel Empey 6,760 n a n a n a n a n a n a Richard Howes 103,131 484,166 0 0 3,222 0 No Jane Kingston - n a n a n a n a n a n a John Langston 5,463 n a n a n a n a n a n a Coline McConville 4,267 n a n a n a n a n a n a Nigel Northridge 28,391 n a n a n a n a n a n a Nigel Stein 36,834 n a n a n a n a n a n a Till Vestring 42,417 n a n a n a n a n a n a There have been no changes to the number of shares held by the Directors between 31 December 2018 and 27 February 2019.
SHARE OWNERSHIP POLICY The Executive Directors are required to hold a fixed number of shares equivalent to 200% of base salary.
They have five years from the date of appointment to reach this shareholding.
Stefan Bomhard and Richard Howes held 214% and 134% of salary respectively as at 31 December 2018, using the share price as at 31 December 2018 of 551.5p.
AWARDS EXERCISED DURING THE YEAR Richard Howes exercised his RH award on 4 May 2018.
He sold enough shares to cover costs and tax and retained the remaining shares.
Plan Shares exercised Dividend shares Share price Shares sold Shares retained RH award 25,879 - 7.413 12,373 13,506 RH award 25,880 1,654 7.413 13,165 14,369 RH award 52,404 3,350 7.413 26,657 29,097 Stefan Bomhard exercised the award granted to him under the 2015 Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan on 21 August 2018.
Plan Shares exercised Dividend shares Share price Shares sold Shares retained PSP 114,412 8,400 6.99 57,838 64,974 CIP 61,616 4,522 6.99 31,148 34,990 84 Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN GROUP CHIEF RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION The chart shows the percentage change in total employee pay expenditure and shareholder distributions The table shows the percentage change in Group Chief Executive remuneration from 2017 to 2018 compared i. e. dividends and share buybacks from 2017 to 2018. with the average percentage change in remuneration Relative importance of spend on pay M for senior management.
For the purposes of this disclosure, remuneration comprises salary, benefits 6.4% excluding pension and annual bonus only.
647.4 608.4 Change in remuneration from 2017 to 2018 Group Chief Executive Senior management Salary 3.6% 3.6% Taxable benefits -15.8% 0.00% Single-year variable -40.9% -17.1% 12.2% 50.2 Total -18.8% -4.1% 115.2 102.7 0 Dividend Share buyback Employee Employees representing the most senior executives c. 90 remuneration have been selected as this group is large enough to 2017 2018 provide a robust comparison, whilst also providing data that is readily available on a matched sample basis.
These employees also participate in bonus schemes The Directors are proposing a final dividend for 2018 of a similar nature to Executive Directors and therefore of 17.9p per share 2017: 18.9p.
remuneration will be similarly influenced by DILUTION LIMITS Company performance.
During the year, options and awards granted under the Groups incentive plans were satisfied on exercise by market purchase shares.
Dilution limits are monitored throughout the year by the Committee and the Company complies with the limits set by the .
Issued share capital as at 31 December 2018 415m All schemes 10% over 10-year rolling period 41m Remaining headroom for all schemes 28m Executive schemes 5% over a 10-year rolling period 20m Remaining headroom for executive schemes 11m Inchcape Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85
