Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 81 Directors Remuneration Report 90 Annual Report on Remuneration 96 Implementation of Remuneration In this section Policy for 2019 90 Remuneration Committee membership in 2018 98 Non-Executive Director fees 81 Annual Statement from 90 Advisors 98 Total shareholder return Committee Chairman 98 CEO nine-year remuneration history 90 Summary of shareholder voting at the audited 84 2019 Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 and 2018 AGMs 99 Percentage change in CEO remuneration 86 Shareholding guidelines 91 Single figure of total remuneration for Executive Directors audited 99 CEO pay ratio 87 Performance measurement selection 91 Incentive outcomes for the year 87 Remuneration policy for other employees 99 Relative importance of spend on pay ended 31 December 2018 audited 87 Pay scenario charts for the CEO and CFO 100 Directors shareholding audited 94 Additional disclosure of 2017 87 Approach to recruitment remuneration 100 Directors interests in shares in performance targets audited Inmarsat long-term incentive plans 88 Executive Director service contracts 95 Scheme interests awarded in 2018 audited and all-employee plans audited and exit payment policy 95 Pension audited 100 Inmarsat Bonus Share Awards audited 89 Non-Executive Directors 96 Single figure of total remuneration for 101 Inmarsat Performance Share 89 External appointments Non-Executive Directors audited Awards audited 89 Consideration of shareholder views 96 Exit payments made in the year audited 101 Inmarsat Sharesave Scheme 96 Payments to past Directors audited 96 External appointments for Executive Directors In relation to the policy itself, even though Annual statement from 90% of shareholders supported the policy in 2017 we have listened to comments that the the Remuneration policy for incentive pay is too high, too focused Committee Chairman, on the short term and over-complicated by having two incentive plans both of which are Simon Bax deemed to be short term as they measured performance over a single year.
Dear shareholder In relation to the application of the policy, investors felt that there was an unhelpful On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to duplication of EBITDA across the plans, present the Directors Remuneration Report insufficient disclosure in relation to the strategic for the year ended 31 December 2018. targets in the PSA our LTIP and a feeling that At our 2018 AGM a majority of shareholders the performance conditions have not been voted against the resolution to approve our sufficiently stretching to justify the remuneration remuneration report.
This outcome followed levels paid.
Finally, we lagged best practice a high vote against our remuneration report by not disclosing the performance targets in 2017.
We have heard from those consulted for the annual bonus and BSA immediately, since the AGM that there was no single reason but a year in arrears.
for the high vote against the remuneration As part of a very comprehensive engagement report, although during the extensive process with a substantial number of investors consultation that we have undertaken it is and representative bodies, and having listened clear that the overriding issue has been that very carefully and modified our thinking as we the level of executive pay was felt to be have finalised our planning, we are proposing a insufficiently aligned to performance and new policy which will bring our disclosure in line particularly share price performance.
with the standards expected by shareholders.
We will simplify the incentive plans, ensure stretching targets are used, reduce the overall remuneration opportunity and improve the alignment of long-term and short-term interests between executives and shareholders.
We will bring our disclosure in line with the standards expected by shareholders and provide information for 2018 performance in this Report.
In finalising the outcome of the overall remuneration for 2018, the Committee is using SIMON BAX its discretion to reduce significantly the CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION total amount we are paying our executives for COMMITTEE performance in 2018 in large part to recognise the overall shareholder experience in 2018.
82 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration Report continued In addition to seeking shareholder approval For the PSA award granted in 2016, 2018 We spent considerable for a new remuneration policy and the annual represented the final year of the three-year shareholder vote on the remuneration report, performance measurement period.
Performance time engaging with there is a further resolution to approve an conditions were Total Shareholder Return, increase to the individual limit in our long-term EBITDA and Strategic Objectives.
Over the three shareholders to ensure incentive plan, to facilitate a rebalancing of years to 2018, the Company has made good the new policy and incentives from short-term to longer-term progress against its strategic objectives, which performance.
I very much hope that the has positioned us well for the future.
However, its implementation changes set out in this report and summarised over the three-year performance period we in my Statement will ensure a positive outcome fell short of the challenging EBITDA targets is appropriate at the 2019 AGM on all three resolutions.
that were set and we experienced a significant decline in our share price.
This meant that whilst there was partial vesting against the Strategic Performance in 2018 and Objectives there was no vesting of the portions incentive payments to executives of the award measured by reference to EBITDA Business performance during 2018 or TSR performance.
sets the context for how the Committee has reviewed pay for performance and On the basis of the formula-driven performance assessed achievement against objectives.
conditions the total remuneration for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer would During the course of the year, we delivered have been 2,347m and 1,899m respectively.
consistent profitable revenue growth, However, recognising the wider performance supported by our diversified portfolio, factors and in particular the shareholder through a combination of our established experience over the year under review and the L-band services and our new, higher growth three-year performance period of the financial broadband GX services, particularly in the elements of the 2016 PSA the Committee has In-Flight Connectivity segment in Aviation.
This used its discretion to reduce pay for FY18 very growth was delivered in spite of an intensifying significantly.
The pay-out level under the PSA competitive environment in the mid-market has been reduced from 150k and 115k for the in Maritime, which, given the relative weighting CEO and CFO respectively to 75k and 58k.
of Maritime in our revenue base, continues to This was considered appropriate recognising be an important driver of investor sentiment that, despite good progress against the and, consequently, our share price.
Companys Long Range Business Plan, Our revenue growth of 5% for the year was again against wider business KPIs the performance supported by a focus on operational leverage had fallen short of the Boards expectations.
through a carefully controlled cost base, with Additionally the Committee reviewed the EBITDA growing by 4%, and an infrastructure pay-out level under the BSA and determined capital investment programme that is expected that the indicative level of vesting was too high to meaningfully moderate from the start of in relation to the improvements in financial the next decade.
These factors will help us to performance over the year and when considering generate sustained free cash flow over the the share price performance over 2018. medium to long term.
Accordingly, the Committee determined that Looking at the specifics of performance from the payment should be reduced from 1,008m a remuneration viewpoint, the performance and 781k for the CEO and CFO respectively conditions for the Annual Bonus and BSA to 415k and 317k.
Overall the level of pay has were our Revenue and EBITDA performance been reduced by 593k and 464k for the CEO and for the Annual Bonus a small part of the and CFO respectively, which ensures that their overall opportunity was based on the individual pay for FY18 is lower than that received for FY17 performance of the executive directors.
which itself followed a trend of reducing pay At the start of the year our business plan was over recent years on the single figure reported forecasting relatively flat performance against in the 2017 Annual Report and the 2017 figure both Revenue and EBITDA and we were pleased reported in this Annual Report which is adjusted to deliver year on year growth of 5% and 4% for the actual share price rather than average.
At the same We believe that this decisive use of discretion time there has been strong performance of to reduce pay for FY18 is in shareholders short the executive directors against the achievement and long-term interests.
of the short-term operational milestones on which their individual performance was based.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 83 A new remuneration policy for FY19-21 Implementation of the If the formula driven payments deliver a result During the year the Committee undertook remuneration policy in 2019 which is at odds with the wider performance a very detailed review of our remuneration Our salary review takes place in June with any of the business the Committee will, again, policy to ensure that it addresses shareholder changes taking effect from 1 July.
Any changes consider the use of discretion to adjust concerns by providing a stronger link between to salary levels will be no higher than the the outcome.
We spent considerable workforce average.
The Executive Directors Our shareholding guideline will remain at time engaging in extensive discussions with participate in the same pension and benefits 500% of base salary, which our Chief Executive shareholders during 2018 and early in 2019 to programmes as other employees in the UK comfortably exceeds and our Chief Financial ensure that the new policy, and its operation are and on the same basis.
The employer pension Officer is building towards.
These continue appropriate going forward.
We have adapted contribution will remain at circa 3% of salary, to be at the upper end of what is the norm and the policy to take on board shareholder which is equivalent of 12.5% of capped salary.
support the alignment with shareholders.
comments through the consultation process In addition to making significant changes to and are appreciative of the constructive and Further detail on the implementation of our the policy for incentives, we have made several helpful engagement we received from them Policy for 2019 is included on pages 90 to 101. changes to its operation.
In particular we have and the proxy agencies.
increased the weighting to financial performance Corporate Governance Code and Under the new policy we have strengthened measures under the annual bonus and are Companies Act reporting changes the link between pay and performance in the focusing on two important business KPIs We aim to comply with the new UK Corporate following ways: that we use to measure underlying financial Governance Code during FY19 and, in particular, performance: Revenue, which will apply to 30%, A material reduction in the level of incentive are looking at broader stakeholder engagement and EBITDA, which will apply to 50% of the pay under the policy and compared to FY18 carefully.
Also, we are reporting early in line with bonus.
Stretching performance conditions have actual incentive levels the new legislative requirements for Directors been set for each measure, which represent a pay, including disclosing our CEO pay ratios significant improvement on the FY18 year-end An increase to the proportionate weighting to the rest of the UK workforce in this report.
numbers noting that 2018 included contributions to the long-term incentive, for example from our co-operation agreement with Ligado from a combined potential opportunity Summary and there is no such contribution in 2019 for the CEO of 310% of salary under the I would like to thank shareholders for their and an improvement on prior years ranges.
two short-term plans and 185% of salary input during the year.
We believe that we have The element based on non-financial measures on the PSA, to 200% of salary being based significantly improved our policy and the and personal performance will be weighted at on short-term performance and 250% of way it will be operated.
I hope we can count a maximum of 20% of the overall bonus.
salary based on long-term performance on shareholders support at the 2019 AGM, In addition to setting challenging target ranges, One simpler single annual bonus plan where I will be available to respond to any the Committee has adjusted the sliding scales instead of two questions shareholders may have on this for payment so that the pay-outs commence report or in relation to the Committees The annual bonus maximum opportunity for performance at 5% below target not 10% activities.
I continue to be available to meet has been reduced materially to 200% for and the target level of pay-out is 60% of the and discuss our remuneration arrangements both Executive Directors, with 50% invested maximum down from 71.9% as the average with shareholders.
in shares which must be held for the long term across both of the previous bonus plans.
We will keep under review the target level of pay-out There is no duplication of performance over the policy period.
The maximum annual measures in annual bonus and long-term SIMON BAX bonus opportunity will be 200% of base salary, incentives CHAIRMAN, with half after deduction for tax delivered in REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Long-term incentive awards have been shares, which must be held for the long term.
increased to 250% for both Executive Directors 18 March 2019 There will be no overlap between the performance We have included a formal overriding measures used for the annual bonus and the discretion to adjust the formulaic outcome PSA awards.
Vesting for the PSA will continue of incentive awards as envisaged by the to be based on relative TSR, measured against Corporate Governance Code the constituents of the FTSE 250 instead of FTSE 50-150 excluding investment trusts We have robust clawback and malus 50% of total award, Free Cash Flow 25% provisions which have been strengthened and the delivery of specific strategic objectives This builds on some strong attributes of our considered key drivers to our future success previous policy, especially the very high share 25%.
The PSA award level will now be 250% ownership requirements 500% of salary and of salary, with 25% of the award vesting for the very low level of pension contributions.
A two-year holding There are further changes to the detail of the period will continue to apply to vested PSA policy, which are summarised on pages 84 to 89. shares, during which time shares may not be sold except to cover taxes.
84 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration Report continued The target level for the annual bonus payment The Groups Remuneration Policy is designed to 2019 Directors is being removed from the Policy and will align directors pay with the long-term strategy Remuneration Policy be set annually in line with the business plan.
and sustainable success of the Group.
We take The target level though will not exceed 60%.
into account the Groups overall business At our 2018 AGM a majority of shareholders Target payment was previously much strategy, business performance in the current voted against the resolution to approve our higher across both the previous Cash Bonus year and expectations for future years as remuneration report.
This means we must seek and BSA incorporated into our Long Range Business Plan shareholder approval for a new remuneration LRBP, pay arrangements in the wider Inmarsat For the PSA there will be policy flexibility policy at our May 2019 AGM.
As noted in workforce and alignment of remuneration policy for up to 25% of the award to be subject the Chairmans Statement we have consulted throughout the Group, and the global economic to strategic measures previously 40%.
extensively with shareholders and this Directors situation as well as investor views and feedback.
At a threshold level of performance 25% of Remuneration Policy is put forward for a binding We will consult with shareholders in advance any PSA award may vest under any measure.
shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM and will take of major changes to the Remuneration Policy Previously the threshold level for a TSR, effect from the date of the AGM.
The changes or where we consider there are material changes EBITDA or Strategic performance condition we have made to the new remuneration to operation of the Policy.
The Committee is was 30% 0% 0% policy compared to the 2017 policy are committed to the principle that the Company summarised as follows: should pay at the appropriate level to recruit Clawback and malus provisions have been and retain executives and incentivise them strengthened to add reputational damage Maximum employer pension contribution to achieve the Companys business strategy and corporate failure as specified trigger is reduced from 20% of salary to 12.5% to create long-term sustained value events for clawing back previous payments, of salary although current directors will for shareholders.
in line with the 2018 UK Corporate Governance receive contributions of circa 3% of salary Code the Code requirements We currently have two bonus schemes measuring performance over a single year: There will be a discretionary override for all the Cash Bonus up to 125% of salary incentive payments to allow the Committee and the Bonus Share Award BSA up to to adjust the formula driven outturn for 200% of salary.
The total current short term any incentive payment, taking into account incentive opportunity is 325% of salary all relevant factors overall.
Instead, maximum annual bonus We have considered carefully the requirements opportunity will be significantly reduced in the Code for post cessation of employment under a single new annual bonus plan shareholding requirements.
The good leaver to 200% of salary provisions in the annual bonus and PSA will require that performance is measured over 50% of any bonus earned will be payable in the full period not accelerated to cessation cash and the remaining 50% will be required of employment.
Holding requirements for to be invested in shares, after tax.
The shares beneficially owned shares for all categories of will be owned beneficially by the executive leaver under the bonus and PSA will continue at the outset but must be held and not sold after cessation of employment as well as for for at least one, two and three years and unvested awards retained by good leavers.
then in equivalent one third tranches.
On this basis there would continue to The shares will remain subject to clawback be a significant interest in shares after an during the holding period executive has left There will be flexibility for up to 20% of annual bonus to be subject to non-financial strategic performance measures previously 30% for the Cash Bonus The threshold level of bonus payment will be no more than 25% of maximum.
Previously this was much higher at 35.8% across both the Cash Bonus and BSA Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 85 The remuneration policy is set out in the table below: How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance BASIC SALARY Paying market-competitive Salaries are reviewed annually with any The maximum annual salary increase Based on Company performance base salaries, commensurate increase generally made in July or following will normally be in line with the average and individual contribution.
with the individuals role, a material change in responsibilities.
increase applied to the UK workforce.
responsibilities and experience, However, larger increases may be Any increase is determined by a formal allows us to recruit and retain awarded in certain circumstances appraisal by the Committee: taking into Executive Directors of the including, but not limited to, an increase account market pay levels: a review of calibre required to implement in scope or responsibility of the role: salaries against companies of similar size, our strategy.
to apply salary progression for a complexity and type: Group and individual newly appointed Director: where the Providing an appropriate performance, as well as the remuneration Directors salary has fallen behind fixed level of pay commensurate arrangements operated throughout market positioning.
for the role, ensures no over the Group, with reference to UK-based reliance on variable pay.
employees in particular for pay comparison levels.
BENEFITS IN KIND We provide cost-effective Provision of death, long-term sickness The benefits provided, which may vary Not applicable.
benefits which support and medical and dental insurance cover by role and levels of cover provided, the wellbeing of employees which can include spouse and dependants will reflect market practice and the and maximise business cover.
Life assurance of four times salary, individual circumstances of the continuity.
paid holiday and medical check-ups Executive Directors.
It is not anticipated that the current If required, the Company would provide cost of benefits as set out in the access to independent financial and Annual Report on Remuneration legal advice on a case-by-case basis.
would increase materially over the period for which this Policy will apply.
Provision of other reasonable benefits including in the event of relocation, The Committee retains the discretion temporary accommodation and to approve a higher cost in exceptional other related costs will be considered circumstances e. g. relocation on a case-by-case basis.
or in circumstances where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially.
PENSION We provide defined The Company may make contributions Maximum employer contributions Not applicable.
contribution pension to its defined contribution pension plan, are 12.5% of the basic salary.
arrangements, or similar pension plans as appropriate cash in lieu of pension.
to the Executive Directors nationality or location, our auto-enrolment pension scheme and or make cash payments in lieu based on a percentage of salary.
86 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration Report continued How does this link to strategy What happens in practice What amounts can be paid How do we assess performance ANNUAL BONUS To incentivise the achievement Bonus payment levels are determined Maximum opportunity: Bonus is based on achievement of annual financial, strategic by the Committee annually by reference of annual financial and strategic 200% of salary for both and operational goals in line to performance against targets set at objectives.
the CEO and CFO with Group strategy.
the start of the financial year.
Performance measures and Threshold opportunity: The requirement for Executive The annual bonus is determined by objectives are selected at 25% of maximum Directors to acquire shares pre-determined performance conditions.
the beginning of the year that with their bonus provides a The Committee has the discretion to adjust best support the delivery of the The Target opportunity will be mechanism for alignment with the formulaic bonus outcome where the Companys strategy.
longer-term performance and outcome is not truly reflective of performance, element will not account for more alignment of shareholders delivery of value to shareholders or reward than 20% of the total in any year.
outcomes more widely within the workforce.
For the financial measures a The bonus is paid in cash and the Executive graduated scale of targets will Directors are required to invest 50% of be set.
In relation to strategic the bonus earned after payment of taxes objectives the structure of the in shares in the Company.
One third of the target will vary based on the shares must be held for one, two and three nature of the target set and it will years.
The holding period continues post not always be practicable to set cessation of employment.
Vesting may therefore take place The Committee may apply malus and claw in full if specific criteria are met back bonuses in circumstances including and judgement may be applied but not limited to error in calculation, by the Committee.
gross misconduct, fraud, corporate failure, reputational damage or misstatement.
Details of the measures and weightings and performance against targets for the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD PSA The PSA aligns executives We make annual awards of conditional Maximum opportunity for all Executive The Committee selects interests with long-term shares, which vest after a minimum Directors is up to 250% of salary.
performance measures and performance and shareholder of three years subject to performance objectives at the time awards Threshold performance is 25% value creation through over a three-year period.
are granted that best support of maximum.
rewarding the delivery of our the delivery of the Companys A mandatory two-year holding period There is the opportunity for an longer-term business strategy long-term strategy.
after sales to meet taxes applies to exceptional award of up to 300% of with shares in the Company vested awards.
Strategic measures, if included, salary which would not be used unless which are then retained will not account for more than Additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends it was appropriate to do so and fully for a period post vesting.
25% of the total award in any year.
over the vesting period are awarded only explained in the implementation report.
The performance measures on the number of shares that vest.
Details of the measures, weightings in the PSA reflect the value and targets applicable to an award Unvested awards are subject to adjustment drivers in the LRBP.
are provided prospectively in the for malus and clawback, i. e. forfeiture or Annual Report on Remuneration reduction in exceptional circumstances implementation of policy section including but are not limited to error for the year ahead.
in calculation, gross misconduct, fraud, corporate failure, reputational damage or misstatement.
EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS To encourage share ownership We operate employee share savings Participation levels set by HMRC or Not applicable.
across all employees as plans for our global workforce where, relevant local laws from time to time.
allowed by HMRC and relevant depending on location, savings periods local laws.
of between two and three years operate.
We will look at opportunities to offer other employee share plans in the future.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINE To build and retain a holding The Executive Directors must retain at The level of requirement and Not applicable.
of shares in the Company least 50% of shares acquired from annual calculation is set out in the Annual which increases alignment of bonus payments and vesting of PSA Report on Remuneration.
interest between management awards until the shareholding requirement and shareholders and the of 500% of salary is achieved.
longer-term performance of the Company.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 87 Legacy arrangements Pay scenario charts for the CEO and CFO Authority is given to the Company to honour any share awards entered The following charts illustrate the potential future reward opportunities into with the Executive Directors under the 2014 and 2017 Policies.
for the two current Executive Directors CEO and CFO, and the potential Details of such outstanding share awards to Executive Directors are split between the different elements of pay under three different provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
performance scenarios: Minimum, Target, and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on Inmarsats incentive opportunities for FY19, applied to salaries as at 1 January 2019.
The Maximum scenario Performance measurement selection includes an additional element to represent 50% share price growth Performance measures and objectives are selected that best support from the date of grant to vesting but apart from this the projected the delivery of the Companys strategy, both short term and longer term.
values exclude the impact of any share price movement.
Performance targets are stretching, taking into account a range of reference points including the Groups annual budget, LRBP, the market in which the Company operates, the expected performance of competitors in PAY SCENARIOS 000 these same markets, broker forecasts, the market and economic outlook, and latest internal forecasts.
The Committee may adjust and or set Chief Executive Officer different performance measures and targets following a corporate event Maximum 19% 45% 36% 3,920 such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of On-target 28% 45% 27% 2,219 a Group business or a significant change in prevailing market conditions either specific to the Companys sector or macro-economic events which Minimum 100% 620 causes the Committee to determine that the measures and or targets Fixed pay Annual bonus are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that the Chief Financial Officer PSA PSA with 50% share price growth relevant award achieves its original purpose provided that the new targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Maximum 19% 45% 36% 3,218 On-target 28% 45% 27% 1,823 How the Executive Director pay policy aligns Minimum 100% 512 to the remuneration policy for other employees Fixed pay Annual bonus Inmarsat operates remuneration arrangements to support our PSA PSA with 50% share price growth business strategy and attract and retain high-performing individuals.
These principles apply to all employees across the Group, including the Executive Directors.
As a global organisation, we also ensure that Each element of remuneration reflects the following assumptions: remuneration arrangements, particularly pensions and employee Minimum: includes fixed remuneration only, i. e. base salary as benefits are appropriate to each local market in which we operate.
at 1 January 2019, taxable benefits as disclosed for the previous The financial metrics and targets for our group-wide bonus plan are financial year and pension consistent with those which apply to the Executive Directors.
The members of the Group Executive Management Team senior direct reports to Target: includes fixed remuneration plus 60% of the maximum the CEO participate in the PSA along with the two Executive Directors.
annual bonus opportunity and 50% of the PSA award Some performance measures are different for the Executive Team.
Maximum: includes fixed remuneration and maximum payment under the annual bonus 200% of salary for both the CEO and CFO We also operate sales incentive plans for our front-line sales employees, which and PSA 250% of salary for both the CEO and CFO, and includes have measures and targets appropriate for their roles and accountabilities.
the total maximum remuneration assuming 50% share price The Executive Directors participate in the same pension and benefits growth in PSA awards programmes as other employees in the UK.
We do not operate separate executive pension or benefits plans.
Approach to recruitment remuneration Inmarsat operates a number of all employee share plans, which have The remuneration package for a new Director will be set within the defined rules and are subject to local regulations.
Currently these terms of the approved Remuneration Policy.
are the UK Sharesave Scheme, Employee Share Participation Plan In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements for a newly for U. S. and Canadian employees and the International Sharesave Scheme.
recruited Executive Director the Committee will take into consideration The Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the plans relevant all relevant factors including but not limited to current remuneration, to their geography on the same basis as other local employees.
the structure of remuneration for other Inmarsat executives, external The Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements market data and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from and for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration may be based in.
The Policy enables the Committee to include benefits for senior executives.
This relates to our philosophy around levels of base such as relocation assistance, housing or schooling expenses, paying salary, operating bonus plans for all employees, pension entitlement only what is necessary to secure the right candidate and limiting and provision of benefits also being available across the Group.
certain benefits to a specified period where possible.
Annual bonus opportunity will normally reflect the period of service The Group consults with its employees on general employment policies for the year.
in a range of ways, including formal consultation forums in some countries where it operates.
Our staff are encouraged to provide feedback directly For an internal appointment any incentive plans in respect of an to their line managers or to the HR team or to a confidential email address executives prior role will normally be allowed to continue according which will receive queries on all issues including anti-bribery.
88 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration Report continued The Committee may compensate on hiring an external candidate for incentive pay forfeited or benefits foregone on leaving a previous employer.
Replacement cash or share awards would take account of quantum forgone, any performance conditions attached to incentive pay awards, the form in which they were granted for example, cash or shares, the time over which they would have vested, the likelihood of meeting any performance conditions and the share price at the time of buy-out.
The Committee may grant Performance Share Awards or Restricted Share Awards if these reflect the terms of the awards forfeited.
The Committee may grant these incentive awards under the provision provided for under Listing Rules Chapter 9.4.
Executive Director service contracts and exit payment policy Executive Director Date of service contract Term of office Notice period Rupert Pearce 18 January 2012 Indefinite until termination by either party 12 months written notice by Company or Director Tony Bates 21 February 2014 Indefinite until termination by either party 12 months written notice by Company and six months written notice by the Director Notice periods will not exceed 12 months and for future appointments the same notice period will apply for both the Company and Director.
The Executive Directors have a clause to allow a payment in lieu of notice to be made.
For the Executive Directors, the Company may make such payments monthly up to 12 months and these payments shall be reduced if the executive finds alternative employment.
At the discretion of the Committee a pro-rata bonus may become payable at the normal payment date for the period of active employment with financial performance targets based on full year performance.
The default treatment for share based awards is that any unvested award will lapse on termination of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, injury, ill-health, retirement with the Companys agreement, redundancy, leaving the Group because the employer company or business leaves the Group or where the Committee determines otherwise, awards would be eligible to vest subject to the performance conditions being met over the normal performance period or a shorter period in exceptional circumstances at the Committees discretion and with the award being reduced by an amount to reflect the proportion of the performance period not actually served unless the Committee considers, in exceptional circumstances, a different treatment is appropriate.
The Company may also pay outplacement, legal and other reasonable relevant costs associated with termination and may settle any claim or potential claim relating to the termination.
Upon a change of control of the Company, share awards vest in accordance with the Executive Share Plan Rules, based on the extent to which the Committee determines that the performance conditions have been met and normally scaled back pro rata.
For the annual bonus, the Committee will assess performance against targets at the point of change of control and any resulting bonus will be pro-rated for time and paid thereafter.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Director NED, receives a letter of appointment that summarises the time commitment expected of them and sets out details of their fees base fee and Committee membership fee.
Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum NED fees To provide fees reflecting All NEDs are paid a basic fee at the same level.
The maximum annual aggregate time commitments and fee for all Group NEDs is set out in the The Committee Chairmen and other members of the Board Committees responsibilities of each Companys Articles of Association.
currently but not limited to Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Telecoms role to enable recruitment Regulatory Committees and the Senior Independent Director are paid supplements of the right calibre of to reflect their additional responsibilities and time commitment.
Supplements NED who can further may also be paid for any new roles or responsibilities that the NEDs may undertake.
the interests of the The Chairman of the Board is paid a single fee for all his responsibilities.
Group through their NED fee levels are reviewed periodically by the Chairman and Executive Directors experience, stewardship with reference to market levels in comparably sized FTSE companies as well as any and contribution increase in the scale, scope or responsibility of the role and a recommendation to strategy is then made to the Board.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed periodically by the Committee taking into account time commitment, performance and fee levels at comparator companies and is then approved by the Board.
If any changes are to be made, they are usually effective in July.
Reasonable expenses incurred by the NEDs in carrying out their duties may be reimbursed by the Company including grossed up any personal tax payable by the Non-Executive Directors as a result of reimbursement of those expenses.
Healthcare cover is provided for the Chairman, as a continuation of the cover provided to him previously as an Executive.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 89 NED appointments are initially for three years and unless agreed by the Board, NEDs may not remain in office for a period longer than six years, or two terms in office, whichever is the shorter unless the Nominations Committee recommends them to the Board to continue in the role past six years.
All NEDs are subject to re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but letters of appointment with appointment terminating on: A Director choosing to resign voluntarily A Director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness If the Nominations Committee does not approve the extension of the appointment A Director is found guilty of misconduct or A Director is not re-elected by the shareholders following retirement at an AGM Dates of NED appointment letters are as follows: Name Date of appointment letter Date of appointment Simon Bax 28 May 2013 18 June 2013 Sir Bryan Carsberg 18 April 2005 22 June 2005 Tracy Clarke 29 January 2019 1 February 2019 Warren Finegold 13 March 2017 1 August 2017 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 13 March 2014 6 May 2014 Phillipa McCrostie 18 May 2016 1 September 2016 Janice Obuchowski 6 May 2009 5 May 2009 Dr Abe Peled 10 May 2013 18 June 2013 Robert Ruijter 16 December 2014 1 February 2015 Andrew Sukawaty 16 September 2014 1 January 2015 Dr Hamadoun Tour 16 December 2014 1 March 2015 External appointments Executive Directors serving as Non-Executive Directors on the Board of other companies are permitted to retain all remuneration and fees earned from outside directorships subject to a maximum of two external Board appointments.
Directors accepting such positions shall take into account any guidelines for external directorships as contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, subject at all times to pre-authorisation of the appointment by the Chairman.
NEDs taking additional board positions are asked to speak to the Chairman in advance to ensure no conflict of interest and for the Chairman to speak to the Senior Independent Director for anything affecting him.
Consideration of shareholder views The Remuneration Committee Chairman, Company Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary engage proactively with major shareholders and shareholder representatives whenever appropriate.
The Committee is always open to feedback from shareholders on its Remuneration Policy and operation and is committed to consulting shareholders in advance of making changes to Policy and its implementation.
The Committee also considers specific investor remuneration guidelines as well as those of proxy voting agencies.
90 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration Report continued to shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
This has entailed significant work to Annual report on remuneration design the new policy and its operation for FY19 and discuss this with our institutional shareholders and shareholder representative bodies.
The following section provides details of how Inmarsats 2017 Remuneration Policy was implemented during the financial year ended 31 December 2018 and how the Committee intends to implement the Advisors new Policy which is subject to shareholder approval at our 2019 AGM.
During 2018, the Committee received input from Andrew Sukawaty Chairman, Rupert Pearce CEO, Tony Bates CFO, Alison Horrocks Chief Corporate Affairs Officer and Company Secretary, Natasha Dillon Remuneration Committee membership in 2018 Chief People Officer and Alan Moore Director of Reward.
Dr Abe Peled, The Committee consists of independent Non-Executive Directors.
We had the Senior Independent Director, and Sir Bryan Carsberg also attended five scheduled meetings during the year to discharge our responsibilities.
No member of management is present at a Committee meeting In 2018, because of the need for preparation and consultation on a new when their own remuneration arrangements are being discussed.
Policy, we have held multiple additional Committee meetings and conference calls.
Committee membership and attendance at scheduled meetings are Korn Ferry was appointed by the Committee as its independent advisor set out in the table below: in June 2018 following a tendering process.
Until Korn Ferrys appointment the Committee received advice from Mercer Kepler.
Both Korn Ferry Committee members Attendance and Mercer Kepler reported directly to the Committee Chairman and Simon Bax Committee Chairman 5 5 are signatories of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants Warren Finegold 5 5 which can be found at .
Korn Ferry provides other consulting services on leadership development, but this General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 5 5 is an entirely separate team independent from the team advising the Pip McCrostie 1 1 Committee and the advice to the Committee is therefore considered Pip McCrostie was appointed to the Committee in December 2018. independent.
Mercer Keplers parent, the MMC Group, provides only Tracy Clarke who joined the Inmarsat plc Board in February 2019 has unrelated services to the Company in the areas of pension investment also been appointed to the Committee.
advice and actuarial services to the Trustee to the Inmarsat UK Pension Plan and Mercer Kepler was therefore also considered independent.
During the year, the Committee operated to a forward agenda which During 2018, Mercer Keplers fees were based on time and materials ensured that items were discussed at the appropriate time during the year.
and in relation to advice to the Committee excluding VAT and expenses In addition to regular standing items, following the high level of shareholder totalled 20,814 2017: 49,520.
Korn Ferrys fees were based on time dissent at the AGM the key focus has been on engaging with shareholders and materials and excluding VAT and expenses totalled 150,000. to understand their concerns and designing a new policy to be presented Summary of shareholder voting at the 2017 and 2018 AGM on Remuneration matters At the 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM, shareholders were asked to approve the current remuneration policy.
At the 2018 AGM shareholders were asked to approve the FY17 Annual Report on Remuneration.
The votes received for the Policy resolution at the 2017 AGM and the Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2018 AGM and shown below: 2018 AGM: Vote on the 2017 2017 AGM: Vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration Directors Remuneration Policy Total number % of Total number % of of votes votes cast of votes votes cast For including discretionary 141,196,411 41.51% 291,331,925 90.39% Against 198,994,463 58.49% 30,971,298 9.61% Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 340,190,874 322,303,223 Votes withheld 22,105 n a 29,263,436 n a The vote on the Annual Report on Remuneration was defeated at the 2018 AGM.
Accordingly, the Company is required to bring its Directors Remuneration Policy to shareholders for approval at its 2019 AGM, a year early.
Since the 2018 AGM the Committee has conducted a detailed review of its current Directors Remuneration Policy as well as the implementation of its Policy.
This has included extensive consultation with investors and proxy voting agencies.
This exercise has resulted in a new revised policy being brought to shareholders for approval at the 2019 AGM as well as the revision of certain aspects of policy operation for FY18.
Further details of the changes made and the new policy are set out in the Remuneration Chairmans Annual Statement and Policy Section of this Remuneration Report.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 91 Total remuneration paid to Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2018 and the prior year: Rupert Pearce Tony Bates 000 000 2018 2018 2018 2018 before discretion after discretion 2017 before discretion after discretion 2017 Basic salary 594 594 583 487 487 477 1 Taxable benefits 2 2 3 2 2 3 2 Pension 17 17 17 17 17 17 3 Annual cash bonus 575 575 478 495 495 422 4 Bonus Share Award 1,008 415 492 781 317 381 5 Performance Share Award 150 75 121 116 58 92 6 Total 2,346 1,679 1,694 1,898 1,377 1,392 1 Taxable benefits: include healthcare 2 Pension: payment made by the Company as cash in lieu of pension see page 95 for details 3 Annual cash bonus: cash bonus payments in relation to the financial years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017 see pages 92 to 94 for details 4 BSA: Shows the value of the BSA shares in relation to financial performance measured during the financial years ended 31 December 2018 and 2017.
Performance targets tested over the relevant financial year determine the number of BSA shares that will vest on the relevant vesting dates.
For 2017, the value is based on the spot share price on the determination date being 9 March 2018 of 4.33.
The award value has been revised from last years report to reflect the actual share price on determination.
For 2018, the share price for the award is valued using the average share price over the last quarter of 2018 of 4.43.
The mid-market share price at the date of grant on 9 March 2018 was 4.33 5 PSA: the value at vesting of awards where vesting is determined by performance over the three-year periods ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
For 2017, the 2015 PSA is valued based on the spot share price on the vesting and sale date of 3.492.
The award value has been revised from last years report to reflect the actual share price on vesting, plus additional shares representing reinvested dividends.
For 2018, as the share price on the vesting date is currently unknown, the 2016 PSA is valued using the average share price over the last quarter of 2018 of 4.43 6 The total remuneration figure for FY17 has been restated to reflect the actual value of PSA and BSA awards that vested in respect of FY17 performance rather than basing this on the closing three month average share price for FY17.
As the share price reduced significantly between the FY17 year end and the actual date of vesting, the total remuneration actually received by executive directors was significantly lower than the total single figure shown in last years Directors Remuneration Report by 181,000 and 140,000 for the CEO and CFO respectively Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2018 audited Annual cash bonus in respect of 2018 performance The annual cash bonus was based on the achievement of Group financial targets for 70% of the bonus and individual performance objectives for the remaining 30%.
The financial performance targets 70% were split as to Group revenue 33% and EBITDA 67%.
Performance against targets and resulting bonus payable is set out below: Performance targets Threshold Target Actual bonus Weighting $m $m Actual outcome % of financial 0% of 60% of Stretch performance % of financial Financial performance measure element max payable max payable $m $m element EBITDA 67% 673.3 748.1 785.5 770 83.8% Revenue 33% 1,293.6 1,437.3 1,509.2 1,465 75.6% Total 100% 81.1% The individual performance objectives for the Executive Directors and scoring are set out below: Rupert Pearce Scoring overall Objectives Weighting Achievements towards objectives performance targets set at the start of the year as a % of maximum Capture maximum number of broadband 40% Good progress on Maritime and aviation installation targets 9% out of 12% platforms Reposition L-band for new growth 25% Partial achievement of Maritime targets 5% out of 7.5% Good delivery against Aviation, USG and Enterprise objectives Establish our digital platform and business 10% A miss on Maritime objectives but good progress made on other digital 1% out of 3% products with a solid pipeline generated Create high performance organisation 10% Objective of delivering new operating model for ABU partially completed 2.5% out of 3% Excellent progress against People objectives Successful merger of IG and USG business units Transform our operating environment 15% Successful delivery of major IT project on Billing systems 3.5% out of 4.5% and Customer Excellence Programme Total score out of 30% 21% 92 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration Report continued Tony Bates Objectives Weighting Achievements towards objectives performance as % of maximum Scoring overall Add value to the bottom line 50% Significant overachievement against Cost Savings targets 14% out of 15% Transform the Finance operating 40% Delivered scheduled BTP releases but at a higher cost than estimated and Atlas roll-out 8% out of 12% environment Much more robust Long Range Business Plan Create a high performing 10% Strengthened senior finance team and processes 2.5% out of 3% Finance function Total score out of 30 24.5% The calculation of cash bonus outcome is set out below: Actual bonus outcome Maximum bonus Actual bonus Weighting % of maximum % salary % salary Financial element 70% 81.1% 87.5% 70.1% Individual objectives 30% CEO 70% 37.5% CEO 26.3% CFO 82% CFO 30.1% Total 100% CEO 77.5% 125% CEO 96.8% CFO 81.3% CFO 101.7% Actual Salary 2018 bonus Actual bonus Executive Director % of salary Rupert Pearce 594,000 96.8% 575,266 Tony Bates 487,000 101.7% 495,000 BSA in respect of 2018 performance The number of conditional shares subject to the 2018 BSA award made on 12 March 2018 at a share price of 4.327 that will be confirmed in March 2019 is determined by financial performance during FY18 as set out below.
2018 is the final year in which the Executive Directors will participate in an award under the BSA.
Performance targets Actual BSA Threshold Target outcome Actual BSA Weighting $m $m Actual % of element outcome following % of financial 60% of 80% of Stretch performance before application application of Performance measure element award vests award vests $m $m of discretion discretion EBITDA 67% 673.3 748.1 785.5 770 91.9% Revenue 33% 1,293.6 1,437.3 1,509.2 1,465 87.8% 37.3% CEO Total 100% 90.5% 36.7% CFO Based on performance, although before discretion 90.5% of the original allocation of shares made in March 2018 would have been confirmed, after discretion by the Committee, a reduced number will be confirmed in March 2019 and vest in equal tranches in March 2020, 2021 and 2022.
The table below shows the confirmation of the number of shares awarded for the 2018 BSA and an estimate of the value of the shares that will vest.
Vesting level Value of Value of Confirmed Number based on shares that shares that will number of shares Market value of a of shares performance will vest before vest following based on vesting Maximum share on award awarded in for year ended application of application percentage Executive Director monetary award 9 March 2018 March 2018 31 December 2018 discretion of discretion after discretion Rupert Pearce 1,088,910 4.33 251,655 90.5% 1,008,082 414,997 93,756 Tony Bates 843,850 4.33 195,020 90.5% 781,213 316,961 71,608 Value of BSA at the time the number of shares is confirmed is calculated using a rounded share price of 4.43 three month average to 31 December 2018 as the actual share price will only be known in March 2019 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 93 2016 PSA award in respect of performance over the three years ending 2018 In 2016, the CEO and CFO received awards of conditional shares under the PSA, for which the performance period ended on 31 December 2018 with vesting and performance against the performance conditions as set out below: Value of Value of shares on shares Number of shares Market price Face value at vesting before following Number of Award as subject to Award of a share at grant of award application of application of shares Executive Director Date of grant % of salary 2016 date of award 2016 discretion discretion Vesting Vesting date Rupert Pearce 23 March 2016 185% 112,564 9.30 1,046,845 149,473 74,737 16,884 23 March 2019 Tony Bates 23 March 2016 175% 87,241 9.30 811,341 115,845 57,950 13,092 23 March 2019 Value of the PSA at vesting is calculated using a rounded share price of 4.43 three month average to 31 December 2018 as the actual share price will only be known in March 2019.
The number of shares vesting will have additional shares in lieu of accrued dividends added to this number Weighting Actual Actual vesting Performance measure % of maximum Performance target performance outcome Three-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 30% Below median: nil vesting 89 out of 93 0% out of 30% excluding investment trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile Three-year EBITDA growth p. a.
0% out of 30% excluding Ligado 11%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 5% and 11% 1 Strategic objectives 40% The strategic objectives and performance against them are noted below See below 30% out of 40% 1 Total vesting outcome 30% of total award 1 The 30% out of 40% assessment for the Strategic Element of the PSA has been reduced by the Committee to 15% out of 40%, after considering the broader performance financial and TSR over the three-year performance period.
This results in a total vesting outcome of 15% of the total award Details of performance against the strategic objectives: Strategic objectives Weighting Achievements towards objectives performance Scoring Complete successful market entry for 40% 1.
Successful satellite launch of GX-4 100% next generation of Inmarsat satellites 2.
Required run rate of GX revenue targets achieved by H2 2018 and on track to achieve 60% 5 year goal of $500m 3.
Successful conversion of XL into GX Maritime by H2 2019 100% 4.
Successful foray into Energy resources markets 50% 5.
Successful extension into broader Government and milsatcoms markets including 80% delivery of Boeing Take or Pay agreement 6.
Successful extension into selected Enterprise markets 0% 7.
Successful extension into global Air Passenger market 90% Put in place all key building blocks 10% 1.
Deliver S-band satellite on time and to budget for launch no later than H1 2017 100% of Aviation business case to support 2.
Deliver ACGC network and on-board equipment for first revenues in 2017 80% material revenues forecast for 3.
Secure spectrum via 25 MSS licences no later than H2 2017 100% beyond 2017 4.
Secure opportunity by 28 ACGC licences no later than end 2017 90% 5.
Secure airline wins strategic channel technology partners for future revenue ramp 100% 6.
Run rate of European revenues installations through EAN on track to deliver set targets 20% Aggressively work to sustain L-band 30% 1.
Level of L-band revenues in 2018 vs. 2015 70% revenues despite GX migration, 2.
Level of new revenues from key replacement revenue product programmes, 50% on-going US sequestration and for example : IsatPhone, IsatHub, IDP, SB200, Fleet One, BRM RFIC productisation and L-TAC increasing competition 3.
Success in key globalisation programmes through Global Government outreach, greater focus on India, China market opportunities and channel evolution 100% To maximise the overall net 20% To maximise the overall net contribution of Ligado to Inmarsat 100% contribution of Ligado to Inmarsat Remuneration Committee overall 75% out of 100% assessment of performance 30% out of 40% before application of discretion 94 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration Report continued Additional disclosure of 2017 performance targets audited Annual cash bonus in respect of 2017 performance Last year, the Company committed to disclose the 2017 bonus financial targets in this years Annual Report on Remuneration.
The targets and actual performance against them are set out below.
In future the Annual Report on Remuneration will disclose performance targets for the annual bonus and performance against them for the reporting year just ended.
Performance targets for 2017 Financial Year Threshold Target Actual bonus Weighting $m $m Actual outcome % of financial 0% of 60% of Stretch performance % of financial Performance measure element max payable max payable $m $m element EBITDA 67% 620 730 803 732 65.1% Revenue 33% 1,252 1,391 1,461 1,400 61.1% Total 100% 62.8% Costs in respect of workforce reduction were not budgeted for at the start of 2017 and therefore not taken into account in target setting but were included in the EBITDA outturn for calculation of bonus purposes.
The calculation of the cash bonus outcome which was paid in March 2018 is set out below: Actual bonus outcome % of maximum Maximum bonus Actual bonus Weighting for each element % salary % salary Financial element 70% 62.8% 87.5% 54.95% Individual objectives 30% CEO 73.3% 37.5% CEO 27.49% CFO 90.0% CFO 33.75% Total 100% CEO 65.7% 125% CEO 82.5% CFO 70.7% CFO 88.7% Individual objectives and performance against them was disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Salary Actual bonus Actual bonus Executive Director in 2017 % of salary Rupert Pearce 530,818 82.5% 478,000 Tony Bates 477,485 88.7% 422,000 BSA in respect of 2017 performance The 2017 BSA targets and actual performance against them are set out below: Performance targets Threshold Target Weighting $m $m Actual Actual bonus % of financial 60% of 80% of Stretch performance outcome Performance measure element max payable max payable $m $m % of element EBITDA 67% 620 730 803 732 82.6% Revenue 33% 1,252 1,391 1,461 1,400 80.5% Total 100% 81.22% Costs in respect of workforce reduction were not budgeted for at the start of 2017 and therefore not taken into account in target setting but were included in the EBITDA outturn for calculation of bonus purposes.
Value of shares Vesting level that vested on Number based on Confirmed 9 March 2018 Market value of a of shares performance number of shares date of Maximum share on award awarded in for year ended based on vesting determination Executive Director monetary award 9 March 2017 March 2017 31 December 2017 percentage at 4.33 Rupert Pearce 1,068,187 7.62 140,182 81% 113,779 492,663 Tony Bates 827,890 7.62 108,647 81% 88,183 381,832 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 95 Scheme interests awarded in 2018 audited 2018 PSA award in respect of performance over the period 2018 2020 In March 2018, the Executive Directors received PSA share awards which will vest on the third anniversary of grant subject to performance over the three years to 31 December 2020.
At vesting, shares can be sold to cover the tax liability due and the balance must be retained for a further period of two years.
Market price Number of shares of a share at Face value at Award as Executive Director Date of grant subject to Award date of award date of award % of salary Vesting date Rupert Pearce 12 March 2018 251,655 4.33 1,088,910 185% 12 March 2021 Tony Bates 12 March 2018 195,020 4.33 843,850 175% 12 March 2021 Vesting of the awards is determined by the following performance targets: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum Performance target Three-year TSR vs. FTSE 50-150 30% Below median: nil vesting excluding investment trusts Median: 30% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile Three-year EBITDA growth p. a.
30% Less than 3%: nil vesting excluding Ligado 3%: 0% vesting 7%: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between 3% and 7% Strategic objectives 40% The strategic objectives are: capture the maximum number of broadband platforms for our high-speed GX services and EAN aviation service reposition L-band for new growth by focusing on additional targeted market opportunities establish our digital platform and business to drive new services and product innovation transform our operating environment to be more efficient in service delivery for customers and efficiency for all stakeholders maximise the overall contribution from an ongoing key strategic contract create a high-performance organisation which enhances our employee value proposition and encourages a high-performance culture The objectives will be disclosed in detail at the end of the three-year performance period.
They will be reassessed separately for performance against each objective.
In 2017, the Executive Directors received a PSA award for the period 2017 2019 which will vest in March 2020 subject to performance conditions being met with the requirement to retain a net number after tax of the resulting shares for a further two years.
The strategic objectives for the 2017 PSA are shown below.
The other performance measures are EBITDA growth and TSR performance.
Full details of performance against all measures will be provided in the 2019 Annual Report.
Strategic objectives 40% The strategic objectives are: Global Xpress: complete successful market entry to satellite broadband market through the next generations of Inmarsat satellites Aviation: put in place all key building blocks of the aviation business case to support material revenues forecast over the LRBP period L-band: work assiduously to sustain L-band revenues despite L-band migration and both ongoing tight budgets and strong competition in all markets Strategic contract: maximise the overall net contribution of the contract to Inmarsat The objectives will be disclosed in detail at the end of the three-year performance period.
They will be assessed separately for performance against each objective.
Pension audited The current employer contribution to the pension scheme subject to the cap of 153,600 for the 2017 18 tax year and 160,200 for the 2018 19 tax year is 12.5% of capped salary.
The capped salary level increases nominally each year.
Mr Pearce and Mr Bates receive a cash supplement of 12.5% of capped salary.
This amount is reduced by the cost to the Company of the employer national insurance, the effect of which is that the Executive Directors receive an equivalent 11% of capped salary, or approximately 3% of their gross salary.
The tax due in respect of these benefits is settled by the Company.
The Company also reimburses the travel costs incurred by the Non-Executive Directors for travel to Board meetings where these do not take place in the country in which they are domiciled.
The figures shown in the table are gross amounts 2 Mr Sukawaty receives healthcare cover 3 The fees for General C. Robert Kehler Rtd include a fee of 55,631 as a Non-Executive Director of Inmarsat Inc, a wholly-owned subsidiary in the U. S. and additionally includes a fee for joining the Nominations Committee in November 2018 4 Mrs McCrostie joined the Remuneration Committee in December 2018 and is entitled to a fee for participating in this Committee Exit payments to departing Directors made in the year audited There were no exit payments made in 2018.
Payments to past Directors audited No payments were made to past Directors in 2018.
External appointments for Executive Directors The Executive Directors do not currently hold positions in other companies as Non-Executive Directors.
Mr Pearce holds various positions in organisations affiliated to the satellite industry which are disclosed in his biography on page 62: none are currently fee-paying.
Implementation of remuneration policy for 2019 Base salary Salaries are typically reviewed annually in July for the Executive Directors and the general workforce.
The Committee conducted its 2018 salary review in July 2018 and approved an increase of 2% for both the CEO and the CFO.
This is consistent with the increase across the Executive Management Team and is below the average salary increase across the Group of 2.4% and across eligible UK employees of 2.7%.
Salaries will next be reviewed in July 2019, which is the same time for the general workforce.
The table below shows the Executive Directors salaries as at July 2017 and July 2018.
Salary at Salary at Executive Director 1 July 2017 % change 1 July 2018 Rupert Pearce 588,600 2% 600,400 Tony Bates 482,200 2% 491,800 Pension Pension contribution will be unchanged at approximately 17,000 for each Executive Director.
Annual bonus The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors will be 200% of salary for each of the CEO and CFO.
The performance measures and weightings are set out below.
Measure Weighting EBITDA 50% Revenue growth 30% Individual strategic measures 20% Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 97 Revenue and EBITDA are significant operational KPIs for the business and stretching sliding scale targets have been set for both measures.
The individual objectives for the CEO and CFO will be based on the following: Rupert Pearce Objectives Weighting Basis for assessment at the year end Maritime growth 30% Maritime revenue, vessel installations and customer retention Aviation growth 30% Number of aircraft installed and in-flight connectivity revenue Technology advancement 25% Delivery of key technology projects in line with approved business plans Strategic activity 15% Management of key strategic risks Tony Bates Objectives Weighting Basis for assessment at the year end Procurement cost savings 30% Cost savings for 2019 vs. previous years Execution of Corporate Financing initiatives 30% Achievement of Board agreed corporate financing goals Commercial architecture rollout 25% Successful delivery of key finance systems Working capital improvements 15% Reduction in working capital at year end vs. 2019 budget 50% of the bonus is paid in cash and 50% will be used by the Executive Directors to acquire shares in the Company that must be held as to one-third for a further one, two and three years.
The shares are owned beneficially but cannot be sold before the end of the holding period: they will also remain subject to clawback.
PSA award A PSA award will be granted immediately after the May 2019 AGM using the then share price.
The award will be made in May 2019 as it is part of the new remuneration policy.
The level of award will be 250% of salary for the CEO and CFO.
Performance conditions will be measured over the three years to 31 December 2021 and awards will vest after the announcement of results for the year ended 31 December 2021.
A mandatory two-year holding period applies to vested PSA awards.
No shares may be sold during the holding period except to cover tax liabilities.
The performance conditions are as follows: Weighting Performance measure % of maximum Performance target Three-year TSR vs. FTSE 250 50% Below median: nil vesting excluding investment trusts Median: 25% vesting Upper quartile: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between median and upper quartile 1 Aggregate free cash flow 25% Less than -$50m: nil vesting -$50m: 25% vesting $150m: 100% vesting straight-line vesting applies between -$50m and $150m 2 Strategic Objectives 25% broken down below Maritime growth: Delivery of a market- 35% The number of vessels installed, revenue and the Maritime business EBITDA leading, profitable maritime broadband service and securing our legacy FleetBroadband customer base Aviation growth: Delivery of a 35% The number of aircraft installed, revenue and Aviation BU EBITDA market-leading, profitable aviation broadband business Infrastructure development and 30% Successful launch of satellites and development of future technologies deployment: Transformation of our global network infrastructure In line with past practice all financial performance measures used for the PSA exclude the financial contribution from the contract signed in 2007 with Ligado Networks.
1 Free cash flow performance will be disclosed in the financial statements each year.
The target range recognises that we are in an investment phase of our strategy, as already communicated to investors and the market.
Targets have been set, and performance will be measured, excluding only the outcome of a long outstanding tax matter that is also disclosed separately in the Companys financial statements.
Overall the Committee is satisfied that the range is appropriately stretching in view of the outlook for the business 2 Aside from financial measures our long-term strategy means that, more so than most other companies, we must make key strategic decisions for the long-term interests of our shareholders and all stakeholders.
This means we consider that it is important to assess a proportion of PSA awards against the strategic milestones which contribute towards the achievement of our long-term goals 98 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors fees The current NED fee levels are set out in the table below.
Fees were reviewed during the year in the context of market fee levels and time commitment, and increased by 2% with effect from July 2018.
NED fees as at 31 December 2018 Amount Basic fee 56,182 Senior Independent Director inclusive of any additional Committee fees 87,190 Non-Executive Chairman inclusive of any additional Committee fees 322,004 Additional Committee fees: Chairman of the Audit Committee 15,300 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15,300 Chairman of the Nominations Committee 10,200 Chairman of the Telecoms Regulatory Committee 10,200 Committee membership per Committee 5,610 Fees will next be reviewed in July 2019 and any increases will be for the decision of the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman also receives international healthcare cover 19,077 in 2018.
Total shareholder return The following graph shows the Companys performance over the last ten years, measured by total shareholder return on a holding in the Companys shares compared to a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE 350 index excluding investment trusts.
The FTSE 350 index has been selected as it provides a view of our performance against a broad equity market index, and Inmarsat is a constituent of the index.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN 400 300 200 100 0 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 18 Inmarsat FTSE 350 xIT CEO ten-year remuneration history audited The table below details the Chief Executives total remuneration and actual variable pay outcomes over the same ten-year period.
For the years 2009-2011, the Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Andrew Sukawaty AS was the same individual reflecting a salary for the combined role.
Rupert Pearce RP became Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
However, because Mr Sukawaty was the highest paid Director as Executive Chairman in 2012, 2013 and 2014, we have also shown his single figure in this table for information 3 Formulaic bonus outcome prior to application of voluntary reduction 4 BSA payout calculated on a new basis where 80% is paid for target performance 5 Following application of discretion to reduce the level of remuneration paid Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 99 Percentage change in CEO remuneration The data for other employees relates to the average pay across staff based in the UK, which is deemed to be the most appropriate employee group.
The data is based on all Inmarsat UK employees, including Executive Directors apart from the CEO and the senior management team.
Change in remuneration from 2017 to 2018 5 CEO Other UK employees 2018 2017 000 000 % change % change 1 Salary 594 583 1.9 3.0 2 Taxable benefits 2.0 2.0 0.0 0.0 3 4 Short-term incentives 990 970 2.1 19.6 1 The CEOs salaries shown relate to the average salaries paid in respect of each of the financial years 2 Taxable benefits include healthcare benefits 3 Represents the annual bonus payment for the financial year just ended plus the value of BSA shares as set out in the single figure table on page 91.
The BSA figure used is that after discretion has been applied 4 The 2017 figures are restated for actual share price as shown on page 91 5 The number of employees is based on those who were in employment for the whole year Gender pay A copy of the Companys report on Gender Pay is included on our website and we have provided some comments in the Resources and Relationships section of this Annual Report on page 51.
CEO pay ratio The Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018 Act requires all UK listed firms with more than 250 employees to publish, as part of their Directors Remuneration Report, the ratio of their CEOs total remuneration to the median 50th, 25th, and 75th percentile remuneration of their UK employees.
The table below shows the relevant data for Inmarsats UK employees for both 2017 and 2018, calculated using Option A as set out in the legislation.
Year Methodology 25th percentile Median 75th percentile 2017 A 51,107 76,386 103,589 2018 A 51,307 79,828 108,957 The table below shows the CEO single total figure of remuneration for FY2017 and FY2018 expressed as a ratio of the UK employee values.
25th Percentile Median 75th Percentile Year Method Pay Ratio Pay Ratio Pay Ratio 2017 Option A 33:1 22:1 16:1 2018 Option A 33:1 21:1 15:1 The CEO pay ratio is highly influenced by the mix of fixed and performance-related compensation, both for employees and for the CEO.
For Inmarsats UK employees, the value of performance-related remuneration typically represents less than 15% of total remuneration.
In contrast, nearly 66% of the CEO Single Total Figure of Remuneration is the result of performance-related pay both short term and long term, with a large percentage of total remuneration delivered in Inmarsat shares.
Relative importance of spend on pay To assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay, we show below remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to shareholders dividends and other significant spend.
Capital expenditure has been presented as a measure of significant spend as it shows the investment being made in the Companys future growth.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY $m $301.4m Total employee pay $312.9m $91.9m Dividends $249.8m $590.7m Cash capital expenditure $614.1m 2018 2017 Restated 100 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Remuneration Report continued Directors shareholding audited The table below shows the shareholding of each Director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31 December 2018 based on a share price of 3.79 as at 31 December 2018: Unvested 3 Unvested and subject to Shareholding Current Shares held as Shares held as and subject performance guideline shareholding Requirement 1 2 at 31 Dec 2017 at 31 Dec 2018 to deferral conditions % salary % salary met?
Rupert Pearce 920,623 998,986 262,295 391,837 500% 637% Yes 4 Tony Bates 59,682 118,060 202,619 303,667 500% 92% No Andrew Sukawaty 1,172,352 1,199,184 Simon Bax 23,000 23,000 Sir Bryan Carsberg 16,327 16,327 Warren Finegold 30,000 30,000 General C. Robert Kehler Rtd 3,000 3,000 Phillipa McCrostie 2,000 2,000 Janice Obuchowski 7,000 14,200 5 Dr Abe Peled 24,000 33,650 Robert Ruijter Dr Hamadoun Tour 1 The unvested and subject to deferral column includes BSA awards confirmed in 2016, 2017 and 2018 and 15% of the 2016 PSA as performance has been tested although the award has not yet vested.
The amounts which are shown are net of tax, thus representing 53% of the total unvested and subject to deferral 2 The unvested and subject to performance conditions column includes PSA awards made in 2017 and 2018 3 The calculation at 31 December 2018 is not comparable to last year, as unvested and subject to deferral shares are not included and the figure includes beneficially held shares only.
This excludes shares added following vesting of BSA awards in March 2019, where Mr Pearce and Mr Bates retained 55,789 and 50,095 shares respectively 4 Mr Bates joined the Company in June 2014.
The shareholding guideline of five times salary is to be achieved over a fiveto seven-year period 5 The 2017 interest has been restated to show the correct beneficial interest Directors interests for Mr Pearce and Mr Bates have increased following the vesting of the BSA awards on 8 March 2019.
Directors interests in shares in Inmarsat long-term incentive plans and all-employee plans audited This information is accurate as at 31 December 2018.
Inmarsat bonus share awards audited The table below shows details of BSA awards where the number of shares has been confirmed but which are still to vest with one third vesting each year over a three-year period.
Reinvested Share awards Awarded dividends Vested Share awards held at during during during held at Allocation 1 2 1 January 2018 the year the year the year 31 December 2018 price Vesting date Rupert Pearce Share award confirmed in March 2015 Fully vested: March 2018 29,062 29,062 8.91 was the last vesting date Share award confirmed in March 2016 March 2018 82,324 1,489 41,160 42,653 9.30 and March 2019 Share award confirmed in March 2017 March 2018, March 2019 119,140 2,874 39,712 82,302 7.62 and March 2020 Share award confirmed in March 2018 March 2019, March 2020 113,779 4,117 117,896 4.33 and March 2021 Tony Bates Share award confirmed in March 2015 Fully vested: March 2018 19,330 19,330 8.91 was the last vesting date Share award confirmed in March 2016 March 2018 62,499 1,130 31,253 32,383 9.30 and March 2019 Share award confirmed in March 2017 March 2018, March 2019 92,338 2,227 30,779 63,786 7.62 and March 2020 Share award confirmed in March 2018 March 2019, March 2020 88,183 3,190 91,373 4.33 and March 2021 3 Andrew Sukawaty Share award confirmed in March 2015 Fully vested: March 2018 50,741 50,741 8.91 was the last vesting date Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Inmarsat plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance | Directors Remuneration Report 101 1 The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date 2 The price is that used to calculate the number of shares to be allocated subject to performance at the grant date and is different to the share price on the date of determination when the shares are confirmed 3 Mr Sukawaty, as Non-Executive Chairman, remains entitled to receive the shares when they vest as they were awarded and earned while he was an Executive Director For the BSA awards that vested in March 2018 last third of the 2015 award, second third of the 2016 award and first third of the 2017 award, the Directors all sold sufficient shares to cover tax and retained the remaining shares.
The share price on 12 March 2018 when the sales took place was 4.1692 which is significantly lower than the share prices used at the date of allocation.
Mr Pearce and Mr Bates 2018 BSA awards will be confirmed in March 2019 for 93,756 and 71,608 shares respectively based on performance during FY18 and reflect a reduced number of shares following discretion by the Committee.
The first vesting will be in March 2020, then in 2021 and 2022.
Inmarsat performance share awards audited The table below shows details of outstanding PSA awards.
Reinvested Share awards Awarded dividends Vested Lapsed Share awards held at during during during during held at Award 1 1 January 2018 the year the year the year the year 31 December 2018 price Vesting date Rupert Pearce 2 Award made in 2015 111,089 4,926 38,252 77,763 9.34 March 2018 3 Award made in 2016 112,564 112,564 9.30 March 2019 Award made in 2017 140.182 140,182 7.62 March 2020 Award made in 2018 251,655 251,655 4.33 March 2021 Tony Bates 2 Award made in 2015 84,337 3,739 29,040 59,063 9.34 March 2018 3 Award made in 2016 87,241 87,241 9.30 March 2019 Award made in 2017 108,647 108,647 7.62 March 2020 Award made in 2018 195,020 195,020 4.33 March 2021 1 The number of shares subject to the award increases by the number of shares that the Executive Director could have purchased with the value of dividends they would have received on their award, based on the share price on the ex-dividend date 2 30% of the 2015 PSP vested in 2018 3 15% of the 2016 PSA will vest in March 2019 which is after discretion has been exercised by the Committee to reduce the overall number Inmarsat sharesave scheme 2018 award audited The information below relates to the UK Sharesave plan which the Executive Directors can contribute monthly savings to over a three-year period.
Granted Lapsed Exercised Options held at Date Options held at during during during 31 December Option price from which Executive Director 1 January 2018 the year the year the year 2018 per share exercisable Expiry date Rupert Pearce 1,584 1,584 5.68 August 2019 January 2020 1,489 1,489 6.02 August 2020 January 2021 5,982 3.01 July 2021 January 2022 Tony Bates 1,584 1,584 5.68 August 2019 January 2020 1,489 1,489 6.02 August 2020 January 2021 5,982 3.01 July 2021 January 2022 Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 March 2019 and signed on its behalf by SIMON BAX CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 18 March 2019
