GOVERNANCE continued DIRECTORS Our commitment to our stakeholders REMUNERATION REPORT is reflected in our approach to remuneration, and a key focus of Statement by the Chair of the the Committee is to ensure that Remuneration Committee reward is aligned with our culture and our strategy.
Remuneration overview Against this background we take On behalf of the Board, I am pleased a very distinctive approach to to present our first Directors remuneration.
The key features of Remuneration Report for the year our reward framework are as follows: ended 30 September 2018.
Relatively modest incentives It has been a significant year for Our maximum total incentive IntegraFin, which listed on the LSE opportunity is only 100% of salary in March 2018.
This was a great per annum.
Ordinarily, we do not milestone for the Group, which expect annual awards to exceed started as a project in 1998, before 65% of salary.
IntegraFin was formally established Distinctive approach to in 1999, co-founded by our current performance measurement Executive Director Michael Howard.
At IntegraFin we do not have Since then IntegraFin has expanded defined performance measures or and as of 30 September 2018 had targets which apply to variable pay over 166,000 client investment awards.
Instead, the Committee portfolios, 33.1 billion of funds exercises independent judgement under direction and over 500 staff and discretion when authorising across the Group companies.
remuneration outcomes, taking into account Company and individual Over 25% of our staff have been performance.
Our performance with the Group for over 10 years measurement framework considers and our Executive team have our Quantitative anchors significant tenures.
This illustrates profitability, customer, risk and employee commitment to the Group regulation and strategy delivery.
and the deep business connections we have cultivated.
Alignment with wider workforce Our approach to remuneration for Our success has been due partly to Executive Directors is consistent with the idea that we have implemented that for all employees.
Our incentive and the services that we provide, structure is aligned across the but also due to the culture that we workforce and all employees are made encourage and project.
Our culture is awards under the same performance one that encourages communication, framework.
The pension policy for EDs imagination and getting things right.
is equivalent to that of the workforce.
To this end, one of our key principles Share ownership Our Executive is to create, maintain and improve Directors are significant our value to our three groups of shareholders in the Company.
stakeholders customers, shareholders and employees.
Whenever possible we are committed to sharing profits between all three groups of stakeholders, and we believe all groups should benefit from any of the Groups activities.
56 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 We believe in simple and transparent Remuneration outcomes for year reward linked to Company success ended 30 September 2018 and delivered in a way that does not The Committee takes into account drive unforeseen behaviours or a range of factors in determining encourage excessive risk taking: salaries, and is mindful of increases W e did not make any out of cycle across the Group.
EDs salary one-off share or cash bonus awards increases of 4% were awarded.
to solely reward the successful IPO.
Cash bonus outcomes for the year A t IPO we introduced a new share were 38.5% 50.6% of salary and plan the Companys Performance share bonus outcomes were 32% Share Plan 2018 PSP with a of salary communicated, but not maximum award opportunity of awarded until after the publication 33% of salary.
The Committee has of results.
The bonus for the year since concluded that this share plan reflects the listing of IntegraFin on should be used for the purpose of the LSE, and that it was a landmark granting deferred awards comprising year for the Company.
a portion of the annual bonus, in line with our simple approach to reward.
Signed on behalf of the IHP Remuneration Committee We do not operate a long-term incentive plan, as we believe long-term targets have the potential Neil Holden to drive inadvertent behaviours.
Chair of the We operate an HM Revenue & Customs IHP Remuneration Committee tax-advantaged Share Incentive 12 December 2018 Plan SIP, which aligns the interests of all UK employees with shareholders.
We believe our distinctive approach to remuneration supports both the objectives of the Group and its three stakeholders and is aligned to the key principles shared between us.
Further details of our reward framework are set out over the following pages.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 57 GOVERNANCE continued Role of the remains appropriate.
To the extent Remuneration Committee that the Committee does not approve the remuneration of Code Staff The purpose of the Committee is to individually, the Committee considers review, set and agree aspects of the whether the total reward for Code overall remuneration policy and Staff remains compliant with the strategy for the Company and other provisions of the Remuneration Code.
companies within the Group that The Committee is also responsible for employ staff and the total reviewing a remuneration policy compensation package for certain statement RPS prepared by IFAL officers and employees within the setting out how the UK regulated Group.
It does so with a view to companies within the Group comply aligning remuneration with the with UK regulatory requirements successful achievement of the on remuneration.
Groups long-term objectives while taking into account the Code, In all its activities, the Committee relevant regulatory requirements, gives due consideration to laws and market rates and value for money.
regulations, the provisions of the Code, the requirements of the UK The Company monitors the list of Listing Authoritys Listing, Prospectus employees who are considered to be and Disclosure Guidance and Code Staff by reference to the Transparency Rules and other Financial Conduct Authority FCA applicable rules, as appropriate.
Remuneration Code to ensure that it Composition of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee at 30 September 2018 were: Date of Appointment Chair Neil Holden 19 January 2018 Members Christopher Munro 19 January 2018 Prior to the resignation of Patrick Snowball the Chair of the Remuneration in August 2018, the Committee had Committee.
The Committee ensures that The Board is considering the appointment members take individual responsibility of a further Non-Executive member for identifying training appropriate to the Committee, to comply with the to their needs and for keeping Code provisions.
appropriate records of such training.
Following the resignation of Each Committee member provides Patrick Snowball in August 2018 copies of their training record to the and the appointment of Christopher Company Secretary annually and Munro as interim Chair of the Board, undertakes all regulatory training Christopher Munro stepped down as, requested by the Group.
and Neil Holden was appointed to, 58 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Committee meetings and attendance The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice annually and more frequently when required.
The Committee has met four times during this financial year.
Attendance by each member of the Committee as at 30 September 2018 is set out below.
Meetings eligible Meetings to attend attended Chair Neil Holden 4 4 Members Christopher Munro 4 4 Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, other individuals such as the CEO, directors of subsidiaries, the Group Counsel, the Head of Human Resources and external advisers may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting.
Overview of actions taken by The Committee has performed its the Remuneration Committee to duties with a view to aligning discharge its duties remuneration with the successful achievement of the Groups long-term The Committee has undertaken the objectives while taking into account following since formation this the Code, relevant regulatory financial year: requirements, market rates and R eviewing the Committee value for money.
Terms of Reference to ensure their appropriateness for a listed entity.
Committee self-evaluation Reviewing the appropriateness of The Remuneration Committee the proposed annual staff pay conducted a self-assessment of its award by reference to the RPS and own effectiveness as well as an the Remuneration Policy: evaluation of the Chair in the period since formation, was satisfied Approving the proposed remuneration with the results achieved and has for the Executive Directors and the agreed actions where improvements annual fee for the Chair of the Board: were suggested.
Considering the appropriateness of remuneration for Code staff and the staff pay award: and Reviewing the RPS for both the previous as well as the forthcoming performance year INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 59 GOVERNANCE continued Remuneration at a glance Element Operation Implementation in 2018 19 Base salary Increases will take into account Salary with effect from 1 June 2018: a number of factors including Ian Taylor: 395,000 the scale of the role and the Alexander Scott: 260,000 individuals experience and wider workforce increases Benefits Include, for example, death in Benefits for CEO and CFO comprise service and private medical private healthcare.
Overnight accommodation in London is provided for the CEO.
Pension The maximum company CEO and CFO receive a 10,000 contribution is 12.3% of salary.
In certain circumstances, and in line with our approach for all employees, this may increase by up to a further 7.5% of salary.
The pension policy is equivalent to that of the wider workforce.
Annual bonus and deferred Total maximum opportunity is Ordinarily, we do not expect bonus award of shares 100% of salary.
awards to be in excess of 65% of salary.
The Committee retains flexibility to adjust the balance between cash The Committee uses judgement and deferred bonus awards.
and discretion when determining outcomes under the annual bonus The deferred bonus awards will and deferred bonus awards.
usually vest on the third anniversary of the grant date.
Outcomes are made by reference to the four quantitative anchors Deferred bonus awards granted profitability: customer: risk and under the Companys PSP are regulation and strategy delivery.
subject to malus and clawback provisions as described below.
All employee share incentive plan The plan is operated in line with EDs are eligible to participate HMRC guidance.
in the all-employee SIP on the same terms as all employees.
60 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 2018 remuneration outcomes for our Executive Directors Total remuneration Ian Taylor, CEO Fixed 442k Cash bonus 200k Deferred bonus 127k 769k Alexander Scott, CFO Fixed 263k Cash bonus 100k Deferred bonus 82k 445k Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy 2019.
Subject to shareholder set out below is proposed for approval, the 2019 Remuneration shareholder approval at the Annual Policy will take effect from the date of General Meeting to be held in early the 2019 AGM.
Policy Table Performance Element Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Measures Salary The purpose of the Base salary is reviewed There is no overall None.
base salary is to annually.
maximum monetary attract and retain opportunity or cap on Executive Directors annual increase.
with the necessary Increases will take into skills, experience account a number of and expertise.
factors including, but not limited to, the scale of the role and the individuals experience, and increases awarded to other staff.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 61 GOVERNANCE continued Performance Element Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Measures Benefits The purpose of The Company offers a There is no maximum None.
the Companys Death in Service scheme monetary value.
staff benefits with benefits set at four times arrangements is to base salary.
The Company attract and retain also offers all employees and Executive Directors their families the opportunity and employees with to participate in a private the necessary skills, medical insurance scheme.
experience and The CEO and CFO have both expertise and to participated in the medical support their insurance and life assurance wellbeing.
Other benefits may include buying and selling of holiday, season ticket loans, child care vouchers and discounts on local retailers and eye tests.
The benefits provided may be subject to amendment from time to time by the Committee within this policy.
EDs may participate in any HMRC or equivalent all employee plans adopted from time to time.
The Company provides overnight accommodation to the CEO during the working week and pays the tax thereon.
In appropriate circumstances benefits may include relocation and tax equalisation.
62 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Performance Element Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Measures Pension The purpose of Contributions are by way The maximum company None.
the employer of a defined contribution contribution is 12.3% contribution to the Groups contractual of salary, this is in line to pension enrolment pension with that of the wider arrangements is to arrangement and by way of workforce.
The maximum attract and retain employer matching contribution is 17.14% EDs for the long contributions to a salary of salary.
term and to sacrifice personal pension Although, due to the UK contribute to arrangement.
tax rules, it is unlikely retirement income.
that EDs would choose to do so, in line with our approach for all employees, EDs may also sacrifice an element of their annual bonus into their pension, subject to a prescribed limit.
The companywide policy is that in these circumstances, and up to a prescribed limit, a match is made in part to reflect the benefit of the employer National Insurance Contribution saving.
The maximum additional pension under this arrangement would be 7.5% of salary.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 63 GOVERNANCE continued Performance Element Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Measures Annual The purpose of the Bonus awards are considered The overall maximum Performance is cash cash bonus is to annually after the end of the limit in respect of the assessed within bonus and reward staff by financial year.
All bonus total annual bonus is a framework deferred reference to the awards to EDs are made at 100% of salary.
which includes bonus financial success of the discretion of the However, this level of consideration of: awards the Group with an Committee.
The Committee award would only be Profitability adjustment for retains flexibility to made in exceptional Customer individual determine each year the circumstances.
proportion in cash and Strategy delivery Deferred bonus awards the proportion as deferred The purpose of would normally be made Individual bonus awards, and any deferred bonus under the PSP rules, performance performance condition if awards is to support where awards are capped is also considered.
long-term retention at 33% of base salary.
Where awarded, vesting of There are no of senior staff and the deferred bonus awards prescribed targets.
alignment with share will usually be on the third Instead, the price performance.
anniversary of the grant Committee considers date.
Dividends do not qualitative and accrue on the shares that quantitative actual are the subject of deferred performance within bonus awards, although the the above Committee has the discretion performance to award dividend equivalents framework.
In certain circumstances the Committee has the right to reduce or withhold the deferred bonus award and has limited rights to recover deferred bonus awards already made, as further described below.
Long-Term N A The Company does not N A N A Incentive intend to make any awards Plan LTIP over it shares that are subject to achievement of performance targets relating to more than one year.
64 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Performance Element Link to Strategy Operation Opportunity Measures All The purpose of the Executive Directors are The SIP is subject to the None.
employee SIP is to align the eligible to participate in the limits set by HMRC from SIP interests of all all-employee SIP in place on time to time.
employees the same terms as all The Board may make an including Executive employees.
The SIP is award to participants of Directors - and operated in line with HMRC Free Shares up to the shareholders.
value 3% of salary or 3,600 whichever is lower and may permit participants to subscribe for Partnership Shares up to the value of 1.5% of salary or 1,800 whichever is lower.
For every Partnership Share purchased, the Company has agreed to award two Matching Shares.
The 3,600 and 1,800 limits are set by applicable legislation and will be revised automatically in the event of any changes to the legislation.
Michael Howard receives nil Incorporate the right to receive or to take into account a change remuneration for his Executive an amount in cash or additional in legislation without obtaining appointment to the Company, but his shares equal to the value of shareholder approval for that employer ObjectMastery Services dividends which would have been amendment.
Pty Ltd receives a fee of AUD50,000 paid on the shares under an award Awards granted under the PSP will for his executive appointment to that vests up to the earliest date on not be subject to performance Integrated Application Development which the award can be exercised, conditions unless the Board Pty Ltd IAD Pty, a company within calculated on a reinvested basis.
determines otherwise, in which case the Group.
Be settled in cash at the the Committee will determine the Committees discretion.
performance conditions that apply to Share plan operation and any awards to Executive Directors.
discretion Be adjusted at the Committees If awards are subject to performance discretion in certain circumstances The Committee has discretion in conditions, the Committee may waive e. g. capitalisation or rights issues, several areas of policy as set out in or amend them if an event occurs corporate restructuring events, this Report.
The Committee may also which causes the Committee to variation of capital and special exercise operational and administrative determine an amended or substituted dividends.
discretions under the relevant plan rules.
performance condition would be more The Committee may make minor appropriate and not materially more The deferred bonus awards will be amendments to the Policy set out difficult to satisfy.
governed by the rules of the relevant above for regulatory, exchange share plan, normally the Companys control, tax, administrative purposes, PSP.
Awards under the PSP may: INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 65 GOVERNANCE continued Approved payments Chair and Non-Executive Directors The Committee reserves the right to Approach Operation Opportunity Other Items make any remuneration payments to Fees and or payments for loss of office To attract Non-executive There is no The Company including exercising any discretions Non-Executive Director fees maximum fee.
reimburses available to it in connection with such Directors are reviewed reasonable payments notwithstanding that they The fees with relevant annually.
expenses are not in line with the Policy set out are subject experience to The review is incurred by above where the terms of the to maximum ensure the by reference the Chair and payment were agreed i before the aggregate limits, appropriate to the time Non-Executive 2019 AGM the date the Companys as set out in balance on commitment and Directors in the first shareholder-approved Directors the Articles of the Board and responsibility of performance of Remuneration Policy comes into Association.
the effective the role and will their duties.
effect or ii at a time when the management of not necessarily This includes relevant individual was not a Director the Company result in an but is not of the Company and, in the opinion of increase.
limited to travel the Committee, the payment was not expenses and in consideration for the individual None of the tax thereon becoming a Director of the Company.
Non-Executive and independent For these purposes payments Directors, professional includes the Committee satisfying including the advice.
awards of variable remuneration and, Chair, is eligible in relation to an award over shares, for performance the terms of the payment are agreed related at the time the award is granted.
Performance measures and targets Annual bonus and Malus and clawback clawback applying, or v if the deferred bonus awards Company is required to operate The PSP under which deferred bonus clawback by any relevant regulator.
Under our performance measurement awards are intended to be made, framework, the Committee considers contains malus and limited clawback Clawback only applies when there are detailed management information provisions under which the Company unvested awards.
which is linked to the Groups can reduce an unvested award or quantitative anchors.
clawback from a vested or unvested cash bonus, SIP or deferred bonus The quantitative anchors are award during any period when the designed to support our key principle employee has an unvested deferred to create, maintain and improve value bonus award.
This ability is limited to to our three groups of stakeholders the following circumstances: customers, shareholders and i the employees gross misconduct, employees.
They have been ii a material misstatement and or developed to reflect our commitment significant downward revision in to our stakeholders, support the financial results, iii an error in Companys culture and ensure relation to the extent to which an alignment with our strategy.
award has vested and or been They may include factors such as granted, iv any other circumstance inter alia, financial performance, risk, which the Committee considers has compliance, conduct, internal controls, or would have if made public a client and client adviser metrics and sufficiently significant impact on the delivery of strategy.
reputation of the Company to justify 66 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Scenario charts The charts below illustrate the amount the EDs could receive in the first year in which the Policy is in operation.
The charts are based on the following assumptions: Pay Scenario Basis of Calculation Minimum Fixed remuneration only, consisting of the salaries as at the beginning of financial year 2019, benefits received in 2018 and 10,000 pension.
Expected Fixed remuneration as at the beginning of financial year 2019, plus the expected value of cash bonus 30% and the deferred bonus 33%.
Maximum Fixed remuneration as at the beginning of financial year 2019, plus the maximum combined cash bonus and deferred bonus PSP at 100%.
All scenarios exclude share price growth and dividends.
IAN TAYLOR - REMUNERATION OPPORTUNITY FOR 2019 000 0 100k 200k 300k 400k 500k 600k 700k 800k 900k Minimum 100% Expected 64% 17% 19% Maximum 54% 23% 23% Deferred bonus award Annual salary Cash bonus ALEXANDER SCOTT - REMUNERATION OPPORTUNITY FOR 2019 000 0 100k 200k 300k 400k 500k 600k 700k 800k 900k Minimum 100% Expected 63% 18% 19% Maximum 51% 25% 24% Annual salary Cash bonus Deferred bonus award INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 67 GOVERNANCE continued Effect of share price increase Where an individual forfeits outstanding variable pay 1 Were the Companys share price opportunities or contractual rights to increase by 50%, Ian Taylors total at a previous employer as a result actual remuneration would increase of appointment, the Committee to 947k under a maximum scenario may offer compensatory payments driven by the increased value of or awards, in such form as the deferred bonus awards granted under Committee considers appropriate, the PSP and SIP.
taking into account all relevant 2 Were the Companys share price factors including the form of to increase by 50%, Alexander Scotts awards, expected value and vesting total actual remuneration would timeframe of forfeited opportunities.
increase to 595k under a maximum When determining any such scenario driven by the increased buyout, the guiding principle value of deferred bonus awards would be that awards would granted under the PSP and SIP.
generally be on a like-for-like basis unless this is considered by Recruitment remuneration the Committee not to be practical When determining the remuneration or appropriate.
package for a newly appointed The maximum level of variable Executive Director, the Committee remuneration which may be would seek to apply the following awarded excluding any buyout principles: awards referred to above in respect The package should be market of recruitment is in line with the competitive to facilitate the current maximum limit under the recruitment of individuals of Policy table above.
sufficient calibre to lead the business.
Where an Executive Director is At the same time, the Committee required to relocate from their would intend to pay no more than it home location to take up their role, believes is necessary to secure the the Committee may provide required talent.
assistance and include benefits When determining the design and such as relocation either via composition of the package, one-off or on-going payments or the Committee will consider the benefits or tax equalisation.
size, content and scope of the role, In the event that an internal the candidates skills, experience candidate is promoted to the Board, and expertise and the market rate legacy terms and conditions would for the role.
normally be honoured, including New EDs will normally receive a pension entitlements and any base salary, benefits and pension outstanding incentive awards.
contributions in line with the policy To facilitate any buyout awards described on pages 61 to 65 and outlined above, in the event of would also be eligible to join the recruitment the Committee may grant annual bonus and deferred bonus awards to a new Executive Director awards up to the limits set out in relying on the exemption in the the Policy.
Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards, to facilitate, 68 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 in unusual circumstances, the EDs service contracts do not make recruitment of an Executive Director, any other provision for termination without seeking prior shareholder payments.
Provision is made for approval or under any other salary, life insurance, private medical appropriate Group incentive plan.
insurance, pension arrangements, holiday and sick pay.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive The Chair and the Non-Executive Director would normally be in line Directors have been appointed for with the structure set out in the three year terms, subject to renewal policy table for Non-Executive thereafter.
The Chair and Non-Executive Directors on page 66.
Directors each have notice periods of three months and may receive The Committee is aware that the fees during their notice period.
Policy and its limits may put it at The Chair and Non-Executive a competitive disadvantage should Directors may receive independent the Company need to hire a new professional advice.
If a higher maximum award level is The Chair and the Non-Executive required on the basis of recruitment, Directors receive no benefits from the Company will put forward a new their office other than their fees and policy for shareholder approval at the reimbursement of expenses that time.
incurred in the performance of their duties and the benefit of directors Service contracts and and officers liability insurance.
appointment letters They are not eligible to participate in the Group pension arrangements All EDs have written service contracts or life insurance arrangements.
in place with an employing company in the Group, which were entered at Payment for loss of office the time of the Companys IPO.
All Non-Executive Directors have In the event that the employment of written appointment letters with the an ED is terminated, any compensation Company.
Shareholders may inspect payment will be determined by the terms of the EDs contracts or reference to the terms of the Non-Executive Directors terms of individual Directors service appointment at the Companys agreement and the individuals registered offices.
The Company may at its discretion make a payment in EDs service contracts are terminable lieu of notice equal to base salary, on six months notice on either side.
pension, contributions cash In the event that notice is given to equivalent and the cost of providing terminate an EDs contract, the life assurance and private medical Company may make a payment in benefits only.
The Company may, lieu of notice or place the individual at the Committees discretion, on garden leave.
Entitlement to any make the payment by way of a lump variable remuneration arrangements sum or by instalments over what will be determined in accordance with would have been the notice period the relevant plan rules and this Policy.
and might be subject to mitigation.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 69 GOVERNANCE continued The Company may place the ED on awards may ordinarily lapse on gardening leave for the duration of termination of employment.
The Committee has discretion to permit the Executive Director to retain It is the Companys intention that and exercise such awards until the end the service contracts for any new EDs of the exercise period or such earlier will contain equivalent provisions.
date as the Committee may determine.
The Company reserves the right to In any case where the Executive make such payment as may be Director ceases to be an employee necessary to discharge its legal before the vesting date of an award, obligations to the director or by way the award will be reduced pro-rata to of settlement of any claim arising in the proportion of the vesting period connection with the cessation of a worked, unless the Committee directors office or service, including determines otherwise and, if the reimbursement of legal expenses.
award is subject to performance The Company may also pay out conditions, the Committee shall also placement costs.
have the discretion to determine the extent to which performance Annual bonus cash and deferred conditions have been met or may waive the performance conditions.
Annual bonus payments may be made if the Committee consider it All staff SIP appropriate, any payment would be pro-rated for time, and normal SIP awards are not forfeitable on performance considerations would leaving and SIP shares will be apply.
In line with the normal policy, transferred to the ED upon leaving.
the award may be in cash or deferred shares.
Change of control Treatment of corporate events Deferred bonus awards On a change of control or voluntary If an Executive Director dies, the wind up of the Company deferred Committee may permit deferred bonus awards, which have been bonus awards to be exercised within earned in respect of previous the 12 month period immediately performance periods, will normally following death.
vest in full, but may be reduced pro-rata to the proportion of the If an Executive Director is a good vesting period up to the relevant leaver, unvested deferred bonus corporate event, unless the Committee share awards will normally vest on determines otherwise.
If the awards the vesting date.
The Committee has are subject to performance conditions, discretion to permit awards to vest the Committee shall also have the early, on cessation of employment.
discretion to determine the extent to Good leaver means ceasing which performance conditions have employment due to injury, ill-health, been met or may waive the disability, redundancy or the employing performance conditions.
company or undertaking ceasing to be under the control of the Company, The Committee also has the discretion or any other reason at the discretion to treat a demerger of the Company of the Committee.
that is an exempt distribution as an early vesting event on the same If an Executive Director leaves other basis as a change of control.
than as a good leaver or on death, any unvested deferred bonus share 70 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Consideration of employment While the Committee does not conditions elsewhere in specifically consult with employees the Company on its Remuneration Policy for EDs, the Committee is mindful of the Remuneration arrangements are salary increases, the pension and determined throughout the Group benefits framework and bonus based on the same principle, awards applying across the whole which is to create, maintain and business when considering the improve our value to our three remuneration package of EDs.
groups of stakeholders customers, shareholders and employees.
Consideration of shareholder views Whenever possible we are committed to sharing profits between all three Whilst the Committee did not directly groups of stakeholders.
consult with shareholders in the shaping of the Remuneration Policy, Our commitment to our stakeholders the Committee welcomes shareholders is reflected in our approach to views on executive remuneration.
remuneration which is consistent for In the formulation of the all employees.
The Committee is Remuneration Policy, the Committee focussed on ensuring reward is took into account general good aligned to our culture and our governance, best practice and strategy, and alignment with the shareholder and investor guidance.
wider workforce is a key feature of our distinctive approach to remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee takes very seriously the view of shareholders Our incentive structure is aligned when making any changes to across the workforce and all employees executive remuneration, and it is are made awards under the same the Committees intention to consult performance framework.
In line with with major shareholders in advance our remuneration principles, pension of making any material changes to contributions for EDs are aligned with remuneration arrangements.
those available to the wider workforce and EDs do not receive any benefits which are not available to all employees, save that the CEO is entitled to overnight accommodation in London during the week.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 71 GOVERNANCE continued Directors remuneration and Groups Accounts and Reports annual report Amendment Regulations 2013 and the Company is not reporting This report details the remuneration on those Directors remuneration in arrangements in place for people who this Remuneration Report.
They did were directors of the Company during not receive any remuneration on the financial year.
Judith Davidson, the day that they were Directors of Stuart Bazely and Jeremy Brettell the Company.
resigned from the board of the Company on 1 October 2017 in There have been no changes to preparation for listing.
In light of the Directors remuneration throughout fact that the largest payment the year save for the annual bonus applicable to that service is less than award made in December 2017 and 1,000, the amount is fide minimis in pursuant to the annual pay review accordance with s15 d of part 3 of made in June 2018.
Benefits for Alexander Scott were 497 for 2018 and 421 for 2017.
The difference is the value of overnight accommodation for Ian Taylor.
Michael Howard receives nil remuneration for the Company, but his employer ObjectMastery Services Pty Ltd receives a fee of AUD 50,000 for his executive appointment to IAD Pty, a company within the Group.
72 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Base salary The EDs basic annual salaries were Basic annual salary as Salary effective 1 June in the Prospectus published at IPO.
per the Prospectus 2018 The basic annual salaries for Ian Taylor Director 000 000 and Alexander Scott were reviewed Ian Taylor 379 395 in June 2018 in accordance with the Alexander Scott 250 260 Companys all-employee pay review resulting in the following changes to the annualised salary figures: Benefits Incentives The CEO is entitled to overnight IntegraFin has a distinctive culture Our performance framework is accommodation in London during the focussed on our three stakeholders also distinctive We do not set working week.
Otherwise, EDs do not customers, shareholders and employees.
Instead the receive any benefits which are not Our incentive structure has been Committee considers qualitative and available to all employees.
Benefits developed to support this culture: quantitative actual performance for CEO and CFO comprise private against four quantitative anchors: Alignment across all staff health care.
Profitability All staff are eligible for an annual Customer bonus award.
Our incentive structure Risk and Regulation is aligned across the workforce and Strategy delivery.
all employees are made awards under the same performance framework.
As well as individual performance.
Modest incentive opportunity Our maximum total incentive opportunity for Executive Directors is only 100% of salary, and ordinarily in practice we do not expect awards to exceed 65% of salary.
Deferred bonus awards Part of the incentive award is in cash and part is in shares through deferred bonus awards.
We maintain flexibility on the proportion of each.
Deferred bonus awards is our preferred long-term alignment mechanism and we do not operate a long-term incentive plan, as we believe long-term targets have the potential to drive inadvertent behaviours.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 73 GOVERNANCE continued Annual bonus cash and deferred share awards for the 2018 financial year were as follows: Cash award Deferred award Director 000 000 Ian Taylor 200 50.6% of salary 127 32.2% of salary Alexander Scott 100 38.5% of salary 82 31.5% of salary The bonus for the CEO and CFO are This year, as in past years, recommended by the Board Chair the Committee reviewed the and the CEO respectively, after Board Chairs and the CEOs proposals consultation with Board members.
in that context, and considered The Remuneration Committee members whether the Executive Directors consider detailed management had delivered appropriate customer, information MI throughout the year financial and strategic performance which covers factors such as inter alia, whilst also managing risk and financial performance, risk, compliance, maintaining internal controls.
conduct, internal controls, client and Each year the Committee uses the client adviser metrics, and delivery following quantitative anchors to of strategy.
frame that discussion and challenge: Quantitative anchor Financial Planned financial performance has been delivered, performance with improved financial performance metrics compared to the previous financial year.
Customer The business continues to maintain or improve its market share and achieve high standards of satisfaction with clients and their advisers.
Risk and regulation From a risk appetite and conduct perspective management have shown appropriate adherence to internal, legal and regulatory policies, laws and rules.
Monitoring, auditing and other assurance activities demonstrate appropriate attention to maintaining the internal control environment.
Strategy delivery The successful listing was the key event during the year.
This was delivered on time with no significant unexpected issues and in a cost effective way.
Advisers commented favourably on the quality of preparation and documentation and the listing at the top end of the share price range was a highly satisfactory outcome.
74 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Based on a holistic assessment of SIP Group performance, including EDs are able to participate in the SIP.
consideration of the quantitative The Board may make an award to anchors and taking into account participants of Free Shares up to individual performance, the Committee the value 3% of salary or 3,600 granted Ian Taylor an annual bonus whichever is lower and may award equal to 83% of salary and permit participants to subscribe for Alexander Scott an award equal to Partnerships Shares up to the value 70% salary.
of 1.5% of salary or 1,800 The proportion of the 2018 annual whichever is lower.
For every bonus payable as deferred bonus Partnership Share purchased, awards will be granted following the the Company has agreed to award announcement of the Companys two Matching Shares.
Awards will vest after and 1,800 limits are set by applicable three years and will be subject to legislation and will be revised malus and clawback provisions as automatically in the event of any detailed in the Remuneration Policy.
Performance conditions will not apply No SIP awards were made in the to these awards as detailed in the 2018 financial year.
The Board has Remuneration Policy.
considered the Companys No deferred share awards were made performance in the 2018 financial in the 2018 financial year.
year and, with the approval of the Remuneration Committee, LTIPs has approved the making of the maximum SIP award to qualifying The Company does not propose to employees including Ian Taylor and make any awards to EDs that are Alexander Scott when the Company dependent on performance conditions is not in a closed period.
This will be relating to more than one year.
following the announcement of the No such award were made in the Companys financial results.
Pension contributions Pension contributions for Ian Taylor and Alexander Scott are currently made by reference to the relevant personal allowance at 10,000 per Executive Director.
In line with our remuneration principles, pension contributions for Executive Directors are aligned with those available to the wider workforce.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 75 GOVERNANCE continued PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION Percentage change in CEO COMPARED TO AVERAGE EMPLOYEE remuneration compared to average employee 35% 31.4% The graph shows the percentage 30% movement in the salary, benefits and 25% 22.0% annual cash bonus for the Chief 20% 17.9% Executive between the current and previous financial year compared to 15% that for the average Group employee.
10% The SIP scheme is provided to all 4.0% 5% 2.5% staff, including EDs, and is not 0.0% 0% included above.
Salary Benefits Bonus CEO Average Employee Notes to the table: The CEO received an annual bonus in 2018 enhanced primarily in respect of the delivery of the IPO.
The average staff annual bonus was the same as previous years.
The table does not include salary and benefits movement for Australian employees as their employment benefit package differs from the UK staff package in recognition of different compensation and benefit rules in Australia.
The Company has therefore deemed it inappropriate to include their remuneration in this comparison.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the 2018 2017 Percentage percentage change in profit, 000 000 Change dividends and overall spend on pay in IFRS profit after tax 32,906 29,889 10% the year ending 30 September 2018, Dividends 30,780 13,532 128% compared to the year ending Employee remuneration costs 28,646 25,474 12% 30 September 2017.
Payments to past directors the termination of their office in this Remuneration Report.
Judith Davidson, Stuart Bazely and Jeremy Brettell resigned from the Patrick Snowball resigned as board of the Company on 1 October Non-executive Chair of the Board 2017 in preparation for listing.
His total In light of the fact that the largest remuneration for his period of office payment made to them following is set out below.
their resignation in relation to that Stuart Bazely and Jeremy Brettell service as directors of the Company continue to be Non-Executive is less than 1,000, the amount is Directors for IFAL and have been considered fide minimis in accordance remunerated for those services.
with s15 d of Part 3 of The Large Judith Davidson continues to be an and Medium-sized Companies and employee and Executive Director Groups Accounts and Reports of entities within the Group and is Regulations 2008.
Therefore the remunerated for these services by Company is not reporting on the Groups services company.
payments made to them following 76 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Percentage change Payments for loss of office Shareholding requirements and to the main market Admission.
Directors share interests The shareholder lock-up expires on The outgoing Non-Executive Directors 27 February 2019. and Chair received fees in respect of No share awards were awarded to their appointment up to the effective EDs during the financial year.
Following the expiry of the lock-up date of their resignation from office.
EDs of IHP and their connected provisions there are no minimum persons are subject to the terms shareholding requirements in place None of the outgoing Directors of a shareholder lock-up entered into that would limit the number of shares received a termination payment.
prior to the Companys admission that could be sold.
Shares held at Shares held at Director Connected person 30 September 2018 1 October 2017 Ian Taylor 2,610,630 11,886 Class C - 7,000 Class D Furley Page Executor & Trustee Company Limited 4,410,402 7,000 Class D Frances Taylor 5,095,270 24,000 Class C Patrick Taylor 229,652 1000 Class D Elizabeth Taylor 229,652 1000 Class D Anna Taylor 229,652 1000 Class D Michael Howard 43,950,000 217,501 Class B Ganymede Retirement Nominees Pty Ltd 0 2,177 Class A 0 8,602 Class B 0 10,000 Class C Ganymede Investments Pty 6,088,247 0 Alexander Scott 1,148,260 5,000 Class D Christopher Munro 1,426,324 9,736 Class A Patrick Snowball 61,530 0 Judith Davidson 574,130 2,500 Class D 2,719,919 10,459 Class A Patrick Sweeney 74 Class B Oliver Sweeney 574,130 2,500 Class D David Johnson 97,578 450 Class D Candida Johnson 1,039,152 4,500 Class D Jonathan Gunby 51,648 250 Class D Cheryl Gunby 970,256 4,250 Class D Edward Gunby 51,648 250 Class D Matthew Gunby 51,648 250 Class D Neil Holden 0 0 Caroline Banszky 0 0 Victoria Cochrane 0 0 Stuart Bazley 0 0 Jeremy Brettell 0 0 No Directors have any vested or unvested share awards as at the end of the Financial Year.
INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 77 GOVERNANCE continued Shareholder return TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE VS FTSE250 OVER THE INITIAL FINANCIAL PERIOD Performance Graph and CEO pay over the same period 140 This graph shows the Companys 130 total shareholder return performance 120 from Admission to 30 September 2018.
110 The Company has chosen to show 100 total shareholder return against the 90 FTSE 250 total return over the same period, as the Board considers this to 80 be the most appropriate comparator.
70 60 03 2018 04 2018 05 2018 06 2018 07 2018 08 2018 09 2018 Integrafin Holdings plc FTSE 250 The following table shows the Chief CEO 2018 Executive Officers remuneration for CEO single figure of remuneration 769k 2017 18: Annual bonus payout as a % of maximum opportunity 83% LTIP vesting out-turn as a % of maximum opportunity N A At the point of the 2018 award the annual bonus was operated on an uncapped basis.
In order to facilitate comparison, the current 100% of salary cap has been applied retrospectively.
Chair and Non-Executive Director Fees Expenses remuneration Element of remuneration by Director Year 000 000 Christopher Munro 2018 57 0 The remuneration paid to the Chair and Non-Executive Directors were set 2017 24 0 prior to Admission and no increases Neil Holden 2018 52 0 have been applied since then.
2017 36 0 In respect of the financial year Caroline Banszky 2018 7 0 ending 30 September 2018 the amounts are as follows.
2017 - - Victoria Cochrane 2018 0 0 2017 - - Patrick Snowball 2018 89 0 2017 24 0 fide minimis expenses are for reimbursement of extraordinary communication costs and taxable travel expenses grossed up for the tax payable thereon.
78 INTEGRAFIN ANNUAL REPORT YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2018 Percentage change
