IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Company uses the Annual General Meeting AGM Following the integration process with Touchstone as an opportunity to communicate more generally with Innovations, the Group considered that it was particularly its shareholders.
Notice of the AGM, which will be held at important to actively engage with, and seek feedback from, 11.30am on 28May 2019 at IP Group plc, The Walbrook the employees of the newly integrated Group.
An anonymous Building, 25 Walbrook, London, EC4N 8AF is included staff survey was distributed to employees in November with this report, containing details of the resolutions to be 2018 to enable them to share thoughts on their experience proposed at the meeting and explanatory notes on those of working within the Group and to provide ideas for how resolutions.
To ensure compliance with the Code, the Board the Group can improve its employees experiences at work.
proposes separate resolutions for each issue and proxy forms The results of the survey were presented during the Allallow shareholders who are unable to attend the AGM to vote Staff Meeting in December and the Groups Head of HR for or against or to withhold their vote on each resolution.
is currently analysing the results with a view to proposing The results of all proxy voting are published on the Groups a plan of follow-up actions for implementation during website after the meeting and declared at the meeting itself 2019 and beyond in order to enhance the working life of to those shareholders who attend.
Shareholders who attend employees within the Group and more effectively engage the AGM will have the opportunity to ask questions and all and communicate with employees.
directors are expected to be available to take questions.
Given that the Group has international operations, as well The Groups website www.
com is the primary as a number of its employees working remotely through the source of information on the Group.
The website includes an UK, a regular internal newsletter was introduced in 2018 to overview of the activities of the Group: details of its portfolio formalise how the Group distributes key information.
The companies, and its key university relationships and other newsletter contains a message from the CEO, along with strategic collaborations: and details of all recent Group and an operational update, highlights from the Groups portfolio portfolio announcements.
and details of upcoming events, HR and other key updates.
Furthermore, the Groups employees are able to raise any Employees matters of concern under the Groups Speaking Up Policy, a The Group recognises that attracting and maintaining the copy of which is available on the Groups intranet.
best people is fundamental to its success and aims to create a collaborative environment for its employees to work.
As Universities and other research institutions part of this, it is critical that the Groups workforce is fully The Group has relationships with 14 universities in the UK, engaged with the business.
six universities in the US, three Department of Energy laboratories in the US and nine Universities in Australasia.
IP Employees are kept informed of the Groups performance Groups specialist investment teams in each of its territories and strategy through various forums.
The Group holds work closely with these universities and laboratories regular All-Staff Meetings throughout the year: at least two to identify promising research and to create and build of these are face-to-face meetings at which staff from all of businesses around this research.
In addition, in the UK, the the Groups offices in the UK are encouraged to attend in Group has a New Business & Partnerships team which person: a further four meetings are held in the Groups offices focuses specifically on building, developing and maintaining in London with staff either attending in person or dialling in university relationships in the UK and working alongside via video conference.
The All-Staff Meetings are also available technology transfer teams and academics to help develop to the Groups colleagues in its overseas offices via video and shape ideas into businesses.
This team conducts regular conference.
Each meeting is recorded and uploaded onto the relationship review meetings with the Groups university Groups intranet.
In Australasia, the Chairman and executive One of the Groups All-Staff Meetings each year forms part management team have recently conducted an annual of the Groups annual Off-site, a two day event which all relationship review with each of its partner universities.
In the colleagues across the Group, both in the UK and overseas, US, the Managing Director, alongside senior investment team are encouraged to attend.
The Groups 2018 Off-site focused members and other senior employees conduct regular review on connection knowledge.
During the Off-site, employees and relationship meetings with each of the universities and presented to their colleagues: sharing stories, experiences DOE laboratories with which they have a relationship.
and knowledge in a series of TED-style talks on a range of topics.
Alongside the talks, employees received presentations from the Board on the Groups strategic, financial and operational updates.
Employees also had the opportunity to submit questions on an anonymous basis to the Groups Executive Directors and Managing Partners, which were answered in a Q&A panel format.
indd 88 16 04 2019 15:13:31 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Co-investors Other stakeholders The Group regularly invests in portfolio companies alongside The Group keeps an open dialogue with regulators including co-investors.
By building and maintaining close relationships the Financial Conduct Authority in relation to its regulated with its co-investors, this facilitates the Groups portfolio subsidiaries Top Technology Ventures Limited and Parkwalk companies access to capital, particularly at the earlier stages Advisors Ltd and the Takeover Panel in relation to its quoted of its investment life cycle, which, in turn, provides them with portfolio company holdings.
The Group also ensures it is in an improved chance of success.
Mike Townend, the Groups regular dialogue with the European Investment Bank, with Chief Investment Officer, is committed to maintaining good whom the Group has a 98.1m debt facility and the European relationships with co-investors.
Mr Townend leads the IP Investment Fund, which is a partner in the Groups venture Capital team, which undertakes fundraising mandates on capital funds IP Venture Fund L. P. and IP Venture Fund II L. P. behalf of the portfolio companies and has regular dialogue Finally, the Group seeks to have a positive impact on the with a wide range of co-investors to achieve its objectives.
communities on which it operates.
One of the ways in which In addition, members of the Groups executive management the Group engages with the community is through its and investment teams sit alongside representatives from three-year partnership with Generating Genius, a charity set co-investors on portfolio company boards which enables up to support talented young people from disadvantaged regular and active engagement.
Furthermore, the Group backgrounds to achieve their potential in science, technology, holds a number of investor events throughout the year at its engineering and maths.
Further details of this project can be head office to facilitate direct exposure of its co-investors to found on page 63. the portfolio companies and their management.
Certain of the Groups co-investors are also major shareholders in the Political expenditure Company and so the Group engages directly with them in Although it is the Boards policy not to incur political both capacities.
expenditure or otherwise make cash contributions to political Portfolio Companies parties, and it has no intention of changing that policy, the The Group brings more than just investment to its portfolio CA 2006 is very broadly drafted in this area and the Board companies: it helps to build businesses.
The Group currently has raised a concern that it may include activities such as has board seats on 95% of its focus portfolio companies.
funding conferences or supporting certain bodies involved in Alongside being actively involved in portfolio companies policy review and law reform.
Accordingly, at the AGM held via its directorships, the Group also offers business building on 18June 2018 and as at previous AGMs, the shareholders expertise to its portfolio companies that can be tailored passed a resolution on a precautionary basis to authorise the to suit individual requirements and is designed to support Group to incur political expenditure as defined in Section management teams.
For example, IP Capital, the Groups 365 of CA 2006 not exceeding 50,000 in total at any time specialist fund management and corporate advisory business, from 18June 2018 up to the conclusion of the 2019 AGM.
manages relationships with a diverse network of investors The Board intends to seek renewed authority for the Group to support portfolio companies access to capital: and IP to incur political expenditure of not more than 50,000 in Assist, the Groups in-house business support providers, total at the Companys 2019 AGM, to be held on 28May 2019, helps companies to manage fundamental administrative which the Group might otherwise be prohibited from making tasks, particularly in the start-up phase of a companys life.
or incurring under the terms of CA 2006.
The Group also helps to shape the development of a portfolio Going concern companys leadership capability by offering portfolio companies access to IP Exec, its in-house executive search The Directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation function.
The Groups high level of engagement with portfolio that the Group will have adequate resources to continue companies and approach to business building is one of the in operational existence for the foreseeable future and ways in which it differentiates itself from more traditional accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis venture funds.
in preparing the financial statements.
A viability statement, as required by the Code, can be found on page 55.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD Sir Douglas Flint Chairman 25March 2019 89 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 89 16 04 2019 15:13:31 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION STATEMENT Embedding our approach to remuneration to engage and motivate our people Jonathan Brooks Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of your Board, I am pleased to present our The Committee considers that these outcomes appropriately Directors Remuneration Report DRR for the year ended reflect the Committees pay for performance principles 31 December 2018. and the very stretching, objective incentive targets that are aligned with our shareholders.
2018 Performance and incentive We provide transparent disclosure of our annual bonus out-turns performance targets on both a retrospective and, where The Groups Return on Hard NAV for 2018 was negative appropriate, prospective basis.
Full details of the annual 75.6m, a significant reduction compared to the positive bonus targets for 2018 and forward-looking targets for 2019 64.1m return for 2017.
The Group did however record its are contained in this report.
highest annual level of realisations to date, with 29.5m Updated Remuneration Policy cash being realised from the portfolio.
Given the significant weighting of the AIS outcomes to Return on Hard NAV, We will be seeking approval for our Remuneration Policy at the quantitative targets indicated a bonus out-turn of our 2019 AGM.
The changes to our policy are predominantly 16.8% of maximum target, primarily as a result of cash to take into account the new corporate governance code, realisations.
The Committee members discussed the with the two primary changes being a reduction in the output of the quantitative targets and considered that this pension maximum to align with the wider workforce and the out-turn appropriately reflected the overall performance of introduction of a post-cessation of employment shareholding the business for the period in question.
Given the limited changes to the substance of the out-turn for 2018 for the Executive Directors was therefore policy, no formal consultation with our shareholders has been determined as 16.8% of maximum opportunity.
Consistent with the Groups annual performance in 2018, the cumulative three-year return on the Groups Hard NAV did not meet the 8% per annum threshold target for the Groups 2016 LTIP awards scheduled to vest in March 2019.
Further, while the actual absolute Total Shareholder Return TSR performance period for the 2016 LTIP awards runs until 31March 2019, based on the Groups share price at the date of this report, the minimum 8% annualised return has not been met.
As a result, it is currently anticipated that none of the 2016 LTIP awards will vest.
indd 90 16 04 2019 15:13:32 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE The framework for our Executive Directors is summarised below: Salary Typically, salaries approach the bottom end of a market competitive range for similar sized companies Pension 10% of salary contribution to Company defined contribution plan, personal pension plan or cash equivalent The pension level is in line with the wider workforce AIS Maximum 100% of salary Based on stretching return on Hard NAV targets disclosed retrospectively and prospectively and other relevant leading indicators of performance as determined by the Committee each year Formulaic outcomes may be adjusted at the discretion of the Committee to reflect overall business or individual performance Half of any bonus above a minimum amount deferred into equity over two-year period AIS arrangements cascade to all employees in the business, with components based on team and or individual objectives for non-Director employees LTIP Annual awards of 300% of salary CEO and 200% of salary other Executive Directors Based on stretching Hard NAV and TSR growth targets with a discretionary relative TSR underpin Formulaic outcomes may be adjusted at the discretion of the Committee to reflect overall business or individual performance Includes a two-year post-vesting holding period LTIP arrangements reserved for senior managerial levels and roles which are expected to have a material financial impact on the Groups outcomes Shareholding 200% of salary CEO and 150% other Executive Directors guidelines Post-employment shareholding policy introduced Malus and Comprehensive malus and clawback provisions on all variable elements clawback The average increase in base salaries for employees in 2019 Executive Directors base salaries is 2.8%.
The Committee has determined that the base pay for 2019 increases for the Executive Directors, to be implemented As described in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report, in April 2019, will be lower than the average for the wider the salaries of the Executive Directors were increased using employee population as follows: a phased approach over a number of years to reach a level The CEOs base salary will be increased by 2% to close to the lower quartile when compared to a peer group 423,500: of companies of similar size and complexity.
Although the Group increased significantly in size and complexity during The other Executive Directors salaries will be increased 2018, the Committee decided that increases in base salaries by 2% to 280,500. for 2018 should not exceed the average increase awarded to other UK-based employees at this juncture.
The Committee still intends to review the salaries of the Executive Directors after all of the organisational changes associated with the Groups acquisition of Touchstone have been established and now expects to complete this review during 2019.
indd 91 16 04 2019 15:13:32 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED Executive Directors AIS and LTIP Approval of the 2017 Remuneration opportunities Report in 2018 There will be no change to the maximum AIS or LTIP The 2017 Directors Remuneration Report received 98.7% of opportunities for 2019.
For 2019, the Committee will base votes cast in favour at our AGM in May 2018, which indicates the AIS outcome for directors on i the return on Hard NAV, a strong level of shareholder support for the application ii cash realisations from the portfolio and iii the level of of the Groups remuneration principles.
As always, the net operating expenses.
The Committee will again assess Group and its Board remain committed to engagement and performance under the LTIP against growth in Hard NAV transparency and I welcome the opportunity for continued and TSR.
discussion of the Groups remuneration with any shareholder, either at our AGM or at any other time during the year.
Committee Chairmanship Structure of this report In last years report, I described that the Nomination Committee had determined that Professor Lynn Gladden The following pages contain our proposed updated would assume the role of Chair with effect from the Groups Remuneration Policy, a summary of how we intend to 2018 AGM.
As announced during 2018, Professor Gladden implement the policy during 2019, and the detailed disclosure had to leave the Board to avoid any potential conflicts with of outcomes in respect of 2018. her new role as Executive Chairman of the EPSRC and ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD therefore I continued in this role.
The Nomination Committee still intends to appoint a new Committee Chairperson in the Jonathan Brooks short term.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 25March 2019 92 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 92 16 04 2019 15:13:32 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY This report sets out the Companys policy on the Changes to the remuneration policy remuneration of its executive and non-executive directors The key changes to the previous policy are: the Policy which will become effective, for a period of up to three years, subject to approval by shareholders at our Inclusion of a policy on post-employment shareholding AGM on 28May 2019.
Reduction in maximum level of pension for executive directors to 10% of salary, in line with that of the wider As described in the Remuneration Statement, our Policy has workforce.
The maximum level of pension in the previous been updated by the Committee with input from Deloitte policy approved in 2016 was 15% LLP, primarily to reflect the required changes as a result of the introduction of the new UK Corporate Governance Code Increased scope for operating discretion under the AIS and other recent developments in market practice.
Given and LTIP the limited changes to the substance of the Policy, no formal Inclusion of dividend equivalents in awards under the consultation with our shareholders was undertaken.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan and LTIP In updating the Policy, the Committee has continued to apply Reduction of LTIP vesting at threshold from 30% to 25% its principles supporting the overriding strategic objective Remuneration Policy table of the Group to provide capital to and help to build worldchanging businesses based on academic research.
The The table overleaf sets out the key components of the Policy success of the Group over time will primarily be a function of for Executive Directors remuneration.
three key variables the amount of capital provided to the portfolio, the return per annum achieved on that capital and the period over which it is invested.
To achieve this objective, the Committee continues to believe that the Group requires a remuneration structure that has incentive levers covering both the short term one to three years and the longer term three to five years and, for all employees other than the Groups executive directors, incentives directly aligned with those specific assets potentially over an even longer term five to ten-plus years.
The first two levers remain the most relevant for the Groups executive directors and therefore continue to be used as the variable elements of the Policy.
indd 93 16 04 2019 15:13:32 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and How this component of remuneration Performance Component link to strategy operates Maximum opportunity metrics Salary To provide an Generally reviewed annually with There is no prescribed None, although appropriate level of increases currently effective from maximum annual salary.
performance of fixed cash income 1April.
the individual is Annual salary increases to attract and considered by Base salaries will be set by the for executive directors retain individuals the Committee Committee taking into account a range will not normally exceed with the personal when setting and of factors, including but not limited to: the average increase attributes, skills and reviewing salaries awarded to other UK-based scale, scope and responsibility of experience required annually.
the role: to deliver the Groups strategy.
skills and experience of the Increases may be above individual: this level in circumstances where the Committee retention risk: considers it appropriate, pay and conditions across the for example if there is Company: an increase in the scale, base salary of individuals scope or responsibility of undertaking similar roles in the role or to allow the companies of comparable size and base salary of recently complexity: appointed executives who are appointed on initially performance of the individual and lower levels of base salary IP Group: to move towards market impact of salary increases on total norms as their experience remuneration of the package: and and contribution increase.
Where a significant discrepancy exists between an executive directors current salary and market levels, the Committee will normally phase any increases over a number of years.
Pension To provide a Contribution to Group Pension Plan Maximum pension is 10% of Not applicable.
competitive defined contribution scheme or to base salary.
post-retirement personal pension plan of the relevant benefit in a way executives choosing or an equivalent that manages the cash alternative.
overall cost to the No element other than base salary is Group in order to pensionable.
retain individuals with the personal attributes, skills and experience required to deliver the Groups strategy.
indd 94 16 04 2019 15:13:33 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Purpose and How this component of remuneration Performance Component link to strategy operates Maximum opportunity metrics Benefits To provide a Ongoing benefits typically comprise, The cost of benefits Not applicable.
competitive but are not limited to, health and travel provided changes in and appropriate insurance, income protection and life accordance with market benefits package assurance and may also comprise conditions and will, to assist individuals a car benefit or cash equivalent therefore, determine the in carrying out and telecommunications such as maximum amount that their duties broadband.
would be paid in the form effectively and to of benefits under the Policy.
The Group also offers certain salary retain individuals There is therefore no overall sacrifice schemes including childcare with the personal maximum opportunity vouchers, purchase of additional attributes, skills and under this component of holiday and Ride to Work.
to deliver the Executive directors may also participate One-off benefits, e. g. Groups strategy.
in any all-employee share plans that relocation, shall not may be operated by the Group from ordinarily exceed 25% of time to time on the same terms as base salary other than in other employees.
exceptional circumstances at the discretion of the Additional benefits, which may Committee.
include relocation or expatriation benefits, housing allowance or other Maximum awards under benefits-in-kind, may be provided in all-employee share plans certain circumstances if considered would be subject to appropriate and reasonable by the prevailing statutory limit.
Committee, including as may be required on recruitment.
Read about our strategy on page 18 95 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 95 16 04 2019 15:13:33 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and How this component of remuneration Performance Component link to strategy operates Maximum opportunity metrics Annual To provide a The AIS is reviewed annually prior The maximum annual level Specific targets Incentive simple, competitive, to the start of each financial year of award is 100% of salary.
and weightings Scheme performance-linked to ensure the detailed performance will vary from Given the Groups salary AIS annual incentive measures and weightings are year to year year currently runs from mechanism that appropriate and continue to support in accordance 1April to 31March, the base will: the business strategy.
Financial and with strategic salary used will normally be or non-financial performance targets priorities but may attract, retain that which is in effect at the are set at or around the start of each include targets and motivate end of the annual financial financial year.
relating to: individuals with year to which the award the required Actual AIS amounts are determined relates.
relative or personal via a two-stage process.
Firstly, absolute TSR: attributes, skills performance against the agreed Hard net and experience: metrics is assessed.
Secondly, the assets: Committee reviews these results in provide a financial the context of underlying business real incentive performance: performance and the Groups financial to achieve appropriate position and may adjust the stage one our strategic non-financial outcome at its discretion.
objectives: and measures: align the Above a suitable minimum cash and interests of amount, set by the Committee at the attainment management start of each year, awards will typically of personal and be payable 50% in cash and 50% in objectives.
The share element is in the form of conditional awards of Weighting will be shares or nil-cost options or equivalent primarily towards at the Committees discretion and is Group financial subject to further time-based vesting performance.
over two years 50% after year 1 Performance and 50% after year 2 although the will typically be Committee may adjust the percentage split between cash and shares based on measured over the financial position of the Group.
In certain circumstances, including, but The AIS is a not limited to: discretionary plan and the serious misconduct by a participant: Committee material misstatement of financial retains the results: discretion to payments based on erroneous or adjust any misleading data: formulaic outcome to serious reputational damage: or reflect overall material corporate failure business or individual the Company will be entitled to claw performance or back the value of any cash amount any other reason paid under the AIS for that year and considered to cancel the vesting of any deferred appropriate.
share element, for a period of up to three years following the date of award or payment.
indd 96 16 04 2019 15:13:33 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Purpose and How this component of remuneration Performance Component link to strategy operates Maximum opportunity metrics Long-Term To provide a The LTIP is reviewed annually prior The maximum annual level Specific targets Incentive competitive, to the start of each financial year of award is: may vary from Plan performance-linked to ensure the detailed performance year to year 300% of salary for the LTIP long-term incentive measures and weightings are in accordance Chief Executive Officer: mechanism that appropriate and continue to support with strategic and will: the business strategy.
Financial and priorities but a lower percentage attract, retain or non-financial performance targets shall be based for other executive and motivate are set at or around the start of each on: directors.
relative or the required Each year the Committee Awards under the LTIP typically absolute TSR: personal determines the annual comprise conditional awards of shares and attributes, skills award for each executive in IP Group although instruments with Hard net and experience: director within the above similar economic effect may be used if assets.
real incentive These The award level for 2019 Any share awards that vest, net of any to achieve performance shall continue to be 300% tax and NICs liabilities, are subject to a our strategic criteria shall of the 2019 20 base salary further two-year holding period.
objectives: and normally be for the Chief Executive presented in a align the In certain circumstances, including, but Officer and 200% for all matrix format interests of not limited to: other executive directors.
similar to that set management serious misconduct by a participant: out in the Annual and The overall maximum Remuneration shareholders.
material misstatement of financial under the LTIP approved Report.
results: by shareholders is 400% of salary.
However, the policy payments based on erroneous or The level of limits set out above will misleading data: vesting for apply and this plan limit will threshold serious reputational damage: or only be used in exceptional performance material corporate failure circumstances such as a is 25% of the buyout on recruitment or the Company will be entitled to reduce maximum.
where an award could not the number of shares in respect of an be made in the relevant year Performance unvested award and or claw back any and needs to be made in a will ordinarily be shares within the two-year period post subsequent year.
on a performance Calculations of the achievement of period of three the vesting targets are reviewed and years.
The Committee retains the discretion to adjust any formulaic outcome to reflect overall business or individual performance or any other reason considered appropriate.
indd 97 16 04 2019 15:13:33 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration Differences between the Policy and that payments and payments for loss of office including applied to employees generally exercising any discretions available to it in connection with The components of remuneration set out on the previous such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with pages for executive directors are also available to the Groups the policy set out above where the terms of the payment employees and, other than as set out below, differ only in were agreed i before 13May 2014 the date the Companys values and award maxima.
The benefits package is typically first shareholder-approved directors remuneration policy available to all UK members of staff following completion of came into effect: ii before the policy set out above a probationary period, with a broadly equivalent package came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment being offered to overseas staff.
All permanent UK staff with were consistent with the shareholder-approved directors over three months service at 31December are eligible for remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or an award under the AIS in that year with pro-rated awards iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director to exclude the first three months of service, with similar of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, arrangements for overseas staff.
the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes The key differences between the Policy and that applied to payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of employees generally are: variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the i. that salary levels for all employees other than executive award is granted.
directors are typically positioned at or around the median level of appropriate market benchmarks for similar roles, Further, the Committee reserves the right to make minor while that for executive directors is currently considered amendments to the Policy, for regulatory, exchange control, to be around lower quartile levels against companies of a tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a similar size and complexity to the Group: change in legislation, without seeking shareholder approval.
awards under the LTIP are only made to a limited number of the Groups more senior employees: and Share and incentive plan discretions iii.
that a Long-Term Incentive Carry Scheme currently The Committee will operate the LTIP, Deferred Bonus Share operates, in common with many of our comparator Plan and AIS in accordance with the respective rules, the companies, for employees, excluding executive directors, Policy set out above and the Listing Rules where relevant.
whose roles include a significant direct impact on the Awards under the LTIP, deferred bonus plan and AIS may: development of underlying portfolio companies.
The have any performance conditions applicable to them objective of the LTICS is to give employees the equivalent amended or substituted by the Committee if an event of a founders stake in the portfolio companies that occurs which causes the Committee to determine an they help to find, create and build, by offering them the amended or substituted performance condition would opportunity to participate in the eventual returns from be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to the Groups portfolio that are in excess of the original satisfy: capital invested by the Group and after taking account incorporate the right to receive an amount in additional of an annualised hurdle return.
We believe that this will shares equal to the value of dividends which would have align our employees directly with the long-term returns been paid on the shares under an award that vests up to achieved on the specific assets.
the time of vesting or where the award is subject to a Schemes or arrangements under which holding period, release.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the allocations or awards are no longer Companys shares on a cumulative basis: and being made be adjusted in the event of any variation of the In addition to the executive directors remuneration Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, arrangements, the Group previously allocated carried interest special dividend or other event that may affect the in funds managed by the Group to executive directors and Companys share price.
other key employees based on their level of involvement and contribution of the relevant members of the team to the management of the fund, as well as their cash contribution to the relevant fund where applicable.
No new allocations of this kind will be made to executive or non-executive directors, but outstanding allocations will be allowed to vest.
indd 98 16 04 2019 15:13:33 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Illustration of the application of the Policy The value and composition of the executive directors remuneration packages for the year ending 31December 2019 at below threshold, and maximum with 50% share price growth scenarios under the Policy are set out in the charts below.
CEO Policy CIO Policy Max 50% Max 50% Max Max Threshold Threshold Min Min 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 Fixed AIS 100% LTIP 300% Fixed AIS 100% LTIP 200% CFO Policy COO Policy Max 50% Max 50% Max Max Threshold Threshold Min Min 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 Fixed AIS 100% LTIP 200% Fixed AIS 100% LTIP 200% Notes: The basis of calculation for the above graphs and key assumptions used are as follows: Maximum with 50% Minimum Threshold Maximum share price growth Fixed elements of Contracted base salary with effect from 1April 2019 before any deduction for fees received remuneration directly from portfolio companies Estimated cash cost to the Company of benefits and pension contributions received under the remuneration policy AIS 0% 25% opportunity 100% 100% based on achievement pay-out as percentage of threshold target of maximum opportunity 1 LTIP 0% 25% opportunity 100% 100% plus 50% share based on achievement price growth vesting as percentage of threshold targets of maximum opportunity 1 Conditional awards of shares under the Groups LTIP are made based on a percentage of the participants salary in face value terms and therefore the above amounts relating to the LTIP component reflect this.
Changes in the value of those shares over the vesting period are ignored in the first three scenarios.
indd 99 16 04 2019 15:13:34 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED possible to make such buyout awards under the Companys Development of remuneration policy existing share plans but, if necessary, may rely on the Listing Consideration of pay and conditions for the wider Group: Rules exemption which allows for the grant of awards to The components of pay across the Groups UK staff are facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a broadly similar although a significant component of longdirector.
term incentive for senior employees, particularly those in the investment teams, other than the executive directors, is in the Similarly, the policy for a new chairman or new non-executive form of the Groups LTICS.
The Committee considers general directors would be to apply the same remuneration elements pay and employment conditions of all employees within as apply to existing non-executive directors under the Policy, the Group and is sensitive to these, to prevailing market as set out below.
and economic conditions and to governance trends when In addition to the above principles, the following additional assessing the level of salaries and remuneration packages considerations may be applied as appropriate depending on of executive directors.
From a practical perspective, the the circumstances: Group has 166 members of staff and, as a result, the Committee currently has the ability to review remuneration Phasing of salary levels for new appointments over time.
levels and changes thereto across the Group as a whole In the case of internal promotion, any existing elements when considering base salary increases, bonus maxima and arising from an individuals previous role will continue award pay-outs for the executive directors.
The Committee to be honoured under the policy, even if they may not has been involved in key decisions around remuneration otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when concerning all employees.
Engagement with our shareholders: The Committee is In the case of promotion to executive director committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders following an acquisition or other business combination, and seeks to consult with its significant shareholders and the Committee may permit equity-based incentive the various proxy advisory groups when considering any arrangements to continue in force if they can be major changes to remuneration arrangements.
Feedback rolled-up into awards over IP Group shares, provided as part of any consultation is used to guide the Committee the performance and vesting conditions are considered in its finalisation of the remuneration arrangements and appropriate.
Given the limited changes to the In the case of the recruitment of an executive at a time of remuneration policy and its implementation, the Committee the year when it would be inappropriate or not possible did not consult formally with shareholders: however we to provide an LTIP award for that year for instance, due welcome an active dialogue with key shareholders on all to price sensitive information or if there is insufficient governance matters, including remuneration.
time to assess performance, the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred Approach to recruitment remuneration to and amalgamated with the subsequent years award, if The Committee will apply the Policy for any new executive considered reasonable to do so by the Committee.
director recruited to the Board in respect of all elements of The Committee will include details of the implementation of forward-looking remuneration.
The maximum level of variable the Policy in respect of any such recruitment to the Board in remuneration under the AIS and LTIP that may be awarded its future annual remuneration reports.
will be within the usual maxima as set out in the Policy i. e. 100% of salary under the AIS and 300% of salary for CEO and Loss of office payments policy a lower percentage for other executive directors under the Executive directors service contracts do not contain any LTIP.
The Committee retains flexibility to provide benefits predetermined provisions for compensation in the event of in kind, pensions and other allowances, such as relocation, early termination.
When determining termination payments, education and tax equalisation, required in order to recruit the Committee takes into account a variety of factors, the intended candidate.
including individual and Company performance, mitigation The Committee may make awards on hiring an external of loss for example, through new employment and the candidate to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited relevant directors length of service.
Any compensation will on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee be based on what would have been earned by way of salary, will seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis pension entitlement and other contractual benefits over the to awards forfeited, taking into account relevant factors notice period.
including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the time frame of awards.
It is intended that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited awards.
The Committee would seek as far as 100 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 100 16 04 2019 15:13:34 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE In the event that a contract is to be terminated, and a The Committee reserves the right to make any other payment in lieu of notice made, payments to the executive payments in connection with a directors cessation of office director may be staged over the notice period, with or employment where the payments are made in good faith appropriate consideration of mitigation, to reflect payments in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of received in respect of that alternative employment.
damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection All awards under the Groups AIS are fully discretionary.
with the cessation of a directors office or employment.
Any Should an executive director leave or be under notice such payments may include but are not limited to paying any during the annual performance period, the AIS award would fees for outplacement assistance and or the directors legal typically lapse and any unvested share-based elements or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of of any AIS award, such as any prospective or unvested office or employment.
awards received under the DBSP, may also lapse.
However, at the discretion of the Committee, in certain circumstances Non-executive directors have letters of appointment that are including but not limited to change of control, death, illterminable on three months notice by either party.
health or disability, redundancy, transfer of the employing Change of control entity outside of the Group or any other reason at the Committees discretion, the Committee may permit some or The rules of the LTIP provide that, in the event of a change all of the cash or share-based element of an AIS award to be of control, awards would vest to the extent determined by receivable, subject to time pro-rating for the proportion of the Committee where the Committee considers that the the annual financial performance period served and, except performance conditions or alternative conditions that the in the case of death, with the performance test at the normal Committee considers to be appropriate and proportionate date.
are satisfied at the date of such event.
The Committee may allow directors to exchange their awards over Company Should an executive director leave following the end of the shares for awards in shares of the acquiring company, annual financial performance period but prior to the payment provided that the terms of the offer allow this.
of any cash element, the AIS award would also typically lapse.
However, at the discretion of the Committee, in certain Any bonuses under the AIS that have been deferred will vest circumstances, including but not limited to change of control, in full upon a change of control.
death, ill-health or disability, redundancy, transfer of the employing entity outside of the Group or any other reason at Shareholding policy the Committees discretion, the Committee may permit some The Group operates a formal shareholding requirement under or all of the cash or share-based element of an AIS award to which all executive directors are expected to build up and be receivable with the performance test at the normal date.
maintain a personal shareholding in the Group.
From the 2019 AGM, the Group has also introduced a post-cessation Malus clawback provisions would continue to apply as shareholding policy.
The levels required for each executive described in the Policy table above.
director, as well as the policy on post-cessation shareholding, The treatment of leavers under the Groups LTIP is are set out in the Annual Remuneration Report.
determined by the rules of the scheme.
The Committee shall determine the extent to which outstanding conditional Chairmans and non-executive directors awards made to good leavers including but not limited to remuneration those individuals leaving due to death, disability, redundancy, The Committee sets the remuneration of the Chairman.
injury, ill health, disability, transfer of the employing entity A Committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and outside of the Group or any other reason at the Committees executive directors sets the remuneration of non-executive discretion may vest, taking into account the extent to which directors.
Fees may comprise a base fee with additional fees performance conditions have been met and the length of for other duties such as chairmanship of a committee or for the performance period completed.
LTIP payments would being the senior independent director.
Each non-executive normally be made according to the original timescale.
Any director is also entitled to reimbursement of necessary travel, unvested awards made to other leavers will typically lapse.
overnight accommodation if applicable and other expenses, Any vested awards that are being held by the executive including a tax gross-up where applicable.
Non-executive director subject to any applicable holding period shall directors do not participate in any of the Groups variable typically be retained by them.
Malus and clawback provisions incentive schemes and are not eligible to join the Groups would continue to apply as described in the Policy table pension schemes.
above, and post-cessation shareholding requirements would apply as described below.
indd 101 16 04 2019 15:13:34 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT Statement of implementation of Incentives The maximum AIS opportunity will remain at 100% of base remuneration policy in the following salary for all executive directors.
The 2019 AIS, similar to 2018, financial year will be based on three performance measures: Following the extensive consultation with shareholders 60% on annual return achieved on the Groups Hard NAV undertaken during 2015 and early 2016, we undertook phased changes to certain of the executive directors base salaries so 30% on cash realisations from the portfolio that from 2017 18 they would be around the lower quartile of 10% on the level of net operating expenses a peer group of companies of a similar size and complexity These measures are considered appropriate leading to the Group.
We have continued to apply our  of underlying business performance.
based philosophy with a focus on the long term and consistent with a lower base higher variable approach.
As in prior years, the Committee has determined the performance metrics that are required to be achieved.
In Salary and fixed components terms of the Return on Hard NAV target, as before, the With effect from 1April 2019, the base salaries of the Committee has taken into consideration the blend of assets executive directors will be: that constitute the Group Hard NAV, particularly the relative level of cash on which it is not currently possible to achieve 2019 20 2018 19 Increase a return in excess of approximately 1%.
Reflecting our base salary base salary % commitment to transparency, we are again disclosing this AIS Alan Aubrey CEO 423,500 415,000 2.0 target on a prospective basis.
For 2019, the Committee has Mike Townend CIO 280,500 275,000 2.0 determined that threshold vesting of 25% of this element of Greg Smith CFO 280,500 275,000 2.0 the award will be available provided a minimum return of 6% David Baynes COO 280,500 275,000 2.0 is achieved while the maximum amount of this element will be available should a return of 16% or greater be achieved.
As has been the case for a number of years, the Committee In absolute terms, this requires the achievement of a return considers that, as part of a competitive overall package, base on Hard NAV in excess of 73m before any of the AIS salaries should be within a market-competitive range.
Given component relating to return on Hard NAV may be awarded IP Groups business model and stage of development, this and a return in excess of 195m in order for this component is currently considered to be at around the lower quartile of to be awarded in full.
The targets relating to the additional companies of a similar size and complexity.
measures outlined above, as well as the performance against these targets, will be disclosed in the 2019 Directors While the Group has significantly increased in size and Remuneration Report.
Overall, the targets are considered by complexity during the past 12-18 months, the Committee the Committee to be appropriately stretching, especially in has determined that, for this year, there is no compelling light of the current economic climate and 2018 performance reason to not continue with its usual stated approach set outturns.
out in the Remuneration Policy whereby any increases will not normally exceed the average increase awarded to other The AIS operates as a discretionary plan and therefore, UK-based employees.
For context, the average increase in line with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, the across all employees in the UK business, excluding executive Committee may adjust the outcome to take into account directors and new joiners, was higher than the executive overall business or individual performance or any other director population at 4.0% in 2018 and is anticipated to factors it considers appropriate.
The Committee intends to review the executive directors base salaries later in 2019 to ensure they remain market-competitive.
Pension and benefits will continue to be in line with the levels stated in the policy table.
Pension levels are in line with those for the wider workforce.
indd 102 16 04 2019 15:13:34 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Consistent with the maximum opportunity for the 2018 LTIP Post-cessation shareholding policy awards, the 2019 LTIP awards will continue to be made at Departing executive directors will normally be required 300% of base salary for the CEO and 200% of base salary to retain shares following the date of cessation of their for all other executive directors.
Performance will continue to employment under the Groups new post-cessation be assessed against growth in Hard NAV and TSR as per the shareholding guidelines.
This policy will come into effect vesting table set out below.
The key changes are that: on 1January 2019 and will apply to shares vesting from Total threshold vesting is reduced from 30% to 25%.
Company incentive plans following this date.
The policy will operate as follows: The Committee will now have discretion to adjust outturns to take into account overall business or The post-cessation shareholding will be 100% of the individual performance or any other factors it considers guideline that applied at the date of cessation, or, if lower, appropriate.
the actual holding excluding personal investment.
Consistent with the above, the operation of the existing The holding determined at the date of leaving will apply performance underpin will be modified.
Awards have for a period of 24 months, on a tapered basis, reducing to previously been subject to an underpin based on the nil over this period.
Groups TSR performance relative to that of the FTSE 250 Shares which are no longer subject to performance or other relevant index, which could reduce the awards conditions, such as deferred shares or holding period by up to 50%.
This underpin concept will continue to shares, will count towards the guidelines on a net of apply but will form one of the factors that the Committee assumed tax basis.
takes into consideration when determining whether to The Committee will have discretion to operate the policy apply its discretion in a given period.
flexibly and may waive part or all of the requirement, for Any awards that vest will be subject to a further two-year example in compassionate circumstances.
holding period net of any tax and NICs where holding is not During the course of the year the Committee will explore on a gross basis.
structures such as nominee accounts or use of the ESOT as a mechanism for enforcing the requirement.
indd 103 16 04 2019 15:13:34 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED Chairman and non-executive directors Sir Douglas Flint was appointed as Chairman in September 2018.
His fee on appointment was set at 175,000 per annum, which shall be unchanged for 2019 20.
The fees for the non-executive directors will be increased to 44,500, reflecting a 2.0% increase compared to 2018 19.
Additional fees for chairmanship of a Board committee, or for being senior independent director, shall remain at 10,000.
Single figure for total remuneration audited The following table sets out the single figure for total remuneration for directors for the financial years ended 31December 2018 and 2017.
Base salary fees represent amounts earned and paid by the Group during the year in question.
The executives bonus outturn was 16.8% of maximum for 2018.
The first 25,000 will be paid in cash and thereafter 50% paid in cash and 50% deferred in shares over two years.
The LTIP values for 2018 are based on none of the 2016 LTIP awards vesting in March 2019 based on progress against the performance conditions at 22March 2018.
None of the 2015 LTIPs vested in 2018.
Further information about the level of vesting for both of these awards is provided in the additional disclosures section on pages on 105 and 106.
None of the amounts included in the table above in relation to the LTIP is attributable to share price appreciation.
Alan Aubreys contractual base salary was 415,000 from 1April 2018.
In addition, Alan Aubrey retained board fees in 2018 totalling 110,000 2017: 102,499 from portfolio companies in which the Group is a shareholder and that were deducted from his base salary, as described further under External appointments for executive directors on page 112.
David Baynes received reimbursement of certain travel costs considered commensurate with a car allowance, which were subject to PAYE NI.
Commuting costs for non-executive directors are reimbursed and are subject to PAYE.
Sir Douglas Flint joined the Board on 17September 2018.
Mike Humphrey stepped down from the Board on 31October 2018.
Lynn Gladden stepped down from the Board on 30September 2018.
Heejae Chae joined the Board on 3May 2018.
Pension includes payments made to defined contribution schemes on behalf of the directors or the value of a cash equivalent, if applicable.
indd 104 16 04 2019 15:13:34 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Additional disclosures for single figure for total remuneration table audited Annual Incentive Scheme The targets for the 2018 AIS were predominantly based on the annual return on Hard NAV alongside three further leading indicators of underlying business performance.
These measures are i cash realisations from the portfolio: ii third party capital raised by portfolio companies: and iii the level of net operating expenses.
The targets for 2018 and the outturn against these were as follows: Performance condition Actual performance % weighting Vesting criteria % of component Return on Hard NAV 70% 6% return 79.6m : 25% of maximum opportunity threshold Negative 5.7% return 16% return 212.2m : 100% of maximum opportunity 75.6m : 0% of component Cash realisations from the nil to 50m sliding scale 29.5m realisations: 59% of portfolio 20% component Third-party capital raised by Lower: 3:1 external capital to IPG capital 0% 5.9:1 ratio 100% portfolio companies 5% Upper: 4:1 external capital to IPG capital 100% Level of net operating Net overheads before AIS costs lower than 22.6m 100% 24.6m 0% expenses 5% Total weighted outturn 16.8% of maximum The Committee members discussed the output of the Vesting matrix: estimated 2016 quantitative targets and considered that this outturn LTIP outturn appropriately reflected the overall performance of the business for the period in question.
The resulting AIS outturn 15% 60% 75% 90% 100% for 2018 for the executive directors was therefore determined 10% 30% 45% 60% 90% as 16.8% of maximum opportunity.
In accordance with the 8% 15% 30% 45% 75% Groups Remuneration Policy, all amounts to individuals above an initial minimum amount paid in cash, which for the 8% 0% 15% 30% 60% 2018 AIS is 25,000, will be paid 50% in cash and 50% in 8% 8% 10% 15% shares deferred over two years using the Groups DBSP.
Long-term incentive scheme Performance Target Actual forecast 2016 LTIP awards due to vest in March 2019 condition performance performance 1 The 2016 LTIP awards are based on the performance of Hard NAV 8%: 1,493m 1,218m the Groups Hard NAV the Groups net assets excluding at 31 Dec 2017 15%: 1,732m -2% p. a. growth 2 intangibles and the Oxford Equity Rights asset for the Annual TSR 8%: 222p 99p -19.6% three financial years ending on 31December 2018 and Total share price 15%: 268p p. a. growth Shareholder Return TSR from March 2015 to the ordinary Comparative FTSE 250 IP Group vesting date, being 31March 2019, using a one-month TSR 22.4% -48% average.
Both performance measures are combined into a 1.
Hard NAV target increased by Committee to reflect 353.6m matrix format as per the vesting table below.
The total award Touchstone Hard net assets acquired in 2017 as adjusted, see note 26 and net proceeds of 181.1m from the Groups 2017 is subject to an underpin based on the relative performance placing.
of the Groups TSR to that of the FTSE 250 index, which can 2.
TSR performance shown reflects the Groups one-month average reduce the awards by up to 50%.
Actual performance period is the one-month average to 31March 2019.
The actual performance of the Group in terms of Hard NAV growth was below threshold and based on the one-month average share price to 22March 2019, was below the lower TSR target and that of the FTSE 250 TSR performance.
On this basis, the 2016 LTIP award is not expected to meet the minimum performance criteria required for vesting.
The amounts disclosed above in the single remuneration figure table are based on this performance and resulting expected outcome.
Actual vesting will be based on TSR performance to 31March 2019.
indd 105 16 04 2019 15:13:35 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six TSR p. a. IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED 2015 LTIP awards that were due to vest in March 2018 As reported last year, the Hard NAV growth target was not met.
TSR measured over the three-year period to 31March 2018 was negative and therefore the TSR condition was not met.
Consequently none of the 2015 LTIP awards vested.
2018 LTIP awards The 2018 LTIP awards were made with a face value of 300% of salary for the CEO and 200% of salary for other executive directors, based on the share price at date of grant and vesting subject to performance.
Awards are calculated by reference to the salary effective for the 2018 19 salary year.
Any shares that vest shall be subject to a two-year holding period.
The performance conditions that apply to both of these awards will follow the same matrix structure with the same vesting parameters as that set out above for the previous awards.
Hard NAV growth will be measured over the three-year period to 31December 2020 starting point: 1,295.8m at 31December 2017.
TSR shall be measured from 10May 2018 to 31March 2021 with a one-month average starting point of 134.5p being the one-month average to 9May 2018.
The underpin will be with reference to TSR performance against the FTSE 250 over this same period.
Vesting will be scaled back by the degree to which the Companys TSR underperforms the TSR of the FTSE 250 index over the performance period up to a maximum 50% reduction.
Basis of 1 Executive Type of award Face value Threshold 2 director interest % salary 000s vesting End of performance period Alan Aubrey 2018 LTIP 300% 1,245 30% 31 Dec 2020 NAV 31 Mar 2021 TSR Mike Townend 2018 LTIP 200% 550 30% 31 Dec 2020 NAV 31 Mar 2021 TSR Greg Smith 2018 LTIP 200% 550 30% 31 Dec 2020 NAV 31 Mar 2021 TSR David Baynes 2018 LTIP 200% 550 30% 31 Dec 2020 NAV 31 Mar 2021 TSR 1.
The number of shares corresponding to the face value is calculated using the share price of 139.2p for all executive directors.
Represents threshold vesting against both elements of the performance matrix.
Lower vesting is possible if only one element of the matrix is partially met or as a result of the application of the relative performance underpin.
Loss of office payments or payments to former directors audited information No payments for loss of office were made to past directors during the year nor were any payments made to former directors for director duties that have not already been included in their historic single figures of remuneration.
Change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer compared to Group employees The table below sets out the increase in the remuneration of the CEO and that of our UK employees excluding directors and new joiners leavers : % change % change in benefits in base % change excluding salary in bonus pensions 2017 2017 2017 to 2018 to 2018 to 2018 CEO 3.8% 69.4% 16% UK employees 4.0% 25.7% 6.4% 106 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 106 16 04 2019 15:13:35 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Historical executive pay and Group performance The table and graph below allow comparison of the Total Shareholder Return TSR of the Group and the Chief Executive Officer remuneration outcomes over the last ten years.
The chart below shows the Groups TSR performance against the performance of the FTSE All Share, FTSE Small Cap and FTSE 250 indices over the ten-year period to 31December 2018.
The Directors have selected these indices as, in their opinion, these indices comprise the most relevant equity indices of which the Company was a member during a significant proportion of the period in question and against which total shareholder return of IP Group plc should be measured.
450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 IP Group FTSE Small Cap FTSE All Share FTSE 250 Historical Chief Executive Officer remuneration outcomes The table below summarises the Chief Executive Officer single figure for total remuneration, annual bonus pay-out and LTIP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current year and previous nine years.
LTIP vesting is based on the current expectations of the performance against the 2016 LTIP targets as discussed on page 105.
indd 107 16 04 2019 15:13:35 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED Relative spend on pay Directors shareholdings and share The chart below shows the total employee costs, change in interests audited information Hard NAV and change in share price from 2017 to 2018.
The Groups Remuneration Policy contains minimum shareholding requirements for each of its executive directors.
2017 2018 The Committee has set the current limits at 2.0x salary 21.3 1,295.8 142.2 1,217.5 for the Chief Executive Officer, and 1.5x salary for all other 17.0 108.6 executive directors.
This level of shareholding is required to be met within four years of each directors date of appointment.
If the guideline is not met by any executive director within this timeframe, or the level of shareholding falls below this level for any Total employee costs Hard NAV Share price m 25% m -6% p -24% other reason, including share price fluctuations, then the Committee will discuss with the relevant executive director a plan to ensure that the guideline can be met within a The information shown in this chart is based on the following: reasonable timeframe.
The Committee will ordinarily require executive directors to retain all shares received under the AIS Total employee pay: Total employee costs from note 9 on or LTIP, other than as required to meet tax and NIC liabilities, page 153 including wages and salaries, social security costs, until the guideline is met.
At the end of the year, Alan Aubrey and Mike Townend met Change in Hard NAV: change in the Groups net assets this requirement.
Both Greg Smith and David Baynes have excluding goodwill, intangibles and the Oxford Equity previously met this requirement: however the reduction in Rights asset taken from the statement of financial position share price during the year has resulted in this requirement on page 135. being marginally off targeted levels at 25March 2019.
Both Returns to shareholders: since the Group does not currently Mr Smith and, Mr Baynes, are mindful of Committee guidance pay a dividend, returns to shareholders are represented by on this matter and, indeed, bought shares on the open the change in the Groups share price over the period from market during 2018.
Both directors have agreed that they 31December 2017 to 31December 2018. will, at a minimum, retain all post-tax shares received under the DBSP or LTIP to ensure that minimum levels are met and maintained.
Interests in shares The Directors who held office during 2018 had the following beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: Vested but Total interest in shares unexercised 1 As at 31December 2018 Shares owned options Number % of share Current directors Number net of tax Number capital Alan Aubrey 2,663,538 22,636 2,686,374 0.25% Mike Townend 1,156,902 13,769 1,170,671 0.11% Greg Smith 298,351 11,997 310,348 0.03% David Baynes 262,975 13,769 276,744 0.03% Jonathan Brooks 81,826 81,826 0.01% Elaine Sullivan David Begg 42,391 42,391 0.00% Sir Douglas Flint 18,500 18,500 0.00% Heejae Chae 16,073 16,073 0.00% There have been no changes in the interests of the directors set out above between 31December 2018 and 25March 2019.
Reflects executive directors interest in vested but unexercised DBSP share options relating to the deferral of the 2015 AIS award, net of estimated 47% income tax and employees NICs liability.
indd 109 16 04 2019 15:13:36 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED Deferred bonus share plan DBSP Directors interests in nil-cost options under the Groups DBSP that have been granted in order to defer AIS bonuses in accordance with our Policy are as follows: Options Options held Options Exercised Lapsed held at Share price Earliest at 1January awarded in the during during 31December at date of vesting 2018 year the year the year 2018 award p date s Alan Aubrey Deferral from 2015 AIS 42,710 42,710 175.6 31-Mar-18 Deferral from 2017 AIS 39,820 39,820 128.2 31-Mar-19 Deferral from 2017 AIS 39,821 39,821 128.2 31-Mar-20 42,710 79,641 122,351 Mike Townend Deferral from 2015 AIS 25,981 25,981 175.6 31-Mar-18 Deferral from 2017 AIS 24,736 24,736 128.2 31-Mar-19 Deferral from 2017 AIS 24,736 24,736 128.2 31-Mar-20 25,981 49,472 75,453 Greg Smith Deferral from 2015 AIS 22,637 22,637 175.6 31-Mar-18 Deferral from 2017 AIS 24,736 24,736 128.2 31-Mar-19 Deferral from 2017 AIS 24,736 24,736 128.2 31-Mar-20 22,637 49,472 72,109 David Baynes Deferral from 2015 AIS 25,981 25,981 175.6 31-Mar-18 Deferral from 2017 AIS 24,736 24,736 128.2 31-Mar-19 Deferral from 2017 AIS 24,736 24,736 128.2 31-Mar-20 25,981 49,472 75,453 110 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 110 16 04 2019 15:13:36 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Save-as-You-Earn SAYE The Group operates an HMRC-registered SAYE share save scheme for all UK employees in which two executive directors are current participants.
Their currently outstanding option contracts under the SAYE and the respective maturity dates are listed in the table below.
Share Options Options Options Option price at held at awarded Exercised Lapsed held at exercise date of Earliest 1January in during during 31December price award vesting 2018 the year the year the year 2018 p p date s Greg Smith 2017 SAYE 12,631 12,631 114.0p 141.3p 31-Aug-20 12,631 12,631 David Baynes 2017 SAYE 9,473 9,473 114.0p 141.3p 31-Aug-20 9,473 9,473 Other long-term interests legacy arrangements audited information In addition to the executive directors remuneration arrangements, the Group also operates co-investment and carried interest arrangements relating to certain venture capital funds that are under its management.
Under the co-investment arrangements, executive directors make minority capital and loan commitments to IP Venture Fund IPVF alongside the Group.
Executives are entitled to participate in a carried interest scheme in respect of IPVF and The North East Technology Fund LP alongside the Group.
Carried interest provides a preferential return to participants once the partnership in question has returned all funds contributed by limited partners together with a pre-agreed rate of return.
The carried interest and co-investment arrangements will generally contain forfeiture provisions in respect of leavers over the investment period of the relevant partnership typically five to six years.
As described in the Policy, no new allocations of this kind will be made to executive directors in future, however the current outstanding interests in co-investment and carried interest schemes in connection with the Groups managed funds are as follows: IPVF co-investment arrangements The executive directors commitments to, and returns from, IPVF are set out below.
Commitments are made indirectly through the IP Venture Fund FP LP, which is the founder partner of IPVF.
Total capital Total capital Total capital Capital contributions Capital amounts Limited contributed contributions at amounts repaid to Total partnership to 1January during the 31December repaid during 31December commitment interest of 2018 year 2018 the year 2018 000 IPVF 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors Alan Aubrey 56 0.18% 55 55 16 50 Mike Townend 56 0.18% 55 55 16 50 Greg Smith 35 0.11% 35 35 9 30 Total 147 0.47% 145 145 41 130 111 2018-IP Group-AR.
indd 111 16 04 2019 15:13:36 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six IP GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL REMUNERATION STATEMENT CONTINUED Carried interest arrangements The executive directors interests in carried interest schemes are set out below: Accrued iv value of scheme Carried Scheme interest at ii interest at Awarded Transferred Lapsed Interest at 31December 1January during the during the during the 31December 2018 i iii Fund 2018 year year year 2018 000 Executive directors Alan Aubrey IPVF 1.81% 1.81% NETF 1.55% 1.55% Mike Townend IPVF 1.81% 1.81% NETF 1.15% 1.15% Greg Smith IPVF 1.14% 1.14% NETF 0.85% 0.85% Under the IPVF fund LPA, payments to participants are made External appointments for executive when all limited partners have been repaid their contributions directors together with a hurdle rate of 8% compound interest.
Under Any proposed external directorships are considered by the the North East Technology Fund NETF scheme, payments Board to ensure they do not cause a conflict of interest but, to participants are made when all limited partners have been subject to this, executive directors may accept a maximum repaid their contributions together with a hurdle rate of 3.5% of two external non-executive appointments and, indeed, the compound interest.
Board believes that it is part of their ongoing development to Scheme interest represents the percentage of the relevant do so.
Where an executive director accepts an appointment pool of investments in respect of which the participant is to the board of a company in which the Group is a entitled to participate in the realised profits assuming the shareholder, the Group generally retains the related fees.
In relevant hurdle return has been met.
the circumstances where the executive director receives such fees directly, such sums are generally deducted from their The schemes contain forfeiture provisions over the base salary from the Group.
Fees earned for directorships of investment period of the fund which may reduce the scheme companies in which the Group does not have a shareholding interest accruing to any participant.
The table reflects the are normally retained by the relevant director.
maximum scheme interest receivable should no forfeiture occur.
Any external appointments i. e. excluding those companies in which the Group is a shareholder held by executive directors Accrued value of scheme interests is calculated based upon are set out on page 68. the current fair value of the relevant limited partnerships assets in excess of the capital contributed and the hurdle rate of return.
Any payments will only be made following full repayment of limited partners loan commitments and the hurdle return and, accordingly, actual payments under the scheme, if any, may be materially different to those set out above.
indd 112 16 04 2019 15:13:36 26347 16 April 2019 8:10 am Proof Six OUR GOVERNANCE Limits on the number of shares used to Service agreements The executive directors have service contracts that satisfy share awards dilution limits commenced on the dates set out in the chart on page 114 All of the Groups incentive schemes that contain an and contain a contractual notice period of six months by element that may be satisfied in IP Group shares incorporate either party.
The non-executive directors have letters of provisions that in any ten-year period ending on the relevant appointment that commenced on the dates set out in the date of grant, the maximum number of the shares that may chart below, are generally for an initial fixed term of three be issued or issuable under all such schemes shall not exceed years, which is reviewed and may be extended for a further 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
three years, and are terminable on three months notice by The Committee regularly monitors the position and prior to either party.
the making of any share-based award considers the effect The letters of appointment and service contracts are of potential vesting of outstanding awards to ensure that available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
the Company remains within these limits.
Any awards which In accordance with the Code, all directors submit themselves are required to be satisfied by market purchased shares are for annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
No treasury shares were held or utilised in the year ended 31December 2018.
As at 31December 2018, the Companys headroom position, which remains within such guidelines, was as shown in the chart below.
0.9% 0.6% 0.5% 0.9% 0.2% 6.8% Vested LTIP awards in past 10 years Executives Vested LTIP awards in past 10 years Other staff Outstanding LTIP and awards Executives Outstanding LTIP and Former Touchstone LTIP awards Other staff Other Share schemes Sharesave, DBSP, etc.
