STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Focused on ensuring that remuneration is designed to drive our strategic priorities, support our company culture and promote the long-term sustainable success of the Company.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER Members of the Committee I am pleased to present this Directors Remuneration report.
Committee membership during the year and attendance The Remuneration Committee the Committee is focused on at the meetings are set out below.
ensuring that remuneration is designed to drive our strategic priorities, support our company culture and promote the longAttendance out of possible maximum term sustainable success of the Company, A key driver of the Members number of meetings Companys growth has been and will continue to be its people and their talents.
We seek to set a policy that enables us to Nina Henderson, Chairman 5 5 motivate our people, to reward performance and to recruit the calibre of talent that will lead the Company in sustaining its Florence Pierre 5 5 record of profitable growth.
The Companys human resource Franois Pauly 5 5 continues to evolve, simultaneously adding new, whilst Elmar Heggen 5 5 retaining existing, capabilities and skills.
All members of the Committee are independent.
Our Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy, approved on 16 May 2016, is subject to renewal at our 2019 annual general Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors meeting.
The Committees view is that the existing Policy has within the Committee served the Company well and the fundamental design continues to provide a strong basis for linking the Groups strategy and performance to Executive remuneration.
Given developments in good corporate governance, there were some areas identified where updates could be made to reflect best 0-3 years 0-3 years practice and improve the Policy.
The primary changes are 3-6 years summarised below: 3-6 years 6 years the Committees discretion with respect to determining the 6 years outcome of performance measures has been enhanced so that it can, where appropriate, override formulaic outcomes.
The Committee has ensured that the discretion in the plan rules aligns with that set out in the updated policy: the circumstances in which the recovery and withholding provisions may be operated have been augmented in line with best practice: the Committee will now be responsible for setting the remuneration for the first layer of management below Board level and the Company Secretary as well as the Executive Directors and the Chairman: and introduction of a five-year time limit in which Executive Directors are required to build a shareholding in the Company equal to 200% of base salary.
No other significant changes to the Policy are proposed and the maximum incentive opportunity remains unchanged.
6 3 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2018 Consideration of outcomes for 2018 Despite a difficult start to 2018 the business responded well The Committee believes the above outcomes demonstrate and actions taken across the Group facilitated continuous strong pay for performance alignment and therefore did not improvement and delivered record sales at the end of the year.
exercise its discretion in adjusting the performance outcomes.
Group revenue was up 9.7% at constant currency, to a record Executive Director changes 2,535.4m.
Effective from 1 January 2019 Eric Hageman was appointed as Management continues to focus on delivering profitable Chief Financial Officer of the Group: he had been in the position growth and long-term value to shareholders.
The Company of interim Chief Financial Officer since September 2018.
The achieved an operating profit over the course of 2018 of Committee developed and approved a competitive package for 154.1m 2017 163.2m with an underlying operating profit Eric Hageman, which is in line with the Policy and details of before growth costs of 193.8m.
which can be found on page 75.
For the 12 months ended 31 December 2018, the Group When Dominik fide Daniel stepped down from the Board in delivered a strong post-tax cash return on net growth September 2018, the Committee determined an appropriate investment of 20.6% in respect of locations opened on or exit package for him with due consideration to shareholders, before 31 December 2013 19.3% on the same estate for with specific reference to the Policy and the Company's legal the 12 months ended 31 December 2017. and contractual commitments to him.
Further information can Annual bonus be found on page 75.
The 2018 annual bonus plan was measured against an The year ahead underlying operating profit target.
The achieved underlying The Committee has made the following decisions for 2019: operating profit before growth of 193.8m resulted in a bonus equivalent to 64.9% of the respective salary the maximum Executive Directors will receive no increase to base salary being 150% of salary being awarded.
Half of the bonus will be in 2019.
This is the third year that there has been no deferred in shares for three years, with vesting subject to salary increase: continued employment.
the maximum annual bonus will remain unchanged at 150% of base salary for Executive Directors with half of any bonus Performance Share Plan PSP paid deferred in shares which vest after three years.
The Performance Share Plan was introduced in 2015 to replace Performance will continue to be measured against stretching the Co-Investment Plan.
operating profit targets: and The first award made under the PSP in 2016 will lapse in its awards of 200% of base salary will be granted under the entirety, the Committee having determined that EPS growth, Performance Share Plan in line with the approved policy.
The ROI improvements and TSR performance metrics each a awards will vest subject to performance measures over three 33.33% weighting measured over a three-year period to financial years, 2019-2021, against EPS, relative TSR and ROI 31 December 2018 had not met the threshold targets for targets.
Any award that vests will be subject to an additional vesting to occur.
Further details are included on page 73. two-year holding period.
Co-Investment Plan CIP The Committee considers the remuneration earned by the The CIP awards are subject to 75% EPS and 25% TSR Executive Directors is a fair reflection of Company performance performance metrics.
and the return delivered to shareholders.
The Committee is satisfied that our variable pay model ensures alignment The third tranche of the 2014 CIP Matching Share awards is due between pay and performance through robust target setting.
to vest in March 2019 based on the performance measured Historically, variable pay has rewarded sound performance, over five years to 31 December 2018.
The Committee has however, as demonstrated this year through the 65% bonus determined that EPS for 2018 of 11.7p was below the threshold pay-out award and the 2016 PSP awards not vesting, outcomes target for these awards and, as a result, all of the shares subject are scaled back in years when performance is less strong or to an EPS performance condition will lapse.
With regard to the when long-term shareholder value is weaker.
Such effective TSR elements, performance over five years was slightly above alignment ensures that our Remuneration Policy supports the median and resulted in partial vesting of the 2014 awards.
future success of the Company.
No new awards have been granted since March 2015.
The final You will be asked to approve two remuneration-related 2015 CIP award vested based on the performance measured to resolutions at our annual general meeting.
First the renewal 31 December 2017 and is subject to a holding period ending of our Directors Remuneration Policy and second the in 2020.
Annual Report on Remuneration, which will be subject to an One-off award advisory vote.
The vesting of the one-off share award granted to Dominik fide On behalf of the Committee, I commend this report to you and Daniel in November 2015 is subject to EPS growth measured look forward to your support for the resolutions at the annual over a three-year period ending on 31 December 2018. general meeting.
Compound EPS growth of 2.95% for the three-year period ended 31 December 2018 was below target and the award NINA HENDERSON will lapse.
CHAIRMAN, REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 64 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 64 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This report sets out the Groups policy on remuneration for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, to be proposed to shareholders at the annual general meeting on 14 May 2019, from which date the policy will apply if approved.
This policy will, if approved, supersede the Directors Remuneration Policy approved by the shareholders of Regus plc in 2016.
Overview of Directors Remuneration Policy The revised policy, which was developed as part of a remuneration review carried out during 2019, considers principles of clarity, simplicity, risk, predictability, proportionality and alignment to culture and has the following objectives: to provide a balanced package between fixed and variable pay, and long and short-term elements, to align with the Companys strategic goals and time horizons whilst encouraging prudent risk management: to incorporate incentives that are aligned with and support the Groups business strategy and align executives to the creation of long-term shareholder value, within a framework that is sufficiently flexible to adapt as our strategy evolves: to align the interests of the Executive Directors, senior executives and employees with the long-term interests of shareholders and strategic objectives of the Company: to align management and shareholder interests through building material share ownership over time: to reflect the remuneration received by the wider employees through considering proportionality: to ensure that our remuneration structures are transparent and easily understood: to ensure that remuneration practices are consistent with and encourage the principles of equality, diversity and inclusion: and to reflect the global operating model of the Group whilst taking account of governance best practice.
Policy Table for Executive Directors Component Purpose link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework Base salary To provide a Salaries are set by the Committee.
The There is no prescribed While there are no competitive Committee reviews all relevant factors maximum salary.
Salary performance targets attached component of fixed such as: the scope and responsibilities increases will normally to the payment of salary, remuneration to of the role, the skills, experience and be broadly in line with performance is a factor attract and retain circumstances of the individual, increases awarded to considered in the annual people of the sustained performance in role, the other employees in the salary review process.
highest calibre and level of increase for other roles within business, although the experience needed the business, and appropriate market Committee retains to shape and execute data.
Salaries are normally reviewed discretion to award the Companys annually and any changes normally larger increases if it strategy.
considers it appropriate e. g. to reflect a change The base salaries effective 1 January in role, development 2019 are set out on page 71 of the and performance in role, Remuneration Report.
or to align to market data.
Benefits To provide a Incorporates various cash non-cash Benefit provision is N A competitive benefits benefits which may include: a company set at an appropriate package.
car or allowance and fuel allowance, competitive market private health insurance, life assurance, rate for the nature and and, where necessary, other benefits location of the role.
to reflect specific individual There is no prescribed circumstances, such as housing or maximum as some relocation allowances, representation costs may change allowances, reimbursement of school in accordance with fees, travel allowances, or other market conditions.
Any reasonable business related expenses including tax thereon can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit.
Executive Directors are eligible for other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
Executive Directors will be eligible to participate in any allemployee share plan operated by the Company, on the same terms as other eligible employees.
The maximum level of participation is subject to limits imposed by relevant legislation from time to time or a lower cap set by the Company.
6 5 65 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Component Purpose link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework Pension To provide Provided through participation in 7% of base salary for N A retirement benefits the Companys money purchase existing Directors which in line with the personal pension scheme, under is consistent with overall Group policy.
which the Company matches individual provisions provided to contributions up to a maximum of the wider workforce.
The Committee may set a higher level for new The Company may amend the form executives to reflect of an Executive Directors pension local practice, but this arrangements in response to changes will be limited to 15% in legislation or similar developments.
Annual To incentivise and Provides an opportunity for additional 150% of base salary Performance metrics are bonus reward annual reward up to a maximum specified as per annum.
selected annually based on performance and a % of salary based on annual the current business create further performance against targets set and objectives.
The majority of alignment with assessed by the Committee.
the bonus will be linked to shareholders via key financial metrics, of which Half of any annual bonus paid will be the delivery and there will typically be a deferred in shares which will vest after retention of deferred significant profit based three years, subject to continued equity.
employment but no further performance targets.
The other half is paid in cash Performance below threshold following the relevant year end.
results in zero payment with no more than three-fifths of A dividend equivalent provision allows the bonus available at target.
the Committee to pay dividends, at the Payments rise from 0% to Committees discretion, on vested 100% of the maximum shares at the time of vesting and may opportunity levels for assume the reinvestment of dividends performance between the on a cumulative basis.
threshold and maximum Recovery and withholding provisions targets.
apply to bonus awards see note 1 below.
Performance Motivates and Awards will normally be made annually The normal plan limit is Awards have a performance Share Plan rewards the creation under the PSP and will take the form of 250% of base salary.
period of three financial years PSP of long-term either nil-cost options or conditional starting at the beginning of shareholder value.
Participation and the financial year in which the individual award levels will be award is made.
Performance Aligns executives determined at the discretion of the conditions will measure the interests with those Committee within the policy.
long-term success of the of the shareholders.
Awards vest five years following grant, The Committee may introduce subject to performance against preor reweight performance determined targets measured after measures so that they are three years which are set and directly aligned with the communicated at the time of grant.
Companys strategic Recovery and withholding provisions objectives for each apply to PSP awards see note 1 below.
A dividend equivalent provision allows In respect of each the Committee to pay dividends, at the performance measure, Committees discretion, on vested performance below the shares at the time of vesting and may threshold target results in assume the reinvestment of dividends zero vesting.
The starting on a cumulative basis.
point for vesting of each performance element will be no higher than 25% and rises on a straight-line basis to 100% for attainment of levels of performance between the threshold and maximum targets.
There is no opportunity to re-test.
66 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 66 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Component Purpose link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance framework Shareholding To align Executive Executive Directors are expected to N A N A guidelines Directors interests build a holding in the Companys with those of shares to a minimum value of two our long-term times their base salary within five shareholders and years.
This may be built via the other stakeholders.
retention of the net-of-tax shares vesting under the Companys equity based share plans.
Deferred shares and shares subject to a holding period net-of-tax can be counted towards the total.
Notes to the policy table: 1.
Recovery and withholding provisions may be applied in circumstances which include misconduct or material error by a participant, material misstatement in the Companys audited accounts or a material downturn in the performance of the Company, or error in the assessment of performance and in other circumstances in which the Committee thinks the operation of the process is appropriate.
Awards subsequent to the grant, but before the expiry of the holding period, may be reduced or an Executive Director may be required to repay an award at any time within three years of the date on which the award vests.
All cash and share bonuses alongside long-term incentives are subject to a malus and clawback policy.
For the avoidance of doubt, by approval of the policy, authority has been given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors such as the payment of a pension or the unwinding of legacy share schemes that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous Directors Remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
The previous Remuneration Policy included the CIP which has been replaced by the new PSP.
Under the CIP, Executive Directors could defer a proportion of their bonus into shares and receive a performance based matching award for each deferred share.
The final CIP awards were made in March 2015.
Subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance targets, the final CIP awards will be fully vested and exercisable from 4 March 2020 until 4 March 2025.
Annual bonus performance measures are determined at the start of each year, based on the key business priorities for the year.
The majority will be based on clear financial targets, including a significant weighting on profit, as this is the primary indicator of our sustainable growth.
PSP performance metrics are determined at the time of grant.
Performance measures may include a measure of profitability such as EPS, capital return such as EVA or ROI and other measures of long-term success such as relative TSR.
These measures align with our long-term goal of value creation for shareholders through underlying financial growth and above-market returns.
As IWG operates in a number of geographies, employee remuneration practices vary across the Group to reflect local market practice.
However, employee remuneration policies are based on the same broad principles.
Our primary objective in awarding variable pay is to drive achievement of results, according to role, and to recognise and reward excellent performance.
Accordingly, to account for variances in responsibilities, influence and seniority, incentive schemes are not uniform in approach.
Performance targets are set annually taking into account a number of internal and external reference points including: the level of performance that is achievable over a sustained period of time: historic performance and internal forecasts of future performance: market expectations, and any guidance provided to the market.
In order to ensure that the Remuneration Policy achieves its intended aims, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion over the operation of certain elements of the variable pay policy.
This includes the discretion to adjust the annual bonus and PSP outcome if it is not considered to be reflective of the wider performance of IWG and to ensure that it can, in appropriate circumstances, override formulaic outcomes.
In addition, the Committee may adjust elements of the Plans including but not limited to: participation: in exceptional circumstances determining that any share-based award or any dividend equivalent will be settled in full or in part in cash: determining the extent of payment or vesting of an award based on the assessment of any performance condition, including discretion as to the basis on which performance is to be measured if an award vests in advance of normal timetable on cessation of employment as a good leaver or on the occurrence of a corporate event and whether and to what extent pro-ration will apply in such circumstances: whether and to what extent recovery and or withholding will apply to any award: ability to adjust the number of shares under the DSBP, PSP or other share-based award to take into account a variation in the share capital: the timing of the grant of award and or payment: the size of an award up to plan limits and or payment within the limits set out in the policy table above: discretion relating to the measurement of performance within the limits set out in the policy table above in the event of a change of control: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends : and the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events at any point before vesting so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
Should any such discretions be exercised, an explanation would be provided in the following Annual Report on Remuneration and may be subject to shareholder consultation as appropriate.
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to make payments and honour any prior commitments entered into with current or former Directors such as the payment of pension or the unwinding of legacy share schemes prior to the approval of the current Remuneration Policy.
Details of any payments will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments include the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
6 7 67 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Policy Table for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Component Purpose link to strategy Operation Maximum Chairman Normally reviewed, but not necessarily increased, There is no prescribed maximum Neither the Chairman nor the fees annually and as determined by the Remuneration although fees and fee increases Non-Executive Directors are Committee.
The Committee will consider, where will be considered in line with the eligible for any performance appropriate, pay data at companies of a similar scale.
increases of the wider workforce related remuneration.
A single fee which reflects all Board and Committee duties.
Set at a level sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the required skills, experience and knowledge to allow the Board to effectively carry out its duties.
NonNormally reviewed, but not necessarily increased, There is no prescribed maximum Neither the Chairman nor the Executive annually and as determined by the Chairman and although fees and fee increases Non-Executive Directors are Director fees the Executive Directors.
The Committee will consider, will be considered in line with the eligible for any performance where appropriate, pay data at companies of a increases of the wider workforce related remuneration.
A base fee is payable with additional fees for chairing key Board Committees and for being the Senior Independent Director.
Any reasonable business-related expenses including tax thereon can be reimbursed if determined to be a taxable benefit.
Additional fees may be payable in relation to extra responsibilities undertaken such as chairing a Board Committee or other similar duties or being a member of a committee.
If there is a temporary yet material increase in the time commitments for Non-Executive Directors, the Board may pay extra fees on a pro-rata basis to recognise the additional workload.
Fees are paid entirely in cash.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee has regard to the pay and employment conditions of employees within the Group when it sets the Remuneration Policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors, the first layer of management below the Board, the Company Secretary and the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee does not consult directly with employees when formulating the Remuneration Policy but has established a conduit for consulting with employees and representing their feedback at Board level and if this feedback were to include matters of remuneration, this would be taken into consideration by the Committee.
The general principles of the Groups Remuneration Policy are broadly applied throughout the Group and are designed to support recruitment, motivation and retention as well as to reward high performance in a framework of approved risk management, and to promote the long-term sustainable success of the Company.
The structure of total remuneration packages for those within the Committees remit and for the broader employee population is similar, comprising salary, pension and benefits and eligibility for a discretionary annual bonus.
The level of bonus opportunity is determined by role and responsibility.
Executive Directors, the first layer of management below the Board and other selected senior executives participate in the Companys share schemes to aid retention and motivate the delivery of long-term growth in shareholder value and to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Annual base pay increases for the Executive Directors and the first layer of management below the Board are normally limited to the average base pay increase for the wider employee population unless there are exceptional circumstances such as a change in role or salary progression for a newly appointed Director.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee is dedicated to ensuring that shareholders understand and support our remuneration structures.
Accordingly, where changes are being made to the Remuneration Policy, or in the event of a significant exercise of discretion, we will consult with shareholders, as appropriate, to explain our approach and rationale fully.
Additionally, the Committee considers shareholder feedback received in relation to each annual general meeting alongside any views expressed during the year.
We actively engage with our largest shareholders and consider the range of views expressed.
Except in exceptional circumstances, the members of the Committee, including the Committee Chairman, attend the Companys annual general meeting and are available to listen to views and to answer shareholders questions about Directors remuneration.
The Committee also reviews the executive remuneration framework in the context of published shareholder guidelines.
68 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 68 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Approach to recruitment remuneration When determining the remuneration package for a newly appointed Executive Director, the Committee would seek to apply the following principles: The package must be sufficiently competitive to facilitate the recruitment of individuals of the highest calibre and experience needed to shape and execute the Companys strategy.
At the same time, the Committee would seek to pay no more than necessary.
The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Policy in force at the time of the appointment.
Salaries would reflect the skills and experience of the individual, and may but not necessarily be set at a level to allow future salary progression to reflect performance in the role.
Where salaries are set below market, multi-year staged increases may be awarded to achieve the desired market positioning over time.
Where necessary these increases may be above those of the wider workforce but will be subject to continued development in the role.
Benefits will be limited to those outlined in the Policy, with relocation assistance provided where appropriate.
Where provided, relocation assistance will normally be for a capped amount and or limited time.
Pension provisions will be set in line with the Policy.
The Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based payments in the year of appointment when it considers these to be in the best interests of the Company and, therefore, shareholders.
Per the Policy, the maximum level of variable remuneration which may be awarded is 400% of salary of which 250% is permitted under the PSP under the exceptional circumstances limit and 150% under the annual bonus plan.
Performance conditions for variable pay in the year of appointment may be different to those applying to other Directors, which would be subject to stretching performance conditions.
Depending on the timing of the appointment, the Committee may deem it appropriate to set different performance conditions to the current Executive Directors for the first performance year of appointment.
A long-term incentive award can be made shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in a close period.
Where an individual forfeits remuneration at a previous employer as a result of appointment to the Company, the Committee may offer compensatory payments or awards to facilitate recruitment.
Such payments or awards could include cash as well as performance and  share awards and would be in such form as the Committee considers appropriate taking into account all relevant factors such as the form, expected value, anticipated vesting and timing of the forfeited remuneration.
The aim of any such award would be to ensure that, so far as possible, the expected value and structure of the award will be no more generous than the amount forfeited.
Any share-based awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Companys existing share plans.
If necessary, awards may be granted outside of these plans as permitted under the Listing Rules, and in line with the approach and the limits set out above.
In the case of an internal appointment, variable pay awarded in respect of the incumbents prior role may pay out according to its terms of grant.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations prior to their appointment may continue, provided that they are put to shareholders for approval at the first annual general meeting following their appointment.
For an overseas appointment, the Committee will have discretion to offer cost-effective benefits and pension provisions which reflect local market practice and relevant legislation.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the structure set out in the Policy Table for Non-Executive Directors on page 68.
Service contracts Executive Directors have service contracts with the Group which can be terminated by the Company or the Director by giving 12 months notice.
The service contract policy for new appointments will be on similar terms as existing Executive Directors, with the facility to include a notice period of no more than 12 months.
The Company may terminate employment of the Executive Directors by making a payment in lieu of notice which would not exceed 12 months salary.
Under the current service agreements, Mark Dixons contract provides that, on a change of control, he may terminate the contract by giving one months notice and will, in addition to contractual payments for the one-month notice period, receive a payment equal to 12 months salary, and remain eligible for a discretionary bonus.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are appointed for a three-year term, which is renewable, with six months notice on either side, no contractual termination payments being due and subject to retirement pursuant to the Articles of Association at the annual general meeting.
The Directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office within normal business hours.
Policy on payment for loss of office Where an Executive Director leaves employment, the Committees approach to determining any payment for loss of office will normally be based on the following principles: The Committees objective is to find an outcome which is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders, taking into account the specific circumstances, contractual obligations and seeking to pay no more than is warranted.
Payments in lieu of notice will not exceed 12 months salary and benefits.
6 9 69 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Policy on payment for loss of office continued Treatment of annual bonus: There is no contractual right to receive an annual bonus in the year of termination.
However, the Committee has discretion for certain leavers to make a payment under the annual bonus entirely in cash.
This will reflect the period of service during the year and performance measured at the same time as performance for other plan participants, if feasible.
Should the Committee make a payment in these circumstances, the rationale would be set out in the following Annual Report on Remuneration.
Treatment of share plans: If an Executive Director leaves employment with the Company, unvested PSP and deferred bonus shares will lapse unless the Committee in its absolute discretion determines otherwise for reasons including, amongst others, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy and death or in any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
In such circumstances an Executive Directors award normally vests based on the time served and, in the case of the PSP, achievement of performance criteria.
Should the Committee adjust the time pro-rating, then this would be explained in the following Annual Report on Remuneration.
If the Executive Director ceases to be an employee for any reason other than those specified above then the award shall lapse immediately on such cessation.
The terms of any other unvested share awards on termination will be as set out in the prior policy.
Awards will vest on the normal vesting date unless the Committee determines, in its discretion, that awards will vest at the date of cessation.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
The Committee may also pay reasonable outplacement and legal fees where considered appropriate.
Policy in respect of external Board appointments for Executive Directors It is recognised that external non-executive directorships may be beneficial for both the Company and Executive Directors.
At the discretion of the Board, Executive Directors are permitted to retain fees received in respect of any such non-executive directorship.
Illustration of Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrate the application of the Remuneration Policy set out in the Policy Table for Executive Directors.
This assumes the level of fixed remuneration salary, benefits and pension as at 1 January 2019 and the following in respect of each scenario: Fixed represents fixed remuneration only i. e. current salary, benefits and pension.
Target represents fixed remuneration plus an annual at target bonus of 90% of salary and 50% of salary 25% of maximum vesting of the maximum PSP award.
Note, target levels of award are for illustrative purposes only.
Maximum represents the maximum annual bonus of 150% of salary and full vesting of the normal PSP grant of 200% of base salary.
Maximum 50% share price growth represents maximum levels of award plus the impact of 50% share price growth on the PSP award.
4,603 54% 3,778 44% 2,789 53% 2,292 2,046 43% 33% 27% 20% 36% 1,249 33% 27% 891 20% 36% 100% 44% 23% 19% 553 100% 44% 24% 20% Minimum Target Maximum Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Maximum 50% share 50% share price growth price growth Chief Executive Ocer Chief Financial Ocer Fixed Pay Annual Bonus Long-term incentives All figures in 000s and rounded to the nearest thousand.
The Chief Financial Officers benefits value is based on the estimated cost in 2019 of the benefits package and excludes the commuter costs which will be paid on the basis of receipted cost incurred and will be disclosed in next years DRR.
The Chief Executive Officers benefit value is based on the value of benefits received in relation to 2018.
70 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 70 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION Members of the Committee All members of the Committee are independent.
Committee membership during the year and attendance at the meetings is set out on page 63.
Terms of reference The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website: www.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy for 2019 The Annual Report on Remuneration set out below and the Chairmans Annual Statement will be put to a single advisory shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
The information below includes how we intend to operate our policy in 2019 and the pay outcomes in respect of the 2018 financial year.
Base salaries for the Executive Directors The Executive Directors salaries were reviewed, however, no salary increases have been awarded.
The current salaries as at 1 January 2019 and compared to 2018 are as follows.
Eric Hageman was appointed with effect from 1 January 2019 and his salary will first be reviewed with effect from 1 January 2020: Percentage 2019 2018 change Mark Dixon 825,000 825,000 0% Eric Hageman 440,000 For context, the average base salary increase received by Group support employees was 5%.
Benefits and pension Benefits and pension provisions will operate in line with the approved policy.
Annual bonus For 2019, the maximum bonus potential for both Executive Directors is 150% of salary.
The on-target bonus is 90% of salary.
Half of any bonus paid will be normally deferred into shares under the DSBP, which will vest after three years subject to continued employment.
The 2019 annual bonus will include a measurement against operating profit ranging from threshold to stretch.
The target is not being disclosed prospectively as it is commercially sensitive: however, a description of the performance against targets set will be included in next years Annual Report.
Performance Share Plan PSP PSP awards will be made at 200% of salary to Executive Directors with performance measured over a three-year period ending 31 December 2021.
The awards will be subject to three independently operated performance metrics as summarised below: Threshold Maximum Performance conditions vesting Threshold performance vesting Maximum performance EPS 33.3% weighting 0% Compound annual growth of 5% 100% Compound annual growth of 25% Relative TSR versus FTSE 350 excluding 25% Median 100% 10% compound annual growth investment trusts 33.3% weighting above median Return on investment 33.3% weighting 0% Return to be equal to 2018 100% Return to be 300 basis points performance above 2018 performance Awards will be subject to a post-vesting holding period of two years.
This requires the Executive Directors to hold on to the net of tax number of vested shares for a period of two years following vesting.
Chairman and Non-Executive fees No fee increases are proposed for 2019: 2019 2018 Percentage 000 000 change Non-Executive Chairman 250 250 0% Basic fee for Non-Executive Director 57 57 0% Additional fees: Chair of Audit Committee 12 12 0% Chair of Remuneration Committee 12 12 0% Senior Independent Director combined with Chair of Nomination Committee 12 12 0% 1 Variable dislocation allowance for non-Swiss Directors 2.5 to 7.5 2.5 to 7.5 0% 1.
The level of dislocation allowance for non-Swiss Directors is determined according to their country of residence.
7 1 71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION OUTCOMES FOR 2018 Single total figure of remuneration table audited The following table shows the total remuneration in respect of the year ending 31 December 2018, together with the prior year comparative.
Pension Includes pension contributions of 7% of salary into defined contribution arrangements or cash equivalent plus any contributions in accordance with standard local practice or employment regulations.
Annual bonus The bonus shown is the full award in respect of the relevant financial year.
Half of the bonus awarded is normally deferred into shares for three years.
Long Term Incentive Awards Includes the value of Matching Share awards made to Mark Dixon under the Co-Investment Plan CIP in previous years which vested in respect of a performance period ending in the relevant financial year.
The vesting of the third tranche of the 2013 award 62,862 shares out of a maximum of 251,447 and the 2015 CIP 37,819 shares out of a maximum 529,304 are included in the 2017 column.
The figure reflects the actual share price on the date of vesting of 240.2p.
The third tranche of the 2014 award 10,687 shares will vest out of a maximum of 137,401 shall vest in March 2019 based on performance until 31 December 2018: the value of this is shown in 2018 and reflects a three-month average share price ending 31 December 2018 of 224.9p.
Dominik fide Daniel stepped down as Executive Director on 12 September 2018.
Remuneration detailed above reflects time served.
Lance Browne stepped down as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 16 May 2017.
Franois Pauly was appointed as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 16 May 2017.
Determination of 2018 annual bonus audited The 2018 annual bonus plan was on performance against the following: Performance required Actual Threshold 50% of Target 90% of Maximum 150% performance Bonus payable Measure Weighting salary salary of salary achieved % of maximum Operating profit before growth cost 100% 186.0m 207.0m 225.0m 193.8m 43.3% The achieved underlying operating profit of 193.8m in 2018 resulted in a bonus equivalent to 64.9% of the respective salary the maximum being 150% of salary being awarded as follows: Bonus Operating profit Bonus Cash Deferred maximum achievement awarded bonus shares 1 2 Director % of base salary % of award 000 000 000 Mark Dixon 150% 64.9% 535.4 267.7 267.7 1.
Dominik fide Daniel stepped down from the Board in September 2018.
He was placed on garden leave in September 2018 and left the Group in 2019.
The Committee has determined that no annual bonus will be payable to Dominik fide Daniel in respect of 2018.
See page 75 for further details.
Half of any bonus awarded is normally paid in cash with half deferred in shares which vest after three years.
The Committee decided that the resulting award was aligned with Company performance and therefore approved the bonus payment at 64.9% of base salary.
72 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 72 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PSP awards vesting in respect of 2018 performance audited The table below summarises the performance conditions and the actual performance against the first award made under the PSP.
This award was subject to performance conditions measured over the three financial years ending 31 December 2018.
Relative TSR versus FTSE 350 excluding EPS Return on investment investment trusts 33.3% weighting 33.3% weighting 33.3% weighting % of each % of each % of each element vesting Target element vesting Target element vesting Target Below threshold 0% Below median 0% Compound 0% Return below annual growth of 2015 less than 5% performance Threshold 25% Median 0% Compound 0% Return to be annual growth equal to 2015 of 5% performance Maximum 100% 10% compound 100% Compound 100% Return to be 300 annual growth annual growth basis points above median of 25% above 2015 performance Performance achieved 28.2% 2.95% 17.5% Actual % vesting 0% 0% 0% 2016 award Total vesting No.
of shares Director number of shares % of maximum to vest Award value Mark Dixon 552,579 0% 0 Dominik fide Daniel 485,600 0% 0 The Committee believes the above outcome is representative of Company performance and therefore no discretion was exercised and the 2016 PSP awards did not vest.
CIP awards vesting in respect of 2018 performance audited The 2014 Matching Share awards are divided into three separate equal tranches subject to performance over three, four and five years from 1 January 2014.
The third tranche of the 2014 award is due to vest in March 2019 based on performance until 31 December 2018, as shown in the table below.
Relative TSR versus FTSE 350 excluding financial services and mining EPS companies 25% of tranche 33.3% weighting % of each % of each element vesting Target element vesting Target Below threshold 0% Below median 0% Below 16.1p Threshold 25% Median 25% 16.1p Maximum 100% Upper quartile or 100% 20.2p above Performance achieved 24% 11.7p Actual % vesting 31.1% 0% Straight-line vesting between these points.
The Committee has reviewed these outcomes, including adjustments related to growth, and it is content that they are a fair reflection of underlying performance over the period.
Average share price Tranche 3 award Total vesting % of No.
of shares to 1 October 31 Estimated 2014 award Tranche 3 number of shares maximum vest December 2018 award value Mark Dixon 137,401 7.8% 10,687 2.249 24,035 Note the estimated value of the award is based on the average share price over the last quarter of the financial year.
The actual value will be the value at the date of vesting.
7 3 73 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED One-off award vesting in respect of 2018 performance audited The vesting of the one-off share award granted to Dominik fide Daniel in November 2015 was subject to an EPS performance condition measured over a three-year period ending on 31 December 2018, with the shares vesting as follows: % Compound annual growth in EPS over the period of shares 01.01.2016 31.12.2018 vesting 5% 100% Actual % of shares Performance achieved vesting 2.95% 0% The Committee believes the above outcomes demonstrate strong pay for performance alignment and therefore did not exercise its discretion in adjusting the performance outcomes.
PSP awards granted in the year audited PSP awards granted to Executive Directors on 7 March 2018 which vest subject to a three-year performance period ending 31 December 2020 were as follows: Number % of Value % of maximum amount 1 Executive of shares base salary of award receivable for threshold vesting Mark Dixon 680,412 200% 1,649,999 8.3% 2 Dominik fide Daniel 597,938 200%1,450,000 8.3% 1.
Based on a face value grant of 200% of salary and using a share price of 242.5p.
Dominik fide Daniel left the Group in 2019, therefore the PSP awards granted to him have lapsed in full.
The awards are subject to three independently operated performance metrics: Threshold Maximum Metric vesting Threshold vesting Maximum EPS 33.3% weighting 0% Compound annual growth of 5% 100% Compound annual growth of 25% Relative TSR versus FTSE 350 excluding 25% Median 100% 10% compound growth investment trusts 33.3% weighting above median Return on investment 33.3% weighting 0% Return equal to 2017 performance 100% Return to be 300 basis points above 2017 performance Awards will be subject to a post-vesting holding period of two years.
DSBP awards granted in the year No awards were granted under the DSBP in 2018.
Total pension benefits During the year under review, the Executive Directors received pension contributions of 7% of salary into defined contribution arrangements or cash equivalent plus any contributions in accordance with standard local practice or employment regulations.
Details of the value of pension contributions received in the year under review are set out in the Pension column of the single figure of remuneration table.
Statement of share scheme interests and shareholdings audited Executive Directors are expected to build a holding in the Companys shares to a minimum value of two times their base salary within five years of their appointment.
This must be built via the retention of the net-of-tax shares vesting under the Companys equity-based share plans.
The following table sets out, for Directors who served during the year, the total number of shares held including the interests of connected persons as at 31 December 2018 alongside the interests in share schemes for the Executive Directors.
For Dominik fide Daniel, the shareholding is at the date he stepped down from the Board.
74 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 74 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Shareholding guidelines Interests in share option awards % of salary Guideline % of salary Deferred Share Performance CIP Matching One-off 1 2 3 4 5 Shares held required met?
attained Bonus Plan Share Plan Shares award Executive Directors Mark Dixon 243,853,270 200% Yes 61,676% 204,208 1,816,030 175,220 6 Dominik fide Daniel 595,589 200% Yes 173% 179,456 1,595,905 328,751 Non-Executive Directors Douglas Sutherland 400,000 Elmar Heggen Nina Henderson 30,800 Franois Pauly 100,000 Florence Pierre 1.
Based on a share price of 209.0p and base salary as at 31 December 2018, save for Dominik fide Daniel whose percentage salary achieved is based on a share price of 232.3p as at 12 September 2018 and base salary as at 12 September 2018.
Half of any bonus awarded is deferred in shares which vest after three years, subject to continued employment but no further performance targets.
DSBP awards granted to Dominik fide Daniel will lapse when he ceases to be an employee.
The Performance Share Plan is in the form of unvested conditional shares awarded in 2016, 2017 and 2018 which will become exercisable on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant and remain exercisable until the day before the tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
The Committee has determined that performance conditions for the 2016 award were not met and accordingly the award will not vest.
PSP awards granted to Dominik fide Daniel will lapse when he ceases to be an employee.
The CIP Matching Shares includes 137,401 unvested conditional shares granted on 5 March 2014 which will vest subject to the achievement of EPS and TSR performance targets and 37,819 vested shares granted on 4 March 2015 which are subject to a holding period ending in March 2020.
The Committee has determined that only 10,687 of the conditional shares granted on 5 March 2014 will vest.
Upon appointment Dominik fide Daniel was granted a conditional award, details of which were disclosed in the 2015 Remuneration Report.
The one-off award is in the form of unvested conditional shares awarded to Dominik fide Daniel as a one-off award arrangement established under Listing Rule 9.4.
The Committee has determined that performance conditions for the award were not met and accordingly the award will not vest.
Number of shares held and interests in share option awards as at 12 September 2018 when Dominik fide Daniel stepped down from the Board.
With the exception of the Directors interests disclosed in the table above, no Director had any additional interest in the share capital of the Company during the year.
Eric Hageman was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2019 and holds 300,000 options issued to him in 2018: no other Director has any additional interests in the share capital of the Company since year end to the date of this report.
Dominik fide Daniel Dominik fide Daniel stepped down from the Board on 12 September 2018.
Dominik fide Daniel was placed on garden leave to expire no later than 30 September 2019 as of 18 September 2018 for the remainder of his notice period.
He remained an employee of the Group until 31 January 2019.
The Committee has determined that Dominik fide Daniel will receive an amount of CHF 410,000 in two equal instalments, payable on or about 11 March 2019 and 31 January 2020 respectively in respect of his contractual entitlement to salary and benefits for the period of his remaining garden leave.
This sum has been reduced in accordance with the principles of mitigation to reflect remuneration payable to Dominik fide Daniel in connection with subsequent employment he has undertaken during this period.
No payment for loss of office or further remuneration payments will be made to him.
The Committee has determined, as detailed on pages 73 and 74, that the performance metrics applicable to the 2016 PSP award and the one-off award held by Dominik fide Daniel were not met and accordingly those awards will lapse.
The Committee did not exercise their discretion to adjust the award outcomes.
The Committee has exercised its discretion to permit the deferred bonus award granted to Dominik fide Daniel on 1 March 2017 over 179,456 shares to vest in full on 1 March 2020, being the date that it would otherwise have vested but for his termination.
The Committee considered the 2018 bonus of Dominik fide Daniel at the same time as for the other Executive Director and concluded that no 2018 bonus would be payable to Dominik fide Daniel.
Eric Hageman Eric Hageman was appointed as Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Group with effect from 1 January 2019, from September 2018 until his appointment to the Board he served as interim Chief Financial Officer.
In line with the Policy, the Committee took account of market levels of remuneration as well as of the remuneration received by Eric in previous roles.
His remuneration package is set at an appropriate level to reward the skills and expertise he brings to the role.
Eric Hageman will receive a salary per annum of 440,000 and is entitled to benefits including a pension 7% of salary, health insurance and medical insurance.
Eric will also be reimbursed for his weekly commute including weekday accommodation in Switzerland and airfares.
He will participate in the annual bonus scheme for financial years starting on or after 1 January 2019 with a maximum bonus potential of 150% of gross annual salary.
Eric is entitled to participate in Company share schemes and for 2019 will be granted an award under the Performance Share Plan at 200% of salary: the awards will vest subject to performance measures over three financial years, 2019-2021, against EPS, relative TSR and ROI targets and any award that vests will be subject to an additional two-year holding period.
7 5 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SUPPORTING DISCLOSURES AND ADDITIONAL CONTEXT Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer and Group support employees on a like-for-like basis between the year ending 31 December 2017 and the year ending 31 December 2018.
Given the significant scale and diversity of the overall global employee population, the Committee considers the Group support employees a more relevant comparison.
Chief Group support Executive employees Salary 0% 5% Benefits 0% 6% 1 1 Annual bonus 1.
No annual bonuses were awarded based on 2017 performance.
Bonuses were awarded based on 2018 performance, including a 535.4k bonus awarded to the Chief Executive Officer.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows total employee remuneration and distributions to shareholders in respect of the years ending 31 December 2018 and 2017 and the percentage changes between years: Change 2017 2018 2017 to 2018 Total employee remuneration 380.9m 331.5m 14.9% Distributions to shareholders via dividends and share buybacks 93.9m 99.6m 5 % Performance graph and table The graph below shows the TSR of IWG in the nine-year period to 31 December 2018 against the TSR of the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts.
TSR refers to share price growth and assumes dividends are reinvested over the relevant period.
The Committee considers the FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts relevant since it is an index of companies of similar size to IWG.
investment trusts Source: FactSet This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2018, of 100 invested in IWG plc on 31 December 2008, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 excl.
Investment Trusts Index on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Based on 25% of tranche three of the 2013 Matching Shares vesting, 0% of tranche two of the 2014 Matching Shares vesting and 7.15% of the 2015 Matching Shares vesting.
The single total figure of remuneration has been restated to reflect that the share price for the CIP on the date of vesting is now known.
Based on 7.8% of tranche three of the 2014 Matching Shares vesting, and 0% of the 2016 PSP award vesting.
76 IWG PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2018 76 IWG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Advisors to the Remuneration Committee Details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee and attendance at Committee meetings are set out on page 63 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The Committees terms of reference are freely available on the Companys website: www.
In addition to the designated members of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Company Secretary also attended Committee meetings during the year although none were present during discussions concerning their own remuneration.
The Executive Compensation team within Aon provided independent advice to the Committee during the year.
No other services were provided by Aon during the year.
Aon was appointed by the Committee during 2016 following a competitive selection process undertaken by the Committee.
The fees charged by Aon for the provision of independent advice to the Committee during 2018 were 63,010 exclusive of VAT 2017: 41,500.
With regard to remuneration advice, the Committee is comfortable that Aons engagement partner and team are objective and independent.
Statement of voting at general meeting The Committee is directly accountable to shareholders and, in this context, is committed to an open and transparent dialogue with shareholders on the issue of executive remuneration.
The members of the Committee attend the Companys annual general meeting and are available to answer shareholders questions about Directors remuneration.
Votes cast by proxy and at the annual general meeting held on 15 May 2018 in respect of remunerated related resolutions are shown in the table below: Votes for Votes against Total votes Votes Resolution # % # % cast withheld Approval of Annual Remuneration Report for year ending 31 December 2017 714,887,247 95.58% 33,073,045 4.42% 766,111,782 0% For and on behalf of the Board NINA HENDERSON CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 7 7 77
