Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 81 Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 5 July 2017.
The full policy, including approach to recruitment, service contracts, termination arrangements etc, can be found in the 2017 Annual Report on our website.
The approved Remuneration Policy tables for Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which were published in last years Directors Remuneration Policy, are set out below.
For clarity, where the policy table included references to implementation of the policy in 2017 18, these references have been removed.
Details of remuneration arrangements for 2017 18 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Policy table for Executive Directors Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Core element of remuneration used to attract and retain executives who can deliver our strategic objectives.
Operation Typically reviewed annually in March.
Consideration is given to a number of internal and external factors including business and individual performance, role, responsibilities, scope, market positioning, inflation and colleague pay increases.
Opportunity Salary increases in percentage of salary terms for Executive Directors will normally be within the range of those for the wider workforce.
There is no maximum salary opportunity.
Where the Committee considers it necessary and appropriate, larger increases may be awarded in individual circumstances such as: A change in scope or responsibility: If a new Executive Director is appointed at a lower rate and the salary is realigned over time as the individual gains experience in the role: or Alignment to market level.
Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Competitive benefits to assist in attracting and retaining executives.
Operation A range of benefits may be provided including, but not limited to, the provision of company car benefits or cash equivalent, private medical cover, life assurance, long-term disability insurance, all-employee share plan participation and colleague discount.
The Committee keeps the benefits offered, the policies and the levels provided under regular review.
Opportunity The value of benefits provided will be reasonable in the context of relevant market practice for comparable roles and taking into account any individual circumstances e. g. relocation.
There is no maximum monetary value.
Participation in any HMRC-approved all-employee share plan is limited to the maximum award levels permitted by the relevant legislation.
Retirement benefits Purpose and link to strategy Provides an income following retirement and assists colleagues in building funds for their future.
Operation JS Self Invested Pension Plan SIPP, a defined contribution plan and or a cash salary supplement.
Opportunity Maximum value of up to 30 per cent of salary per annum for existing Executive Directors, with a maximum value of up to 25 per cent of salary per annum for any new Executive Director appointments.
For new hires, the nature and value of any pension provided will be, in the Committees view, reasonable in the context of market practice for comparable roles and take account of both the individuals circumstances and the cost to the Company.
82 Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Rewards performance on an annual basis against key financial and individual objectives.
Operation Performance measured over one year, bonus payable in cash after the year-end.
Bonus level determined by the Committee after the year-end based on performance against targets.
Measures and targets are reviewed annually.
Opportunity Maximum opportunity of up to 125 per cent of salary per annum.
The level of threshold payment for performance varies depending on the performance measure, with payouts from zero per cent.
Full payout requires outperformance of stretch objectives.
Performance details Based on a combination of financial e. g. profit and individual metrics.
A performance gateway must be achieved before any bonus payments can be made.
The detail of the measures, targets and weightings may be varied by the Committee year-on-year based on the Companys strategic goals.
At least half of any award will be subject to financial measures.
Deferred Share Award DSA Purpose and link to strategy Recognises and rewards for delivery of short-term strategic and financial objectives which contribute towards long-term sustainable growth.
Balance with annual bonus to ensure management remain mindful of long-term consequences of short-term actions.
Awards delivered in shares to provide further alignment with shareholders.
Operation Performance measured over one year, after which award made as conditional shares or equivalent deferred for two financial years.
After the year-end, performance is assessed in the round based on the Committees judgement of performance achieved.
Measures and targets are reviewed annually in light of the strategic plan.
Dividends or equivalents may accrue on vested shares.
No DSA grants are made unless threshold performance levels are reached, with full vesting requiring outperformance of stretch objectives.
Performance details Basket of metrics covering four categories: financial performance, returns to shareholders, relative performance against peers and strategic goals.
A performance gateway must be achieved before any awards can be made.
At least half of any award will be based on the delivery of financial performance and returns to shareholders.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 83 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Future Builder Purpose and link to strategy Recognises and rewards for delivery of Company performance and shareholder value over the longer term.
Share-based to provide greater alignment with shareholder interests.
Operation Awards of conditional share awards or equivalent with vesting dependent on performance measured over a period of at least three financial years.
Vested awards will normally be subject to a holding period following the end of the performance period which means future awards will be released after five years.
The Committee reviews the metrics, targets and weightings prior to each grant to ensure that they remain appropriate.
Opportunity Maximum award of up to 250 per cent of salary per annum in respect of any financial year.
Awards structured as core award up to 62.5 per cent per annum with a performance multiplier of up to four times.
For achievements at threshold levels of performance, up to 25 per cent of maximum under each element may vest.
Based on the current structure this is equivalent to a multiplier of one times the core award.
Performance details Based on a combination of financial and strategic measures appropriate within the context of the Company strategy and external environment over the relevant performance period.
A performance gateway must be achieved before any awards vest.
Prior to granting awards, the Committee will review the performance conditions and may opt to vary the metrics and weightings to ensure measures and targets remain aligned with its objectives.
The Committee would seek to consult as appropriate with its major shareholders regarding any material changes.
Shareholding guidelines Purpose and link to strategy Alignment of Executive Directors with shareholders.
Operation Guidelines are Chief Executive 2.5 times salary, other Executive Directors 2.0 times salary.
Guideline expected to be met within five years of appointment.
Remuneration Policy for the Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee and the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors by the Non-Executive Chairman and Executive Directors.
The Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors receive fees and are eligible for certain benefits.
Non-Executive roles are not entitled to any performance-related pay or pension.
Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy Approach to setting The fees for Non-Executive Directors are set at a level which is considered appropriate to attract individuals with the necessary remuneration experience and ability to oversee the business.
Fees may be paid in cash or shares.
Typically reviewed annually in September.
Judgement is used but consideration is given to a number of internal and external factors including responsibilities, market positioning, inflation and colleague pay increases.
Where appropriate, benefits may be provided such as private medical cover, annual medical assessment and colleague discount.
Travel and other reasonable expenses including any associated taxes incurred in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors.
Opportunity Fee opportunity reflects responsibility and time commitment.
Additional fees are paid for further responsibilities such as chairing Committees.
The value of benefits provided will be reasonable in the market context and take account of the individual circumstances and benefits provided in comparable roles.
Consideration of shareholder views The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory vote at the AGM on 11 July 2018.
The Directors confirm that this report has been prepared inaccordance with the Companies Act 2006 and reflects the provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Approved by the Board on 1 May 2018.
Dame Susan Rice Chair, Remuneration Committee
