66 Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 Directors Remuneration Report For a number of years, Sainsburys has emphasised how our values make us different.
As a retailer operating in a competitive environment, these values Annual make strong commercial sense, as they help us strengthen relationships with all our stakeholders, earn trust, reduce operating costs, mitigate risks and attract and retain talent in a crowded marketplace.
Statement As a Committee, we are mindful that executive pay continues to be a key topic of public debate.
The principles of fairness and equality have been utmost in our minds this year, and have steered us as weve made our decisions.
For us, this means ensuring that we take a responsible approach from the to pay both at the senior level and across the wider workforce.
We are also committed to ensuring that our arrangements support Sainsburys values and reflect the experience of shareholders.
Remuneration As a business with over 185,000 colleagues, it is important to the Committee that we have sight of the Companys reward arrangements for the broader workforce when we are considering executive pay.
In line with our principles Committee of simplicity and fairness, we have aligned many of our 2017 18 remuneration decisions, as well as future arrangements for the coming year, with the approach taken for the wider management population.
Chair Throughout the year, the Committee has also had oversight of key remuneration decisions impacting colleagues, in particular, the proposed 100 million investment in pay for our Sainsburys store colleagues which will take effect from September 2018.
In addition, during the year the Committee reviewed the Groups Gender Pay Report on behalf of the Board.
We pay colleagues according to their role, not their gender, and the Board Dear Shareholder is committed to improving the representation of women at senior levels.
Having become Chair of the Remuneration The Remuneration Committee has adopted an holistic approach to remuneration for a number of years, and we intend to maintain this Committee during 2017, I am pleased to in future years.
present the Directors Remuneration Report Key remuneration decisions for 2017 18 for the year ended 10 March 2018.
We remain committed to ensuring that rewards received by our executives reflect performance.
Total remuneration for the Chief Executive and Executive Directors has increased as a result of our improved performance during the year.
Annual bonus Our Executive Directors were assessed against profit, sales, customer and individual measures.
The profit target set at the start of the year was achieved in part although the sales target was not.
Progress was made on key individual objectives relating to strategy, operations, leadership and our customers.
In light of the overall results, the Committee determined an annual bonus of around 40 per cent of maximum should be paid to the Executive Directors in respect of the year.
Deferred Share Award The Committee determined that awards under the DSA should be granted at 73 per cent of the maximum.
This recognises the performance of the business against market expectations and versus our competitors, as well as the significant achievements made on our strategic goals.
This award is deferred intoshares.
2015 Future Builder Based on performance against our four measures, a performance multiplier of 1.7x out of a maximum of 4.0 was applied to the core award for all participants resulting in vesting of 42.5 per cent of the maximum.
Overall, the Committee is satisfied that the total remuneration received by Executive Directors in 2017 18 is a fair reflection of performance over the period.
Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Governance Report J Sainsbury plc Annual Report 2018 67 Key changes in relation to 2018 19 Our Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM and can be found in full on pages 88 to 94 of the 2016 17 Annual Report and Accounts.
A summary of the policy can be found on pages 81 to 83.
We remain committed to This policy continues to work well and therefore no changes to the policy rewarding our Executive Directors are proposed for the coming year.
Key decisions in relation to remuneration in 2018 19 are set out below.
for acting in the interest of our Salary shareholders and for delivering We have awarded Mike Coupe, Kevin OByrne and John Rogers a salary sustainable long-term performance increase of two per cent effective March 2018, which aligns with that awarded to other management colleagues.
in a way which is aligned with our 2018 19 annual bonus Company values.
In line with our commitment to aligning executive pay with the wider workforce, we have simplified the 2018 19 annual bonus for our Executive Dame Susan Rice Directors, to reflect the approach we will be taking for our management colleagues.
In particular, the element linked to Group profit has been increased.
In future years, 70 per cent of the maximum bonus opportunity will be based on Group profit and 30 per cent on business specific annual operational objectives.
2018 Future Builder Each year, we review the performance measures and targets for Future Builder awards, our share-based long-term incentive plan, to ensure they are aligned to our Group strategy and corporate plan.
The 2018 awards will be based on four equally weighted performance measures: return on capital employed, earnings per share, free cash flow and cost savings.
For 2018 awards, the cash element has been refined to focus on free cash flow, as this metric better aligns with how performance is tracked both internally and externally.
Free cash flow is also more relevant to our shareholders as it represents cash flow that can ultimately be returned via dividends or reinvested into the business.
As Sainsburys Argos moves to its next phase of development, synergy targets directly relating to the Home Retail Group plc HRG acquisition will become less relevant, and therefore will not be used for this award cycle.
HRG synergy goals will continue to apply to Future Builder awards granted in 2016 and 2017.
The 2018 award will be based on performance through to March 2021.
The Committee is satisfied that the target ranges provide realistic but stretching goals, reflecting the current and future prospects of the business as well as the retail sector as a whole over the next three years.
Awards are subject to a two-year holding period following the end of the three-year performance period.
Further detail of the awards are set out on pages 74 to 76.
Closing remarks In line with the UK reporting regulations, the Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an advisory vote at our AGM on 11 July 2018.
As noted above, the Remuneration Policy was last approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, and will therefore not be re-submitted this year.
We hope that the disclosure provided in this report provides clear insight into the Committees decisions and we look forward to receiving your support at the AGM.
Finally, I would like to thank Mary Harris for her leadership of the Committee since 2012, as well as formally welcome Matt Brittin and Jo Harlow to the Committee.
While the membership of the Committee has changed, we remain committed to rewarding our Executive Directors for acting in the interest of our shareholders and for delivering sustainable long-term performance in a way which is aligned with our Company values.
Dame Susan Rice Chair, Remuneration Committee
