Financial Statements Notes to the Company Financial Statements C1.
Basis of Preparation The parent company financial statements of JD Sports Fashion Plc were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework FRS 101.
The amendments to FRS 101 2014 2015 Cycle issued in July 2015 and effective immediately have been applied.
In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU Adopted IFRSs, but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.
In these financial statements, the company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the following disclosures: a Cash Flow Statement and related notes: Comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible fixed assets, intangible assets and investment properties: Disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries: Disclosures in respect of capital management: The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs: Disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel: and Disclosures of transactions with a management entity that provides key management personnel services to the company.
As the consolidated financial statements of JD Sports Fashion Plc include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures: Certain disclosures required by IAS 36 Impairment of assets in respect of the impairment of goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets: Certain disclosures required by IFRS 3 Business Combinations in respect of business combinations undertaken by the Company: and Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption in s408 of the Companies Act 2006 not to present its individual income statement and related notes.
The total recognised comprehensive income for the parent included in these consolidated financial statements is 197.6 million 2017: 162.7 million.
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements and in preparing an opening FRS 101 IFRS balance sheet at 30 January 2016 for the purposes of the transition to FRS 101 Adopted IFRSs.
The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost convention except as disclosed in the accounting policies in Note 1 of the Group financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the Companys accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are the same for the Company as they are for the Group.
For further details, see page 121 to 122 in the Group financial statements.
Directors Remuneration The remuneration of Executive Directors for both the Company and Group are disclosed in Note 5 of the Group financial statements.
Auditors Remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Company and Group financial statements are disclosed in Note 3 of the Group financial statements.
