Remuneration Report Our role is to ensure that Johnson Mattheys remuneration arrangements align with shareholders interests, reward directors for performance and are well managed in line with good governance.
Chris Mottershead Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The long term incentive awards granted on 1st August 2015 will Introduction lapse on the third anniversary of their grant following compound As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to annual growth in underlying earnings per share EPS of 5.1% over present our report for the year ended 31st March 2018.
This is my the three year period to 31st March 2018, which fell below the first report as Chairman of the committee following Colin Matthews threshold target of 6% compound annual growth.
stepping down from the board last year.
It is intended to explain the key matters considered by the committee during the last 12 months Salary review and to set out the matters we expect to consider over the coming year.
We submitted our latest Remuneration Policy to shareholders at The companys general approach to senior executive salaries is to our 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM, and appreciated the high consider the delivery and experience of an individual in the context level of support we received 92.3% in favour.
We also value the of comparable rates of pay in similar sized organisations.
Executives continuing constructive dialogue we have had with a number of our are considered for an increase set at the typical rate of increase shareholders and representatives of institutional investors.
applied to the wider workforce in their geographical location.
This Annual Report on Remuneration sets out how we applied Reflecting this principle, and taking into account performance the Remuneration Policy in 2017 18 and how we intend to apply it in and time in role, both Robert MacLeod and John Walker received an the forthcoming year.
Anna Manz was awarded an increase of 5% effective from 1st April 2018 to reflect her strong performance in her relatively new role, against comparable rates of Our approach to remuneration pay in similar sized organisations.
The committee now considers her The overall objective of Johnson Matthey is to deliver sustained pay to be set at the appropriate rate and expects that future increase superior shareholder value using our world class science and our will be in line with those typically awarded to other UK employees.
competitive strengths, contributing to a cleaner, healthier world.
The remuneration strategy focuses on: motivating our talent to achieve the Incentive plan targets companys strategic objectives: to deliver on customer commitments: to inspire employees: and to drive value for our shareholders through During the year the committee assessed both the current choice of long term success and growth.
This long term focus is supported by performance metrics and the level of challenge within the incentive our Remuneration Policy, which includes an incentive structure that is plan targets.
The committees review considered the specific business purposefully weighted towards long term performance and includes targets metrics included in the one and three-year business plans shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors at, or above, 200% of along with the degree of stretch contained within them.
Our remuneration strategy is also designed to be competitive in With regard to the annual bonus plan, the committee concluded the various markets in which we operate and compete for talent.
that given the companys current clearly identified strategic objectives it would be appropriate to recognise these through the introduction of a weighting of 20% to non-financial objectives within the short term Incentive plan outcomes incentive plan for 2018 19.
These non-financial objectives will be During the year Johnson Matthey delivered strong sales growth and specific and focus on deliverables to support our strategy relating to continued to successfully implement the boards strategy through: science, customers, operations and people.
Delivery against these growing our Clean Air Sector: expanding the pipeline in our Health objectives will also be underpinned by achieving a satisfactory health Sector: making targeted investments in our Efficient Natural and safety record over the year.
The remainder of the bonus will be Resources Sector: and developing our Battery Materials business for based on financial metrics relating to profit and working capital, future growth.
and the targets set with reference to the challenging internal plans Overall, in terms of the performance against the annual bonus approved by the board.
targets we set for 2017 18, we achieved growth in underlying profit Our long term variable reward continues to be tied to growth before tax and reduced the average working capital days during the as measured by increases in underlying EPS.
The long term incentive year, which resulted in bonuses becoming payable at 69.19% of the plan will remain subject to a challenging range of growth targets maximum for Robert MacLeod and Anna Manz and 68.67% of the that measure how successful we are in delivering on our growth maximum for John Walker.
strategy, underpinned by achieving an acceptable return on invested In the context of a challenging external environment, and the capital ROIC.
companys overall performance during the year, the committee considered the level of annual bonus payout appropriate.
111 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance The Remuneration Committee is actively engaged in monitoring In addition, we reviewed the pay levels of employees below the performance and continuing to ensure that the level of challenge board, particularly in relation to the UK gender pay gap.
Our UK within our short and long term incentive plans remains appropriate.
This is lower than the UK national average of In addition, in determining outcomes, the committee also considers 18.1%.
Our gender pay gap is driven by female under-representation the precise numerical results and the character of the results and also issues that are evident in the wider economy including a themselves, including the manner in which they are achieved.
lower number of women occupying science, technology and engineering roles.
While it will take some time for there to be meaningful change and tackle the root causes of our gender Board changes imbalance, the company is fully committed to ensuring a truly After seven years as Chairman, Tim Stevenson will be stepping down inclusive culture that supports diversity and has already a number of as Chairman at our 2018 AGM.
It was announced in April 2018 that programmes and actions in place to improve our gender balance.
Patrick Thomas will be appointed as Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate on 1st June 2018.
On his appointment to the The year ahead board Mr Thomas remuneration was set in line with our standard policy for Non-Executive Directors and, on becoming Chairman, Looking ahead to the next 12 months, we will monitor the he will be paid an annual Chairman fee of 360,000, which is appropriateness of the performance conditions attached to our annual subject to review in April each year.
Subject to shareholder approval, and long term incentive plans and their alignment to the evolving Patrick Thomas will become Chairman with effect from the close of external governance landscape.
The Remuneration Committee is also the 2018 AGM.
currently considering the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code that are expected to come into effect from 1st January 2019 and wider regulatory changes, with a view to taking the necessary steps to Other reviews ensure we continue to take due account of best practice expectations Following the completion of our triennial review of executive and regulatory requirements.
remuneration, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the services provided by its remuneration advisors, New Bridge Street.
This review 2018 Annual General Meeting resulted in a change and the appointment of Korn Ferry Hay Group as new advisors.
Korn Ferry Hay Group is a member of the Remuneration I ask you to support our 2017 18 Annual Report on Remuneration at Consultants Group and adheres to its Code of Conduct.
our forthcoming AGM on 26th July 2018.
We believe that our policy An independent evaluation of the Remuneration Committees is simple, transparent and effective, strongly supporting our business performance over the year was conducted by Manchester Square strategy.
We welcome an open dialogue with our shareholders and Partners LLP and formed part of a wider board evaluation discussion I will be available at the meeting to answer any questions about the led by the Chairman.
The Remuneration Committee was considered work of the Remuneration Committee.
to have operated effectively during the year.
Group employee considerations During the year we reviewed the companys new global grading arrangements for employees below the board together with the new Chris Mottershead annual and long term incentive plans associated with each new Chairman of the Remuneration Committee grading level.
This new grading structure will help the business manage its talent and enable more structured career pathways, while new incentive levels help support our remuneration strategy to provide competitive remuneration in the various markets in which we operate and compete for talent.
112 Remuneration overview Remuneration Policy The table below sets out the Remuneration Policy for the 2018 19 financial year.
Further details are set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Remuneration element Remuneration structure Base salary Current salaries as follows: Robert MacLeod 818,000 2017 18 798,000 Anna Manz 515,000 2017 18 490,000 John Walker 468,250 2017 18 456,850 The 2018 19 salaries shown above include a salary increase effective from 1st April 2018 of 2.5% for Robert MacLeod and John Walker and 5% for Anna Manz.
Benefits Medical, life and income protection insurance, medical assessments, a company car or equivalent, matching shares under the all employee share incentive plan and assistance with tax advice and tax compliance services where appropriate.
Pension contribution 25% of salary cash supplement in lieu of pension.
Annual bonus 180% of salary for Chief Executive and 150% of salary for other Executive Directors.
The bonus for 2018 19 will be substantially based on key financial measures 80% of maximum opportunity, including underlying profit before tax PBT and working capital performance.
It will also include an element attributable to non-financial strategic objectives 20% of maximum opportunity focusing on our strategy relating to science, customers, operations and people.
50% of any bonus earned is deferred in shares for three years.
Long term incentive 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 175% of salary for other Executive Directors.
Awards vest subject to achieving challenging EPS growth targets with a ROIC underpin.
Targets for unvested awards require 4% to 10% p. a. underlying EPS growth for 15% to 100% vesting.
Performance is measured over three years with awards vesting in equal tranches over three, four and five years.
Shareholding guidelines 250% of salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of salary for other Executive Directors.
50% of the shares net of tax vesting under the incentive schemes must be retained until the guideline holding has been achieved.
2017 18 outcomes The table below sets out the remuneration outcomes for the Executive Directors for 2017 18.
Annual Long term 1 000 Salary Benefits bonus incentive Pension Total Robert MacLeod 798 21 994 200 2,013 Anna Manz 490 16 509 123 1,138 John Walker 457 22 470 114 1,063 1 In accordance with the rules of the plan, 50% of the bonus payable is awarded as shares and deferred for three years.
Annual bonuses for Robert MacLeod and Anna Manz were based on the underlying profit before tax and working capital of the group and paid out at 69.19% of the maximum.
The bonus for John Walker was based on the underlying profit before tax and working capital of the group plus underlying operating profit of the Clean Air Sector and paid out at 68.67% of the maximum.
50% of the bonus paid to the Executive Directors was paid in shares and deferred for three years.
The long term incentive plan awards were based on underlying EPS performance to 31st March 2018 and failed to meet the minimum threshold vesting performance requirements.
113 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy Below we publish the Remuneration Policy table, which includes the elements of directors remuneration.
For each element we describe its purpose and its link to strategy, how it works, the opportunity, boundaries and performance measures and any clawback or withholding conditions which may apply.
This Remuneration Policy was subject to a shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM, where shareholders voted 92.3% in favour, and applies to all remuneration for the financial year commencing 1st April 2017 onwards.
Remuneration Policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Base salary Base salaries will be reviewed annually and any Maximum opportunity Base salary is the basic pay changes normally take effect from 1st April No salary increase will be awarded which results for doing the job.
in a base salary which exceeds the competitive is to provide a fair and market range.
In determining salaries and salary increases, the competitive level of base pay Remuneration Committee will take account of the Details of the current salaries for the Executive to attract and retain performance of the individual director against a Directors are shown in the Annual Report on individuals of the calibre broad set of parameters including financial, Remuneration on page 129. required to lead the business.
environmental, social and governance issues.
The Remuneration Committee will further take into account the length of time in post and the level of salary increases awarded to the wider Johnson Matthey workforce.
Salaries across the group are benchmarked against a comparator group of similarly sized companies within the FTSE, with a comparable international presence and geographic spread and operating in relevant industry sectors.
New appointments or promotions will be paid at a level reflecting the Executive Directors level of experience in the particular role and experience at board level.
New or promoted Executive Directors may receive higher pay increases than typical for the group over a period of time following their appointment as their pay trends toward an appropriate level for their role.
114 Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Annual incentive The Remuneration Committee sets annual bonus Performance measures The annual bonus provides performance measures and targets for each new Bonuses are based on the achievement of demanding a strong incentive aligned award cycle.
At the end of the year, the financial and, where appropriate, non-financial targets.
to strategy in the short term.
Remuneration Committee determines the extent to The Remuneration Committee may use different The annual bonus allows the which these have been achieved.
The Remuneration performances and weightings for each performance cycle board to ensure that the Committee retains the discretion to reduce any as appropriate to take into account the strategic needs of companys plans are properly bonus award if, in its opinion, the underlying the business.
However, a substantial proportion will be reflected in stretching but financial performance of the company has not been based on key financial measures, including budgeted achievable annual budgets.
underlying profit before tax PBT.
The annual bonus plays a key Deferral The budget is set on a robust bottom up process to part in the motivation and Of any bonus paid, 50% is paid in cash and the achieve full accountability.
The target budgeted retention of Executive remaining 50% is deferred into shares for a three underlying PBT is retrospectively published in the Directors, one of the key year period as an award under the deferred bonus immediately following Annual Report on Remuneration.
requirements for long term plan.
No further performance conditions apply to Details of last years bonus awards are on page 124. growth.
awards under the deferred bonus plan.
Dividends The performance period for annual bonus purposes that accrue on the deferred shares during the vesting Bonus deferral as well as matches the financial year 1st April to 31st March.
period will be paid in either cash and or shares at malus and clawback Maximum opportunity and vesting thresholds the time of vesting.
provisions ensure that Chief Executive 180% of base salary.
longer term considerations Malus and clawback Other Executive Directors 150% of base salary.
are properly taken into The cash and deferred elements of the bonus are account in the pursuit of subject to malus and clawback provisions such that Threshold vesting will result in a bonus of 15% of annual targets.
they can be forfeited or recouped in part or in full in maximum opportunity.
On target performance will the event of a misstatement of results, error in the result in 50% payment of the maximum opportunity.
calculation or misconduct by the individual.
Adjustments The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to change the performance targets if there is a significant or material event which causes the committee to believe the original targets are no longer appropriate e. g. to reflect material acquisitions or disposals.
The Remuneration Committee also retains discretion to amend the level of annual bonuses determined by the performance condition to seek to ensure that the incentive structure for Executive Directors does not raise environmental, social and governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
For example, reducing or eliminating bonuses where the company has suffered reputational damage or where other aspects of performance have been unacceptable.
The Remuneration Committee retains the ability to increase bonus awards from the formulaic outcome where there is identifiable and exceptional performance by the Executive Director.
Bonus payments in such circumstances would remain within the maximum bonus opportunity and shareholders would be fully informed of the justification.
115 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Long term incentive Shares may be awarded each year and are subject to Performance measures The Performance Share Plan performance conditions over a three year PSP vesting is currently based on the compound PSP is a long term incentive performance period.
Subject to performance annual growth rate CAGR of underlying EPS over a plan designed to ensure that conditions being met, the shares will vest in equal three year performance period, subject to a executives take decisions in instalments on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary discretionary ROIC underpin.
the interest of the longer of the date of award.
However, the Remuneration Committee retains term success of the group.
The performance targets are set by the discretion to amend the targets and the performance Having a measure that looks Remuneration Committee based on internal and measures for future awards as appropriate to reflect at profitable growth over the external growth forecasts to ensure they remain the business strategy.
Wherever possible, the views of longer term ensures that the appropriate and aligned with shareholder major shareholders will be sought when it is interests of executives are expectations.
proposed to make any substantive changes to the aligned with shareholder performance measures.
The awards are granted in accordance with the rules wishes for long term value.
of the plan approved by shareholders.
The maximum The prospective targets and measures for the year award level is 200% of base salary.
Awards may be commencing 1st April 2017 are shown on page 125. granted in the form of conditional shares, nil or nominal cost options or cash where the awards cannot be settled in shares.
Dividends that accrue between the third and fifth anniversary of the award date will be paid in either cash and or shares at the time of vesting.
Malus and clawback Long term incentive plan awards granted since 2014 are subject to malus and clawback provisions that can apply in the case of a misstatement of results, error in the calculation or misconduct by the individual.
Adjustments The Remuneration Committee has power to adjust the vesting level of an award based on the underlying performance of the company.
The Remuneration Committee may adjust the performance measure to reflect material changes e. g. significant acquisitions or disposals, share consolidation, share buy-backs or special dividends.
Any such change would be fully explained to shareholders.
Benets Benefits include medical, life and income protection Benefits are not generally expected to be a To provide a market insurance, medical assessments, company sick pay, significant part of the remuneration package in aligned benefits package.
and a company car or equivalent.
Other financial terms and are there to support the director appropriate benefits may also be provided from time in his or her performance in the role.
In general The purpose of any benefit is to time at the discretion of the Remuneration benefits will be restricted to the typical level in the to align with normal market Committee.
relevant market for an Executive Director.
practices and to remove Directors and officers liability insurance is Car benefits will not exceed a total of 25,000 per certain day to day concerns maintained for all directors.
from Executive Directors to allow them to concentrate Directors who are required to move for a business The cost of medical insurance for an individual on the task in hand.
reason may, where appropriate, also be provided Executive Director and dependents will not exceed with benefits such as relocation benefits e. g. the 15,000 per annum.
provision of accommodation, transport or medical Company sick pay is 52 weeks full pay.
insurance away from their country of residence and schooling for dependents.
The company may pay the tax on these benefits.
Directors may be assisted with tax advice and tax compliance services.
The company will reimburse all reasonable expenses including any tax thereon which the Executive Director is authorised to incur whilst carrying out executive duties.
116 Purpose and link to strategy Operation and changes if appropriate of the element Potential value of element and performance measures Pension All Executive Directors will be paid a cash supplement The maximum supplement is 25% of base salary.
Provides for post-retirement in lieu of membership in a pension scheme.
remuneration, ensures that the total package is competitive and aids retention.
All employee share plan Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Executive Directors are entitled to participate up to Encourages share ownership.
companys all employee share incentive plan under the same limits in force from time to time for all which regular monthly share purchases are made and employees.
matched with the award of company shares, subject to retention conditions.
Executive Directors would also be entitled to participate in any other all employee arrangements that may be established by the company on the same terms as all other employees.
Shareholding requirements Executive Directors are expected to build up a The minimum shareholding requirement is as shareholding in the company over a reasonable To encourage Executive follows: period of time.
Directors to build a Chief Executive 250% of base salary.
shareholding in the company Shares that count towards achieving these guidelines Other Executive Directors 200% of base salary.
and ensure the interests of include: all shares beneficially owned by an Executive management are aligned Director or a person connected to the executive as There is no requirement for Non-Executive with those of shareholders.
recognised by the Remuneration Committee: deferred Directors to hold shares but they are encouraged to bonus shares and long term incentive awards which acquire a holding over time.
are no longer subject to performance conditions but have not yet vested.
Executive Directors are expected to retain at least 50% of the net after tax vested shares that are released under the long term PSP and deferred bonus plans until the required levels of shareholding are achieved.
Executive Directors are not required to make personal share purchases should awards not meet the performance conditions and so a newly appointed director may take longer to reach the expected level, depending on the companys performance against targets over the period.
Non-Executive Director fees Non-Executive Director fees are determined by the Details of the current fee levels for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Attracts, retains and board.
The Non-Executive Directors exclude Report on Remuneration on page 129. motivates Non-Executive themselves from such discussions.
The fees for the Directors with the required Chairman are determined by the Remuneration The fee levels are set subject to the maximum limits knowledge and experience.
Committee taking into account the views of the set out in the Articles of Association.
The Chairman excludes himself from such discussions.
Non-Executive Directors are paid a base fee each year with an additional fee for each committee chairmanship or additional role held.
Non-Executive Director fees are reviewed every year.
Any increase will take into account the market rate for the relevant positions within a comparator group of similarly sized companies with a comparable international presence and geographic spread and operating in relevant industry sectors, the experience of the individuals and the expected time commitment of the role.
In exceptional circumstances, additional fees may be payable to reflect a substantial increase in time commitment.
The company will also reimburse the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors for all reasonable expenses including any tax thereon incurred whilst carrying out duties for the company.
117 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Selection of Performance Targets Annual incentive Financial performance targets under the annual bonus plan are set by the Remuneration Committee with reference to the prior year and to the budgets and business plans for the coming year, ensuring the levels to achieve threshold, target or maximum payout are appropriately challenging.
The performance targets for 2018 19 are substantially based on financial measures 80% of maximum opportunity including budgeted underlying PBT and working capital to ensure that there is strong attention paid to delivery of current operational plans and operational efficiency.
In addition, an element of the bonus is attributable to the achievement of strategic objectives 20% of maximum opportunity focusing on our strategy relating to science, customers, operations and people.
Commercial sensitivity precludes the advance publication of the actual bonus targets but these targets will be retrospectively published in the Annual Report on Remuneration for 2018 19.
Long term incentive EPS targets under the PSP are set to reflect the companys longer term growth objectives at a level where the maximum represents genuine outperformance.
Underlying EPS is considered a simple and clear measure of absolute growth in line with the companys strategy.
It is also a key objective of the company to achieve earnings growth only in the context of a satisfactory performance on ROIC.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee makes an assessment of the groups ROIC over the performance period to ensure underlying EPS growth has been achieved with ROIC in line with the groups planned expectations.
The key elements of variable pay There are also a number of country and Group employee considerations cascade down through the next tiers of senior business dependent arrangements under The Remuneration Committee considers the management with appropriate reductions which bonuses may be paid to the entire directors remuneration in the context of the in opportunity levels based on seniority.
business workforce where performance wider employee population and is kept The groups senior executives plus senior conditions associated with profitability are regularly updated on pay and conditions and middle managers 1,300 employees met.
The company has not participate in the annual bonus plan with Johnson Matthey operates a number of consulted directly with employees with performance conditions similar to those pension arrangements around the world, respect to directors remuneration.
Increases described in the Remuneration Policy.
In relevant to the local conditions and in base salary for directors will take into addition, the groups senior executives and arrangements.
account the level of salary increases granted certain senior management participate in The key element of remuneration for to all employees within the group.
the long term PSP in line with the same EPS those below senior management grades is The general principle for remuneration based performance conditions.
Executive base salary and Johnson Mattheys policy is in Johnson Matthey is to pay a competitive Directors are subject to vesting in three to ensure that base salaries are fair and package of pay and benefits in all markets tranches on their long term incentive plan competitive in the local markets.
General and at all job levels in order to attract and awards, and Executive Directors, members pay increases take into account local salary retain high quality and diverse employees.
of the Group Management Committee and norms, local inflation and business The proportion of variable pay increases with senior management are subject to deferral of conditions.
progression through management levels with annual bonus.
Certain senior management the highest proportion of variable pay at also participate in a long term Restricted Executive Director level, as defined by the Share Plan RSP which has no performance Remuneration Policy.
No Executive Director is eligible to participate in this RSP.
118 Remuneration scenarios Below is an illustration of the potential future remuneration that could be received by each Executive Director for the year commencing 1st April 2018, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of the total package under different performance scenarios.
The value of the PSP is based on the award that will be granted in August 2018.
Value of package Composition of package Robert MacLeod Maximum Maximum Target Target Threshold Threshold Below Below threshold threshold 0 20 40 60 80 100 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 4,500 thousands % Anna Manz Maximum Maximum Target Target Threshold Threshold Below Below threshold threshold 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 020 40 60 80 100 thousands % John Walker Maximum Maximum Target Target Threshold Threshold Below Below threshold threshold 020 40 60 80 100 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 4,000 thousands % Base salary Benets Pension Bonus PSP 119 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Approach to recruitment remuneration The recruitment policy provides an appropriate framework within which to attract individuals of the required calibre to lead a company of Johnson Mattheys size, scale and complexity.
The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration package for any appointment to an Executive Director position, either from within or outside Johnson Matthey.
The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Remuneration Committee in respect of each component.
Area Policy and operation Overall The policy of the board is to recruit the best candidate possible for any board position and to structure pay and benefits in line with the Remuneration Policy set out in this report.
The ongoing structure of a new recruits package would be the same as for existing directors, with the possible exception of an identifiable buy-out provision, as set out below.
Base salary or fees Salary or fees will be determined by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with the principles set out in the policy table on page 114.
Benets and pension An Executive Director shall be eligible for benefits and pension arrangements in line with the companys policy for current Executive Directors, as set out in the policy table on pages 116 and 117.
For new hires the cash supplement payable will be more aligned to that payable to other employees.
Annual incentive The maximum level of opportunity is as set out in the policy table on page 115.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to set different performance targets for a new externally appointed Executive Director, or adjust performance targets and measures in the case of an internal promotion, to be assessed over the remainder of the financial year.
In this case any bonus payment would be made at the same time as for existing directors, and any such award would be pro-rated for the time served in the performance period.
Long term incentive The maximum level of opportunity is as set out in the policy table on page 116.
In order to achieve rapid alignment with the companys and shareholder interests, the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to grant a PSP award to a new externally appointed Executive Director on or soon after appointment if they join outside of the normal grant period.
Replacement awards The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to grant replacement buy-out awards in cash or shares to a new externally appointed Executive Director to reflect the loss of awards granted by a previous employer.
Where this is the case, the Remuneration Committee will seek to structure the replacement award such that overall it is on an equivalent basis to broadly replicate that foregone, using appropriate performance terms.
If granted, any replacement buy-out award would not exceed the maximum set out in the rules of the 2017 Performance Share Plan Rules 350% of base salary.
If the Executive Directors prior employer pays any portion of the remuneration that was anticipated to be forfeited, the replacement awards shall be reduced by an equivalent amount.
Other The Remuneration Committee may agree that the company will meet certain mobility costs, relocation costs, including temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the companys prevailing mobility policy for senior executives as described in the policy table on page 116.
In the case of an internal promotion to the board, the company will honour any contractual commitments made prior to the promotion.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office The following table summarises relevant key provisions of Executive Directors service contracts and the treatment of payments on termination of employment.
The full contracts of service of the Executive Directors as well as the terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours as well as prior to and during the forthcoming AGM of the company.
In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may authorise, where it considers it to be in the best interests of the company and shareholders, entering into contractual arrangements with a departing Executive Director, for example a settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenant or other arrangement, pursuant to which sums not set out in the following table may become payable.
Full disclosure of the payments will be made in accordance with the remuneration reporting requirements.
The following table describes the contractual conditions pertaining to the contracts for Robert MacLeod, Anna Manz and John Walker and for any future Executive Director.
120 Summary of key provisions of executive directors service contracts and treatment of payments on termination 1 Robert MacLeod Anna Manz John Walker Date of service agreement 31st January 2014 25th July 2016 31st January 2014 Date of appointment as director 22nd June 2009 17th October 2016 9th October 2013 Employing company Johnson Matthey Plc Contract duration No fixed term Notice period No more than 12 months notice, with equal notice from the company and director except for directors who joined before 1st January 2017 where the directors notice period is six months and the notice period from the company is 12 months.
Post-termination restrictions The contracts of employment contain the following restrictions on the director for the following periods from the date of termination of employment: non-compete six months: non-dealing and non-solicitation of client customers 12 months: non-solicitation of suppliers and non-interference with supply chain 12 months: and non-solicitation of employees 12 months.
Summary termination payment The company may, in its absolute discretion, terminate the employment of the director with in lieu of notice PILON immediate effect by giving written notice together with payment of a sum equivalent to the directors base salary and the value of their contractual benefits as at the date such notice is given, in respect of the directors notice period, less any period of notice actually worked.
The company may elect to pay the PILON in equal monthly instalments.
The director is under a duty to seek alternative employment and to keep the company informed about whether they have been successful.
If the director commences alternative employment, the monthly instalments shall be reduced if appropriate to nil by the amount of the directors gross earnings from the alternative employment.
A PILON paid to a director who is a US taxpayer John Walker would be in equal monthly instalments.
Termination payment change of control If, within one year after a change of control, the directors service agreement is terminated by the company other than in accordance with the summary termination provisions, the company shall pay, as liquidated damages, one years base salary, together with a sum equivalent to the value of the directors contractual benefits, as at the date of termination, less the period of any notice given by the company to the director.
Termination treatment of annual Annual bonus awards are made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Employees, incentive awards including Executive Directors, leaving the companys employment will receive a bonus, pro-rata to service, unless the reason for leaving is resignation or misconduct.
Any bonus awarded would continue to be subject to deferral as set out in the Remuneration Policy.
In relation to deferred bonus awards which have already been made, shares will be released on the normal vesting date unless one of the following circumstances applies, and subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee: the participant leaves as a result of misconduct: or the participant, prior to vesting, breaches one of the post-termination restrictions or covenants provided for their employment contract, termination agreement or similar agreement.
In which case the deferred awards will lapse on cessation of employment.
The Remuneration Committee has the discretion to accelerate vesting of a deferred award if appropriate to do so to reflect the circumstances of the departure.
It is intended that this would only be used in the event of a departure due to ill health or death.
Termination treatment of long term Employees, including Executive Directors, leaving the companys employment will normally lose incentive awards their long term incentive awards unless they leave for a specified good leaver reason, in which case their shares will be released on the normal release dates, subject to the performance condition.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to accelerate vesting, in which case the performance condition would be assessed based on available information at the time.
In either case, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the level of vesting shall be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the performance period which has elapsed to the date of leaving.
In the post-vesting deferral period, only those who leave due to misconduct will lose their shares.
Redundancy scheme The director is not entitled to any benefit under any redundancy payments scheme operated by the company.
Holiday Upon termination for any reason, directors will be entitled to payment in lieu of accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
1 John Walker is eligible for continuing post-retirement medical benefits provided he satisfies the conditions of this plan and retires directly from Johnson Matthey.
121 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment do not contain any contractual entitlement to a termination payment and the Non-Executive Directors can be removed in accordance with the companys Articles of Association.
Directors are required to retire at each AGM and seek re-election by shareholders.
The details of the service contracts, including notice periods, contained in the letters of appointment in relation to the Non-Executive Directors who served during the year are set out in the table below.
Neither the Chairman or the Non-Executive Directors has provisions in his or her letter of appointment that relate to a change of control of the company.
Committee Date of Expiry of Notice period Notice period Non-Executive Director appointments appointment current term by the individual by the company Tim Stevenson Chairman R, N 29th March 2011 31st December 2018 6 months 6 months 1 Patrick Thomas R, N 1st June 2018 31st May 2021 6 months 6 months Odile Desforges A, R, N 1st July 2013 30th June 2019 1 month 1 month Alan Ferguson A, R, N 13th January 2011 13th January 2020 1 month 1 month Jane Griffiths A, R, N 1st January 2017 31st December 2019 1 month 1 month Chris Mottershead A, R, N 27th January 2015 26th January 2021 1 month 1 month John OHiggins A, R, N 16th November 2017 15th November 2020 1 month 1 month A: Audit Committee R: Remuneration Committee N: Nomination Committee 1 Patrick Thomas was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate subject to shareholder approval at the 2018 AGM.
External appointments It is the boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept non-executive appointments provided there is no conflict of interest and that the time spent would not impinge on their work for Johnson Matthey.
Details of external directorships held by Executive Directors, together with fees retained during the year are as follows: Fees retained Executive Director Company Role held 000 Robert MacLeod RELX PLC, RELX NV and RELX Group plc Non-Executive Director 95 Anna Manz ITV plc Non-Executive Director 75 Annual Report on Remuneration This section provides details of how the 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy was implemented during the year and how we intend to apply the policy in the year ahead.
About the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is a committee of the board and comprises all the independent Non-Executive Directors of the company as set out above including the group Chairman, Tim Stevenson.
Details of attendance at committee meetings during the year ended 31st March 2018 is shown below.
Meeting attendance 5th 31st 18th 16th 30th Committee Date of April May July November January role appointment 2017 2017 2017 2017 2018 1 Colin Matthews Chairman 4th October 2012 3 3 3 until 15th November 2017 Chris Mottershead Chairman 27th January 2015 3 3 3 3 3 from 16th November 2017 Odile Desforges Member 1st July 2013 3 3 3 3 3 Alan Ferguson Member 13th January 2011 3 3 3 3 3 Jane Griffiths Member 1st January 2017 3 3 3 3 3 John OHiggins Member 16th November 2017 3 3 2 Tim Stevenson Member 29th March 2011 3 3 3 3 1 Colin Matthews stood down as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and retired from the board on 15th November 2017.
2 Tim Stevenson was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
Since the end of the year, the committee has met twice.
All committee members attended both meetings.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference can be found in the Investors Corporate governance section of our website and include determination on behalf of the board of fair remuneration for the Chief Executive, the other Executive Directors and the group Chairman in which case the group Chairman does not participate.
In addition, the committee receives recommendations from the Chief Executive on the remuneration of those reporting to him as well as advice from the Chief Human Resources Officer, who acts as secretary to the committee.
122 Advisers to the committee In determining the remuneration structure, the committee appoints and receives advice from independent remuneration consultants on the latest developments in corporate governance and the pay and incentive arrangements prevailing in comparably sized industrial companies.
Following a review of services provided to the committee, Korn Ferry Hay Group was appointed on 18th December 2017.
The total fees paid to Korn Ferry Hay Group in respect of its services to the committee during the year were 18,670 plus VAT.
New Bridge Street part of Aon Hewitt Limited provided advice to the committee in the period 1st April 2017 to 17th December 2017.
The total fees paid to New Bridge Street in respect of its services to the committee during the year were 3,598 plus VAT.
Korn Ferry Hay Group also provides consultancy services to the company in relation to certain employee benefits to those below the board.
Korn Ferry Hay Group is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and the committee is satisfied that the advice that it receives from Korn Ferry Hay Group is objective and independent.
Herbert Smith Freehills provided advice to the company in connection with the drafting of share plan rules and directors service contracts in accordance with the policy determined by the Remuneration Committee.
This advice was charged on an hourly basis.
The committee is aware that Herbert Smith Freehills is one of a number of legal firms that provide legal advice and services to the company on a range of matters.
A statement regarding the use of remuneration consultants for the year ended 31st March 2018 is available on our website in the Investors Corporate governance section.
Remuneration for the year ended 31st March 2018 Single figure table of remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration and breakdown of the elements each director received in relation to the year ended 31st March 2018, together with a prior year comparative.
An explanation of how the figures are calculated follows the table.
2 Jane Griffiths was appointed to the board on 1st January 2017.
3 Colin Matthews stepped down from the board on 15th November 2017.
4 John OHiggins was appointed to the board on 16th November 2017.
123 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Explanation of figures Base salary fees Salary paid during the year to Executive Directors and fees paid during the year to Non-Executive Directors.
Benets All taxable benefits such as medical and life insurance, service and car allowances, matching shares under the all employee share incentive plan and assistance with tax advice and tax compliance services where appropriate.
Annual incentives Annual bonus awarded for the year ended 31st March 2018.
The figure includes any amounts deferred and awarded as shares.
Long term incentives The 2017 figure represents the value of shares that satisfied performance conditions on 31st March 2017 and will be released on 1st August 2017, 1st August 2018 and 1st August 2019.
This value is calculated using the average share price from 1st January 2017 to 31st March 2017 which was 3,100 pence.
The 2018 figure represents the value of the shares that satisfied performance conditions on 31st March 2018 and will be released on 1st August 2018, 1st August 2019 and 1st August 2020.
This value is calculated using the average share price from 1st January 2018 to 31st March 2018 which was 3,184 pence.
Pension The amounts shown represent the value of the increase over the year of any defined benefit pension the Executive Director may have in the Johnson Matthey Employees Pension Scheme JMEPS plus any cash supplements paid in lieu of pension membership.
Variable pay additional disclosures, including bases of calculation and outcomes 1 Annual bonus for the year ended 31st March 2018 The Executive Directors were eligible for a maximum annual bonus opportunity of 180% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of base salary for the other Executive Directors.
The on target bonus opportunity was set at 50% of the maximum opportunity and the threshold bonus opportunity was 15% of salary.
The performance measures and weightings for the annual bonus were as follows: Percentage of bonus available Group underlying PBT Clean Air underlying operating profit Group working capital days Chief Executive 80% 20% Chief Financial Ocer 80% 20% Sector Chief Executive, Clean Air 55% 25% 20% The annual targets are set when budgets are approved in early April, at the start of the new financial year.
Budgets are built from the bottom up and are subject to a rigorous process of challenge before final proposals are considered by the board.
Further information is used in the determination, including a consensus of industry analysts forecasts, provided by Vara Research.
Achievement against targets for the year ended 31st March 2018 is set out in the table below: Actual % 1 Performance measure Threshold Target Maximum Actual of budget 2 Group underlying PBT million 458 482 530 497 103.18 95% budget 100% budget 110% budget Clean Air underlying million 341 359 395 369 102.49 2 operating profit 95% budget 100% budget 110% budget Group working capital days days 37 35 32 32 92.00 3 including metal 105% budget 100% budget 90% budget Group working capital days days 68 65 59 62 95.08 3 excluding metal 105% budget 100% budget 90% budget 1 All figures in the table have been rounded to the nearest whole number except the actual % of budget.
2 For 2017 18 actual performance for group underlying PBT and Clean Air underlying operating profit is measured using budget foreign exchange rates.
3 Working capital days is measured 50% against total working capital days including precious metal and 50% against working capital days excluding precious metal.
This was to ensure that appropriate focus was put on metal management.
124 Based on performance against the above targets, bonuses for the year ended 31st March 2018 were: 000 % salary Robert MacLeod, Chief Executive 994 124.54 Anna Manz, Chief Financial Officer 509 103.79 John Walker, Sector Chief Executive, Clean Air 470 103.00 In accordance with the rules of the plan, 50% of the bonus payable is awarded as shares and deferred for three years.
There are no further performance conditions attached to the deferred element.
2 Long term incentive vesting for the three year performance period ended 31st March 2018 The table below sets out the performance targets for the long term incentive awards made in August 2015 with a three year performance period which ended 31st March 2018.
Required underlying EPS performance Proportion of award which may vest Threshold 6% CAGR 15% Maximum 15% CAGR 100% The awards vest on a straight line basis between threshold and maximum.
In addition to the EPS performance condition, the Remuneration Committee considers the performance of ROIC over the performance period to ensure that earnings growth is achieved in a sustainable and efficient manner.
The performance over the period was a compound annual growth in underlying EPS of 5.1% per annum and so was below the performance range.
The table below shows the vesting outcomes based on this performance.
% of Estimated value base salary Shares % of award Shares on vesting awarded awarded to vest to vest Executive Directors Robert MacLeod 200 48,946 Anna Manz John Walker 175 23,541 Former Executive Directors 1 Den Jones 175 11,746 2 Larry Pentz 175 8,561 2 Den Jones stood down from the board on 20th July 2016 and left the company on 31st July 2016.
The long term incentive shares awarded to Mr Jones in August 2015 26,412 were, on leaving, pro-rated to 11,746 based on his completed service since the start of the performance period.
3 Larry Pentz retired from the board on 31st March 2016.
The long term incentive shares awarded to Mr Pentz in August 2015 25,685 were, on leaving, pro-rated to 8,561 based on his completed service since the start of the performance period.
3 Variable pay awarded during the year ended 31st March 2018 Long term incentive awards subject to future performance In 2017 18 long term incentive awards were made to the Executive Directors in respect of the three year performance period to 31st March 2020.
The table below sets out the opportunity and performance targets for these awards.
Proportion of award Required underlying EPS performance which may vest Chief Executive Other Executive Director Threshold 4% CAGR 15% 30% 26.25% Maximum 10% CAGR 100% 200% 175% The table below sets out the details of the actual conditional long term incentive awards made as a percentage of base salary.
1 Award size Number of Face value Date of grant % of base salary shares awarded Robert MacLeod 1st August 2017 200 52,955 1,595,984 Anna Manz 1st August 2017 175 28,451 857,470 John Walker 1st August 2017 175 26,521 799,303 1 Face value is calculated using the award share price of 3,013.85 pence, which is the average closing share price over the four week period commencing on 1st June 2017.
125 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance 4 Prior year long term incentive awards and outcomes The table below shows the history of long term incentive awards granted since 2009.
Pension entitlements No director is currently accruing any pension benefit in the groups pension schemes.
Instead they receive an annual cash payment in lieu of pension membership equal to 25% of base salary.
However, Robert MacLeod and John Walker have each accrued a pension entitlement in respect of a prior period of pensionable service in one or more of the groups pension arrangements.
Robert MacLeod ceased pensionable service in JMEPS on 31st March 2011.
John Walker joined JMEPS on 1st September 2012 and ceased pensionable service in this scheme on 9th October 2013.
Prior to joining JMEPS Mr Walker was a member of the US Johnson Matthey Inc.
Details of the accrued pension benefits of the Executive Directors as at 31st March 2018 in the UK and US pension schemes are given below: Total accrued annual pension entitlement at 31st March 2018 000 1 Robert MacLeod 10 Anna Manz 2 John Walker 89 1 Pension payable from age 65 based on pensionable service in the UK pension scheme up to 31st March 2011.
2 Pension payable in respect of pensionable service in the UK and US pension schemes payable from age 65 and 62 respectively.
The pension payable from the US pension scheme will be paid in local currency.
Statement of directors shareholding The table below shows the directors interests in the shares of the company, together with their unvested scheme interests, as at 31st March 2018.
Subject to ongoing Not subject to further 1 2 3 Ordinary shares performance conditions performance conditions Executive Directors Robert MacLeod 39,937 154,193 33,051 Anna Manz 2,217 57,448 2,041 John Walker 16,653 75,449 18,444 Non-Executive Directors Tim Stevenson 4,958 Odile Desforges 1,416 Alan Ferguson 2,078 Jane Griffiths 2,671 4 Colin Matthews 1,888 Chris Mottershead 1,868 John OHiggins 1,500 1 Includes shares held by the director and or connected persons, including those in the all employee share matching plan and 401k plan.
Shares in the all employee share matching plan may be subject to forfeiture in accordance with the rules of the plan.
2 Represents unvested long term incentive shares within three years of the date of award.
3 Represents unvested deferred bonus shares and unvested long term incentive shares between the third and fifth anniversary of award, where performance conditions have been assessed but vesting has not occurred.
4 The figures for Colin Matthews are as at 15th November 2017 when he stepped down from the board.
126 Directors interests as at 30th May 2018 were unchanged from those listed above, other than that the trustees of the all employee share matching plan have purchased a further 21 shares each for Robert MacLeod and John Walker and a further 24 shares for Anna Manz.
Executive Directors are expected to build up a shareholding in the company.
The minimum shareholding requirement for the year ended 31st March 2018 was 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of base salary for the other Executive Directors.
The table below shows the extent to which the proposed minimum shareholding requirements have been satisfied: Shares held as at 31st March 2018 1,2 % of base salary Robert MacLeod 291% 3 Anna Manz 28% John Walker 245% 1 Value of shares as a percentage of base salary is calculated using a share value of 3,184.48 pence, which was the average share price prevailing between 1st January 2018 and 31st March 2018.
2 The directors total shareholding for the purposes of comparing it with the minimum shareholding requirement includes shares held beneficially by the director and any connected persons as recognised by the Remuneration Committee together with deferred shares awarded under the annual bonus rules for which there are no further performance conditions and any unvested long term incentive shares between the third and fifth anniversary of award, where performance conditions have been assessed but vesting has not occurred.
3 Anna Manz became an Executive Director on 17th October 2016.
She will build her shareholding over time in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Performance graph and comparison to Chief Executives remuneration Johnson Matthey and FTSE 100 Total Shareholder Return rebased to 100 The following chart illustrates the total cumulative shareholder return of the company for the nine year period from 31st March 2009 to 31st March 2018 against the FTSE 100 as the most appropriate comparator group, rebased to 100 at 1st April 2009.
Prior to this, the figures shown are for the previous Chief Executive, Neil Carson.
2 Vesting of long term incentive awards whose three year performance period ended in the financial year shown.
The above data is calculated according to the same methodology as applied in the single figure table on page 123.
127 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows how the remuneration of the Chief Executive has changed over the year ended 31st March 2018.
This is then compared to a group of appropriate employees, being those based in the UK.
This comparator group was used because the Remuneration Committee believes it gives a reasonable understanding of the underlying increases, based on similar annual bonus performance measures, while at the same time reducing the distortion from currency fluctuations and the distortions that would arise from including all of the many countries in which the group operates with their different economic conditions.
1 Chief Executive Comparator group Salary An increase of 2.5% An increase of 5.9% Bonus An increase of 74.8% An increase of 54.5% Benefits No change in benefits policy.
No change in benefits policy.
No change on overall costs No change on overall costs between 2016 17 and 2017 18. between 2016 17 and 2017 18.
Relative spend on pay The table below shows the absolute and relative amounts of distributions to shareholders and the total remuneration for the group for the years ended 31st March 2017 and 31st March 2018.
Year ended Year ended 31st March 31st March 2018 2017 million million % change Payments to shareholders special dividends Payments to shareholders ordinary dividends 146 139 5 1 Total remuneration all employees 693 645 7 1 Excludes termination benefits.
128 Implementation of the Directors Remuneration Policy for 2018 19 The table below sets out how the Remuneration Committee intends to apply the Directors Remuneration Policy for the year ended 31st March 2019.
Salary Salaries for the Executive Directors for 2018 19 have been increased in line with the budgeted increase for all other UK employees.
The salaries of Robert MacLeod and John Walker have increased by 2.5% to 818,000 and 468,250 respectively and Anna Manzs salary has increased by 5% to 515,000 to bring her in line with market and reflect her strong performance in role.
Benefits and pension No change to policy applied in 2018 19.
The maximum limit on pensions has been retained at 25%, the level paid to the current Executive Directors.
However, as set out in the recruitment section of the Directors Remuneration Policy, it is the committees intention that pension for future hires would be aligned with the level for other senior managers.
Annual incentives The maximum bonus opportunity for 2018 19 remains unchanged at 180% of salary for the Chief Executive and 150% of salary for the other Executive Directors.
As explained in the Chairmans introductory letter, a 20% weighting to non-financial objectives has been introduced to the 2018 19 bonuses.
The remainder of the bonus will be based on underlying profit before tax 60% and working capital 20%.
Targets for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer will be based on group performance.
For the Sector Chief Executive, Clean Air, targets will be based on a mix of group and Clean Air Sector performance.
The Remuneration Committee considers the forward looking targets to be commercially sensitive, but full details of the targets and performance against them will be disclosed in next years report.
As set out in the Policy Report, 50% of any bonus paid will be deferred in shares for three years and the payment of any bonus is subject to appropriate malus and clawback provisions.
Long term incentives Award levels remain unchanged at 200% of salary for the Chief Executive and 175% of salary for the other Executive Directors.
The long term Performance Share Plan awards will be based on EPS growth targets, subject to achieving a satisfactory level of return on capital employed.
The EPS targets will be the same as those applying to the 2017 awards, namely 15% vesting for 4% p. a. underlying EPS growth, increasing on a straight line basis to 100% vesting for 10% p. a. underlying EPS growth or above.
Awards vest in equal tranches over three, four and five years.
Chairman and Fees for the Non-Executive Directors for 2018 19 have been increased by 2.5% which is broadly in line with the Non-Executive budgeted increase for all other UK employees.
The fees for each Non-Executive Director are shown below.
Director fees Tim Stevenson 360,000 Chairman Odile Desforges 65,400 Alan Ferguson 84,950 Senior Independent Director and Chairman of Audit Committee Jane Griffiths 65,400 Chris Mottershead 81,900 Chairman of Remuneration Committee John OHiggins 65,400 129 Other Information Accounts Governance Strategic Report Johnson Matthey Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Statement of shareholder voting We monitor carefully shareholder voting on our Remuneration Policy and its implementation.
We recognise the importance of ensuring that our shareholders continue to support our remuneration arrangements.
The table below shows the results of the poll taken on the resolution to receive and approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration at the July 2017 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the 92.3% vote in favour of the Directors Remuneration Policy and the 98.1% vote in favour of the Annual Report on Remuneration showed very strong shareholder support for the groups remuneration arrangements at that time.
This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 30th May 2018 and signed on its behalf by: Chris Mottershead Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 130
