70 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report REMUNERATION REPORT Whilst maintaining a strong cost discipline, in 2019.
Full details of the remuneration 2018 was Jupiters first year absorbing the arrangements in relation to his departure cost of research and moving to a single are provided on page 82. pricing structure: combined with poor Following this weeks announcement market conditions underlying EPS therefore regarding the forthcoming departure saw a 7.3% decline to 31.7p 2017: 34.2p.
of Charlotte Jones, the termination Incentive awards for Executive Directors arrangements in relation to her in 2018 reect the overall corporate remuneration will be agreed in due performance and are consistent with the course.
These will be disclosed on our experience of shareholders and clients, website in accordance with s430 2B of the who saw strong investment performance but Companies Act 2006 and in the 2019 DRR.
significant outows and a corresponding LTIP TARGET SETTING drop in profit.
As in previous years, the EPS targets for Bonus outcomes for 2018 were determined the 2019 LTIP awards have been set in in accordance with the balanced scorecard relation to Jupiters forecast three year and were 55% of the potential maximums, financial plan.
Due to the decline in assets DEAR SHAREHOLDER representing a 51% decrease in quantum for which occurred in 2018, the forecast EPS the CEO compared to the prior year.
The targets are lower than in the past year.
Committee did not exercise any discretion The Committee has set the EPS targets at a I am pleased to present our in determining the payout under the level still considered significantly stretching quantitative performance metrics.
Directors Remuneration for management but still motivating.
We believe the Details of actual performance against DEVELOPMENTS IN LEGISLATION Directors Remuneration Policy the targets set for 2018 and the specific AND GOVERNANCE individual variable pay awards can be the Policy, as approved by 2018 saw the publication of the CEO pay found on pages 78 to 80.
Overall, the ratio requirements and a new version of the shareholders at our 2018 AGM, variable and total compensation expense Corporate Governance Code the Code.
ratios are 27.9% and 32.5% for 2018 The Committee spent time assessing the A summary table of the Policy is included respectively, within the expected ranges implications of these for Jupiter and how it in the Remuneration Report.
intends to comply with the new requirements.
are proposed to the approved Policy As illustrated on page 92, employees The disclosures under the CEO pay ratio for this year, however the Remuneration variable compensation decreased by 18% legislation apply to Jupiter with effect Committee has considered recent on average, at a higher rate than both the from the next financial year, however changes in remuneration legislation and 7.5% decrease in underlying PBT and 12.6% the Committee considers it to be in governance, which are discussed later decrease in the dividends.
shareholders best interests to comply with in this section.
The Annual Report on these straight away.
Jupiters associated Remuneration is subject to an advisory LEADERSHIP CHANGES disclosure for the 2018 financial year is shareholder vote at our 2019 AGM.
As has been recently announced, Andrew presented in full on page 92.
Formica will succeed Maarten Slendebroek PERFORMANCE AND as CEO from 1 March 2019.
Andrew will The latest Code presents a number of REMUNERATION FOR 2018 be appointed as an Executive Director additional aspects for remuneration As discussed throughout this Annual of the Board and his remuneration will be committees to consider.
The Committee Report, 2018 proved a more difficult year determined in line with the approved Policy.
debated the most appropriate and than 2017, both for the Company and Andrews salary has been set at 445,000 effective ways to better engage with for the industry.
Economic uncertainty per annum, reective of his experience.
the wider employee population on pay caused market volatility and share price Andrew will be entitled to a pro-rata bonus related matters, agreeing to do so by decline amongst many asset managers, in respect of the 2019 performance year broadening the scope and terms of including Jupiter.
worked and a pro-rata LTIP award.
Full reference for Jupiters official employee details of his compensation arrangements Jupiters mutual funds delivered strong forum Connections.
Representatives from for the 2019 performance year can be investment performance, with 83% and Connections will meet with the Committee found on pages 83 to 85.
77% of AUM performing above the median, at least annually.
after all fees, over one and three years As part of the terms agreed for Maartens In addition and in line with the requirements respectively.
Nevertheless, net outows departure, he has been awarded a bonus of the updated Code, the Committee has of 4.6bn concentrated in a small number for the 2018 performance year and will be examined the Deferred Bonus Plan and of our funds, combined with challenging entitled to a pro-rata bonus for the period LTIP rules to ensure that the interests of markets, meant AUM declined 15% over of the 2019 performance year which he our Executive Directors remain aligned the course of 2018. works.
He will not receive an LTIP award with those of our other shareholders in www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 71 the period immediately following the compensation ensure Executive Directors employees were participating in at least termination of employment see page 86. are rewarded for delivering on the one of the Share Incentive Plan, Sharesave This approach will be reviewed when the long-term business strategy and a or the international equivalent.
next Directors Remuneration Policy is put strong governance framework exists to SHAREHOLDER ENGAGEMENT forward for shareholder vote, in the light of appropriately manage all elements of I would like to thank shareholders for market developments at that time.
their support in approving our current THE LINK BETWEEN STRATEGY LINKING RISK AND REWARD Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AND REMUNERATION Risk, compliance and conduct continue to AGM.
This policy introduced a number Jupiters primary focus is on delivering value serve an important role in remuneration both of significant changes from the previous to clients through long-term investment at a corporate and individual level, to ensure one, and I am grateful for the constructive outperformance after all fees.
Jupiters that the desired behaviours are being feedback received as part of the policy business model of combining this investment demonstrated.
The Committee evaluates design process.
Jupiter received approval outperformance with an effective distribution a robust set of risk checkpoints before fractionally below 80% on a single platform, supported by efficient and approving the variable compensation remuneration related resolution at the last scalable operations, allows us to deliver spend each year as described in detail AGM, which was in relation to approval of value to our shareholders.
Jupiters strategic on page 90, as well as operating a risk, the new rules for the Long-Term Incentive growth has enabled us to deliver value to conduct and compliance underpin for all Plan.
Our post-AGM engagement with shareholders since listing in 2010. individuals.
This allows for individual variable shareholders on this topic has confirmed compensation awards to be reduced where that there are no specific concerns with The Directors Remuneration Policy aims appropriate, potentially to zero.
the rules of the new LTIP and shareholders to support the delivery of the Companys focus will be on how the newly adopted growth strategy, by incorporating key EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP Policy and LTIP will be implemented.
financial and strategic performance Employee share ownership continues to be measures across all elements of variable We welcome feedback from our a strong area of focus at Jupiter.
Currently, remuneration, whilst allowing the shareholders on our Remuneration Policy around 50% of our employees hold shares in Remuneration Committee appropriate and its application.
We believe that the the Company and are therefore aligned with discretion to ensure bonus and LTIP reduction in variable remuneration for our other shareholders in having a long-term payouts remain in line with overall Executive Directors and the Company as a interest in the Groups performance.
In line with whole reects the more difficult year for the Approximately 29% of employees hold regulation, a high proportion of variable business, and demonstrates alignment with share options under one or both of our compensation is deferred into shares over shareholders.
We hope this will earn your deferred bonus and long-term incentive a period of three years, further aligning the support of our Remuneration Report for 2018. plans.
We also operate two HMRC interests of Executives Directors with those approved plans, a Sharesave and a Share of shareholders.
BRIDGET MACASKILL Incentive Plan, as well as an in international Chairman of the Remuneration Committee A two-year post vesting holding period equivalent to the Sharesave for employees on LTIP awards and robust malus and based outside of the UK.
At the end of 28 February 2019 clawback provisions on all variable the 2018 financial year 80% of eligible COMMITTEES KEY RESPONSIBILITIES Determining the overarching policy Code Staff for the purposes of the the Group, ensuring appropriate links for the remuneration of the Groups FCA Remuneration Code, Alternative exist between risk and reward, and employees, ensuring it is structured Investment Fund Managers Directive approving the total annual payments in a way that rewards individual and AIFMD and Undertakings for Collective made under such schemes: corporate performance and is aligned Investment in Transferable Securities Reviewing the design of all share with appropriate risk, compliance and UCITS disclosures: incentive plans and deferred bonus conduct standards and the long-term Determining the Chairmans fees arrangements for approval by the interests of shareholders, clients and and the total individual remuneration Board and, if applicable, shareholders.
other stakeholders: package of each member of the For any such plans, determining each Determining the overall size of the Executive Committee and each year whether awards will be made, and annual variable compensation pool and individual identified as Code Staff: if so, the overall amount of such awards, the total compensation ratio, taking into the eligibility criteria for such awards For Executive Directors and Executive account all relevant factors including and the performance targets attaching Committee members, overseeing the the performance of the business, the to those awards, taking into account setting of objectives for, and assessing impact on liquidity and the Groups future risks: and the extent to which each individual capital base, the Groups profitability, has met, their individual performance Overseeing any major changes in risk, compliance and any constraints targets for incentive awards: employee benefit structures throughout on total remuneration spend: the Group.
Approving the design of, determining Determining and reviewing annually the targets for, and monitoring the A full copy of the Committees terms individuals who may be considered to operation of, any performance of reference can be found at have a material impact on the risk profile related pay schemes operated by www.
com of Jupiter and relevant subsidiaries Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 72 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION This section of the Remuneration Report provides an overview of the key remuneration elements in place for Executive Directors.
We have not made any changes to our Remuneration Policy this year and as such remain bound by the Policy approved at the 2018 AGM.
We have not reproduced our full Remuneration Policy in this report, but the main elements are set out in the policy table below and overleaf.
A copy of our full Directors Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders in 2018 is available in the Remuneration Report section of the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts, a copy of which can be found on our website: https: www.
com Global en Investor-Relations Reports-and-results.
PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES Base salary Provides an element of fixed remuneration Base salaries are generally reviewed annually and take into There is no defined monetary maximum.
For the Policy period, the N A which reects the size and scope of the role account a range of factors, including: annual salary increases for incumbent Executive Directors will be and the calibre of the individual.
limited to the average salary increases for other employees.
size and scope of the role: skills, performance and experience of the individual: Increases for any new Executive Directors may be made in certain circumstances such as a significant change in the scale, scope or market competitiveness: responsibility of a role: or significant market movements.
wider market and economic conditions: and The annual base salaries for 2018 and 2019 for each Executive the level of increases in the wider employee population.
Director are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Provides individuals with market competitive Payments are made at a consistent level to all UK employees, 15% of salary.
Supports recruitment either into a pension plan for example, into a defined contribution and retention of high-calibre people to plan or some other arrangement which the Committee considers deliver the business strategy.
to have the same economic benefit or delivered as a cash allowance of the same equivalent cost to the Company.
Benets Provides individuals with market aligned Benefits are provided on a consistent basis to all UK employees.
There is no defined maximum.
The value of other benefits will N A benefits.
Typical benefits include: private medical insurance, life assurance, vary year-on-year, depending on factors such as the third-party dependants pension and an income protection scheme to cover provider charges and market conditions.
They are set at a level long-term illness.
the Committee considers reasonable in the context of the local jurisdiction and the individuals circumstances.
Annual bonus and The annual bonus rewards corporate The Company operates a balanced scorecard approach across Individual bonus limits inclusive of any DBP award, expressed Measures and weightings are set by the Committee at the start Deferred Bonus performance and the achievement of a range of metrics.
as a percentage of salary, apply per role as follows: of each performance year and will be disclosed prospectively Plan DBP stretching strategic and personal objectives.
in our Annual Report on Remuneration.
Under the balanced 425% for the Chief Executive Officer: At the beginning of each performance year, the Committee scorecard approach, the following will also apply: The DBP provides a deferral element in the agrees a range of targets for each metric.
Multiple factors are 250% for the Chief Financial Officer: and form of Jupiter shares.
This provides a strong considered in setting targets, including the Board approved At least 75% of the annual bonus award will be based on 200% for the Vice Chairman.
link to long-term and sustainable value budget, market expectations, prior year achievement, strategic corporate quantitative measures.
No more than 25% of creation and reinforces retention.
focus and priorities, as well as the wider economic landscape.
the annual bonus award will be based on individual and strategic measures.
Clawback and malus provisions apply, to During the year, the Committee monitors performance against mitigate actions and behaviours outside these targets.
All variable compensation is subject to a risk and compliance of Jupiters risk appetite.
assessment, under which payments can be reduced, including After the year end, annual bonus awards are determined based to zero.
on actual performance against the balanced scorecard.
The overall outcome is not formulaic: the Committee applies a level Actual performance, target ranges for objective measures of judgement to ensure the pay-out levels reect both individual and commentary for strategic and individual measures will be performance and the experience of shareholders for the year.
disclosed retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
50% of the non deferred bonus is delivered in shares, subject to a six-month holding period.
Under the DBP, 50% of the total bonus is deferred into shares, vesting annually in equal tranches over three years, and subject to an additional six month holding period.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 73 PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES Base salary Provides an element of fixed remuneration Base salaries are generally reviewed annually and take into There is no defined monetary maximum.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 74 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION continued PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES All-employee Jupiter encourages employee share Under the Sharesave plan, employees enter into a threeor Under the Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan, maximums N A share plans ownership and operates an HMRC five-year savings contract and are granted linked options over are as prescribed by HMRC from time to time.
approved Sharesave plan and an HMRC shares in the Company.
Executive The Share Incentive Plan awards take the form of shares in Directors are eligible to participate in the Company acquired by employees from pre-tax salary in both plans on the same basis as other conjunction with matching shares awarded.
LTIP Provides long-term reward with awards At the beginning of the year, the Committee will select the Individual LTIP limits, expressed as a percentage of salary, apply Performance measures applicable to 100% of any LTIP award, made on an annual basis.
relevant performance measures and targets, as well as the per role in respect of any one financial year as follows: weightings and target ranges are set by the Committee at applicable weighting for each measure.
the start of each performance period and will be disclosed 375% for the Chief Executive Officer: Encourages long-term outperformance prospectively in our Annual Report on Remuneration.
LTIP awards will vest a minimum of three years from the date of 225% for the Chief Financial Officer: and following will also apply: grant with performance normally measured over a period of at 150% for the Vice Chairman.
Clawback and malus provisions apply, For each performance measure, no more than 25% of least three financial years, subject to continued employment and to mitigate actions and behaviours outside the maximum will vest for achievement of the Threshold satisfaction of applicable performance conditions.
performance level and 100% of the maximum for achievement Awards will be subject to an additional two-year post-vesting of the Maximum performance level.
holding period, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to vary or replace a performance condition if an event occurs that means a performance condition has ceased to be appropriate, provided that any varied or new performance condition is, in its opinion, not more or less difficult to satisfy.
All variable compensation is subject to a risk and compliance assessment, under which payments can be reduced, including to zero.
In addition, the LTIP is subject to an underlying business performance underpin.
The Committee will compare the vesting outcome for LTIP awards against shareholder and client experience over the same performance period.
Minimum Ensures long-term interests of Executive Executive Directors should build up a minimum level of Individual minimum shareholding requirements, expressed as N A shareholding Directors are sufficiently aligned to those shareholding in the Company within five years of appointment a percentage of salary, apply per role as follows: requirements of shareholders.
This is monitored by the Committee to ensure 300% for the Chief Executive Officer: Executives make sufficient progress towards the required target.
200% for the Chief Financial Officer: and 200% for the Vice Chairman.
LEGACY PAYMENTS The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before our 2014 AGM the date the Companys first shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy came into effect : ii before the Policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved Directors Remuneration Policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
COMMON AWARD TERMS Awards under any of the Companys share plans referred to in this report may: a b e granted as conditional share awards or nil-cost options or in such other form that the Committee determines has the same economic effect.
Alternatively, if regulations so require, awards may also be granted over fund units, in which case, references to Jupiter shares in this Policy would also include fund units: b h ave any performance conditions applicable to them amended or substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the Committee to determine an amended or substituted performance condition would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy: c i ncorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid on the shares under an award that vest up to the time of vesting or where the award is subject to a holding period, release.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: d b e settled in cash at the Committees discretion: and e b e adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may affect the Companys share price.
NEWLY APPOINTED DIRECTORS In the event another Executive Director role is created for the Company in future, the maximum variable opportunities expressed as a percentage of salary for the new position under the Annual Bonus and LTIP will not exceed the percentages shown for the CEO in the summary table above.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 75 PURPOSE AND LINK TO STRATEGY OPERATION MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY PERFORMANCE MEASURES All-employee Jupiter encourages employee share Under the Sharesave plan, employees enter into a threeor Under the Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan, maximums N A share plans ownership and operates an HMRC five-year savings contract and are granted linked options over are as prescribed by HMRC from time to time.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 76 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION IMPLEMENTATION IN 2018 COMMITTEE MEMBERS AND REGULAR ATTENDEES Appointment Meetings The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Members date attended Directors in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary, Bridget Macaskill Chair May 2015 5 5 HR Director and Head of Reward are invited to attend Liz Airey April 2012 5 5 Remuneration Committee meetings to contribute to the Committees deliberations.
Jonathon Bond February 2015 5 5 1 Roger Yates October 2017 4 5 In addition, the Chief Financial Officer, Chief Investment Officer, 2 Chief Risk Officer and Compliance Director are invited to attend Lorraine Trainer May 2010 2 2 Remuneration Committee meetings to provide specific input, 1 Roger Yates joined the Board in October 2017 and due to prior commitments where requested.
No individual is present when their remuneration could not attend the Remuneration Committee meeting in February 2018.
2 Lorraine Trainer stepped down from the Committee on 16 May 2018. is being discussed.
OVERVIEW OF ACTIVITIES IN 2018 The following regular agenda items were considered during the scheduled Committee meetings which took place during 2018: Jan Feb Jul Oct Dec Remuneration policy and disclosures Review of remuneration policy Directors Remuneration Report Risk and reward Input from Risk and Compliance Review of risk checkpoints prior to variable compensation pool approval Annual remuneration discussions Bonus and LTIP pool Assessing performance against bonus scorecard Individual performance and remuneration outcomes LTIP performance condition testing Allocation of LTIP awards Setting bonus scorecard and LTIP performance measures Setting individual objectives for Executive Directors Minimum shareholding testing External market Shareholder trends and feedback Governance developments Market trends Benchmarking data Regulatory Internal Audit of Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy Statement Code Staff identification CRD III, UCITS V and AIFMD Remuneration Policy Statement Committee remit and eectiveness Terms of reference review Self-evaluation www.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 77 SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 2018 AND 2017 REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION 9 Maarten Slendebroek Charlotte Jones Edward Bonham Carter 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 A.
Annual bonus Annual bonus: Delivered in cash 250 513 113 200 44 80 Delivered in shares vesting immediately with six-month holding period 250 512 112 200 44 80 Delivered in shares vesting after three years 500 1,025 225 400 89 160 3 Total bonus 1,000 2,050 450 800 177 320 C. Pay for the performance year Sub-total A B 1,489 2,336 820 1,085 360 497 4 D. Vesting of LTIP awards For performance in multi-year periods: 5 2013 award 2013-2017 267 6 2015 award 2015-2017 943 236 7 2016 award 2016-2018 453 91 Total value of LTIP vesting 453 1,210 91 236 E. Other 8 Buy-out award 744 SIP matching shares 2 Total other 2 744 Total remuneration C D E 1,944 3,546 820 1,829 451 733 1 Comprising private medical insurance and reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties and payment of any tax arising.
2 Represents employer pension contributions and or cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
There are no defined benefit arrangements.
Employees with registered pension protection or those impacted by the Tapered Annual Allowance may elect to have some or all of their pension contributions paid instead as a cash allowance, after deducting an amount equal to the cost of employer national insurance on such cash payments.
The pension amounts in the single figure table may therefore be less than 15% of the salary.
3 These amounts have been determined by the Remuneration Committee based on performance against the relevant annual bonus performance measures in respect of the relevant year.
4 The value of the LTIP awards vesting is based on the Remuneration Committees determination of performance against the relevant LTIP performance measures across prior multi-year performance periods.
5 The value of the 2013 LTIP award vesting in 2018 has been restated based on a share price on the vesting date 4 April 2018 of 4.71 and vesting due to performance of 70.3%.
6 The value of the 2015 LTIP award vesting in 2018 has been restated based on a share price on the vesting date 27 March 2018 of 4.77 and vesting due to performance of 74.9%.
7 Estimated value of the 2016 LTIP award vesting in 2019 based on 42.5% vesting due to performance and average closing share price over the period 1 October to 31 December 2018 of 3.29 the actual vesting date is 1 April 2019.
8 This amount for Charlotte Jones represents cash payments delivered to her as part of the buy-out of awards forfeited from a previous employer.
The payments mirror identical cash awards that would have been payable on the same date from her previous employer.
These details were previously disclosed on page 75 of Jupiters 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
9 Following this weeks announcement regarding the forthcoming departure of Charlotte Jones, the termination arrangements in relation to her remuneration will be agreed in due course.
These will be disclosed on our website in accordance with s430 2B of the Companies Act 2006 and in the 2019 DRR.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 78 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued the elimination of box profits and on the following pages.
For corporate SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE the cost of research no longer being quantitative metrics, this is in the context continued passed on to clients.
Both of these were of the threshold, target and maximum VARIABLE PAY AWARDS FOR 2018 highlighted in last years Annual Report ranges set.
PERFORMANCE and Accounts as changes that would Individual bonuses for the Executive Variable pay awards for 2018 performance impact the business from 1 January 2018.
Bonuses are have been determined by the Committee The annual metrics and weightings not formulaic and judgement is applied using the following process: are disclosed prospectively in the by the Committee in arriving at award At the start of the year, the Committee Directors Remuneration Report: amounts.
The Committee will consider sets and agrees the performance the detailed targets are considered the context in which performance has metrics, relative weighting between commercially sensitive and are been achieved, having reference to corporate quantitative at least 75% and disclosed retrospectively, following shareholder and client experience strategic goals, and associated targets the performance year end.
for each performance level threshold, Throughout the year the Committee Overall variable compensation spend is target and maximum for corporate monitors progress against the relevant considered in the context of the variable quantitative metrics.
and total compensation ratios relative The 2018 targets for underlying PBT were to their expected ranges as previously Following year end, actual performance set in the context of both the move to a communicated to shareholders.
against each of the bonus metrics is single pricing structure and therefore assessed, as reported in the scorecard ASSESSING CORPORATE QUANTITATIVE PERFORMANCE The following section sets out Jupiters actual performance against target for the primary measures relating to profitability, ows and investment outperformance, which are each given a 25% weighting and therefore together comprised 75% of the bonus metrics for 2018.
THRESHOLD TARGET MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE ACTUAL PERCENTAGE METRIC PRIMARY MEASURE 25% VESTING 50% VESTING 100% VESTING PERFORMANCE OUTCOME COMMENTARY profitability Underlying PBT 157.0m 196.3m 225.7m 179.2m 39% Profitability as measured by underlying PBT has decreased 7.5% relative to the prior year.
Actual performance was achieved midway between the threshold and target measures.
Net revenue rose by 0.8% year-on-year to 412.7m, while operating expenses rose by 15.4%, including absorbing research costs and moving to a single pricing structure.
Flows Net sales 1,000m 4,344m 6,000m 4,626 m 0% In 2018 there was a reversal of the strong inows experienced in the prior year, with strong net outows causing performance to fall below the threshold.
Gross sales for the year were 11.9bn.
Investment Proportion of mutual 40% 60% 80% 76% 90% Jupiter maintained strong funds weighted by investment performance in unit outperformance AUM achieving trusts and SICAVs over both one performance of first and three years, with 79% of AUM or second quartile achieving first or second quartile over one year 25% using the weighted average of both weighting and three time periods.
This outcome falls just years 75% weighting short of the maximum target set for this performance condition.
Proportion of segregated Investment performance for mandates and the segregated mandates and investment trusts investment trusts was not as weighted by strong, with the weighted average AUM achieving across one and three years performance above achieving 50%.
the benchmark The AUM weighted performance over one year 25% across all products or assets over weighting and three one year 25% weighting and three years 75% weighting years 75% weighting was 76%.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 79 ASSESSING CORPORATE STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE The following table sets out supporting commentary and information the Committee considered in assessing overall performance in each of the areas of strategic performance identified for 2018.
In conjunction with assessment of individual performance, these measures comprise 25% of the bonus metrics for 2018.
The exact weighting of each metric is listed in the bonus outcomes table on page 80.
PERFORMANCE METRIC 2018 ASSESSMENT OUTCOMES Diversication Jupiter continued its strategy of diversification throughout 2018.
Good progress was achieved in plans to develop Partially achieved the Multi-Asset offering, with the hire of a Head of Multi-Asset and subsequent launch of the Flexible Income Fund.
Asset growth also continued in key alternatives funds, including Global Absolute Return and the Europa fund, with AUM growth of 15% and 13% respectively.
2018 also saw the launch of Emerging Market Corporate Bond, Emerging Market Short Duration and the US long short funds.
Good strategic progress was made in building the institutional team and better determining Jupiters investment capabilities for the institutional market.
Net redemptions in the Dynamic Bond fund during 2018, particularly in the Asia Pacific region reversed some of the geographical diversification of assets achieved in the prior year.
We continued to mature our distribution capabilities in continental Europe and establish relationships with local distributors in South Africa and Latin America.
Talent, culture A new employee handbook and enhanced UK benefits offering was launched in Q4 2018 to refresh and strengthen Substantially the employee proposition, and remain competitive in the market for top talent.
achieved and values Additionally, a core curriculum of individual development programmes is now available to all employees.
72% of employees signed up to at least one of the courses during the year and a third of our people managers completed the Management 2022 training programme.
Considerable progress was made in researching and laying the groundwork for updating Jupiters culture and values, including seeking opinion throughout the business via a staff survey as well as Executive Committee and Board level discussions.
Optimising In 2018 the focus was on embedding the new investment platform and driving efficiencies and improvements to the Achieved the benefits of operating environment.
A significant milestone was achieved during the year ensuring that by year end the whole of the business was supported by our new order management system.
Additionally significant improvements were infrastructure made to processes and controls across the investment lifecycle.
investment Our legacy order management system and related processes were successfully replaced, with a total of fourteen systems retired.
Significant cost savings of nearly 1m were achieved in 2018 as a result of the decommissioning of previous systems.
Distribution Jupiters international footprint continues to serve as a relatively low cost operating model which can be exed in Partially achieved scale as the business continues to grow.
The strong dependency on a small number of products outside of the UK expansion was apparent in 2018 with the high level of redemptions in the Dynamic Bond fund leading to an overall a shrinking efficiency of assets.
ASSESSING INDIVIDUAL PERFORMANCE The following table sets out supporting commentary and information the Committee referenced in assessing individual performance of the Executive Directors for 2018.
MAARTEN SLENDEBROEK CHARLOTTE JONES EDWARD BONHAM CARTER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER VICE CHAIRMAN Maartens personal objectives for the year Charlotte continued to develop the cost Edwards contribution to Jupiter continued to prove related to a combination of leadership, discipline and financial management of the significantly valuable to the company throughout better levels of engagement with the Board business throughout 2018 via the introduction 2018.
Externally, Edward has represented Jupiter and organisational design and purpose.
The and embedding of the Quarterly Review Meeting at a number of industry conferences and events, effectiveness of his leadership was assessed QRM process, which critically evaluates and including the Investment Association, the Financial through his ability to significantly increase challenges year to date and forecast spend.
In Reporting Council, The City UK and the Investor the level at which the Executive Committee what was a tougher year for the Company, Jupiters Forum.
Through these various organisations and operated, which was done through the adjusted cost income ratio remained stable at 55%.
bodies he has been able to present Jupiters views and setting of personal development plans for In addition to better overall cost management, the positively contribute towards ongoing stewardship each member and appointing a collective QRM process enabled more controlled strategic developments in the asset management industry.
planning, resource allocation and monitoring.
Edward has also acted as a key champion and Maarten improved the quality of his formal Additionally, Charlotte further enhanced Jupiters driver for Jupiters Diversity and Inclusion vision, communication with the Board via higher internal financial reporting at Board and subraising the profile of Jupiter and the wider industry levels of strategic content in his Board Committee level, providing increased transparency with school groups and other potential sources reporting, as well as increasing the frequency of information and facilitating better decision of entry level talent.
Within Jupiter, Edwards of his written communication.
Charlotte also oversaw significant progress experience means he has been able to contribute organisation design Maarten led a companyduring 2018 in Jupiters preparation for complying heavily towards Portfolio Review Committee wide review of this, reshaping the organisation with the forthcoming SMCR regulations, which and Stewardship Committee meetings, as well as and achieving significant cost savings for the remain on track for the 2019 deadline.
supporting our front office recruitment process by Group through a number of initiatives.
interviewing potential fund management hires.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 80 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued There were no risk or regulatory included increasing the proportion of SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE continued compliance issues at a Group or overall variable compensation which is DETERMINING INDIVIDUAL EXECUTIVE individual level for which the Committee deferred, as well as altering the vesting DIRECTOR 2018 ANNUAL BONUSES considers it appropriate to make any profile of deferred bonuses from threeThe 2018 annual bonus awards have been variable compensation adjustments.
year cliff vesting to equal tranche vesting determined by the Committee using both over three years.
Combined, these OVERALL COMPENSATION SPEND an assessment of performance against the adjustments have various implications on metrics laid out in the balanced scorecard Jupiters overall variable compensation Jupiters variable compensation expense on the previous pages, as well as a holistic spend is determined so that it is appropriate and are explained further in the financial assessment of the shareholder and client and affordable in the context of Jupiters review section on page 38. experience in the year and an assessment overall performance.
We aim to balance In line with prior year disclosures, we of risk and compliance underpins.
Annual and align the interests of our staff and our expect the variable compensation ratio to bonus awards to Executive Directors are shareholders.
remain at a mid to high 20% level over the lower in 2018 than 2017, which reects the The variable compensation spend is medium term and the total compensation following: assessed in its financial reporting context, ratio to be at a low to mid 30% level over Corporate quantitative performance which considers the accounting treatment the medium term, although they may differ deteriorated in 2018 relative to the prior of the variable compensation spend.
In from these levels in any particular year.
The year, with profits and net sales both addition, the Committee considers the total 2018 variable compensation expense of declining.
compensation expense, which includes the 72.6m 2017: 82.7m resulted in a variable Shareholders experienced a fall in fixed component of remuneration as well compensation ratio of 27.9% 2017: 29.7% dividends of 12.6%, as well as a sharp as variable.
and a total compensation ratio of 32.5% decline in the share price.
The variable compensation expense is Clients experienced continued strong determined by the nature and extent The Remuneration Committee concluded investment outperformance in mutual of bonuses awarded in 2018 as well as that the 12% decrease in variable funds, with 83% weighted by AUM deferred awards including LTIP made remuneration expense year-on-year performing above median over the year in prior years.
It also includes national was appropriate within the context of a 2017: 81%.
Investment performance in insurance charges levied on Jupiter in 7.5% decrease in underlying PBT and the segregated mandates and investment relation to variable compensation.
In 2017 reduction in share price throughout 2018. trusts performed above target over Jupiter altered its remuneration structure Jupiters approach to the distribution of one year, with 61% weighted by AUM for employees in line with regulatory and value is further explained in the Strategic beating their relevant benchmark.
These changes Report on page 25.
2018 EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR BONUS OUTCOMES Maarten Slendebroek, Charlotte Jones, Edward Bonham Outcome Weighted Chief Executive Chief Financial Carter, as percentage percentage of Officer Officer Vice Chairman 2018 Scorecard Performance Metric of maximum Weighting maximum 000 000 000 Profitability 39% 25% 10% 182 82 32 Flows 0% 25% 0% 0 0 0 Investment outperformance 90% 25% 23% 416 187 74 Diversification 5% Talent, culture and values 5% Optimising the benefits of infrastructure 88% 22% 402 181 71 investment 5% Distribution expansion efficiency 5% 1 Personal performance 5% 2 Totals 100% 55% 1,000 450 177 Delivered as upfront cash 250 113 44 Delivered as share options with six-month holding period 250 112 44 Delivered as share options vesting over three years 500 225 89 1 For the CEO, personal performance constituted 10% of the overall bonus scorecard, with the remaining 15% spread evenly across the other five strategic goals.
2 Following this weeks announcement regarding the forthcoming departure of Charlotte Jones, the termination arrangements in relation to her remuneration will be agreed in due course.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 81 PERFORMANCE CONDITION TESTING FOR 2016 LTIP AWARD, VESTING 1 APRIL 2019 The LTIP award vesting figures for Edward Bonham Carter and Maarten Slendebroek shown in the single total figures on page 77 include LTIP awards due to vest on 1 April 2019, subject to performance conditions measured over a three-year period to 31 December 2018.
The performance conditions have been tested and performance against those conditions and the associated level of vesting is outlined below.
PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE AGAINST THE CONDITION PROPORTION OF CONDITION OVER THE PERFORMANCE PERIOD CONDITION VESTING Underlying EPS vs index Jupiters underlying EPS grew by 2.6% on an annualised basis.
0.0% of condition vesting 30% vesting for 5% growth in excess of The index grew by 8.1% on an annualised basis.
the index: 0.0% of total award Jupiters annualised underlying EPS growth did not therefore exceed the 100% vesting for Jupiters underlying index by 5%.
EPS growth exceeding the index by 10% per annum: and Straight-line vesting between these points.
Actual net sales against target Jupiters net sales over the performance period were 1.9bn representing 21% 0.0% of condition of the 8.9bn target.
vesting 30% vesting for net sales 80% of target: 0.0% of total award 65% vesting for net sales 100% of target: 100% vesting for net sales 125% of target: and Straight-line vesting between these points.
1 Investment outperformance Jupiters investment performance was such that 85% of mutual funds achieved 100% of condition first and second quartile performance over the performance period, weighted vesting Proportion of mutual funds achieving first by AUM.
and second quartile performance over 25% of total award three years, weighted by AUM: 25% vesting for 50%: 100% vesting for 80%: and Straight-line vesting between these points.
Strategic goals Acquisition of key new talent in the distribution function included senior hires to lead 70.0% of condition the institutional, product development and marketing functions.
The fund management vesting Developing existing employees and department also continued to grow with fund managers recruited to lead the Multirecruiting new talent to provide the 17.5% of total award Asset and Emerging Market Debt strategies.
Combined, these hires have allowed performance, products and service required by clients.
Jupiter to enhance the products and level of service offered to clients.
During the performance period Jupiter put in place a renewed Learning and Broadening the client base in the UK and internationally.
Development curriculum available to all employees, as well as a focused programme for developing people managers and potential future leaders in Maintaining an appropriate risk the business identified through the succession planning exercise.
Jupiter continued its strategy of business diversification through developing existing global relationships, as well as extending and consolidating regional and local ones.
As our EMEA offices have matured, at the end of 2018, 80% of assets were with clients partners outside of the top five, compared with 72% at the start of the performance period.
APAC has seen a similar level of change in the proportion of assets held outside the top five.
The overall number of clients partners grew significantly in EMEA and APAC, at 43% and 44% respectively.
Being an already more developed market the UK saw a more modest change in the proportion of assets held outside the top five distribution partners and a small decline in the total number of clients.
Jupiter maintained a high compliance standard over the performance period with no FCA fines.
A Group-wide risk and control register was delivered enhancing Jupiters Risk and Control Self Assessment process and further driving first line ownership.
Enhanced management information has been developed and delivered to the Executive Committee on a quarterly basis.
Error rates continue to be low, although a material retrocessions incident led to a cost to the business in 2018.
Total 42.5% vesting 1 The methodology applied for measuring investment performance under LTIP awards granted prior to 2018 uses Financial Express to assess the relative performance of unit trusts and Morningstar to assess the relative performance of SICAVs.
The three-year investment performance figure of 77% of mutual fund AUM outperforming the median used Morningstar as the single source of relative investment performance data for all funds.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 82 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE continued EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS Executive Directors are not permitted to hold external directorships or offices without the Boards prior approval.
During the year Edward Bonham Carter served as a Non-Executive Director of Land Securities Group plc, for which he was paid fees of 80,000.
Edward was also appointed as the Senior Independent Director to the Board of ITV plc on 11 October 2018.
His fees from this position for 2018 were 20,168.
Charlotte Jones was appointed as a Non-Executive Director to the RSA Group plc Board on 1 April 2018, for which her 2018 fees totalled 55,500.
In all instances Edward and Charlotte have been permitted to retain their fees for these appointments.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED INFORMATION No payments were made to Directors for loss of office during 2018.
PAYMENTS TO EXITING DIRECTORS AUDITED INFORMATION As previously disclosed by the Company on 22 January 2019 in accordance with section 430 2B of the Companies Act 2006, Maarten Slendebroek will step down as the Chief Executive Officer with effect from 1 March 2019.
The Company and Maarten have agreed to the terms of a Settlement Agreement whereby his employment will end on 1 November 2019 or such earlier date as is agreed between the parties the Termination Date.
Following a handover period which will end on 30 April 2019, Maarten will commence garden leave for the duration of his six months notice period or such shorter period as may be agreed.
Until the Termination Date, Maarten will continue to be paid his base salary and be entitled to benefits per the approved Policy.
Maarten has been awarded a bonus for 2018 of 1,000,000, based on the level of achievement of the Companys 2018 financial and strategic objectives as well as his defined individual objectives.
Performance against each of these metrics has been disclosed in the prior pages of this report.
Maarten will be entitled to a pro-rata bonus for the proportion of the 2019 financial year worked up to, and including, 30 April 2019.
The 2019 bonus will be determined on the normal timetable in line with the Policy.
When he leaves the Company, he will be treated as a good leaver under the DBP and LTIP with awards vesting on their normal vesting dates subject to any applicable performance and time pro-rating terms.
Maarten will be entitled to a capped contribution of up to 15,000 plus VAT towards legal fees incurred in connection with his departure and to outplacement support with a maximum value of up to 10,000 plus VAT.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS AUDITED INFORMATION No payments were made to any former Directors during 2018.
3 Benefits comprise reimbursement of reasonable taxable business expenses incurred in the performance of duties and the payment of any tax arising.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 83 IMPLEMENTATION IN 2019 The following section provides an overview as to how each element of the Policy will be applied in 2019.
BASE SALARY Andrew Formica will be appointed as CEO with effect from 1 March 2019 with a base salary of 445,000, reective of the market rate for his level of experience.
Edward Bonham Carter will reduce his working hours from four to three days a week from 1 January 2019, and therefore his salary and any salary related benefits will be pro-rated accordingly.
ANNUAL BONUS Annual bonuses in respect of 2019 inclusive of any deferred bonus award will continue to be subject to the following individual caps as a percentage of base salary in line with the Policy: Andrew Formica: 425%: Maarten Slendebroek: 425%: Charlotte Jones: 250%: and Edward Bonham Carter: 200%.
Andrew Formica and Maarten Slendebroek will be entitled to pro-rata bonuses for the proportion of the 2019 financial year they work respectively.
For Andrew this will be for the period from 1 March to 31 December 2019: for Maarten this will be from 1 January up to and including 30 April 2019.
The 2019 bonuses will be determined on the normal timetable and in line with the process below.
The performance measures for the 2019 annual bonus will be set within the following balanced scorecard.
75% of these measures will be corporate quantitative measures, with clearly determined Threshold, On-Target and Maximum goals.
The remaining objectives will be strategic and individual measures.
Determination of bonus amounts is not formulaic: in addition to reviewing each of the performance measures, the Committee will take a holistic view of the overall performance of the Company for the year to ensure that any bonus amounts appropriately reect the experience of stakeholders.
Where performance measures produce an outcome which does not align with that of stakeholders, the Committee may exercise its discretion as it considers appropriate.
2019 BALANCED SCORECARD AREA METRIC PERFORMANCE MEASURES Corporate Profitability Measured through underlying Profit Before Tax quantitative 75% Flows Measured through net ows Investment Measured through the proportion of mutual funds achieving first or second outperformance quartile performance and the proportion of separate account assets beating their benchmarks weighted by AUM Measured over one year 25% weighting and three years 75% weighting Strategic and Diversification Evidence of continued diversification by product, geography and client individual 25% Culture and values Complete the exercise to define Jupiters purpose, values and culture and ensure these are thoroughly embedded throughout the firm Operating platform Delivery of critical operating platform projects and regulatory requirements.
Identify further operating efficiencies Personal performance Achievement against specific personal performance objectives Underpin Risk and regulatory The Committee considers the checkpoints set out on page 90 when exercising compliance its judgement to determine the appropriate variable compensation pool, at a Group level The Committee also receives an annual report on internal control and risk management factors from the Chief Risk Officer and the Compliance Director to consider when assessing appropriate awards, at an individual level Any risk or compliance factor corporate or individual has the potential to reduce variable compensation, including to zero Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 84 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued application of judgement, taking expects the variable compensation ratio to IMPLEMENTATION IN 2019 into account a holistic assessment of remain at a mid to high 20% level over the continued Group and individual performance.
medium term, and the total compensation The balanced scorecard, set out in the ratio to be at a low to mid 30% level over Targets for each performance measure table above, will allow the Committee to the medium-term, although they may differ will be set by the Committee in line with assess performance against key financial from these levels in any particular year for the framework described on page 78. and strategic metrics.
The Committees the reasons explained on page 38.
The Committee considers more specific assessment against these metrics and details of the 2019 performance measures In addition to the performance measures the decision about any variable pay and targets to be commercially sensitive.
outlined on the previous page, the awards will be clearly disclosed to Further details of the targets and Committee considers the checkpoints shareholders.
Notwithstanding this weightings for each of these measures and set out on page 90 when exercising structure, in line with the approach taken performance against each will be provided its judgement to determine the overall in 2018, for 2019 the Committee will work in the 2019 Remuneration Report.
variable compensation spend for any to ensure that the Companys variable particular year, and also considers The determination of variable pay and total compensation ratios are within individual risk behaviours when assessing awards in relation to 2019 performance appropriate ranges.
will continue to be assessed with the PROPORTION OF BONUS AND DELIVERY METHOD The payment of bonuses for Executive Directors for 2019 will be as follows and is compliant with the relevant remuneration regulations.
25% 50% 25% Delivered as deferred Jupiter shares.
Delivered as deferred Jupiter shares.
Immediate vesting, but subject to subsequent Vesting in equal tranches over three years, but six month post vesting holding period.
subject to subsequent six month post vesting holding period.
LTIP AWARDS The 2019 LTIP awards will be subject to the following performance conditions: PROPORTION OF LTIP PERFORMANCE CONDITION PERFORMANCE MEASURE Underlying EPS Growth Jupiters underlying Proportion of the award EPS growth over the subject to the EPS Jupiters underlying EPS growth must achieve 50% performance period performance condition at least 5% growth over the performance that will vest period 5% growth or below 0% 25% growth or above 100% Any other percentage Sliding scale between the relevant percentages above Jupiters investment outperformance Proportion of funds Proportion of the award weighted by AUM achieving subject to the investment The proportion of all of Jupiters assets 50% above median benchmark outperformance condition that weighted by AUM achieving above median performance will vest performance relative to their peer group retail or above benchmark performance Less than 50% 0% institutional weighted: 50% 25% over the three year period to 80% or above 100% 25% 31 December preceding the vesting Any other percentage Sliding scale between the relevant date: and percentages above over the five year period to 31 75% December preceding the vesting date These awards will be granted in March 2019 and will vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to the achievement of the stretching performance conditions, as set out in the table above.
The awards will also be subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period in line with the Policy.
As the new CEO from March 2019, Andrew Formica will receive an LTIP award pro-rated for the ten twelfths of the year he will be in employment.
Maarten Slendebreok will not receive a 2019 LTIP award.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 85 The 2019 LTIP award values will be as follows: Andrew Formica: 1,390,000 375% of salary, pro-rated for the period of the performance year he will serve as CEO : 1 Charlotte Jones : 730,000 225% of salary : and Edward Bonham Carter: 180,000 150% of salary Investment outperformance is critical to Jupiters clients and the Companys long-term success.
Its importance is recognised through its use as a performance measure within the annual bonus scorecard and the LTIP.
Given the longer time horizon over which LTIP assesses performance, both a threeand five-year outperformance measure is included.
EPS growth is important to shareholders and is the best measure of Jupiters successful execution of its growth strategy.
There is no payout under this performance condition at threshold performance, or where EPS growth is less than 5% over the period.
The target range and vesting schedule for EPS performance between threshold and maximum has been set in line with Jupiters financial plan.
In addition to a risk and compliance assessment, LTIP awards are subject to an underlying business performance underpin.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR FEES Jupiter normally reviews Non-Executive Director fees annually.
The Non-Executive Chairmans fee and fees for certain Non-Executive roles were last increased with effect from 1 January 2018.
Following the annual review at the end of this year, the base fee and the Senior Independent Director fee have both been increased with effect from 1 January 2019 to ensure these remain in line with the wider market.
All other Non-Executive Director fees remain unchanged.
2018 2019 annual fee annual fee Base fee 62,500 64,000 Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 12,500 Audit and Risk Committee Chairman fee in addition to member fee 20,000 20,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman fee in addition to member fee 20,000 20,000 Audit and Risk Committee member fee 7,500 7,500 Remuneration Committee member fee 7,500 7,500 Non-Executive Chairman fee all inclusive 235,000 235,000 Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for reasonable business expenses.
The roles and committee responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors during 2018 were as follows: DIRECTOR TITLE ROLES AND COMMITTEE RESPONSIBILITIES Liz Airey Independent Chairman Nomination Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee member Jonathon Bond Independent Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Senior Independent Director Audit and Risk Committee member Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member Bridget Macaskill Independent Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee Chairman Polly Williams Independent Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Committee Chairman Nomination Committee member Karl Sternberg Independent Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Committee member Nomination Committee member Roger Yates Independent Non-Executive Director Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member 2 Lorraine Trainer Independent Non-Executive Director Audit and Risk Committee member Nomination Committee member Remuneration Committee member 1 Following this weeks announcement regarding the forthcoming departure of Charlotte Jones, the termination arrangements in relation to her remuneration will be agreed in due course.
2 Stepped down from the Board 16 May 2018.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 86 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AUDITED INFORMATION Unvested Unvested Shareholding Unvested ordinary options, options, as a shares held at vesting not percentage vesting Ordinary 31 December Total Vested but subject to subject to Total options of salary shares held at 2018 ordinary unexercised including performance performance over ordinary Shareholding 31 December subject to shares held at options at conditions at conditions at shares held at as a vested but 2018 no continued 31 December 31 December unexercised 31 December 31 December 31 December percentage 2 2 Director restrictions employment 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 of salary shares Edward Bonham Carter 10,007,090 10,007,090 81,956 74,097 179,063 335,116 20,577% 20,746% Maarten Slendebroek 564,152 388 564,540 104,691 578,321 999,537 1,682,549 437% 518% Charlotte Jones 25,337 25,337 40,855 145,823 266,080 452,758 26% 67% Liz Airey 45,450 45,450 Jonathon Bond 29,794 29,794 1 Bridget Macaskill 125,000 125,000 Polly Williams Karl Sternberg 10,537 10,537 Roger Yates 1 Includes connected persons holding.
2 The high percentage of shares held by Edward Bonham Carter relates to shares purchased during the period 2007-2010 while Jupiter was privately owned.
There have been no changes to the above interests between the year end and 28 February 2019 the latest practicable date before the printing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS The Remuneration Committee has a policy that Executive Directors should maintain a significant holding of shares in the Company.
The Policy in operation for the 2018 performance year provides that the Chief Executive should hold shares in the Company with a value equivalent to at least 300% of base salary, and other Executive Directors a value equivalent to at least 200% of base salary.
Maarten Slendebroek and Edward Bonham Carter both hold shares with a value in excess of these percentages as at 31 December 2018.
Following her appointment to the Board in September 2016, Charlotte Jones is expected to build up her shareholding within the five years following appointment.
The Committee is confident that based on current deferred share awards that vest in January 2019 and those due to vest in future years as detailed on pages 87 to 89, Charlotte will meet the necessary minimum shareholding level within the expected period.
POST-EMPLOYMENT SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS Following publication of the most recent version of the Corporate Governance Code in July 2018, the Committee has examined the Deferred Bonus Plan and LTIP rules to ensure that the post-employment requirements of these are in line with the new standards.
The Committee believe that the interests of the Executive Directors remain aligned with those of our other shareholders in the period immediately following the termination of employment through the following mechanisms: Unvested deferred bonus and LTIP awards pro-rated where relevant are, subject to Remuneration Committee discretion, normally released on the normal vesting date with no acceleration: and Vested LTIP awards are, subject to Remuneration Committee discretion, normally released at the end of the holding period with no acceleration.
The Committees intends to review this approach when the next Directors Remuneration Policy is put forward for a formal shareholder vote, in the light of market developments at that time.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 87 SHARE AWARDS AUDITED INFORMATION DBP OPTIONS OVER JUPITER SHARES Options held at Options exercised start of year Options granted during the year lapsed during the year Options held at end of year Number of shares under Number option held as Number Number of shares at 1 January of shares of shares under 2018 including Price under under option April 2018 Market value used to Number of option option held as at Special per share determine shares lapsed exercised 31 Earliest Latest Year Dividend at date Face value number under during the during the December exercise exercise 1 2 2 Director granted Adjustment of grant Grant date at award of shares option year year 2018 date date 3 Maarten 2015 179,739 4.12 179,739 27 March 27 June Slendebroek in respect 2018 2018 of 2014 2016 207,410 4.09 207,410 01 April 01 July in respect 2019 2019 of 2015 2017 161,528 4.21 161,528 29 March 29 June in respect 2020 2020 of 2016 2018 20 March 512,500 4.90 104,691 104,691 20 Sept 20 March in respect 2018 2018 2019 of 2017 2018 20 March 1,025,000 4.90 209,383 209,383 20 March 20 Sept in respect 2018 2021 2021 of 2017 Charlotte 2017 14,684 4.21 14,684 29 March 29 June 5 Jones in respect 2020 2020 of 2016 2018 20 March 200,000 4.90 40,855 40,855 20 Sept 20 March in respect 2018 2018 2019 of 2017 2018 20 March 400,000 4.90 81,710 81,710 20 March 20 Sept in respect 2018 2021 2021 of 2017 4 2015 42,290 4.12 42,290 27 March 27 June Edward in respect 2018 2018 Bonham Carter of 2014 2016 22,814 4.09 22,814 01 April 01 July in respect 2019 2019 of 2015 2017 18,599 4.21 18,599 29 March 29 June in respect 2020 2020 of 2016 2018 20 March 80,000 4.90 16,342 16,342 20 Sept 20 March in respect 2018 2018 2019 of 2017 2018 20 March 160,000 4.90 32,684 32,684 20 March 20 Sept in respect 2018 2021 2021 of 2017 1 Outstanding share awards granted prior to 2018 were adjusted by 3.08% as a result of the 6 April 2018 Special Dividend.
2 Average closing share price from three trading days prior to date of grant.
3 Closing share price on date of exercise, 9 May 2018, was 4.63.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise of 832,192.
4 Closing share price on date of exercise, 13 June 2018, was 4.67.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise of 197,494.
5 Following this weeks announcement regarding the forthcoming departure of Charlotte Jones, the termination arrangements in relation to her remuneration will be agreed in due course.
Key terms: no performance measures are attached to options granted under the DBP, although awards are normally subject to continued employment with the Company: malus provisions may apply see the Remuneration Policy table for further details : no exercise price is payable on the exercise of DBP options: and holders of unvested share option awards are not entitled to cash dividend payments as the holders are not the legal owners of the shares.
The Remuneration Committee determined that it was appropriate for holders of share option awards under both the DBP and LTIP schemes to benefit from the 6 April 2018 Special Dividend.
This took place by means of adjusting upwards the number of shares over which options were held by a factor of 3.08% as permitted under the rules of the plans.
This factor is equivalent to the value the holder of a share option award would have received had they been entitled to receive the Special Dividend as a cash payment.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 88 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued SHARE AWARDS AUDITED INFORMATION continued LTIP Options held at Options exercised start of year Options granted during the year lapsed during the year Options held at end of year Number of shares under Number option held as Number Number of shares at 1 January of shares of shares under 2018 including Price under under option April 2018 Market value used to Number of option option held as at Special per share determine shares lapsed exercised 31 Earliest Latest Year Dividend at date Face value number under during the during the December exercise exercise 1 2 2 3 Director granted Adjustment of grant Grant date at award of shares option year year 2018 date date 4 Maarten 2012 84,229 2.26 84,229 31 January 31 January Slendebroek 2018 2020 5 2013 79,973 3.30 23,301 56,672 04 April 04 April 2018 2020 6 2015 262,339 4.12 64,472 197,867 27 March 27 March 2018 2020 2016 324,080 4.09 324,080 01 April 01 April 2019 2021 2017 354,874 4.21 354,874 29 March 29 March 2020 2022 2018 16 May 1,450,000 4.61 320,583 320,583 20 March 20 Sept 2018 2023 2023 2017 122,370 4.21 122,370 29 March 29 March Charlotte 8 Jones 2020 2022 2018 16 May 650,000 4.61 143,710 143,710 20 March 20 Sept 2018 2023 2023 7 Edward 2013 56,837 3.30 56,837 04 April 04 April Bonham 2016 2018 Carter 2014 16,148 4.14 16,148 03 April 03 April 2017 2019 2015 65,584 4.12 16,118 49,466 27 March 27 March 2018 2020 2016 64,816 4.09 64,816 01 April 01 April 2019 2021 2017 61,185 4.21 61,185 29 March 29 March 2020 2022 2018 16 May 240,000 4.61 53,062 53,062 20 March 20 Sept 2018 2020 2023 1 Outstanding share awards granted prior to 2018 were adjusted by 3.08% as a result of the 6 April 2018 Special Dividend.
3 LTIP awards granted in 2018 under the new plan rules were adjusted by 1.86% as a result of the 29 August 2018 Interim Ordinary Dividend.
4 Closing share price on date of exercise, 2 March 2018 was 5.07.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 427,041.
5 Closing share price on date of exercise, 9 May 2018 was 4.63.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 262,391.
6 Closing share price on date of exercise, 9 May 2018 was 4.63.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 916,124.
7 Closing share price on date of exercise, 29 March 2018 was 4.72.
This resulted in a value of shares on exercise less the exercise price of 268,271.
8 Following this weeks announcement regarding the forthcoming departure of Charlotte Jones, the termination arrangements in relation to her remuneration will be agreed in due course.
Key terms: no performance conditions are attached to Maarten Slendebroeks 2012 LTIP awards which are part of buy-out arrangements: performance conditions for LTIP awards granted between 2013 and 2017 are: underlying EPS, net sales, investment outperformance and strategic goals, all equally weighted.
These performance conditions are measured over the period 1 January in the year of grant to 31 December in the year prior to vesting and the targets are consistent with those for the 2016 award as shown on page 81: performance conditions for LTIP awards granted in 2018 are: 50% EPS growth and 50% investment outperformance.
The targets and vesting schedule for EPS are: less than 20% EPS growth over the performance period, 0% vesting: 40% EPS growth or above over the performance period, 100% vesting: any other EPS growth percentage is subject to a sliding scale between 0% and 100%.
The targets and vesting schedule for investment outperformance are: less than 50% of funds weighted by AUM achieving median benchmark performance, 0% vesting: 50% of funds weighted by AUM achieving median benchmark performance, 25% vesting: 80% or above of funds weighted by AUM achieving median benchmark performance, 100% vesting: any other percentage of funds weighted by AUM achieving median benchmark performance, a sliding scale in between the relevant percentages.
These performance conditions are measured over the period 1 January in the year of grant to 31 December in the year prior to vesting.
Awards are subject to a two year post-vesting holding period: an exercise price of 0.02 per share is payable on the exercise of LTIP options granted prior to 2018: and the number of shares under award granted prior to 2018 was adjusted as a result of the 6 April 2018 Special Dividend, as described under the DBP share table above.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 89 JOINER PLAN Options exercised during Options held at start of year Options granted during the year the year Options held at end of year Number of shares Number Number of under of shares shares under Market value Price used to option under option option as per share determine Number of exercised as at 31 Earliest Latest Year at 1 January at date Face value number shares under during the December exercise exercised 1 Director granted 2018 of grant Grant date at award of shares option year 2018 date date Charlotte Jones 2016 47,996 4.29 47,996 31 January 31 January 2018 2020 2016 49,429 4.29 49,429 31 January 31 January 2019 2021 1 Outstanding share awards granted prior to 2018 were adjusted by 3.08% as a result of the 6 April 2018 Special Dividend.
Key terms: the options granted under the Joiner Plan are one-off awards made as a buy-out of awards foregone by Charlotte Jones on resignation from her previous employer, in order to join Jupiter.
To match the terms of the awards foregone, no performance conditions are attached to the options granted under the Joiner Plan: an exercise price of 0.02 per share is payable on the exercise of Joiner Plan options: the options granted under the Joiner Plan will not be settled with newly issued shares: and malus and clawback provisions apply to the Joiner Plan awards.
SIP Awards held at start of year Awards granted during the year Awards held at end of year Number of Number of shares shares Price Number of subject subject used to shares to award to award as Market value determine granted as at 31 at 1 January per share Face value number during the December Earliest 1 1 Director 2018 at award Award date at award of shares year 2018 vesting date Maarten Slendebroek 462 3.89 462 02 May 2017 04 May 2018 1,797 4.64 387 387 04 May 2021 04 October 2018 4 3.91 1 1 04 October 2021 Edward Bonham Carter 457 3.28 457 02 May 2016 462 3.89 462 02 May 2017 1 3.50 1 02 October 2017 1 Market price on the date of purchase of SIP shares.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 90 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued RISK AND REWARD AT JUPITER CHECKPOINTS DISCUSSION CAPITAL BASE AND LIQUIDITY The Committee gives careful consideration Can Jupiter aord the proposed variable compensation spend?
to the linkage between risk and reward to Sufficient liquidity to make payments?
ensure the desired behaviours and culture are being rewarded.
This includes ensuring Consider impact on Jupiters capital base.
the reward structures are consistent with Request and consider input from the Chief Financial Officer.
and promote sound and effective risk management, and ensuring remuneration UNDERLYING FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE out-turns appropriately reect the risk Does Jupiters underlying financial performance support the proposed variable profile and behaviours of the Group and compensation spend?
This is demonstrated through a variety of reward features Consider performance against financial KPIs listed in the Annual Report.
and processes that ensure alignment Is there any reason to believe the financial results are not a fair reection to risk considerations throughout the of underlying performance?
For example: Request and consider input from the Audit and Risk Committee.
When assessing the overall variable compensation spend as described on RISK page 80, the Committee considers a Does Jupiters risk prole and risk management support the variable number of checkpoints, as described in compensation spend?
the checkpoints chart on the right hand side of this page.
Consideration of the Enterprise Risk Management report.
Assessment of individual performance Are all risks being suitably monitored and managed?
Have there been any includes consideration of a scorecard material failures of risk management or any near misses in the year?
of financial and non-financial metrics.
Consider whether profit reects current and future risks and timing and This ensures that the way in which likelihood of future revenues.
performance has been achieved is Request and consider input from the Chief Risk Officer and the Audit and Risk taken into account, for example, in Committee.
terms of risk and repeatability.
For all employees there is consideration of conduct, performance against risk and COMPLIANCE compliance criteria, ensuring there is Have there been any material compliance breaches in the year?
risk adjustment at an individual level.
All employees with bonuses of over Consideration of any significant compliance breaches and or near misses.
50,000 have a portion of bonus Consideration of any fines received in the year and any ongoing regulatory deferred into shares and or fund units.
In total approximately 25% of employees are subject to some kind of deferral, Request and consider input from the Compliance Director.
ensuring their interests are aligned with the long-term success of the Group and COMMERCIAL with the interest of clients.
Are there any commercial drivers to support adjustments to the variable Shareholding requirements apply to compensation spend?
Executive Directors and Executive Consider the market for talent and whether the spend would likely result Committee members, further enhancing in any significant over underpayment against the market.
the link to the Groups long-term success.
For Executive Directors and Executive REPUTATIONAL Committee members, all variable Are there any reputational drivers to support adjustments to the variable remuneration is subject to malus and compensation spend?
clawback provisions, whereby incentive awards may be reduced, withheld or Has there been any reputational damage to the Group in the year?
reclaimed in certain circumstances, Will the proposed variable compensation pool quantum have any adverse including where there has been a reputational impact on the Group?
material failure of risk management.
In addition to the Compliance Director Variable compensation spend, total and variable compensation ratios approval.
and the Audit and Risk Committee feeding into the process, the Head of Risk presents a report to the Committee, setting out thoughts and assurances around how the remuneration structures and processes support sound and effective risk management.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 91 COMPLIANCE STATEMENT This Remuneration Report was prepared in accordance with During the year Jupiter has been subject to a number of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts regulations including CRD III and parts of the firm were also and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
This report subject to AIFMD and UCITSV.
The Committee fulfils all of its contains both audited and non-audited information.
The requirements under these regulations and ensures that the information subject to audit is set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration Policy adheres to their principles.
The Group has Remuneration and is identified accordingly.
followed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
DILUTION Our policy regarding dilution from employee share awards is to ensure that dilution will be no more than 10% in any rolling 10-year period and no more than 5% from employee share awards granted to Executive Directors of the Company in any rolling 10-year period.
As at 31 December 2018, share awards granted under the DBP, LTIP and Sharesave in the eight and a half years since Jupiters Listing were outstanding over 20.1m shares including 2.5m granted to Executive Directors.
This represented 4.4% 0.5% to Executive Directors of the Companys issued share capital.
Our current intention is to settle all share awards outstanding as at 31 December 2018 with market purchased shares and our ongoing practice is to purchase shares in the market to settle obligations.
No new shares have been issued since Listing in 2010.
Therefore, we are currently operating within the relevant dilution targets by a comfortable margin.
Notwithstanding the target outlined above, as a business exposed to both market shocks and critical people issues, we believe we should retain exibility to act very quickly to take steps that could increase dilution up to a maximum of 15% on a temporary and short-term basis, if the Remuneration Committee and Board believe it is clearly in shareholders interests to do so.
If dilution were to exceed 10% in any rolling 10-year period, this would be on an exceptional basis and for a short time period.
The Remuneration report for the relevant year would also contain the necessary justifications for such an outcome.
The Remuneration Committee and Board would ensure that dilution levels returned to within the 10% level in any rolling 10-year period as soon as practicable thereafter.
PAY VS PERFORMANCE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN PER CENT 550 Jupiter Fund Management FTSE 250 500 FTSE 350 General Financial Index 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 2009 Dec 2010 Dec 2011 Dec 2012 Dec 2013 Dec 2014 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2018 The chart above shows the Companys share price performance based on total shareholder return, with dividends reinvested net of tax in the period since Listing on 21 June 2010, compared with the movement of the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 General Financial Index.
These two indices were chosen as the Company is in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 General Financial Index includes UK listed financial stocks, including asset managers.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 92 GOVERNANCE Remuneration report continued REMUNERATION REPORT continued RISK AND REWARD AT JUPITER continued TABLE OF HISTORIC LEVELS OF CEO PAY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 CEO single figure of total 1 remuneration 000 2,035 1,785 1,634 1,789 2,301 2,716 2,437 3,546 1,944 CEO bonus as a percentage 2 of maximum potential N A N A N A N A N A N A N A N A 55% Long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum 3 4 5 opportunity N A N A N A N A 46% 71% 44% 74% 43% 1 Calculated as Edward Bonham Carters remuneration to 17 March 2014 and Maarten Slendebroeks from 17 March 2014 when he took on the role of CEO, plus the value of Edward Bonham Carters LTIP award vesting based on performance to 31 December 2014.
2 Jupiters Remuneration Policy for the period from 2011 to 2017 did not include individual maximum bonuses, therefore a percentage is not provided for these years.
3 No LTIP awards vested 2010 to 2013 as the first LTIP awards granted to the CEO after Listing were in 2012.
4 Maarten Slendebroek has two separate LTIP awards included in the 2016 single figure, both of which had performance periods ending during that financial year.
The 44% vesting is a weighted average of the vesting outcomes for both awards combined.
5 Maarten Slendebroek has two separate LTIP awards included in the 2017 single figure, both of which had performance periods ending during that financial year.
The 74% vesting is a weighted average of the vesting outcomes for both awards combined.
CHANGE IN CEO PAY VS EMPLOYEES The percentage change in the CEOs pay defined for these purposes as salary, taxable benefits, cash bonus and DBP awards in respect of the relevant year between 2017 and 2018, and the same information, on an averaged basis, for all employees excluding Executive Directors is shown in the table below: All employees excluding Executive CEO percentage Directors percentage change 2017 to 2018 change 2017 to 2018 2 Base salary 70% 4% 1 Benefits 8 % 8 % Bonus including DBP portion 51 % 18 % 1 Benefits include taxable value of private medical insurance.
2 The significant increase in base salary for the CEO in 2018 was the result of the new Directors Remuneration Policy introduced from 2018, which saw a removal of the previous 250,000 salary cap for Executive Directors and a base salary calculated relative to CEOs of other listed entities and asset managers instead.
CEO PAY RATIO Although the requirement to comply with the new CEO pay ratio reporting obligations does not affect the Group until the release of its 2019 Report and Accounts, Jupiter has elected to publish the disclosures with effect from the 2018 financial year.
Year Method 2018 Option A 25th Percentile Median 75th Percentile CEO Pay Ratio 32:1 21:1 13:1 CEO Single Figure 000 1,944 Employee Single Figure 000 62 94 151 Employee Single Figure Salary Component 000 45 65 94 The Company has chosen to use Option A as the methodology for calculating the pay and benefits of all UK employees, as this is consistent with the approach that must be used for the CEO single figure.
It therefore allows a like-for-like comparison to take place between the pay data of the CEO and employees at the lower, median and upper quartiles, as well as a more accurate analysis of the resulting ratios.
The Company has chosen 1 October 2018 as the reference date on which the pay for all employees was calculated for the purpose of this disclosure.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVE RNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 93 RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following chart shows the Groups profit after tax, total employee remuneration and dividends declared on ordinary shares for 2018 and 2017.
Additional illustration of how Jupiters available profit is distributed between stakeholders is demonstrated on page 25 of this report.
PROFIT AFTER TAX M TOTAL EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION M DIVIDEND DECLARED M 2018 143.0 2018 120.9 2018 130.4 -8% 4% -13% 2017 154.8 2017 116.8 2017 149.2 The increase in total employee remuneration is the result of additional headcount as we continue to invest for growth.
As stated on page 38, the variable compensation expense declined by 12% compared with 2017.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING The following table sets out the voting outcomes in respect of the most recent AGM votes on the Annual Report on Remuneration and the Directors Remuneration Policy, held on 16 May 2018.
Percentage Percentage of total of total For votes cast Against votes cast Withheld Annual Report on Remuneration at 2018 AGM 352,924,243 95.74 15,721,771 4.26 4,750 Directors Remuneration Policy at 2018 AGM 283,433,482 81.16 65,778,651 18.84 19,438,633 ADVISERS In September 2017 the Remuneration Committee conducted a review of the appointment of its independent advisers.
The process included a series of interviews with the Chairman and members of the Committee.
As a result of that review Deloitte LLP were confirmed as advisers to the Committee and a new team was appointed.
The Committee has formally reviewed the work undertaken by Deloitte and is satisfied that the advice they have received has been objective and independent.
Deloitte are founder members of the Remuneration Consultants Group and abide by its code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Fees paid to Deloitte for executive remuneration consulting were 79,900 in 2018, determined on a time-spent basis.
Deloitte also provides advice to the Company relating to regulatory matters.
The Remuneration Committee does not consider that the other advice provided has any impact on Deloittes independence as adviser to the Remuneration Committee.
On behalf of the Board BRIDGET MACASKILL Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 February 2019 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
