Directors Remuneration Report Annual statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee The Committee seeks to align remuneration at Kier withthe business performance and to incentivise management to deliver the Groups strategy for the long-term benefit of shareholders.
Allocation of time Chair Allocation of time Constance Baroudel Bonuses 2017, 2018 and 2019 Other Committee members Employee and senior Justin Atkinson management remuneration, gender pay gap reporting, Kirsty Bashforth market updates and Philip Cox CBE governance Adam Walker Base salaries Nick Winser CBE LTIPs Dear shareholder 2018 review of the year I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for The Group has delivered a solid performance during the year, 2018.
It is divided into three sections: despite a challenging market environment, with both revenue andprofit having increased.
The Groups revenue for the year the annual statement from the Committee Chair, which provides increased by 5% to 4.5bn 2017: 4.3bn and underlying a review of the Committees activities and decisions taken operating profit increased by 10% to 160m 2017: 146m.
during the year: During the year, our Construction business secured 2.7bn of the annual report on remuneration, which provides details of the contract awards, our Services business won 1.9bn of contract remuneration paid to the Board during the year: and awards or extensions and both our Property and Residential a summary of the remuneration policy which was adopted at businesses increased their returns on capital employed whilst last years Annual General Meeting AGM.
developing robust pipelines of future work.
Following Carillions insolvency, we acquired a greater share of the HS2 project and the Highways England Smart Motorways programme and, working Role closely and collaboratively with both clients, we transferred over The role of the Committee includes: 150 people into Kier to continue to deliver the projects.
Please see the Chief Executives strategic review on pages 14 to 19 inclusive setting the Executive Directors remuneration policy: for further information on the Groups performance during the year.
setting the Executive Directors base salaries: reviewing base salary increases across the Group: The Groups net debt at 30 June 2018 was 185.7m 2017: 110.1m.
The year-end net debt to EBITDA ratio remains approving the design of, and determining targets and at less than 1x, which is in line with the Vision 2020 target.
performance measures for, any bonus schemes and TheGroups average month-end net debt position of 375m long-term incentive awards for the Executive Directors increased from 320m in 2017.
However, it is expected to andsenior management: improve as a result of the Future Proofing Kier programme and approving annual bonus payments made to the continuing to control closely the Groups investment in the ExecutiveDirectors: Property and Residential businesses, in particular.
Please see approving the long-term incentive awards for Executive Cash flow on page 54 of theFinancial review for further Directors and reviewing the vesting of those awards: information on the Groups cash flows during the year.
overseeing the setting of senior We have made good progress with respect to the non-financial managements remuneration: elements of Vision 2020.
Please see page 31 for further details.
considering payments to former Directors to ensure that In particular, we have achieved an accident incidence rate of 96, they are within the terms of the remuneration policy: a26% improvement on 2017, which positions the Group as one engaging with institutional investors on remuneration ofthe leaders in the industry with respect to the management of matters: and health and safety risks.
appointing remuneration consultants and setting their Engagement with shareholders terms of reference.
Following engagement with in excess of 50% of our shareholder The terms of reference for the Committee can be viewed base during Spring 2017, we were pleased that our remuneration on the Companys website at www.
policy received a 90% vote in favour at the 2017 AGM.
The Committee recognises that the annual report on remuneration received a 37% vote against at the 2017 AGM and that the Chief Executives base salary increase in 2017 was the principal area of concern for shareholders.
86 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In the post-AGM statement, the Board confirmed that it did average capital invested in these businesses during the year was notexpect the Committee to approve significant increases in greater than the Groups average month-end net debt, the latter thebase salary of the Chief Executive during the life of the figure had increased in 2018.
The Committee therefore decided to remuneration policy but that, if circumstances arose in which the exercise its discretion to reduce the payment from 80% of the Committee considered such an increase to be appropriate, it maximum opportunity for the net debt element of the bonus to would engage with shareholders before making its final decision.
65% the payment for on-target performance.
During the year, we engaged with a number of shareholders to The reduction in the Groups all accident incidence rate AAIR discuss the Committees approach and to understand their views resulted in the Committee awarding a payment of 100% of the on remuneration at Kier.
The Committee took into consideration maximum opportunity for the health and safety element of shareholders feedback when deciding that the Chief Executive the bonus.
would not receive a base salary increase for the 2019 The Committee also reviewed the extent to which the Executive financial year.
Directors had satisfied their personal objectives.
The Executive Remuneration across the Group Directors were awarded either 60% or 70% of the maximum opportunity of this element of the bonus.
In determining the Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee takes into account the Groups approach to The total bonus payment for the Chief Executive was 75% of his remuneration across the Group as a whole.
In practice, the maximum opportunity.
The total bonus payment for each of the Executive Directors remuneration is more heavily weighted Executive Directors was either 75% or 76% of their respective towards variable pay and, therefore, is linked to the Groups maximum opportunities.
The Committee is satisfied that these performance than the pay of other employees.
payments reflect the performance of the Group and the Executive Directors during the year.
During the year, the Committee: Further information about the annual bonus is set out on pages reviewed salary increases across the Group.
Overall, the 93 and 94. average base salary increase across the Group, effective from 1 July 2018, was 3.8%: LTIPs reviewed the outcome of the Groups gender pay gap reporting: The performance period for the LTIP awards granted in reviewed bonus payments made to senior employees, whose October2015 ended on 30 June 2018.
The performance bonus plan is based on similar principles to the Executive conditions were based on total shareholder return TSR and Directors bonus: and earnings per share EPS.
These awards will vest at 24% of themaximum opportunity, based upon the EPS performance.
oversaw the introduction of a conditional share award plan for Theelement relating to TSR performance resulted in a nil senior employees below the Board to replace the annual LTIP payment.
Please see page 94 for further information.
Under the plan, awards are made following an assessment of prior year performance and without performance Payments to former Directors conditions and the shares vest after three years.
Management On 1 August 2018, we announced that, following the appointment believes that this plan will be an effective retention tool for of Claudio Veritiero as Chief Operating Officer, Nigel Brook and senior employees.
Nigel Turner would be standing down from the Board and leaving the business with immediate effect.
The Committee reviewed the 2018 outcomes terms on which both individuals did so, so as to ensure that such Annual bonus terms were permitted by the remuneration policy approved by The annual bonus targets were profit before tax 50%, the Groups shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
year-end net debt position 30%, health and safety targets 10% and personal objectives 10%.
A number of the personal Both individuals have a 12-month notice period.
The Committee objectives relate to the Vision 2020 strategic targets for decided to make a payment in lieu of notice PILON to both example, an increase in employee engagement and maintaining individuals on a phased basis over the 12-month period the final our high levels of customer satisfaction.
The Committee has instalment being due in July 2019.
The Committee has obliged regularly reviewed performance against the targets during year.
each individual to mitigate his loss and to offset any alternative remuneration received during the PILON period from any amounts When assessing performance against the profit before tax target, owed by the Company.
the Committee took into consideration a number of factors, including the quality of earnings, the extent of any non-underlying The Committee exercised its discretion to pay both Directors a items and the extent of the increase on the previous years profit.
bonus in respect of the 2018 financial year one-third of which will The Committee agreed that the Groups profit figure of 136.9m be satisfied by an allocation of shares, legal ownership of which represented a good performance in light of challenging market will be deferred for three years, which will be subject to clawback, conditions and noted that the 2018 financial statements did not since they had been a member of the Board and employed by the include any non-underlying items.
The Committee therefore agreed Group for the whole of the year.
Neither individual is entitled to a that it would be appropriate to award a payment of 79% of the bonus in respect of the 2019 financial year.
maximum opportunity for this element of the bonus.
The Committee exercised its discretion to permit the vesting of The Groups year-end net debt figure was 185.7m, which was the LTIP awards granted in October 2015, on the basis that the ahead of the on-target figure for bonus purposes of 190m.
So as individuals had been employed by the Group for the whole of the to ensure that the year-end net debt figure was representative of three-year performance period which concluded on the Groups overall net debt position, the Committee took into 30 June 2018. account the Groups average month-end net debt position relative to the average month-end capital invested in the Property and Residential businesses.
The Committee noted that, although the Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 87 Directors Remuneration Report Annual statement of the Chair of the Remuneration Committee continued The Committee also decided to allow the individuals to retain their The safety element of the bonus will require a reduction in both LTIP awards granted in October 2016 and October 2017, pro-rated the Groups AIR and, so as to further incentivise a continued for active service during the performance periods.
improvement in the Groups safety performance, the more challenging AAIR.
The Committee will also continue to take into All payments to be made by the Company with respect to account any material incidents which may occur during the year, NigelBrook and Nigel Turner in relation to the cessation of their aswell as requiring a specific number of visible leadership tours employment are permitted under the policy on Payments for loss to be made.
Please see pages 106 and 107 for further details of the policy.
The personal objectives will relate to an improvement in the Groups employee engagement survey scores, the realisation of Further details of the terms agreed with Nigel Brook and benefits from the Future Proofing Kier programme and the NigelTurner are set out on pages 96 and 97 under Payments continued development of the Groups contract topast Directors.
Looking forward 2019 financial year Further details of performance against each of the bonus targets In the 2019 financial year, there will be no changes to the will be included in the 2019 Annual Report.
structure of the Executive Directors remuneration.
Please see LTIP awards Executive Directors remuneration 2019 on page 90 for further information.
The Executive Directors will continue to receive an award of 150% of their base salary in 2019 the same level as in 2018.
The Base salaries performance conditions will again relate to EPS 50%, TSR 25% The Committee reviewed the base salaries for the Executive and net debt: EBITDA 25%, over the three-year period ending Directors, taking into account the average base salary 30June 2021. increasesawarded across the Group and shareholder feedback Conclusion atthe 2017 AGM.
The Committee recognises that executive remuneration in general The Committee agreed that no increases would be awarded to the continues to be an area of focus for shareholders and other Chief Executive or the Finance Director from 1 July 2018 and that stakeholders.
When setting the Executive Directors 2019 it would be appropriate to set the salary of Claudio Veritiero, in the remuneration, the Committee took into account shareholders new role of Chief Operating Officer, at the same level as that of the feedback from the AGM vote in November 2017 and is satisfied Finance Director with effect from his appointment on 1 August 2018. that, overall, the link between pay and performance remains The Committee is satisfied that the Chief Operating Officers strong, the interests of the Executive Directors and shareholders salary is appropriate in light of the responsibilities of the role.
are aligned and the Executive Directors remuneration Annual bonus remains competitive.
The maximum bonus opportunity for the Chief Executive will be The Committee will continue to monitor developments in executive 125% of base salary, with 115% of base salary for the other remuneration and engage with shareholders and the proxy voting Executive Directors both opportunities remaining unchanged from agencies to ensure that Kiers leadership team is appropriately 2018.
The Committee considers these opportunities to be in line incentivised to continue to deliver growth and the Groups with those at peer group companies.
The on-target bonus opportunities as a percentage of salary for I will be available to answer any questions you may have about the Executive Directors will remain unchanged from those which theCommittee, our work and how we operate at the AGM on applied in the 2018 financial year.
The bonus targets will be underlying earnings per share EPS 50%, the Groups average month-end cash net debt position 30%, safety targets 10% and personal objectives 10%.
The Groups Property and Residential businesses are increasingly using joint ventures JVs, which management considers to be Constance Baroudel capital efficient structures.
The performance of JVs is presented in Chair of the Remuneration Committee the Groups financial statements after interest and taxation.
The 19 September 2018 Committee therefore decided to replace the profit before tax target with an EPS target, since EPS is also presented after interest and tax and is considered by the Committee to be a more relevant measure of the Groups profitability for bonus purposes.
The Committee decided to change the net debt target to measure the Groups average month-end performance, rather than its year-end position which was the target in 2018 and previous years.
The change in the target reflects discussions between members of the Board and shareholders during the year.
88 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018
