 Report Directors remuneration policy summary Introduction The Companys remuneration policy, which was approved at the AGM on 17 November 2017, will continue to apply in the 2019 financial year.
The Committee has included the policy table and certain other extracts from the policy in this years report for ease of reference and so as to provide context for the decisions taken by the Committee during the year.
Where relevant, references to targets in the policy have been updated to refer to 2018 targets, together with certain other non-material changes.
The full policy is set out on pages 86 to 93 inclusive of the 2017 Annual Report, which can be found on Kiers website at www.
Future policy table The Groups policy for each element of an Executive Directors remuneration is set out in the table below: Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Salaries are reviewed annually by reference to a number of factors, including an individuals experience, Any increase will typically be in line with those awarded to the wider employee Continued strong performance.
Base salary performance and role within the Group, the external market including FTSE companies of a similar size and sector population.
The Committee has discretion to award higher increases in To attract and retain Executive peers and any increase awarded to the wider employee population.
circumstances that it considers appropriate, such as a material change in the Directors of the calibre required to complexity of the business or an individuals responsibility.
Details of salary Any increase is typically effective from 1 July.
deliver the Groups strategy changes will be disclosed in the Annual Report.
Benefits are reviewed from time to time and typically include, but are not limited to, a company car or car allowance, Benefits are set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate in light None.
Benefits private health insurance and life assurance.
ofthe market and an individuals circumstances.
To provide benefits which are Business-related expenses which are deemed to be taxable form part of the benefits provided.
competitive with the market In certain circumstances, the Committee may also approve the provision of additional benefits or allowances forexample, the relocation of an Executive Director to perform his or her role.
One or more HMRC-approved schemes allowing all employees, including Executive Directors, to save up to the The maximum amount that may be saved is the limit prescribed by HMRC or None.
SAYE scheme maximum limit specified by HMRC rules.
Options are granted at up to a 20% discount.
such other lower limit as determined by the Committee at the time employees To encourage ownership of the are invited to participate in a scheme.
Typically, employees are invited to Companys shares participate on an annual basis.
An HMRC-approved scheme which is open to all UK tax resident employees of participating Group companies.
Participants can purchase shares up to the prevailing limit approved by HMRC None.
Share Incentive Plan Executive Directors are eligible to participate.
or such other lower limit as determined by the Committee at the time they are To encourage ownership invited to participate.
The plan allows employees to purchase shares out of pre-tax income.
of the Companys shares The Company currently offers to match purchases made through the plan at the The Company may match shares purchased with an award of free shares.
Matching shares may be forfeited if rate of one free share for every two shares purchased.
employees leave within three years of their award, in accordance with the SIP rules.
The plan trustees can reinvest cash dividends to acquire further shares on behalf of participants.
Executive Directors participate in a defined contribution scheme.
For current Executive Directors, the maximum employer contribution is 20% of None.
To provide a retirement benefit which Executive Directors may elect to receive all or part of the employer contribution is competitive with the market as a taxable cash supplement.
The Company operates a discretionary bonus scheme.
The maximum potential bonus for the financial year ended 30 June 2018 was The Committee has discretion to determine the performance measures and Annual bonus 125% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 115% of base salary for other their relative weightings each year.
The weighting towards non-financial Performance measures and targets are set by the Committee at the start of the year.
Payments are based on an To reward the delivery of near-term Executive Directors.
measures will be no higher than 25% of the maximum potential bonus.
assessment of performance at the end of the year.
Clawback will apply to any cash bonus paid in respect of the performance targets and financial year ending 30 June 2018 and future years.
Threshold performance, for which an element of bonus may become payable The Committee has discretion to adjust bonus payments to ensure that they businessstrategy under each component of the annual bonus, is set by the Committee at the accurately reflect business and safety performance over the performance period One-third of any net payment is satisfied by an allocation of Kier Group plc shares, which is deferred for three years start of each financial year.
and are fair to shareholders as well as recipients.
subject to early release for good leavers and upon a takeover and is subject to a malus provision.
Dividend payments accrue on deferred bonus shares over the deferral period.
The level of bonus for achieving threshold performance varies by performance Actual targets for each performance measure and performance against each of measure, and may vary for a measure from year to year, to ensure that it is these targets, and any use by the Committee of its discretion with respect to See Malus and clawback on page 104. aligned with the Committees assessment of the degree of difficulty or bonus payments, will be disclosed in the Annual Report immediately following stretch in achieving it.
the end of the performance period.
Awards are made annually and vest, subject to the achievement of performance conditions, at the end of a The maximum award under the rules of the plan is 200% of base salary.
The performance conditions for the LTIP awards to be awarded in the 2018 LTIP three-year performance period.
financial year will relate to EPS 50%, TSR 25% and net debt: EBITDA 25%.
The Committee may grant awards of up to the maximum permitted under the To reward the sustained strong At the start of each performance period, the Committee sets performance targets which it considers to be LTIP rules when it considers it appropriate to do so.
The reasons for an award EPS performance is measured by compound cumulative growth over the performance by the Group over appropriately stretching.
in excess of 150% of salary will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report.
threeyears Awards are satisfied in the form of a deferred, contingent right to acquire shares in the Company, at no cost to the On achieving the threshold performance level for each element of the award, TSR outperformance is measured against a bespoke group of listed companies individual.
A two-year post-vesting holding period will apply to awards granted in 2017 and future years.
25% of the relevant element of the award will vest.
Vesting is on a straight-line which reflects the Groups business mix and competition for capital.
The TSR basis between threshold and maximum levels of performance.
comparators for the awards made in the financial year ended 30 June 2018 are Dividend equivalents in respect of vested shares will apply to those awards granted after shareholder approval of listed on page 96. this policy and, subject to approval of i this policy and ii any necessary changes to the LTIP rules, to those awards granted shortly prior to the 2017 AGM.
The Committee retains discretion to change or supplement EPS, TSR and netdebt : EBITDA as performance measures with alternative or additional A malus provision applies to awards pre-vesting and a clawback provision applies to the post-vesting holding period.
performance measures to ensure that the awards are always linked to See Malus and clawback on page 104. sustained business performance.
No measure will carry a weighting of less If an event or series of events occurs as a result of which the Committee deems it fair and reasonable that the than 25%.
performance conditions should be modified, the Committee has discretion during the vesting period to modify Actual performance measures and weightings will be disclosed in the them.
Any modified performance conditions must be no more difficult to satisfy than the original performance AnnualReport immediately following the granting of an award.
conditions were when first set.
Any use of Committee discretion with respect to modifying performance conditions will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report.
The awards are subject to the terms of the LTIP and the Committee may adjust or amend the awards only in accordance with the LTIP rules.
102 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Salaries are reviewed annually by reference to a number of factors, including an individuals experience, Any increase will typically be in line with those awarded to the wider employee Continued strong performance.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 103  Report Directors remuneration policy summary continued Executive Director shareholding guidelines Payments from outstanding awards The Committee encourages Executive Directors to accumulate a The Company will honour any commitment entered into, and the Executive Directors will be eligible to receive payment from any shareholding in the Company of at least two years base salary over a period of up to five years.
Executive Directors are award or arrangement made, i before this policy came into effect, provided that the terms of the commitment or payment are encouraged to retain any shares allocated to them as part of the annual bonus arrangements and 50% of the shares allocated to consistent with this policy or preceded it, or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director and, in the opinion of the them upon the vesting of LTIP awards net of tax until they reach this level of shareholding.
Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director.
For these purposes, payment Selection of performance measures and approach to includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, setting targets in relation to awards of shares, upon the terms which were agreed The measures used for the annual bonus are determined annually when the award was granted.
to reflect KPIs which are considered important and relevant to the Notes to the policy table Group.
The Committee believes that using a number of measures Malus and clawback provides a balanced incentive.
The measures themselves are aligned to, and are designed to support the delivery of, the Allocations of shares in part satisfaction of annual bonus Groups strategy.
payments and unvested LTIP awards will be subject to a malus provision during the deferral period and the period prior to In relation to the LTIP awards, the Committee believes that the vesting, respectively.
combination of EPS, TSR and net debt: EBITDA clearly aligns performance to shareholders interests and the Groups long-term This allows the Committee to determine, in its absolute discretion, strategy.
EPS is a key measure of long-term underlying that i the level of an unvested LTIP award or part of an award is performance of the Group.
TSR is intended to measure reduced including to nil and or ii the number of deferred shares managements contribution to the creation of value for is reduced including to nil in certain circumstances.
Examples of shareholders relative to a bespoke peer group which reflects the such circumstances include, but are not limited to: Groups mix of business.
Cash and, therefore, net debt is an a material misstatement of the Groups financial statements: important financial measure in the contracting sector and a material error in determining the level of satisfaction of a supports the delivery of the Groups strategy.
In future years, the performance condition or target: Committee may decide to select other performance measures.
a participants action omission resulting in material reputational Targets for the annual bonus and the LTIP awards are reviewed damage to the Group: before the awards are made, based on a number of internal and a participant deliberately misleading the Company, the market external reference points.
The Committee intends that targets will and or shareholders in relation to the financial performance of be stretching but achievable and will align managements interests the Group: with those of shareholders.
a participants employment being terminated in circumstances Approach to setting theremuneration of other employees of gross misconduct and or circumstances justifying summary Kiers approach to setting annual remuneration is broadly dismissal: and consistent across the Group.
Consideration is given to the other circumstances similar in nature to those listed above experience, performance and responsibilities of individuals as well which the Committee considers justifies the application as to publicly available external benchmarking data, to the extent ofmalus.
Certain grades of senior The Committee has the right to apply the malus provision to an employees are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme individual or on a collective basis.
with similar performance measures to those used for the Executive Directors.
Maximum opportunities and specific Clawback applies to i the cash element of the annual bonus from performance measures vary by seniority, with business-specific the 2018 financial year and may be applied up to three years measures applied where appropriate.
Senior managers currently, following payment of the bonus and ii the two-year post-vesting approximately 350 individuals are also eligible to participate in a holding period which applies to LTIP awards granted from the long-term share incentive plan under which awards will normally 2018 financial year and future years.
The Committee expects that vest after three years, subject to continued employment.
Award the circumstances in which clawback will apply will be the same sizes vary according to seniority and responsibility.
or substantially the same as for malus.
The clawback may be effected by a reduction in: the number of deferred bonus shares previously allocated, the number of vested or unvested LTIP awards or salary or by repayment from an individuals own funds orby any combination of these.
104 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Approach to remuneration on recruitment External appointment When recruiting a new Executive Director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration.
In addition, the Committee may consider it appropriate to grant an award under an alternative scheme or arrangement in order to facilitate recruitment of an individual, subject to the policy set out below: Component Approach Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to relevant market data, the experience and skills of the individual, internal relativities and the appointees current base salary.
Where a new appointee has an initial base salary set below the market median, any subsequent adjustment will be managed by the Committee, using where appropriate phased increases and subject to the individuals development in the role.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the remuneration policy, which may also include but are not limited to any necessary expenses relating to expatriation or relocation on recruitment.
SAYE New appointees will be eligible to participate on the same terms as all other employees.
schemes SIP New appointees will be eligible to participate on the same terms as all other employees.
Pension New appointees will receive pension contributions of up to 20% of pensionable salary into a defined contribution pension arrangement or an equivalent taxable cash supplement or a combination of both.
Annual bonus The annual bonus structure described in the remuneration policy will apply to new appointees including the maximum opportunity, pro rated in the year of joining to reflect the proportion of that year employed.
One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares.
LTIP New appointees may be granted awards under the LTIP of up to 200% of salary.
Buy-out The Committee may consider it appropriate to grant a buy-out award with respect to either a bonus or a awards share-based incentive scheme under an alternative scheme or arrangement in order to facilitate recruitment.
When doing so, the Committee may, to the extent required, exercise the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
Any such buy-out award would have a fair value no higher than that of the award forfeited.
In granting any such award, the Committee will consider relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
When considering any performance conditions, the Committee will, where appropriate, take into account those used in the Companys own incentive arrangements.
Where appropriate, the Committee will also consider whether it is necessary to introduce further retention measures for an individual for example, extended deferral periods.
In determining an appropriate remuneration package, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that the arrangements are in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
Internal promotion When recruiting a new Executive Director through internal promotion, the Committee will set remuneration in a manner consistent with the policy for external appointments set out above other than with respect to buy-out awards.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honour these commitments.
The remuneration of individuals below the Board is typically not greater than for Executive Directors.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 105  Report Directors remuneration policy summary continued Service contracts A summary of the key elements of the Executive Directors service agreements insofar as they relate to remuneration is as follows: Term of contract Summary of provisions Notice period 12 months notice both to and from the Executive Director.
Payment in Employment can be terminated with immediate effect by undertaking to make a PILON comprising base salary, accrued lieu of notice but untaken holiday entitlement, pension contributions or allowance, car allowance and private medical insurance.
PILON The Company is entitled to make the PILON on a phased basis, so that any outstanding payment s would be reduced or stopped if alternative employment is obtained.
Change of There are no payments due upon a change of control, although deferred bonus shares would be released.
control Other There is no contractual entitlement to notice, or any other payments in respect of the period after cessation of entitlements employment, if the individual is summarily dismissed.
If not required to take any remaining holiday entitlement during on termination his her notice period, the Executive Director will receive a payment for any accrued but untaken holiday entitlement.
Please see Payments for loss of office below for a summary of other entitlements which may be due upon termination and which relate to remuneration.
Payments for loss of office The Companys policy on payments for loss of office is as follows: Component Approach Annual Individuals who are considered to be good leavers may be considered for a bonus in relation to the year in which their bonus active employment ceases.
Any payment will normally be pro rated for length of service and performance during the year.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to review the performance of the individual and the Group in general and, having done so, determine that a different level of bonus payment would be appropriate.
Clawback will continue to apply to the cash element of any annual bonus payment from 2018 until the end of the three-year clawback period.
Deferred shares allocated in part satisfaction of annual bonuses may be released upon cessation of employment if an individual is a good leaver.
Otherwise, they will be released at the end of the three-year holding period unless they are forfeited in the case of gross misconduct and or circumstances justifying summary dismissal.
LTIP If an Executive Directors employment ceases for reasons of death, ill-health, injury, disability, retirement with the agreement of the Company or his her employing company ceasing to be a member of the Group or such other circumstances approved by the Committee, outstanding awards are retained.
The Committee may also at its discretion permit unvested LTIP awards to vest on an accelerated basis or alternatively be retained until the vesting date.
Unvested LTIP awards will, subject to Committee discretion, normally be pro rated for length of service during the performance period and will, subject to performance, normally vest at the same time as all other awards in the LTIP award cycle.
Vested shares relating to awards made from 2017 are subject to the two-year post-vesting holding period, irrespective of the date on which they vest.
For all other leavers, outstanding LTIP awards automatically lapse, unless the Committee exercises its discretion otherwise taking into account the factors detailed immediately following this table.
SIP and SAYE The Executive Directors are subject to the same leaver provisions as all other participants, as prescribed by the rules schemes of the relevant scheme or plan.
Other If the Company terminates an Executive Directors employment by reason of redundancy, the Company will make a redundancy payment to the Executive Director in line with his her service agreement, any applicable collective bargaining agreement and applicable law and regulation.
The Company may make a contribution towards an Executive Directors legal fees for advice relating to a compromise orsettlement agreement and may also make other payments connected to the departure for example, for outplacement services.
With respect to any such payments, the Committee will authorise what it considers to be reasonable in thecircumstances.
Change of Deferred bonus shares will be released and any outstanding LTIP awards may vest early subject to the Committees control discretion, having taken into account current and forecast progress against the performance condition s, the proportion of the vesting period which has elapsed and any other factors considered by the Committee to be relevant and the holding period for vested LTIP awards will cease.
Clawback will no longer apply to any vested LTIP awards or prior payments of cash bonuses.
The rules of the SIP and the SAYE schemes will apply.
No payments are due under the Executive Directors service agreements upon a change of control.
106 Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Where appropriate, the Committee will oblige the individual to mitigate his her losses and either offset any alternative remuneration received by the individual against any payments made by the Company for loss of office or reduce any payments to be made by the Company for loss of office to take account of any failure to mitigate when, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, the individual has failed actively to do so.
In exercising discretion in respect of any of the elements referred to above, the Committee will take into account all factors, which it considers to be appropriate at the relevant time.
These include, but are not limited to: the duration of the Executive Directors service: the Committees assessment of the Executive Directors contribution to the success of the Group: whether the Executive Director has worked any notice period or whether a PILON is being made: the need to ensure an orderly handover of duties: and the need to compromise any claims which the Executive Director may have.
Any use of Committee discretion will be disclosed in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Employees are not formally consulted on the Executive Directors remuneration and were not consulted during the preparation of the remuneration policy set out above.
However, the Groups employee engagement survey provides an opportunity for employees to provide their opinion on their own remuneration arrangements.
The Committee takes into account the overall pay and employment conditions of employees within the Group when making decisions on the Executive Directors remuneration.
In addition, the Committee is provided with information about the proposed annual Group-wide pay review when setting the Executive Directors salaries and is made aware of the approximate outcomes of annual bonuses within the wider workforce.
Consideration of shareholders views The views of shareholders, and guidance from shareholder representative bodies, are important to the Committee and provide the context for setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Chair of the Committee consulted with a number of significant shareholders during the year and their views have been taken into account when preparing the remuneration policy.
The Committee will keep the remuneration policy under regular review so as to ensure that it continues to relate to the Companys long-term strategy and aligns the interests of the Executive Directors with those of the shareholders.
In addition, the Committee will continue to monitor trends and developments in corporate governance and market practice to ensure the structure of executive remuneration remains appropriate.
Non-Executive Director remuneration policy General The Non-Executive Directors remuneration including that of the Chairman reflects the anticipated time commitment to fulfil their duties.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive bonuses, long-term incentive awards, a pension or compensation on termination of their appointments.
The policy on Non-Executive Directors remuneration is as follows: Element and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Fees Fee levels are reviewed annually with Fees may be increased in line with Continued strong referenceto individual experience, the the outcome of the annual review performance.
To attract and retain externalmarket and the expected time and will not normally exceed the Non-Executive Directors commitment required ofthe Director.
increase awarded to the wider ofthe calibre required employee population.
Higher andwith appropriate Additional fees are payable to the Chairs increases may be awarded should skillsand experience oftheBoards committees and to the there be a material change to the SeniorIndependent Director.
requirements of the role, such as additional time commitment.
Any changes to fees will be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year.
Benefits Reasonable and necessary expenses Expenses including, without Not applicable.
arereimbursed, together with any tax due limitation, travel and subsistence To reimburse Non-Executive onthem.
incurred in connection with Directors for expenses Kierbusiness.
Recruiting Non-Executive Directors When recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will follow the policy set out in the table above.
Non-Executive Director letters of appointment The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but have entered into letters of appointment with the Company.
The letters of appointment do not include any provisions for the payment of pre-determined compensation upon termination of appointment.
Kier Group plc | Report and Accounts 2018 107
