Directors Remuneration Report Chairmans Annual Statement Committee members Simon Palley Chairman Dame Alison Carnwath Edward Bonham Carter Cressida Hogg Highlights Appointment of Colette OShea andScott Parsons to the Board Review of all elements of our Directors Remuneration Policy Annual bonus outturns broadly inline with last year A challenging year for the Long-Term Incentive Plan Key responsibilities Ensuring the Directors Remuneration Policy remains fit for purpose and is implemented reasonably Maintaining a strong link between returns to shareholders and reward for Executives Oversight of all key reward matters across the Group, including Gender Pay reporting Approving individual reward outcomes for the Executive Directors and the Executive Committee 86 Landsec Annual Report 2018 Simon Palley Chairman Remuneration Committee Governance the leaders of the business to focus on those peer group is particularly challenging for a Dear shareholder key capabilities that will drive relative, rather large, generalist player whose strategy has than absolute outperformance, however the been to strengthen the balance sheet and I am pleased to market behaves.
I am very grateful to those fide-risk the business.
In a market downturn, shareholders who have engaged with us in it is possible that our relative performance introducethe Directors the consultation process, and provided such will be much stronger than our absolute, and positive and constructive feedback.
in this scenario the Executive Directors will be Remuneration Report rewarded accordingly.
The proposed DRP is laid out in detail in the following pages, and, as we did last year, we Looking forward have also included a summary of how the DRP Having reviewed our DRP in detail this year, In the context of continued uncertainty in will be applied in the year ahead.
Following Idont anticipate any major changes in the our two key markets, the Board has continued focus of the Committee over the coming year.
positive feedback from shareholders, we have to focus on ensuring that the business is in We will continue to support the Landsec again included an at a glance summary of the best possible position to withstand the executives in achieving the right balance remuneration outturns for the year in a broader currents of change and take advantage of between the management of short-term organisational context, including our gender pay new opportunities as and when they arise.
challenges and the identification of long-term report.
This is followed by all the supporting detail The appointment of Colette OShea and Scott opportunities, and believe that we have the on both shortand long-term incentive plans.
Parsons to the Board has enabled the Nonright remuneration framework in place to executive Directors to spend more time with Remuneration outcomes for the year enable us to do this.
these senior executives, and the Remuneration The annual bonus for the year was slightly Committee has spent time ensuring that above target for Executive Directors, broadly As I said earlier, I am very grateful to all of our this was a smooth transition from a reward inline with last year.
The performance can shareholders for their ongoing support and perspective.
We have also sought to incentivise be summarised as follows: feedback, and I hope very much that you will the executives in their quest to identify and feel able to approve the continued application As in prior years, our measure of Total measure those leadership capabilities that will of our Directors Remuneration Policy with its Property Return uses a challenging unweighted be critical to business performance in the years one small revision.
IPD benchmark of all March valued properties.
ahead innovation and customer insight being The benchmark was not available at the Simon Palley two key examples.
time of writing, but on the strength of the Chairman, Remuneration Committee monthly and quarterly data, we expect to In late 2017, we conducted a thorough review underperform, resulting in no payment from of our Directors Remuneration Policy DRP, this element of the bonus.
in conjunction with our independent advisers, AON Hewitt.
Our DRP was last put before The revenue profit performance was again In this section shareholders in 2015, and so we are now seeking very strong, significantly above our threshold approval to cover the three-year period to 2021. set in 2015.
This reflects the successful leasing We have been very aware of the level of scrutiny of our London development programme Page 88 Remuneration focused on executive pay by all stakeholder and the acquisition of the outlet portfolio groups, and the differing opinions on the in Retail.
This element of the plan paid out ataglance optimum construct of both shortand longat near maximum level.
Remuneration Principles term elements of remuneration.
With this in and Structure Performance against the specific business mind, we have conducted a detailed review objectives was more mixed.
Although Outcomes for the year.
ofeach element of our policy to ensure that Westgate Oxford was a very successful they reflect current external sentiment, and, launch, costs slightly exceeded the original Page 90 Annual Report on crucially, continue to drive the right leadership estimate, and we fell just short of the Remuneration behaviour from our most senior employees.
extremely stretching leasing targets set.
Detail on outcomes Keyconsiderations in the review included our Thesame can be said for the Piccadilly foreach element of business strategy, the views of shareholders and Lights refurbishment in London, although remuneration and for other stakeholders, and the latest institutional the London team have done exceptionally eachindividual Director investor guidelines and market practice.
We well to all but complete the letting of the have also reflected on whether now was the Performance targets speculative development programme.
right time to radically simplify our long-term forthe yearahead.
The challenging objectives set around incentive arrangements, and we looked at Community, Sustainability and Diversity our key performance measures Total Property Page 105 Remuneration Policy have seen pleasing progress.
Return, Total Shareholder Return and Revenue Proposed Remuneration Profit in detail to see whether adjustments When this performance was combined with the policy for approval might produce more precise and meaningful strong performance against their individual Application of the Policy measures of absolute and relative performance.
objectives, the total bonus pay-out was 88.2% inthe yearahead.
Our conclusion was that, in the absence of any of salary for both Robert Noel and Martin compelling reason to change, maintaining Greenslade.
Colette OShea and Scott Parsons consistency is important, particularly when remained on their previous bonus arrangements market conditions toughen and the targets for the duration of the year, and their outturns become, if anything, more stretching.
were 73.5% and 63.5% of salary respectively.
We are therefore proposing only one change to Turning to the Long-Term Incentive Plan, our DRP the equalisation of pension provision which is for performance over the three years for the Executive Directors with the normal to 31 March 2018, I am disappointed to report arrangements for the wider workforce.
This that we do not anticipate any pay-out this year, policy will apply to all new Executive Directors.
based on our relative Total Property Return and Outside of this, we are happy that our current Total Shareholder Return.
Although the business DRP remains fit for purpose, in that it incentivises is in strong shape, outperforming our FTSE350 Landsec Annual Report 2018 87
