STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY INTRODUCTION This report sets out the Companys policy on the remuneration of its executive and non-executive directors, which was approved by the shareholders at the AGM on 25 July 2017.
The policy took effect from this date and may operate for up to three years.
Our policy details can be accessed on the Companys website at www.
com, and are contained in the 2017 Annual Report and Financial Statements on pages 86 to 94.
However, in the interests of full disclosure, the Remuneration Committee the Committee has included these below to be read alongside the remuneration outcomes for the year ended 31 March 2018.
The policy was prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and takes account of the views of our major shareholders and proxy agencies, as expressed during previous engagements.
POLICY OVERVIEW The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for establishing appropriate remuneration arrangements for the executive directors and other senior management of the Group.
In setting the Remuneration Policy for the executive directors, the Committee will ensure that the structures are in the best interest of the Group and its shareholders, by taking into account the following general principles: to lead our chosen markets in medical quality by attracting, retaining and motivating the best person for each position: to ensure total remuneration packages are simple and fair in design so that they are valued by participants: to ensure that the fixed element of remuneration is determined with reference to the region in which the executive operates and the broader international market, taking account of individual performance, responsibilities and experience: and to ensure a significant proportion of the total remuneration package is linked to financial performance: to balance performance pay between the achievement of the Groups financial performance objectives and delivering sustainable stock market out-performance, creating a clear line of sight between performance and reward: and providing a focus on sustained improvements in profitability and returns: and to provide performance-related pay linked to share price and with a requirement to hold shares to facilitate senior management to build a shareholding in the business and, therefore, align management and shareholders interests and the Groups performance, without encouraging excessive risk-taking.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Company is committed to maintaining open and transparent dialogue with its shareholders.
The Committee engages regularly in a process of investor consultation.
The Committee considered shareholder feedback in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report for the prior year at its first meeting following the AGM.
This feedback, as well as any additional feedback received during any other meetings with shareholders, was considered as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration arrangements for the following year.
Where appropriate, the Committee will actively engage with shareholders and shareholder representative bodies, seeking views which may be considered when making any decisions about changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The Committee considers the AGM to be an opportunity to meet and communicate with shareholders, giving investors theopportunity to raise any issues or concerns they may have.
In addition, the Committee will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should any material changes be made to the Directors RemunerationPolicy.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 135 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED SUMMARY OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The following table sets out the key aspects of the Directors Remuneration Policy.
PURPOSE ELEMENT AND LINK TO MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE OF PAY STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY CRITERIA Base To attract, retain Normally reviewed There is no prescribed Not applicable compensation and motivate annually by the maximum annual talented Committee or in the increase individuals event of a change in an The Committee who are critical individuals position or takes into account to the Groups responsibilities.
Typically remuneration levels success effective from 1 April in comparable Base compensation organisations in levels are set to reflect geographies in which the experience and the Group operates and capabilities of the in which it competes for individual and the scope talent and scale of their role Ordinarily, annual salary Increases to base increases would be no compensation more than the average reflect individual annual increase of performance and the the Company in the pay and conditions in the same geographical workforce location in which the director is domiciled.
However, in exceptional circumstances, a higher increase may be awarded.
For example: assumed additional responsibility: or an increase in the scale or scope of the role: or, in the case of a new executive, a move towards the desired rate over a period of time where salary was initially set below the intended positioning 136 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY PURPOSE ELEMENT AND LINK TO MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE OF PAY STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY CRITERIA 1 Annual STI To encourage Performance targets are Maximum opportunity At least 75% of the and reward reviewed annually by the of 150% of base STI will be based delivery of the Committee, are linked compensation on Group achieved Groups annual to strategic objectives, financial performance financial and and are appropriately and or the financial operational demanding, taking performance of objectives into account economic the component conditions and divisions of the To align with riskfactors Group.
May also shareholder risk include non-financial and reward Half of the bonus paid measures e. g. clinical will be deferred in shares excellence for two years, subject to continued employment Performance below threshold results Deferred shares may be in zero payment.
Where Payments increase awards are cash settled from 0% to 100% and a director has not yet of the maximum met the share ownership opportunity for levels guidelines, this cash must of performance be used to purchase between threshold shares in the Company and maximum Dividends that accrue performancetargets on the shares under the deferred bonus will be paid in cash at the time of vesting 3 Clawback and malus provisions will apply for over-payments due to misstatement, misconduct or error MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 137 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED PURPOSE ELEMENT AND LINK TO MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE OF PAY STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY CRITERIA 2 LTIP To balance Annual awards Maximum opportunity Performance performance denominated in shares of 200% of base measures will include pay between with vesting dependent compensation adjusted EPS and achieving on the achievement of relative TSR which, financial performance conditions in combination, will performance over a three-year period account for no less objectives than 75% of the Executive directors and delivering totalaward will be required to sustainable stock hold vested awards for The Committee may market outtwoyears introduce a new performance measure or measures Awards may be settled To encourage aligned with the in cash, with the share ownership Companys strategic cash payment taking and align with objectives.
Any account of the share shareholders such measures will price movement during interests account for no more both the vesting and than 25% of the total holdingperiods award Where awards are cash No more than 25% of settled and a director has an award will vest for not yet met the share achieving threshold ownership guidelines, performance, this cash must be used increasing pro rata to purchase shares in to full vesting for theCompany achieving maximum Performance targets performance targets are reviewed annually by the Committee and are set according to economic outlook and risk factors prevailing at the time, ensuring that such targets remain challenging in the circumstances, and realistic enough to motivate and incentivise management Dividends that accrue during the vesting and holding periods will be paid in cash, to the extent that awards havevested 3 Clawback and malus provisions apply for over-payments due to misstatement, misconduct or error Pension To help recruit Participation in a Executive directors Not applicable retirement and retain defined contribution can receive a Company benefits high-performing pension scheme contribution of up to executive 10% of base salary directors To provide employee with longterm savings via pension provisions 138 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY PURPOSE ELEMENT AND LINK TO MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE OF PAY STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY CRITERIA Benefits To provide Benefits may include Actual value of benefits Not applicable a market but are not limited to provided competitive private medical level of benefits insurance to ensure death and disability executive directors insurance well-being leave and longservice awards Other ancillary benefits, including relocation and an allowance towards reasonable fees for professional services such as legal, tax and financial advice Reasonable business expenses e. g. travel, accommodation and subsistence will be reimbursed and, in some instances, the associated tax will be borne by the Company Non-executive Set to attract, In consultation with As for the executive Not applicable directors fees retain and executive directors, directors, there is no motivate the Chairman of the prescribed maximum talented Board will review annual increase.
individuals periodically, or in the The Chairman of through the event of a change in the Board and the provision an individuals position executive directors of marketor responsibilities as are guided by the competitive fees appropriate general increase for the broader workforce.
In Fee levels are set certain circumstances, at market rates, the Chairman of the responsibility and time Board may recognise commitments, and the an increase, such as pay and conditions in additional responsibility, the workplace or an increase in the Reasonable business scale or scope of expenses e. g. travel, therole accommodation and subsistence will be reimbursed and, in some instances, the associated tax will be borne by the Company MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 139 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED PURPOSE ELEMENT AND LINK TO MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE OF PAY STRATEGY OPERATION OPPORTUNITY CRITERIA Share Alignment Executive directors are Not applicable Not applicable ownership of executive expected to build and guidelines directors maintain a shareholding interests in the Company with those of Where awards are shareholders cash settled and a director has not yet met the share ownership guidelines, this cash must be used to purchase shares in the Company.
Until this threshold is achieved, executive directors are normally required to retain no less than 50% of the net of tax value from vested LTIP, deferred STI or other awards The level of shareholding guidelines will be detailed in the Annual Report each year The Committee will review executive directors shareholding annually in the context of this policy.
Notes 1 T he annual STI is focused predominantly on key financial performance indicators, to reflect the Groups success in managing its operations.
The balance is determined based on executive directors performance against annual Group operational targets, including measures of clinical excellence.
The executive directors STI is calculated on Group achieved EBITDA performance together with other financial and strategic business targets of the three operating divisions, weighted relative to their respective adjusted EBITDA contribution.
The structure of the executive directors pay policy on annual STIs is generally in line with the policy for remuneration of management within the Group, although the levels of award will be different.
The performance measures that apply to operating division management are based on the respective division's adjusted EBITDA performance, further adjusted to remove the impact of employee bonus accruals, specific costs allocated by corporate and to amend for other specific items subject to approval by the Remuneration Committee and division specific operational targets, including measures of clinical excellence.
The annual STI awards for management are paid in cash with no deferral.
140 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY 2 T he LTIP rewards significant long-term returns to shareholders and long-term financial growth.
Targets are set on sliding scales that take account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Company.
Modest rewards are available for achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial out-performance of challenging strategic plans approved at the start of each year or on the date of award, as the case may be.
The Committee operates long-term incentive LTI arrangements for the executive directors and key senior management in accordance with their respective rules, the Listing Rules and the rules of relevant tax authorities, where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: number of participants: timing of the grant and or payment of award: the size of an award up to plan limits and or payment: discretion to reduce the number of awards vesting if certain performance underpins are not met: discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a change of control or reconstruction determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends : the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events to fulfil their original purpose: and the relative weighting between relative TSR and adjusted EPS are determined annually by the Remuneration Committee for the current reporting period adjusted EPS weight is 60% and relative TSR is 40%.
This will remain the weighting for 2018 19.
The structure of the executive directors pay policy on LTIPs is generally in line with the policy for remuneration of key senior management within the Group, although the levels of award are different.
The LTIP awards for key senior management are denominated in shares, with vesting dependent on the achievement of performance conditions over a three-year period.
Awards may be settled in cash, with the cash payment taking account of the share price movement during the vesting period.
There is no award deferral for key senior management.
3 At the discretion of the Committee, awards may be adjusted before delivery malus or reclaimed after delivery clawback if an adjustment event occurs.
Such circumstances may include: a material misstatement of the Groups audited financial results: a material miscalculation of any relevant performance measure: a material failure of risk management or regulatory compliance by a relevant entity: material reputational damage to the Group: or the participants material misconduct.
Management within the Group is also subject to malus and clawback provisions based on the adjustment events defined above.
PREVIOUS AWARDS The Company has authority to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors before they became a director such as the vesting or exercise of past share awards or before the policy came into effect, including those granted by companies in the Group prior to that company becoming part of the Group such as the Mediclinic International Limited Forfeitable Share Plan.
THE COMMITTEE CONSIDERS PAY AND EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS OF EMPLOYEES IN THE GROUP WHEN DETERMINING THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY When considering executive directors base compensation, the Committee considers market-related salary levels, including bonuses of appropriate comparable companies.
Further, the Committee reviews base compensation and STI arrangements for the management team, to ensure that there is a coherent approach across the Group.
The STI arrangements operate on a similar basis across the management team.
The key difference in the policy for executive directors is that remuneration is more heavily weighted towards long-term variable pay than other employees.
This ensures there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by the executive directors.
The Committee does not formally consult with employees in respect of the design of the executive directors Remuneration Policy, although the Committee will keep this under review.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 141 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED close alignment between the interests of shareholders and REMUNERATION SCENARIOS FOR management: THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS If a new executive director is appointed, the Committee The total remuneration for each executive director that will seek to align the remuneration package with the could result from the Remuneration Policy in 2018 19 is Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders.
shown below under three different performance levels, New executive directors will participate in the STI plan being: below threshold when only fixed pay is receivable, and LTIP subject to the same limits as set out in the policy.
The chart highlights how the Depending on the timing of the appointment, the performance-related elements of the package comprise a Committee may deem it appropriate to set different STI significant portion of total remuneration at on-target and performance conditions to that of the current executive maximum performance.
Remuneration is earned in pounds directors for the first performance year of appointment.
sterling and South African rand.
The rand portion of the remuneration package is translated into pounds sterling at An LTIP award can be made following an appointment a rate of 1: ZAR17.22.
assuming the Company is not in a closed period.
Flexibility will be retained to set base compensation DIRECTORS RECRUITMENT AND at the level necessary to facilitate hiring candidates PROMOTIONS of appropriate calibre in external markets and make awards or payments in respect of deferred remuneration The policy on the recruitment or promotion of an executive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
director takes into account the need to attract, retain and In terms of remuneration to compensate for forfeited motivate the best person for each position, while ensuring EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION 000 2 699 2 572 Fixed Pay 43% 44% STI 1 914 1 824 1 623 LTIP 38% 39% 38% 33% 1 176 33% 28% 34% 33% 28% 34% 649 619 28% 459 28% 100% 34% 24% 100% 100% 33% 23% 100% 39% 28% 28% 28% 100% 38% Minimum Target Maximum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Danie Meintjes Ronnie van der Merwe Jurgens Myburgh Chief Executive O cer Chief Executive O cer Chief Financial O cer 1 June 2018 Assumptions 1 Salary levels apply as at 1 April 2018.
2 The value of taxable benefits is based on actual amounts as at 31 March 2018 of benefits and cash allowances.
3 The value of pension contribution is based on a Company contribution of 9% of base salary.
4 Minimum performance assumes no award is earned under the STI plan and no vesting is achieved under the LTIP: aton-target, 60% of a maximum bonus is earned under the STI plan and 63% of the maximum award opportunity is achieved under the LTIP: and at maximum, full vesting occurs under both plans.
5 Share price movement and dividend accrual have been excluded from the above analysis.
142 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY awards, the Committee will look to replicate the regard to the particular circumstances of the case.
The arrangements being forfeited as closely as possible and, Committee may require notice to be worked or to make in doing so, will take account of relevant factors including: payment in lieu of notice or to place the director on garden the nature of the deferred remuneration, performance leave for the notice period.
Such a decision is made to conditions and the time over which they would have protect the Companys and shareholders interests.
The face and or expected values of In case of payment in lieu of notice or garden leave, the the award s offered will not materially exceed the value salary, benefits and pension will be paid for the period of ascribed to the award s foregone.
notice served on garden leave or paid in lieu of notice.
If For an internal appointment, any incentive amount the Committee feels it would be in shareholders interests, awarded in respect of a prior role may be allowed to payments will be made in phased instalments.
In the case vest on its original terms or be adjusted as relevant to of payment in lieu of notice, payments will be subject to be take into account the appointment.
Any other ongoing offset against earnings elsewhere.
remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment An STI payment may be made in respect of the period of the may continue.
incentive year worked by the director.
There is no provision The Committee may agree that the Company will meet for an amount in lieu of bonus to be payable for any part certain relocation and incidental expenses as appropriate.
of the notice period not worked.
The bonus payment will For an overseas appointment, the Committee will have be scaled back pro rata for the period of the incentive year discretion to offer cost-effective benefits and pension worked by the director and would remain payable at the provisions which reflect local market practice and relevant normal payment date.
Awards held under the deferred STI and LTI arrangements For the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive are subject to the rules containing discretionary provisions director, the fee arrangement will be set in accordance with setting out the treatment of awards where a participant the approved Remuneration Policy at that time.
leaves and is designated as a good leaver.
In these circumstances, a participants awards will not be forfeited DIRECTORS SERVICE AGREEMENTS on cessation of employment and instead will continue to AND PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE vest on the normal vesting date or earlier at the discretion The Committee seeks to ensure that the contractual terms of the Committee, subject to the performance conditions of the executive directors service agreements reflect attached to the relevant awards.
The awards may be scaled best practice.
It is the Companys policy that all executive back pro rata for the period of the vesting period worked by directors have rolling contracts that can be terminated by the director.
the employee in line with his service agreement.
Executive In addition to the above payments, the Committee may make directors service agreements are terminable on six months any other payments determined by a court of law in respect notice.
Consistent with the UK Corporate Governance Code, of the termination of a directors contract or may pay any all directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at statutory entitlements or any sums to settle or compromise each AGM.
claims in connection with a termination including, at the In circumstances of termination on notice, the Committee discretion of the Committee, reimbursement for legal advice will determine an equitable compensation package, having and provision of outplacement services as necessary.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 143 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED In the event of a change of control, all unvested awards under the deferred STI and LTIP arrangements will vest, to the extent that any performance conditions attached to the relevant awards have been achieved.
The awards will, where the Committee dictates, be scaled back pro rata for the period of the performance period worked by the director.
Executive directors may, on nomination from Mediclinic International plc, take on outside appointments, however, all fees will be retained by the Company.
The dates of the executive directors service contracts are: EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR DATE OF SERVICE CONTRACT Mr Danie Meintjes 1 April 2016 joined Group 1 August 1981 Mr Jurgens Myburgh 1 August 2016 Dr Ronnie van der Merwe 1 June 2018 The service contracts are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office, and at the AGM.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TERMS OF ENGAGEMENT Non-executive directors do not have service contracts but instead have letters of appointment setting out the terms under which they provide their services to the Company.
The dates of their original appointment are shown in the table below.
Non-executive directors are normally appointed for an initial period of three years that, subject to review, may be subsequently extended for further such terms.
Any third term of three years would be subject to rigorous review.
Non-executive directors appointment is terminable by three months notice on either side.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are subject to annual election or re-election by shareholders at the Companys annual general meetings.
In 2018 all non-executive directors, except Dr Edwin Hertzog and Mr Jannie Durand, were considered to be independent of the Company.
The terms of engagement are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office, and at the AGM.
EXPIRY OF NAME DATE OF APPOINTMENT CURRENT TERM Dr Edwin Hertzog 15 February 2016 14 February 2019 Mr Desmond Smith 15 February 2016 14 February 2019 Dr Muhadditha Al Hashimi 1 November 2017 30 October 2020 Mr Jannie Durand 15 February 2016 14 February 2019 Mr Alan Grieve 15 February 2016 14 February 2019 Dr Felicity Harvey 3 October 2017 2 October 2020 Mr Seamus Keating 5 June 2013 4 June 2019 Prof Dr Robert Leu 15 February 2016 14 February 2019 Ms Nandi Mandela 15 February 2016 14 February 2019 Mr Trevor Petersen 15 February 2016 14 February 2019 144 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT oversee the operation of the Companys incentive REMUNERATION FOR THE schemes, including designing and setting performance REPORTING PERIOD measures and targets for short-term and long-term This part of the report was prepared in accordance with incentive schemes: Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and consider major changes in employee remuneration in Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations theGroup: 2013 and 9.8.
The report will be put select and appoint consultants to advise the Committee: to an advisory shareholders vote at the 2018 AGM.
Certain AR report to shareholders through annual reports: and specified information on pages 148 to 155 was audited.
make recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the Chairman, after taking independent CONSIDERATION OF DIRECTORS professionaladvice, REMUNERATION all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the policy on executive directors MEMBERS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE remuneration, including setting the over-arching principles, parameters and governance framework and determining the REMUNERATION COMMITTEE initial remuneration package of each executive director.
In The composition of the Committee complies with the addition, the Committee monitors the structure and level Code, which provides that the Committee members of remuneration for the senior management team and is should comprise at least three independent non-executive aware of pay and conditions in the workforce generally.
Mr Petersen Committee Chairman, Prof Dr Leu Committee ensures full compliance with the UK Corporate and Mr Keating all independent non-executive directors Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
held office during the year.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: None of the Committee members have day-to-day determine and agree with the Board the Companys involvement with the business, nor do they have any personal Executive remuneration strategy and policy: financial interest in the matters to be recommended.
When determine individual remuneration packages and terms considering the fees for non-executive directors, the of employment within that policy for the executive Chairman of the Board consults the executive directors.
directors, members of the Executive Committee and The proposed fees of the Chairman of the Board were others division executives: considered by the Committee.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 145 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Committee met seven times during the year.
Including routine monitoring and approval activities, the material issues discussed are summarised below: AREA DISCUSSIONS The Committee proposes the Remuneration Policy for approval by the Board and for the Remuneration binding shareholder vote at the AGM.
Policy The Committee reviewed and approved the STI targets and subset performance indicators for Awards the new financial year.
The Committee approved the final STI payment for the current financial year.
The Committee confirmed new allocations and performance criteria for the LTIP.
The Committee reviewed and approved operating division specific junior management bonus scheme payments.
The Committee approved the remuneration package for the incoming CEO, Remuneration Dr Ronnie van derMerwe.
of the CFO Remuneration The Committee approved the executive individual salary increases for the executive directors and each executive at Group level.
levels The Committee approved the overall salary increase of all employee groups of each operating division.
The Committee approved the expansion of the LTIP eligibility to operating division executive committee members and key senior employees.
The Committee approved the remuneration methodology for the appointment of expatriate executive committee members.
The Committee reviewed regulatory and corporate governance developments.
Regulatory and governance review The Committee Chairman presents a summary of material matters to the Board and minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
The Committee reports to shareholders annually in this report and the Committee Chairman attends the AGM to address any questions arising.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE The number of formal Committee meetings held during the financial year and the attendance by each member is shown in the table below.
The Committee also held informal discussions as required.
Mr Durand and or his alternate Pieter Uys attend Committee meetings by invitation but are not voting members.
TheCommittee meetings are also attended by the CEO, Chief Human Resources Officer, the Group Executive: Reward, the Company Secretary and representatives from New Bridge Street by invitation, all of whom provide material assistance to the Committee.
None of the aforementioned attend as a right, nor do they attend when their own remuneration is being discussed.
NUMBER OF SCHEDULED DATE OF MEETINGS APPOINTMENT 1 2 NAME DESIGNATION as committee member ATTENDED Mr Trevor Petersen Independent non-executive 15 02 2016 3 of 3 Committee Chairman director 3 Prof Dr Robert Leu Independent non-executive 15 02 2016 3 of 3 director Mr Seamus Keating Independent non-executive 17 03 2017 3 of 3 director Notes 1 T he composition of the Committee is shown as at 31 March 2018.
2 T he attendance reflects the number of scheduled meetings held during the financial year.
Four additional ad hoc Committee meetings were held during the financial year to deal with urgent matters: the majority of members made themselves available at short notice for these meetings.
Three Committee meetings were held between the Companys financial year-end and the Last Practicable Date: all three were attended by all Committee members.
3 Prof Dr Leu will retire as a director of the Company, and consequently as a member of the Committee, at the conclusion of the Companys 2018 AGM.
It is the intention that the composition of the Committee will be reviewed in advance of his retirement, to ensure it continues to meet the requirements of the Code.
146 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT PERFORMANCE AND PAY Performance graph and CEO pay The graph below shows the value at 31 March 2018 of 100 invested in the Company on inception on 21 June 2013, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index on the same date.
The intervening points are the financial year ends prior to the date of the Combination on 15 February 2016 and the financial year ends since.
The FTSE 100 was used as a comparator as this is the Companys primary comparator group.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Source: FactSet 250 200 150 100 50 0 21 31 31 31 15 31 31 31 June Dec Dec Dec Feb Mar Mar Mar 2013 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 Mediclinic International plc FTSE 100 The table below shows the total remuneration for the CEO over the period since inception.
Consistent with the calculation methodology for the single figure for total remuneration, the total remuneration figure includes the total STI award based on that years performance and the LTIP award based on the three-year performance period ending in the relevant year.
TOTAL CEO REMUNERATION Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 March 1 Jan 2016 15 Feb 2016 2012 2013 2014 2014 2015 15 Feb 2016 31 Mar 2016 2017 2018 Chief Executive Officer Dr Kassem Alom Mr Ronald Lavater Mr Danie Meintjes Total remuneration 000 326 361 290 170 702 2 165 79 1 029 1 126 1 STI % n a n a n a 11.8% 20.0% n a 78% 56% 61% Deferred STI portion n a n a n a 100% n a n a n a 50% 50% 1 LTIP vesting% n a n a n a 65.4% 69.9% n a 0% 0% 0% Note 1 STI and LTIP percentages represent a percentage of the maximum potential award.
2 Mr Myburgh was appointed as a director on 1 August 2016 and his remuneration for 2016 2017 covers the period from employment date to the end of the reporting period.
3 Mr Durands fees are paid to Remgro and include services rendered by Mr Durand or his alternate, Mr Pieter Uys.
4 Dr Harvey joined the Board from 3 October 2017 and Dr Al Hashimi joined 1 November 2017.
Theirremuneration for 2017 18 covers the period from appointment date to the end of the reporting period.
148 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS IN BENEFITS AND PENSION FOR THE RESPECT OF THE SINGLE TOTAL REPORTING PERIOD AUDITED FIGURE TABLE AUDITED The benefits of Mr Meintjes and Mr Myburgh include private medical insurance, life insurance and reimbursements The sections that follow provide further detail of the AR for reasonable business-related expenses e. g. travel, remuneration shown in the table on page 148. accommodation and subsistence.
In some instances, the associated tax was borne by the Company.
SALARIES FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD AUDITED The executive directors participated in the Mediclinic Southern Africa defined contribution fund and received a 9% Base salaries are reviewed in April each year.
The Committee company pension contribution, in line with the Remuneration considers the remuneration packages in the context of other Policy.
London-listed companies of similar size and international footprint.
Remuneration levels were set with reference to None of the executive directors have prospective rights to a local South African pay levels and a broader international defined benefit pension.
comparison, however, given the widening geographic Non-executive directors were reimbursed for reasonable footprint of the Group, the Committee placed greater weight business-related expenses e. g. travel, accommodation and on the international comparators.
subsistence and, in some instances, the associated tax None of the executive directors received any adjustments to was borne by the Company.
They receive no other benefits their salary over the reporting period.
and do not participate in short-term or long-term reward schemes.
Mr Meintjes salary for the reporting period was 559 858 and Mr Myburghs salary was 373 431.
All figures were converted to pounds sterling at a rate of 1: ZAR17.22 at 31 March 2018.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 149 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHORT-TERM INCENTIVE FOR THE REPORTING PERIOD AUDITED Achieved bonuses were determined based on the Group achieved EBITDA performance and operating divisions subset performance indicators, which comprise financial and operational objectives, including measures of clinical excellence.
Achieved EBITDA for the purposes of the executive directors STI comprises Group adjusted EBITDA calculated based on budgeted foreign exchange rates 12.0m excluding the impact of STI bonus accruals for the Group's key management and employees 15.3m and subject to further amendment by approval of the Remuneration Committee 17.5m.
In 2018, these further amendments included adjustments for factors not incorporated into the budget at the start of the year, including for instance the impact of new evolving regulatory changes and practices in Switzerland, the acquisition of Linde and the cost associated with setting up a Group Purchasing Organisation in Hirslanden.
The target is based on the sum of the respective divisions approved budgeted adjusted EBITDA.
The Group achieved EBITDA performance which sets the initial bonus outcome percentage.
The non-achievement of subset performance indicators then gives rise to a reduction in this bonus percentage.
The subset performance indicators relate to the three operating divisions, weighted relative to each divisions respective adjusted EBITDA contribution.
The performance indicators, targets and performance against the targets are set out below.
MAIN PERFORMANCE INDICATOR GROUP ACHIEVED EBITDA Threshold 517 392 Maximum 581 687 Achievement 560 476 67.01% Achieved EBITDA Bonus SUBSET PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MEDICLINIC HIRSLANDEN MEDICLINIC MIDDLE EAST SOUTHERN AFRICA FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Cash conversion Threshold: 99% Threshold: 85% N A Maximum: 100% Maximum: 110% Achievement: 100% Achievement: 88% 3.5% Penalty Debtors days N A N A Threshold: 120 days Maximum: 100 days Achievement: 99 days Employment costs N A N A Threshold: 19.5% Achievement: 19.01% 150 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT OPERATIONAL, CLINICAL AND PATIENT QUALITY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Clinical care quality indicator Achievement: Partial N A Achievement: Partial achievement against Never achievement against Events and Hand Hygiene Never Events, Surgical Compliance indicators Site Infections, Injectable 5% Penalty Administration Errors and Patient Identification Errors indicators 1.88% Penalty Employee engagement Achievement: Partial N A N A achievement based on employee responses to My team has effectively followed through on actions we agreed on during our action planning session 2.5% Penalty Patient satisfaction Achievement: Partial Achievement: Full Achievement: Partial achievement based on achievement based on achievement based overall mean Patient overall mean Patient on Patient Experience Indicator score Experience Indicator score Recommendation rate 7.5% Penalty 2.5% Penalty Employment equity Achievement: Partial N A N A achievement based on appointments of open positions 2.5% Penalty Penalty 17.50% 3.50% 4.38% Weighting of 34.13% 50.50% 15.37% OperatingDivision Weighted Penalty 5.97% 1.77% 0.67% Total Subset Penalty 8.41% 8.41% of a 67.01% EBITDA Bonus equates to a 5.64% total bonus deduction GROUP ACHIEVEMENT ACHIEVED EBITDA BONUS LESS SUBSET OUTCOME : 61.37% Note The foreign exchange rate used for budget purposes was 1: ZAR17.17: 1: CHF1.25 and 1: AED4.56.
The STI achieved was 61.37% of the maximum bonus.
The amount awarded to the executive directors is set outbelow: MAXIMUM BONUS ACTUAL BONUS AS A OPPORTUNITY AS A EXECUTIVE ACTUAL % OF ANNUAL BASE % OF ANNUAL BASE 1 DIRECTOR BONUS COMPENSATION COMPENSATION Mr Danie Meintjes 511 113 92% 150% Mr Jurgens 303 868 82% 133% Myburgh Note 1 All figur es are translated into pounds sterling at an exchange rate of 1: ZAR17.22 as at 31 March 2018.
The STI bonus payable for the reporting period will be paid in cash.
50% of the award will be deferred in shares for a period of two years.
Deferred shares will be settled in cash, subject to continued employment.
This deferral is not subject to any further conditions.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 151 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP AWARDS VESTING IN THE REPORTING PERIOD TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED No LTIP awards to executive directors were due to vest in the reporting period.
LTIP AWARDS GRANTED IN THE REPORTING PERIOD TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AUDITED 2017 LTIP CONDITIONAL SHARE AWARD Award date 1 June 2017 Employment period 1 June 2017 to 31 May 2022 Performance period 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2020 Vesting date The later of 1 June 2022 or the date upon which the Committee has satisfied themselves that the performance condition has been met FACE VALUE AS A % OF END OF DATE NATURE NUMBER FACE ANNUAL PERFORPERFOROF OF OF VALUE BASE MANCE MANCE 1 GRANT AWARD SHARES 000 SALARY PERIOD CONDITIONS Mr Danie Meintjes 1 June 2017 Conditional 129 626 1 046 200% 31 March 2020 See table below Share Awards Mr Jurgens 1 June 2017 Conditional 65 263 527 150% 31 March 2020 See table below Myburgh Share Awards Note 1 Number o f shares granted was based on the average middle-market quotation of an LSE Share during a period of 5dealing days ending with the dealing day before the grant which was 8.07.
THRESHOLD MAXIMUM TARGET TARGET PERFORMANCE CONDITION WEIGHTING 25% VESTING 100% VESTING Adjusted EPS growth 60% 5% per annum 12% per annum compounded compounded TSR ranked relative to constituents of the 40% Median of peers Upper quartile FTSE 100 Index 50th percentile of peers 75th percentile At grant, vesting of 60% of the award was based on adjusted EPS growth and the remaining 40% was determined by TSR, ranked relative to constituents of the FTSE 100 Index.
Adjusted EPS and relative TSR are considered to be the most appropriate measures of long-term performance, in that they ensure the executive directors are incentivised and rewarded for the adjusted financial performance of the Company and creating value for shareholders.
The award is subject to clawback and malus provisions.
Adjusted EPS growth is measured by taking the compound annual percentage growth in adjusted EPS over the performance period.
TSR ranked relative to constituents of the FTSE 100 Index is measured by ranking and comparing the Companys TSR to the relevant TSR targets.
152 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Awards are denominated in shares, with vesting dependent on the achievement of performance conditions over a three-year period.
Awards granted to the executive directors have a vesting period of five years from the date of grant.
After this time, the value will be calculated by alignment to share price movement but settled in cash.
Where a director has not yet met the share ownership guidelines, this cash must be used to purchase shares in the Company.
CHANGES TO THE BOARD Dr Ronnie Van Der Merwe: New Chief Executive Officer As announced on 27 November 2017, Dr Van der Merwe was appointed as the successor to the position of CEO designate to succeed Mr Meintjes as CEO of the Company on 1 June 2018.
This follows the announcement made on 25 July 2017 that Mr Meintjes will retire from his position as CEO by no later than 31 July 2018.
As set out in the letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman, Dr Van der Merwes remuneration arrangements as CEO are in line with the Group remuneration policy and in line with the package for Mr Meintjes in his final full year as CEO.
Dr Van der Merwes base compensation inclusive of Board fees has therefore been set at 558 198.
Whilst the base compensation level is in line with Mr Meintjes for his final full year as CEO, it is recognised this level is positioned towards the bottom end of the market competitive range for the CEO of a company of similar size and complexity to that of Mediclinic.
The Committee therefore intends to keep the remuneration arrangements for the CEO under review.
Dr Van der Merwe will be eligible to participate in the Companys STI scheme and LTIP, designed to incentivise and reward the successful delivery of the business strategy and sustained shareholders value creation.
His maximum award opportunity under the STI will be 150% of his annual salary, half of which will be subject to a compulsory deferral for a period of two years.
Awards under the LTIP are up to a maximum value of 200% of annual salary, with vesting subject to performance over a three-year period and an additional two-year holding period required, following vesting and prior to their release.
In accordance with best practice, the STI and LTIP contain provisions that will allow the Company to recover or withhold value in the event of certain defined circumstances.
Dr Van der Merwes service agreement may be terminated on six months notice by either him or the Company.
PAYMENTS TO FORMER DIRECTORS AUDITED As reported in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report on page 102 of the 2017 Annual Report, Mr Craig Tingle retired as CFO on 15 June 2016.
In respect of the award made in 2014, under the Mediclinic International Limited Forfeitable Share Plan FSP, where performance was tested at the time of the Combination, 27 700 awards were released to Mr Tingle on 1 June 2017.
The value of the award vested was 220 057 which was calculated using the volume weighted average share price of the middle market quotation on the JSE for the period five days prior to vesting 1 June 2017, which was 7.94 and translated at the exchange rate at grant of 1: ZAR16.78 as at 1 June 2017.
In respect of the award made in 2015, under the FSP, 19 816 awards will be released to Mr Tingle on 1 June 2018.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 153 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED There were no payments for loss of office in the year.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN REMUNERATION LEVELS The table below shows how the percentage change in the CEOs salary, benefits and bonus in the reporting period compared with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for employees in South Africa in local currency.
The Committee selected employees in South Africa, as these provide the most appropriate comparator as they are subject to the same inflationary conditions.
% CHANGE IN CEO SALARY, BENEFITS AND BONUS 1 CEO Salary 0.00% Benefits 8.25% Bonus 8.92% All employees Salary 5.61% Benefits 9.41% Bonus 132% Note 1 T he percentage change in the CEOs salary, benefits and bonus is the annualised CEOs 2017 local salary paid in ZAR as compared to the 2018 local salary, benefits and bonus paid in South African rand.
The CEO received no adjustment to his salary over the reporting period.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF THE SPEND ON STAFF COSTS To place the directors remuneration in context with the Groups finance, the Committee used the below comparison.
The table below shows the spend on staff costs for the reporting period compared to the spend on staff costs in the previous reporting period, as disclosed in last years Directors Remuneration Report page 102 of the 2017 Annual Report, compared to returns to shareholders over the same period: 2017 18 2016 17 CHANGE 000 000 % Staff costs 1 293 000 1 231 000 5.0% Returns to shareholders dividends 58 000 62 000 6.5% Note There were no share buybacks or other significant use of profit during the year.
154 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED The tables below set out the directors shareholding, including shareholding by persons connected to them, and share interests.
There were no changes in the directors shareholding between the financial year end and the Last Practicable Date, being 23 May 2018.
Full details of the directors shareholdings and share allocations are given in the Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys registered office during business hours.
The executive directors are required to build up a minimum shareholding in Mediclinic, as explained in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Shares are valued for these purposes at the year-end-price, which was 6.02 per share as at 31March2018.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES OUTSTANDING AS A % OF SHARES SHARES % OF UNVESTED ANNUAL HELD HELD ANNUAL LTIP AWARDS OUTSTANSHAREBASE AS AT AS AT BASE WITH DING DEFFERED HOLDING COMPEN- 31 MARCH 31 MARCH COMPENPERFORMANCE UNVESTED STI REQUIRE- 1 2 3 SATION 2017 2018 SATION CONDITIONS FSP AWARDS SHARES MENT MET Mr Danie Meintjes 225% 123 900 173 323 223% 231 002 33 949 27 187 No Mr Jurgens Myburgh 200% 14 000 60 000 97% 114 544 n a 10 815 No Notes 1 Un vested awards held under the LTIP are subject to performance conditions.
Awards will be settled in cash and therefore are not taken into consideration as part of determining whether shareholding requirements have been met.
2 Unvested awards held under the Mediclinic International Limited FSP where performance has been tested but shares have not yet been released.
Final vesting will take place on the original vesting date subject to continued employment.
Awards are settled in JSE Shares.
3 Deferred STI shares, where performance has been tested, will be settled in cash and therefore are not taken into consideration as part of determining whether shareholding requirements have been met.
The shareholding in Mediclinic by non-executive directors is shown below: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AS AT 31 MARCH 2017 AS AT 31 MARCH 2018 1 Dr Edwin Hertzog 407 559 394 276 Mr Desmond Smith 0 0 Mr Seamus Keating 0 0 Mr Trevor Petersen 0 0 Ms Nandi Mandela 0 0 Prof Dr Robert Leu 0 0 Mr Alan Grieve 7 500 7 500 Mr Jannie Durand 0 0 2 Mr Pieter Uys 417 417 3 Dr Felicity Harvey n a 0 3 Dr Muhadditha Al Hashimi n a 0 Notes 1 As announc ed on 27 April 2018, on 8 and 10 January 2018, the Waledro Trust, a testamentary trust of which Dr Hertzog is the sole trustee, transferred its entire holdings in the Company to the beneficiaries of the trust at the cost price.
Dr Hertzog is not a beneficiary of the trust.
2 Mr Uys is the alternate to Jannie Durand.
3 Dr Harvey joined the Board from 3 October 2017 and Dr Al Hashimi joined 1 November 2017.
There are no requirements for non-executive directors to hold shares, nor for any former director to hold shares once they have left the Company.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 155 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHARE SCHEDULE DILUTION LIMITS The Company is committed to protecting its shareholders interests and ensuring that the dilution of shares remains within a reasonable limit.
In line with the Investment Association guidelines, the Company limits equity-based awards under its employee share plans to 10% of the Companys issued share capital over a 10-year calendar period.
These limits are consistent with the guidelines of institutional shareholders.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2019 Base compensation The Committee considers the remuneration packages in the context of other London-listed companies of similar size and international footprint.
Remuneration levels were set with reference to local South African pay levels and a broader international comparison.
Given the widening geographic footprint of the Group, the Committee placed greater weight on the international comparators.
Base salaries were reviewed in accordance with the Remuneration Policy, taking into account Company and individual performance, wider workforce comparisons, and market benchmarks of South African pay levels and London-listed companies of similar size and international footprint.
In line with South African employment practices, the Committee reviewed the base compensation for the current CEO, Mr Danie Meintjes, for the coming year and approved an increase of 4.7%, which was below the average increase for other employees of Mediclinic Southern Africa of 5.6%.
The Committee also reviewed the base compensation positioning for Mr Myburgh, who was appointed on a base compensation of 319 000 in August 2016.
On appointment to the role, in line with best practice and in line with the positioning for the CEO, his base compensation was positioned towards the bottom end of the market competitive range to reflect that this was his first role as CFO of a UK listed company.
Taking into consideration his performance since his appointment and the level of input he provides to the Executive Committee and Board in delivering business performance, the Committee agreed to a salary increase of 9.6%.
Mr Myburghs new salary of 411 486 will remain towards the lower end of the market competitive range.
Whilst the Committee recognises that such salary increases are not common in the current UK climate, given his performance since appointment and taking into account wage increases in the South African business, the Committee feels that the increase is in the best interests of the business.
SALARY SALARY SALARY SALARY FROM FROM FROM FROM 1 APRIL 1 APRIL 1 APRIL 1 APRIL 2018 2018 2017 2017 1 1 2 000 ZAR000 000 ZAR000 % INCREASE Mr Danie Meintjes 586 10 085 523 9 630 4.7% Mr Jurgens Myburgh 411 7 085 351 6 465 9.6% Notes 1 Salaries ar e translated into pounds sterling at a rate of 1: ZAR17.22 at 31 March 2018 and 1: ZAR18.41 at 31 March 2017 as previously reported.
2 The percentage increase was calculated on the South African rand base compensation to ensure exchange rate fluctuations are eliminated.
Between 70% and 80% of the total potential remuneration offered to executive directors is subject to meeting performance conditions.
AR Details of Dr Van der Merwes salary from date of appointment as CEO can be found on page 153.
156 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT STI 2019 The executive directors have a maximum STI opportunity of 150% CEO and 133% CFO of annual salary.
For executive directors, 50% of the achieved award will be deferred in shares for two years.
Deferred shares may be settled in cash, subject to continued employment.
Where awards are cash settled, and a director has not yet met the share ownership guidelines, this cash must be used to purchase shares in the Company.
Dividends that accrue on the deferred shares during the vesting period may be paid in cash at the time of vesting.
The performance measure for the executive directors STI in 2018 19 will be calculated on the Group achieved EBITDA performance.
We do not publish details of the financial targets in advance since these are commercially confidential.
We will publish achievement against these targets when we disclose bonus payments in the Annual Report, so that shareholders can evaluate performance against those targets.
The award will be subject to malus and clawback provisions.
LTIP AWARDS TO BE GRANTED IN 2018 The Committee intends to grant an LTIP conditional award to the executive directors in 2018, over shares with a value of200% CEO and 150% CFO of salary.
Adjusted EPS and relative TSR are considered to be the most appropriate measures of long-term performance, in that they ensure the directors are incentivised and rewarded for the adjusted financial performance of the Group and creating value for shareholders.
Vesting of 60% of the award will be based on adjusted EPS growth and the remaining 40% will be determined by TSR measured relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 Index over three years.
Executive directors will be required to hold vested awards for two years.
Dividends that accrue during the vesting and holding periods will be paid in cash to the extent that awards have vested.
THRESHOLD PERFORMANCE TARGET 25% MAXIMUM TARGET CONDITION WEIGHTING VESTING 100% VESTING Adjusted EPS growth 60% 5% per annum 12% per annum compounded compounded TSR ranked relative to 40% Median of peers Upper quartile of peers constituents of the 50th percentile 75th percentile FTSE 100 Index An underpin applies, which allows the Committee to reduce or withhold vesting if the Committee is not satisfied with the adjusted operational and economic performance of the Company.
The underpin evaluation includes consideration of environmental, social and governance factors, and financial performance.
The Committee will keep the performance measures under review and may change the performance conditions for future awards if they are not considered to be aligned with the Companys interests and strategic objectives.
However, the Committee will consult with major shareholders in advance about any proposed material change in performance measures.
The award will be subject to clawback and malus provisions.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 157 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PENSION ENTITLEMENT The executive directors participate in the Mediclinic Southern Africa defined contribution fund and will be eligible for a 9% Company pension contribution, in line with the Remuneration Policy.
FEES FOR THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Board Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Committee.
Non-executive directors remuneration is determined by the Board, based on the responsibility and time committed to the Groups affairs and appropriate market comparisons.
Individual non-executive directors do not take part in decisions regarding their own fees.
Each non-executive director receives a fixed fee for their services based on their Board membership and membership of the Board committees.
The Board Chairman fee is an all-inclusive fee, which includes Board committees and membership fees, where applicable.
Non-executive directors fees were reviewed against median fees paid to non-executive directors in companies of similar size and complexity to that of Mediclinic.
In light of this review, the fee levels applicable from 1 April 2018 are shown in the table below.
Whilst the Committee recognises that such salary increases for the Board Chairman are not common in the current UK climate, the fees remain below the Committee's assessment of an appropriate market level.
In line with granting no increases to executive directors last year, there were also no adjustments to the Board Chairman fee and the non-executive directors fees in the reporting period.
The fee increase from 1 April 2018 for the Board Chairman reflects our ongoing intention to move the Board Chairman fee to a market median positioning.
FEE FROM FEE FROM % BASE FEES 1 APRIL 2017 1 APRIL 2018 INCREASE Chairman 250 000 280 000 12% Base Board fee 60 000 63 000 5% Audit and Risk Committee Chair 15 000 16 000 7% Remuneration Committee Chair 15 000 16 000 7% Nomination Committee Chair 0 0 Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee Chair 10 000 10 000 0% Investment Committee Chair 10 000 10 000 0% Senior Independent Director 25 000 25 000 0% Committee member fees Audit and Risk Committee 10 000 10 000 0% Remuneration Committee 10 000 10 000 0% Nomination Committee 0 7 000 Clinical Performance and Sustainability Committee 6 600 7 000 6% Investment Committee 6 600 7 000 6% 158 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT SHAREHOLDER VOTING AT THE AGM The Remuneration Policy and the Directors' Remuneration Report were approved with 95.95% and 96.25% votes in favour, respectively, at the Companys AGM on 25 July 2017.
The Remuneration Policy incorporated a number of changes, taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the views of major shareholders and proxy agencies, as expressed during previous engagements on remuneration matters.
The following votes were received from shareholders: % OF TOTAL ISSUED WITHSHARES SHARES FOR % AGAINST % HELD VOTED VOTED Remuneration Policy 614 711 926 95.95% 25 915 697 4.05% 2 718 474 643 346 097 87.26% Directors Remuneration Report 618 212 690 96.25% 24 075 900 3.75% 1 057 507 643 346 097 87.26% ADVISOR TO THE COMMITTEE During the year, the Committee and the Company retained an independent external advisor to assist them on various aspects of the Companys remuneration as set out below: FEES PAID BY THE COMPANY FOR OTHER SERVICES THESE SERVICES PROVIDED TO PROVIDED IN THE THE COMPANY IN APPOINTED SERVICES REPORTING THE REPORTING ADVISOR SELECTED BY PROVIDED PERIOD PERIOD New Bridge Appointed by Member of the 113 728 based on N A Street NBS, the Committee Remuneration Consultants time charges for atrading name following a Group and adheres to the work completed ofAon plc competitive Voluntary Code of Conduct tendering process in relation to executive and reviewed remuneration consulting in annually by the the UK Committee General advice on remuneration matters Advice on UK market practice and UK shareholder perspectives The Committee considered the independence and objectivity of NBS.
NBS provided assurances to the Committee that it has effective internal processes in place to ensure it is able to provide remuneration consultancy services independently and objectively.
NBS confirmed to the Company that it is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee is, following its annual review, satisfied that NBS has maintained independence and objectivity.
In April 2018, following a robust selection process, the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP to replace NBS as its independent advisor.
In line with existing policy, this appointment is subject to an annual review.
The Committee would like to thank NBS for the advice and support received since they were first appointed.
Signed on behalf of the Remuneration Committee.
Trevor D Petersen Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 May 2018 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 159 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Report, including the financial statements, in accordance Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and with applicable law and regulation.
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and Companys The UK Companies Act requires the Directors to prepare performance, business model and strategy.
financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors prepared the Group and Company financial statements Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed AR in accordance with International Financial Reporting on pages 86 to 89 of the Annual Report, confirm that to the Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
best of their knowledge: The Directors should only approve the financial statements the Group and Company financial statements, which were if they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, profit or loss of the Group and Company for the reporting liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and period.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the are required to: development and performance of the business and the select suitable accounting policies and apply them position of the Group and the Company, together with consistently: a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that state whether applicable IFRS have been followed, subject it faces.
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO make judgements and accounting estimates that are AUDITORS reasonable and prudent: and Each of the directors confirms that: prepare the financial statements on the going-concern to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group relevant audit information of which the Companys and Company will continue in business.
auditors are unaware: and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate they have taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain relevant audit information and to establish that the the Groups and Companys transactions and disclose with Companys auditors are aware of that information.
reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of For and on behalf of the Board.
the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that AR the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the UK Companies Act and, in respect of the Groups consolidated financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
DP Meintjes PJ Myburgh The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable 23 May 2018 23 May 2018 steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the financial and associated corporate information published on the Companys website at www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
160 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 162 Independent auditors report 171 Consolidated statement of financial position 172 Consolidated income statement 173 Consolidated statement of other comprehensive income 174 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 176 Consolidated statement of cash ows 177 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 243 Annexure Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 248 Independent auditors report 253 Company statement of financial position 254 Company statement of changes in equity 255 Company statement of cash ows 256 Notes to the Company financial statements GENERAL INFORMATION These fi financial statements are consolidated fi financial statements for Mediclinic International plc the Company and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures the Group.
A list of subsidiaries, associates AR and joint ventures is included from pages 243 to 247.
Mediclinic International plc the Company is a public limited company, listed on the London Stock Exchange and is incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Company has secondary listings on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange JSE and the Namibian Stock Exchange NSX.
A wholly-owned subsidiary, Hirslanden AG issued bonds listed on the SIX.
FINANCIAL Registered Address: 6th Floor STATEMENTS 65 Gresham Street London EC2V 7NQ United Kingdom The core purpose of the Group is to enhance the quality of life of patients by providing value-based healthcare services.
The fi financial statements were authorised for issue by the Directors on 23 May 2018.
No authority was given to anyone to amend the fi financial statements after the date of issue.
All press releases, fi financial reports and other information are available on our website: www.
MEDICLINIC MEDICLINIC | ANNU | ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT 20 T 2018 18 1 161 61 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF MEDICLINIC INTERNATIONAL PLC REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our opinion In our opinion, Mediclinic International plcs Group financial statements the financial statements : give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups affairs at 31 March 2018 and of its loss and cash flows for the year then ended: have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report, which comprise: the consolidated statement of financial position at 31 March 2018: the consolidated income statement and consolidated statement of other comprehensive income: the consolidated statement of changes in equity: the consolidated statement of cash flows for the year then ended: and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.
Our opinion is consistent with our reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK ISAs UK and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs UK are further described in the auditors responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence We remained independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRCs Ethical Standard, as applicable to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRCs Ethical Standard were not provided to the Group.
Other than those disclosed in note 22 to the financial statements, we have provided no non-audit services to the Group in the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 March 2018.
Our audit approach Overview Overall Group materiality: 15m 2017: 14.9m based on approximately 5% of adjusted Materiality profit before tax.
Our audit included full scope audits at four reporting units which accounted for 92% of consolidated revenue, 83% of consolidated loss before tax and 94% of adjusted profit before tax calculated on an absolute basis.
We performed centralised procedures on the Audit scope equity accounted results of Spire Healthcare Group plc Spire based on its audited financial statements at 31 December 2017.
Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and non-financial assets Key audit Impairment of the Groups associate investment in Spire matters Purchase price allocation for the acquisition of Linde Holding Biel Linde 162 MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The scope of our audit As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements.
In particular, we looked at where the directors made subjective judgements, for example in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain.
We gained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the Group and the industry in which it operates and considered the risk of acts by the Group which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations, including fraud.
We designed audit procedures at Group and significant component levels to respond to this risk, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations or through collusion.
We designed audit procedures that focused on the risk that non-compliance related to, but not limited to, compliance with the Companies Act 2006, the UK Listing Rules and taxation legislation gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements.
In assessing compliance with laws and regulations, our tests included, but were not limited to, checking the financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation, enquiries of management, review of related work performed by component audit teams, review of relevant internal audit reports and discussions with external legal counsel.
There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.
As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by the directors that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud, and the risk of fraud in revenue recognition.
Procedures designed to address these risks included testing of journal entries and postclose adjustments based on risk, testing and evaluation of managements key accounting estimates for reasonableness and consistency, undertaking cut-off procedures to verify proper cut-off of revenue and expenses and testing the occurrence of revenue transactions.
In addition, we incorporate an element of unpredictability into our audit work each year.
Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in the auditors professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement whether or not due to fraud identified by the auditors, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy: the allocation of resources in the audit: and directing the efforts of the engagement team.
These matters, and any comments we make on the results of our procedures thereon, were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
This is not a complete list of all risks identified by our audit.
HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED KEY AUDIT MATTER THE KEY AUDIT MATTER 1.
Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and non-financial assets AR refer to Audit and Risk Committee Report on page 122 and notes 6 and 7 in the Group financial statements The Group has 1 406m 2017: 2 156m of Deploying our valuation experts, we obtained managements intangible assets.
This balance consists impairment calculations and tested the reasonableness mainly of goodwill relating to the Mediclinic of key assumptions, including cash flow forecasts and the Middle East operations of 1 245m 2017: selection of growth rates and discount rates.
We challenged 1 401m, goodwill on the acquisition of the management to substantiate its assumptions, including Swiss operations of nil 2017: 307m, Swiss comparing relevant assumptions to industry benchmarks and trademarks of 73m 2017: 341m and the economic forecasts.
We substantively tested the integrity of Al Noor brand name of nil 2017: 23m.
supporting calculations and corroborated certain information with third party sources.
MEDICLINIC | ANNUAL REPORT 2018 163 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT CONTINUED HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED KEY AUDIT MATTER THE KEY AUDIT MATTER 1.
Impairment of intangible assets, goodwill and non-financial assets continued The Group is required to perform annual We agreed the underlying cash flows to approved budgets impairment tests on goodwill.
The Swiss and assessed growth rates and discount rates by comparison trademarks were classified as indefinite life to third party information, the Groups cost of capital and intangible assets at the time of the respective relevant risk factors.
Future cash flow assumptions were acquisitions and the Group carries out annual evaluated in the context of current trading performance impairment tests on these assets based on valueagainst budget and forecasts, considering the historical in-use calculations.
These impairment tests are accuracy of budgeting and forecasting and understanding undertaken at the operating division level being the reasons for the growth profiles used.
the level at which management monitors goodwill We evaluated managements sensitivity analyses to ascertain for impairment.
The Group also performed the impact of reasonably possible changes to key impairment assessments of individual cash assumptions on the available headroom or the level of generating units CGUs which form part of impairment required.
these operating divisions, focusing in particular on the Swiss operating division where indicators We evaluated managements judgement regarding the of impairment were identified at the reporting levels at which goodwill arising from the Swiss and Middle date.
Goodwill is not allocated to CGUs on the East acquisitions are monitored for impairment review basis that the rationale for the transactions purposes.
We evaluated managements judgement regarding giving rise to the goodwill is to realise synergies the determination of the respective CGUs in the Swiss across the entire operating division and not just operating division where impairment triggers were identified, within the acquired business.
Assets subject to focusing on the commercial rationale for combining certain impairment assessment at the CGU level primarily clinical facilities into supply regions while other facilities are comprise land and buildings.
As part of this evaluation, we met with commercial management at Hirslanden to In the current year, an impairment loss of understand how these facilities are run operationally and the 300m was recorded to impair the goodwill on level of integration between facilities in different regions of the Swiss operations in full, 260m was recorded Switzerland.
to partially impair the Hirslanden brand name and 84m was recorded to partially impair buildings We compared managements impairment models to within one Swiss CGU.
externally available data including analyst valuations.
We prepared independent valuations based on alternative The impairment losses recorded in the current valuation methodologies and assumptions as part of year are material to the financial statements.
assessing the reasonableness of the approach and outputs The recoverable amounts determined in determined by management.
impairment assessments are contingent on future cash flows and there is a risk if these cash Based on our work performed, we concurred with flows do not meet the Groups expectations, or management that impairment charges are required for the if significant assumptions like discount rates or Swiss operations and that no impairment losses were required growth rates change, that further impairment for the goodwill on the Middle East operations at losses will be required.
We have found the judgements and estimates made by management in determining the impairment charges We focused on the impairment assessments of for Hirslanden to be materially reasonable in the context of goodwill, other indefinite life intangible assets and the Group financial statements taken as a whole and the non-financial assets as the impairment reviews related disclosures to be appropriate.
carried out by the Group contain a number of significant judgements, including the level at We noted that the impairment losses affected one financial which goodwill is monitored for impairment and covenant calculation specified in Hirslandens external the determination of CGUs within each operating financing agreement.
We are satisfied that the Group has division, and estimates, including cash flow made appropriate arrangements to avoid any potential projections, growth rates and discount rates.
breach and to support continued classification of the debt Changes in these assumptions might lead to a as non-current at 31 March 2018. significant change in the recoverable values of the related assets and therefore to the impairment losses recognised.
