Directors remuneration report Underlying EPS increased from 32.0p to 34.2p.
The STIP and LTIP vesting for 2018 and 2016 awards reflects this strong Group performance see pages 104 107.
2018 reviews During the year, the Committee reviewed its own effectiveness and the effectiveness of Mercer and confirmed it was satisfied with both.
A tender for our remuneration advisory services will be undertaken later in 2019 after work is completed on reviewing our Remuneration Policy in advance of the 2020 AGM.
We also reviewed the changes under the 2018 Corporate Governance Code, updated proxy advisor recommendations on remuneration and the Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018.
Our Terms of Reference were revised to reflect the 2018 Code.
The Committee also received reports from executive management on their review of Group incentive schemes see page 103.
Executive directors On 1 January 2019, Louisa Burdett was appointed as Chief Paul Heiden Financial Officer.
Her remuneration package was set in line with Chairman of the Remuneration Committee policy, except her pensions allowance which was set at 20% instead of the existing policy level of 25% to reflect levels other senior executives in the Company receive.
Doug Webb retired on 31 December 2018, at which point all of his salary and benefits ceased to accrue.
His outstanding incentive awards will be treated in line with the default good leaver treatment set out in our Policy.
Chairmans introduction The Committee believes that our remuneration policy and and annual statement approach to implementation remain aligned with our strategy and prevailing market practice.
On behalf of the Board, I would It is my pleasure to present the Directors remuneration report like to thank shareholders for their continued support.
for the year ended 31 December 2018.
In 2019, the Committee, which will be led by our new chairman Pay philosophy Alison Goligher from April 2019, will review our Remuneration Executive remuneration packages at Meggitt are designed Policy in advance of the 2020 AGM binding vote.
to attract, motivate and retain directors of a high calibre, to recognise the international nature of the Groups business This Directors remuneration report has been prepared and to reward the directors for delivering value to shareholders in accordance with the provisions of the Companies through sustainable performance for our customers.
Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Packages align with our strategy, are clear and transparent, and Regulations 2013.
The report also meets the requirements of incentive plans aim to provide all participants with performance the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and the Disclosure metrics which are relevant to their daily work.
The package Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR.
targets fixed pay at market competitive levels to companies of a similar size and with similar operating characteristics, In this report we describe how the principles relating supplemented by performancerelated annual bonuses and an to directors remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate equitybased long term incentive plan designed to reward and Governance Code 2016 the 2016 Code, are applied in practice.
There is also commentary on our work to meet the new compliance obligations in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 the 2018 Code and the Companies Miscellaneous Performance in 2018 Reporting Regulations 2018.
Revenue increased by 4%, despite adverse currency movements and the impact of M&A.
Organic revenue growth of 9% included 7% growth in civil aerospace, 10% in defence and 19% in energy.
Underlying operating profit increased organically by 4%, with benefits from strategic initiatives including supply chain rationalisation, the Meggitt Production System and increased pricing leverage.
This was partly offset by headwinds from mix, depreciation and amortisation, an increase in Paul Heiden expensed freeofcharge parts and continued product introduction costs at Meggitt Polymers & Composites.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Meggitt PLC 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance 2018 activity Approved The 2017 STIP vesting and deferred bonus awards to executive directors and other Executive Committee members.
The 2018 STIP and LTIP performance targets.
2018 LTIP awards to executive directors and other Executive Committee members together with the application of a holding period to the 2018 LTIP awards to executive directors.
Salaries for executive directors and other Executive Committee members, remuneration package for Louisa Burdett, retirement arrangements for Doug Webb and the Chairmans fee.
The 2017 Directors Remuneration Report, for submission to shareholders for approval at the 2018 AGM.
The Meggitt 2018 Sharesave Plan, for submission to shareholders for approval at the 2018 AGM.
Revised Terms of Reference to reflect the 2018 Code.
Adjusting 2016 LTIP outcomes for recent M&A, a summary of which is provided on page 106.
Since the year end, we have approved performance targets for the 2019 STIP and LTIP awards, agreed the salaries for the executive directors, and confirmed the vesting outcome of the 2018 STIP and 2016 LTIP awards.
In determining the outcome of the 2018 STIP award, the Committee considered the impact of two items: 1 The Committee reviewed the work completed by the Audit Committee on the Dassault 5x 6x programmes and agreed no adjustments were necessary to the 2018 STIP see the Audit Committee Report on page 88 and note 4 to the Groups consolidated financial statements on page 143.
2 The Committee also considered the treatment of an accelerated payment of 30m which the Group made into two of its US pension schemes during 2018.
This payment has been included in the actual 2018 free cash flow performance, but had not been foreseen in the original 2018 free cash flow target.
In determining that the original target should be adjusted to reflect the accelerated payment, the Committee considered the following: Committee members were made aware of the opportunity to make the accelerated payment, as members of the Board, prior to it being made: the payment has reduced administrative charges for the schemes: and the payment is deductible against 2017 profits at US tax rates applicable before the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.
Linking our remuneration to our strategy Portfolio Customers Enhance our product and business portfolio Improve customer service Develop differentiated technology Mature CSS LTIP: Innovation targets are measures in the LTIP.
ROCE LTIP: Quality and delivery targets.
replaced ROTA for awards to executive directors in 2018 to better reflect the value of corporate acquisitions.
STIP: Personal objectives for the executive directors include implementing customer aligned organisation and STIP: Personal objectives for the executive directors accelerating customer performance.
Growth & ROCE Competitiveness Culture Deliver through MPS Build an inclusive and engaged Meggitt Invest in infrastructure and increase productivity Live high performance culture Reduce inventory, footprint & purchased costs STIP: Personal objectives for the executive directors include measures to improve employee engagement LTIP: MPS as measured by quality and delivery targets, and to embed high performance culture.
programme management, ROCE and inventory improvement targets are measures in the LTIP.
STIP: Personal objectives for the executive directors include operational performance, footprint consolidation and net purchasing costs.
Meggitt PLC 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration at a glance Short Term Incentive Plan STIP Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP How we performed in 2018 Underlying Underlying EPS 33.3% Organic revenue grew by operating ROCE 33.3% profit 33.3% Strategic measures Free cash flow 33.3% MPS Inventory 9% Strategic personal Programmes 33.3% objectives 33.3% Total LTIP 100.0% Total STIP 100.0% Underlying operating profit rose by Total Shareholder Return 450 4% 400 350 300 Underlying EPS up to 250 200 150 100 34.2p 50 0 31 12 2008 31 12 2009 31 12 2010 31 12 2011 31 12 2012 31 12 2013 31 12 2014 31 12 2015 31 12 2016 31 12 2017 31 12 2018 ROCE Meggitt FTSE 100 CEO and CFO: single figure in 2018 000 9.9% 2018 Single 2017 Single Executive figure figure Free cash flow Tony Wood CEO 2017 Stephen Young 2,200 2,073 Doug Webb CFO 1,861 1,281 167m CEO and CFO share ownership in 2018 Employee engagement up Shareholding Shares owned Current Guideline guideline outright shareholding met?
% 2018 % 2018 4% Name salary salary Mr A Wood 300% 11,308 8% Building Mr D R Webb 200% 145,228 144% Building CEO and CFO Pay for performance scenarios 2019 Mr A Wood 000 Mrs L Burdett 000 100% 100% 843 518 Minimum Minimum 43% 34% 23% 43% 35% 22% 1,943 1,215 On-target On-target 26% 30% 44% 25% 30% 45% Maximum 3,296 Maximum 2,072 Salary and bene ts Pension STIP LTIP Components of executive directors remuneration Base salary Set at a competitive level to attract and retain high calibre directors in the relevant talent market.
Pension To provide postretirement benefits for executive directors in a costefficient manner.
New directors are eligible for a pension allowance of up to 25% of salary.
Benefits Provides noncash benefits which are competitive in the market where the director is employed.
Incentivises executive directors on delivering annual financial and personal targets set at the start of Annual bonus STIP each year.
There is a maximum award opportunity of up to 150% of salary.
Aligns the interests of executive directors with shareholders in growing the value of the Group over LTIP the long term.
Awards vest after three years and are subject to a two year holding period: directors are eligible for annual awards up to 220% of salary.
Sharesave Scheme and To align the interests of UK employees and shareholders by encouraging all UK employees to own Meggitt shares.
Share Incentive Plan SIP Meggitt PLC 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 The Policy report This Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 27 April 2017 and is effective for a period of three years from that date.
Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table Base salary Function To attract and retain talent by ensuring base salaries are competitive in the relevant talent market.
Operation Salary will be reviewed by the Committee annually, in February, with changes effective from 1 April of that year.
Salaries for the year under review are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
In deciding salary levels, the Committee considers personal performance including how the individual has helped to support the strategic objectives of the Group.
The Committee will also consider employment conditions and salary levels across the Group, prevailing market conditions, and market data for FTSE companies in similar industries and those with similar market capitalisation.
Salaries are paid to existing directors in GBP: however the Committee reserves the right to pay future and existing directors in any other currency converted at the prevailing market rate when a change is agreed.
Opportunity The percentage salary increases for executive directors will not exceed those of the wider workforce over the life of this Policy in the normal course of business.
Higher increases may be awarded i. e. in excess of the wider employee population in instances where, for example, there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, or if a new director was intentionally appointed on a belowmarket salary.
The Committee will provide the rationale for any such higher increases in the relevant years annual report on remuneration.
Performance None explicitly, but salaries are independently benchmarked periodically against FTSE companies in similar metrics industries and those with similar market capitalisation.
Personal performance is also taken into account when considering salary increases.
Pension Function To provide postretirement benefits for executive directors in a costefficient manner.
Operation The pension plans operated by the Group which executive directors are, or could be, members of are: Meggitt Pension Plan defined benefit pension plan, closed to new members.
Meggitt Workplace Savings Plan defined contribution personal pension scheme, open to new members.
Salary is the only element of remuneration that is pensionable.
There are no unfunded pension promises or similar arrangements for directors.
Opportunity New executive director external appointments since 2013 are eligible for a pension allowance of 25% of salary, payable either as a pension contribution up to any limit set in current regulations or, above such limits, in cash.
In 2018, the Committee decided that Mrs Burdetts pensions allowance should be set at 20% of salary to reflect the allowances given to other UK executives at Meggitt and it was agreed to further review the pensions allowance as part of the 2020 Policy review.
Where agreements have been made prior to the approval of the Policy approved by shareholders in 2014 2014 Policy which entitle an executive to receive a pension allowance higher than 25% of salary, pension allowances up to a maximum of 50% of salary will be paid.
Mr Green had agreements prior to the approval of the 2014 Policy which entitled him to receive a pension allowance of 50% of salary and this arrangement will continue for Mr Green during the life of the Policy.
metrics Meggitt PLC 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Benefits Function To provide noncash benefits which are competitive in the market in which the executive director is employed.
Operation The Group may provide benefits including, but not limited to, a company car or car allowance, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance, a fuel allowance, a mobile phone, relocation costs and any other future benefits made available either to all employees globally or all employees in the region in which the executive director is employed.
Opportunity Benefits vary by role and individual circumstances: eligibility and cost is reviewed periodically.
Benefits in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration.
It is not anticipated that the costs of benefits provided will increase significantly in the financial years over which this Policy will apply, although the Committee retains discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances e. g. to facilitate recruitment, relocation, expatriation, etc.
or in circumstances where factors outside the Groups control have changed materially e. g. market increases in insurance costs.
metrics Annual bonus Short Term Incentive Plan STIP Function To incentivise executive directors on delivering annual financial and personal targets.
Operation Performance measures, targets and weightings are set at the start of the year.
The performance period of the STIP is a financial year.
After the end of the financial year, to the extent that the performance criteria have been met, 75% of the STIP award is paid in cash to the director.
The remaining 25% of the award will be deferred into shares and released with no further performance conditions attached, and no matching shares provided after a further period of two years.
Under the STIP 2014 rules as approved by the Committee, the Committee may decide to apply malus and or clawback to STIP awards and deferred STIP awards to reduce the vesting of awards and or require repayment of awards in the event of a review of the conduct, capability or performance of the director where there has been misconduct by the director or material misstatement of the Companys or a Group members financial results for any period.
Deferred STIP awards may lapse in certain leaver circumstances.
Opportunity The STIP provides for a maximum award opportunity of up to 150% of salary in normal circumstances, with an ontarget opportunity of 100% of salary and an opportunity of 50% of salary at threshold performance.
The Committee has discretion to make a STIP award of up to 200% of salary in exceptional circumstances e. g. a substantial contract win which has a significant positive financial impact in the long term but which has no, or negative, short term financial impact.
Dividends accrue on unvested deferred STIP awards over the vesting period and are released on the vesting date.
Performance STIP awards are based on the achievement of financial and personal performance targets.
For the executive metrics directors, the STIP will be based on a combination of the financial performance of the Group and personal performance.
The relative weightings of the financial and personal elements for any STIP period, and the measures used to assess financial and nonfinancial performance, will be set by the Committee in its absolute discretion to align with the Groups operating and strategic priorities for that year.
However, the weighting for personal performance will not exceed onethird of the maximum STIP opportunity in any year.
The award for performance under each element of the STIP will be calculated independently.
The Committee has discretion to review the consistency of the payout of the financial and personal elements and adjust the total up or down within the levels specified above if it does not consider this to be a fair reflection of the underlying performance of the Group or the individual.
The personal performance element will typically be based on three to five objectives relevant to the executives role and performance in core competency areas, which are seven core skills specifically selected as critical for the Groupsemployees.
Details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable to the STIP for each year, including a description of how they were chosen and whether they were met, will be disclosed retrospectively in the annual report on remuneration for the following year subject to commercial sensitivity.
Meggitt PLC 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Function To align the interests of executive directors with shareholders in growing the value of the Group over the long term.
Operation Under the LTIP, executive directors are eligible to receive annual awards over Meggitt shares vesting after three years, subject to the achievement of stretching performance targets.
Whilst it is the current intention that LTIP awards will be in the form of nil cost options, the LTIP provides, at the absolute discretion of the Committee, for awards of conditional shares, market value share options and phantom awards.
Under the LTIP 2014 rules, the Committee may decide to apply malus and or clawback to awards to reduce the vesting of awards and or require repayment of awards in the event of a review of the conduct, capability or performance of the director where there has been misconduct by the director or material misstatement of the Companys or a Group members financial results for any period.
LTIP awards made to executive directors from 2018 are subject to a twoyear holding period after the threeyear vesting period.
Opportunity Executive directors will normally be eligible for annual LTIP awards of 220% of salary.
Awards up to a maximum of 300% of salary may be granted in exceptional circumstances e. g. to support the recruitment of a key executive or to recognise exceptional individual performance.
30% of an award will vest if performance against each performance condition is at threshold and 100% if each is at maximum, with straight line vesting in between.
Dividends accrue on unvested LTIP awards over the vesting period and are released, to the extent the LTIP award vests, on the vesting exercise date.
Performance Vesting of LTIP awards is subject to continued employment and performance against three measures, which are metrics intended to be as follows for awards made over the life of the Policy: Earnings per Share EPS : Return on Capital Employed ROCE : and Strategic goals typically but not always to be based on strategic priorities around execution, growth and innovation, which will be explained in the relevant annual report on remuneration.
The way these measures link to our KPIs can be seen on pages 42 to 45.
It is the intention that the weighting of the measures will be equal i. e. onethird each but that the Committee will consider, and adjust if deemed appropriate, the weighting at the start of each LTIP cycle.
Awards made under the LTIP have a performance period of three financial years, starting from 1 January of the year in which the award is made and ending on 31 December of the third year.
If no entitlement has been earned at the end of the relevant performance period, awards will lapse.
Vesting of the strategic element will also be subject to a discretionary assessment by the Committee of the extent to which achievement of the strategic objectives is consistent with the underlying financial performance over the threeyearperiod.
The measures and targets in operation for grants made under the LTIP, and which are not deemed commercially sensitive, are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year of grant.
Any commercially sensitive information on measures, targets and performance will be disclosed retrospectively.
Sharesave Scheme and Share Incentive Plan SIP Function To align the interests of employees and shareholders by encouraging all employees to own Meggitt shares.
Operation Sharesave SchemeAll employee scheme under which all UK employees including UK executive directors may save up to a maximum monthly savings limit over a period of three or five years.
Options under the Sharesave Scheme are granted at a discount of up to 20% to the market value of shares at the date of grant.
SIPAll employee scheme under which i all UK employees including UK executive directors may contribute up to a monthly maximum to purchase shares monthly from pretax pay: and ii all UK employees including UK executive directors may receive free shares up to an annual maximum value.
Opportunity Savings, contributions and free shares are capped at or below the legislative maximum for taxqualifying approved share plans at the time UK employees are invited to participate.
metrics Meggitt PLC 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Notes to the Policy table The Committee is satisfied that the above Policy is in the best interests of shareholders and does not promote excessive risktaking.
The Committee retains discretion to make minor, nonsignificant changes to the Policy without reverting to shareholders.
Payments from outstanding awards Outstanding awards are currently held by the directors under the Equity Participation Plan and the Executive Share Option Scheme which were the Groups long term incentive plans prior to the introduction of the LTIP in 2014.
These awards have all vested in accordance with the applicable performance conditions and are capable of exercise during the period over which this Policy applies.
The tables on pages 113 to 114 highlight outstanding and vested awards.
Approach to performance measure selection and target setting Performance measures have been selected to closely align with, and reinforce, Meggitts strategic priorities see pages 14 to 15.
Targets applying to the STIP and LTIP are reviewed annually, based on a number of internal and external reference points, including the Groups strategic plan, analyst forecasts for Meggitt and its sector comparators, historical growth achieved by Meggitt and its sector comparators, market practice and external expectations for growth in Meggitts markets.
STIP The performance measures used in the STIP reflect financial targets for the year and nonfinancial performance objectives.
The Policy provides the Committee with flexibility to select appropriate measures on an annual basis.
STIP performance targets are set to be stretching but achievable, with regard to the particular personal performance objectives and the economic environment in a given year.
For financial measures, target is based around the annual budget approved by the Board.
Prior to the start of the financial year, the Committee sets an appropriate performance range around target, which it considers provides an appropriate degree of stretch challenge and an incentive to outperform.
LTIP The vesting of LTIP awards made during the life of this Policy will be linked to EPS, ROCE and the achievement of longterm strategic goals.
EPS is considered by the Board to be the most important measure of Meggitts financial performance.
It is highly visible internally, is regularly monitored and reported and is strongly motivational for participants.
EPS targets will continue to be set on a nominal cumulative pence basis to incentivise consistent performance and reflect the fact that Meggitts profits are generated to a large degree outside the UK and not significantly influenced by UK retail price inflation.
ROCE helps to balance the achievement of growth and returns.
The Committee believes ROCE is a good proxy for total shareholder return TSR which focuses executives on managing the balance sheet and Meggitts operational performance.
For executive directors, the use of ROCE targets reflects the fact that acquisition decisions come within the collective responsibility of the Board.
The Committee believes that the strategic goals component helps reinforce the realisation of the Groups strategy and the achievement of key nonfinancial and strategic goals over long product cycles which drive longterm value at Meggitt.
This element will typically comprise a scorecard of threeyear targets across a maximum of three core strategic areas for the Group.
The Committee believes that this approach enables it to reflect the Groups longterm nature and shifting strategic priorities in the LTIP to ensure executives interests remain closely aligned with those of our shareholders over time.
Specific measures and targets for each area will be developed and clearly defined at the start of each threeyear cycle to balance leading and lagging indicators of performance.
Vesting of this element is subject to a discretionary assessment by the Committee of the extent to which achievement of the strategic objectives is consistent with Meggitts underlying financial performance over the performance period.
Remuneration policy for other employees The remuneration policy for other employees is based on broadly consistent principles as that for executive directors.
Annual salary reviews take into account personal performance, Group performance, local pay and market conditions, and salary levels for similar roles in comparable companies.
Some employees below executive level are eligible to participate in annual bonus schemes: opportunities and performance measures vary by organisational level, geographical region and an individuals role.
Senior executives are eligible for LTIP awards on similar terms to the executive directors except some of the performance conditions may vary, although award opportunities are lower and vary by organisational level.
All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Sharesave Scheme and SIP on identical terms.
Share ownership guidelines The minimum shareholding guideline for executive directors is 300% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 200% of base salary for each of the other executive directors.
There is no set time frame within which executive directors have to meet the guideline, however until they meet the guideline they are not permitted to sell more than 50% of the aftertax value of a vested share award.
The shareholding requirement ceases when a director leaves the Group.
Further information on the shareholding requirement is in the annual report on remuneration on page113.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future reward opportunities for the executive directors and the potentialsplit between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Minimum, Ontarget and Maximum.
Potential reward opportunities are based on the Policy, applied to 2019 base salaries.
Note that the LTIP awards granted in a year will not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant and the projected value excludes the impact of share price movement and dividend accrual.
Meggitt PLC 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Mr A Wood 000 Mrs L Burdett 000 100% 100% Minimum 843 Minimum 518 34% 23% 35% 22% 43% 43% 1,943 1,215 On-target On-target 26% 30% 44% 25% 30% 45% Maximum 3,296 Maximum 2,072 Mr P E Green 000 100% Minimum 602 48% 31% 21% 1,252 On-target Salary and bene ts 29% 29% 42% Pension STIP Maximum 2,051 LTIP The following assumptions have been made in compiling the above charts: Scenario Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed pay Latest known base salary, Latest known base salary, Latest known base salary, pension and value of benefits pension and value of benefits pension and value of benefits STIP No STIP payable Ontarget STIP payable 67% of Maximum STIP payable maximum LTIP Threshold not achieved 0% Performance warrants threshold Performance warrants full vesting vesting 30% vesting 100% Non-executive directors Remuneration Policy table Nonexecutive directors stand for reelection annually, do not have a contract of service and are not eligible to join the Groups pension or share schemes.
Details of the Policy on fees paid to our nonexecutive directors are set out in the table below: Fees Function To attract and retain nonexecutive directors of the highest calibre with broad commercial and other experience relevant to the Group.
Operation Fee levels are reviewed annually, with any adjustments effective 1 April each year.
The fees paid to the Chairman of the Board are determined by the Committee, while the fees for all other nonexecutive directors are reviewed by a committee of the Board formed of the executive directors.
Fees for the year under review and for the current year are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration on page 112.
Additional fees are paid to the chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committee and to the Senior Independent Director, to reflect the additional time commitment of these roles.
Additional fees may also be paid to non executive directors to cover the cost of attendance at meetings which take place outside their continent of residence.
In addition, nonexecutive directors are reimbursed for reasonable businessrelated expenses.
In deciding fee increases, the committees consider employment conditions and salary increases across the Group and prevailing market conditions.
Currently, all fees are paid in GBP, however the Committee reserves the right to pay future and existing nonexecutive directors in any other currency converted at the prevailing market rate when a change is agreed.
Opportunity Fee increases will be applied taking into account the outcome of the annual review.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for all nonexecutive directors including the Chairman as provided in the Companys Articles of Association is 1,000,000.
metrics Meggitt PLC 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Recruitment External appointments In cases of hiring or appointing a new executive director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all existing components of remuneration, as follows: Component Approach Maximum annual grant value Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined based on the experience and N A skills of the individual, internal comparisons, employment conditions and salary levels across the Group, and prevailing market conditions.
Initial salaries may be set below market conditions and consideration given to phasing any increases over two or three years subject to development in the role.
Pension In line with the Policy, new appointees will be entitled to become members of the N A Meggitt Workplace Savings Plan defined contribution plan or receive a cash pension allowance of 25% of salary in lieu.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits in line with the Policy but only UK N A Sharesave SIP employees will be eligible to participate in allemployee share schemes.
STIP The structure described in the Policy table will apply to new appointees with the 150% of salary relevant maximum being prorated to reflect the proportion of the year worked.
Targets 200% in exceptional for the personal element will be tailored to the appointee.
circumstances LTIP New appointees will be granted awards under the LTIP on similar terms as other 220% of salary executive directors, as described in the Policy table.
300% in exceptional circumstances In determining the appropriate remuneration structure and levels, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of Meggitt and its shareholders.
The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer, i. e. over and above the approach outlined in the table above.
Any such compensatory awards will be made under existing share schemes, where appropriate, and will be subject to the normal rules and performance conditions of those schemes.
The Committee may also consider it appropriate to structure buyout awards differently to the structure described in the Policy table, exercising the discretion available under UKLA Listing Rule 9.4.
2 R where necessary to make a oneoff award to an executive director in the context of recruitment.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
The value of any such buyout will be fully disclosed.
Internal promotion Where a new executive director is appointed by way of internal promotion the Policy will be consistent with that for external appointees as detailed above.
Any commitments made prior to an individuals promotion will continue to be honoured even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the Policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled although the Group may, where appropriate, seek to revise an individuals existing service contract on promotion to ensure it aligns with other executive directors and prevailing market bestpractice.
Disclosure on the remuneration structure of any new executive director, including details of any exceptional payments, will be disclosed either in the RIS notification made at the time of appointment or in the annual report on remuneration for the year in which the recruitment occurred.
Non-executive directors In recruiting a new nonexecutive director the Committee will use the Policy as set out in the table on page 99.
Discretion The Committee will operate the Groups incentive plans according to their respective rules and the Policy set out above, and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules, where relevant.
In line with common market practice, the Committee retains discretion as to the operation and administration of these incentive plans, including with respect to: Who participates: The timing of an award and or payment: The size of an award and or payment: The manner in which awards are settled: The choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets in accordance with the Policy set out above and the rules of each plan: The measurement of performance in the event of a variation of share capital, change of control, special dividend, distribution or any other corporate event which may affect the current or future value of an award: Determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes, based on the rules of each plan and the circumstances of the individual leaving: and Adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends, other corporate events, etc.. Any use of the above discretion in relation to the executive directors would, where relevant, be explained in the annual report on remuneration for the year in which the discretion was exercised.
As appropriate, it might also be the subject of consultation with the Groups major shareholders.
Meggitt PLC 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Minor changes The Committee may make minor amendments to the rules of the Groups incentive plans for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without requiring prior shareholder approval for that amendment.
Service contracts and exit payment policy Executive director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to manage the Group.
The Committees policy is that executive directors service contracts should be terminable on no more than 12 months notice.
The Committees approach to payments in the event of termination of employment of an executive director is to take account of the particular circumstances, including the reasons for termination, individual performance, contractual obligations and the rules of the Groups applicable incentive plans which apply to awards held by the executive directors: Compensation for loss of office in service contracts Except as set out in the table below, under the terms of their service contracts, the executive directors may be required to work during their notice period or may, if the Group decides, be paid in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period.
Payment in lieu of notice will be equal to base salary plus the cost to the Group of providing the contractual benefits pensions allowance, health insurance and company car or car allowance that would otherwise have been paid or provided during the notice period.
Payments will be in equal monthly instalments and will be subject to mitigation such that payments will either reduce, or stop completely, if the executive director obtains alternative employment.
An executive directors employment can be terminated by the Group without notice or payment in lieu of notice in specific circumstances including summary dismissal, bankruptcy or resignation.
Treatment of STIP Executive directors have no automatic entitlement to any bonus on termination of employment under the STIP, but the Committee may use its discretion to award a bonus normally prorated.
Where any bonus is deferred into shares the award will normally lapse if an executive directors employment terminates unless the executive director leaves for specified reasons.
The good leaver reasons are death, redundancy, retirement, injury, disability, the business or company which employs the executive director ceasing to be part of the Group or any other circumstances in which the Committee exercises discretion to treat the executive director as a good leaver.
If the executive director is a good leaver their award will vest on the normal vesting date and will not be subject to prorating.
Awards normally vest early on a change of control of the Company.
Treatment of long term incentive plan awards The treatment of awards under the ESOS, EPP and LTIP is governed by the rules of the plans which have been approved by shareholders and is described below.
Awards will normally lapse if an executive directors employment terminates unless the executive director leaves for specified good leaver reasons.
The good leaver reasons are the same as described above.
If the executive director is a good leaver, awards will vest to the extent that the attached performance conditions are met, but on a time prorated basis, with Committee discretion to allow early vesting.
Under the LTIP, awards vest on the normal vesting date subject to performance over the normal performance period, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Awards normally vest early on a change of control of the Company subject to performance conditions and time prorating.
A summary of the key terms of the executive directors service contracts on termination of employment or change of control is set out below.
This table has been updated to reflect the retirement of Doug Webb and appointment of Louisa Burdett.
Name Position Notice period Notice period Compensation payable on termination of from employer from employee employment or change of control Mr A Wood Chief Executive 12 months 6 months As set out in the Policy.
Service contract dated 13 November 2017 No change of control provisions.
Mrs L S Burdett Chief Financial 12 months 6 months As set out in the Policy.
Service contract dated Officer 17 September 2018 No change of control provisions.
Mr P E Green Executive 12 months 6 months Payments to Mr Green under his service contract differ Service contract dated Director, from the Policy in the following respects: 26 February 2001 Commercial & Corporate On termination of employment, Mr Green is entitled to a Mr Greens service Affairs liquidated damages payment equal to his salary and the contract was entered into value of his contractual benefits bonus, pension allowance, before 27 June 2012 and insurance and company car or car allowance at the date of has not been modified or termination, prorated to the remaining notice period less renewed after that date.
an amount equal to 5% of the aggregate sum and the As such, remuneration or Committee shall exercise its discretion under the Groups payments for loss of share plans to treat Mr Green as a good leaver.
office that are required to be made under Mr On change of control, Mr Green may give notice to Greens service contract terminate his employment within six months of the event are not required to be and upon such termination he shall become entitled to consistent with the Policy.
the liquidated damages payment summarised above.
Meggitt PLC 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued External appointments held by executive directors The Board believes that the Group can benefit from experience gained when executive directors hold external nonexecutive directorships.
Executive directors are allowed to hold external appointments and to receive payment provided such appointments are agreed by the Board or Committee in advance, there are no conflicts of interests and the appointment does not lead to deterioration in the individuals performance.
Details of external appointments and the associated fees received are included in the annual report on remuneration on page 112.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Committee does not consult with employees specifically on executive remuneration policy and framework but the Committee does review salary data from across the Group.
The Committee seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies, including trade unions and works councils, as part of its broader employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Salary increases made elsewhere in the Group are amongst the data that the Committee considers in determining salaries for executive directors.
In making remuneration decisions for the executive directors the Committee considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
To assist in this, the Committee members receive updates from the executives on pay decisions throughout the Group, including STIP payments and share awards made to executives outside the Committees remit.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee Chairman is available to discuss remuneration matters with the Groups major shareholders and is also regularly updated on feedback on remuneration received by the Chairman of the Board and executive directors directly from shareholders.
The Committee Chairman ensures the Committee is kept informed of shareholder views.
The Committee Chairman consulted with shareholders, reviewed their guidelines and also guidelines released by other shareholder representative bodies, before the Policy was put to shareholders for approval at the 2017 AGM.
Annual report on remuneration The following report provides details of how our existing Policy was implemented during the year ended 31 December 2018.
Remuneration Committee 2018 membership and attendance 1 Mr P Heiden Chairman Mr G S Berruyer Mr C R Day 3 3 3 3 2 3 Mrs N L Gioia Ms A J P Goligher 3 3 3 3 1 On a personal leave of absence for the December meeting.
There was one meeting between the end of the financial year and the date of signing of this report, which all current members of the Committee, except Mrs Gioia, attended.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration policy and packages for all executive directors and the Executive Committee, being the direct reports to the Chief Executive, and for agreeing the fees for the Chairman.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Financial Officer Designate and Group HR Director attended meetings of the Committee by invitation: they were absent when their own remuneration was under consideration.
None of the nonexecutive directors has, or has had, any personal financial interests or conflicts of interest arising from cross directorships or daytoday involvement in running the business.
Advisors to the Committee During the year, the Committees independent remuneration advisors were Mercer part of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. who were appointed in 2010 as a result of a competitive tender process.
As Mercer has advised the Committee for nine years, it is proposed to tender the remuneration advisory services in the second half of 2019 with a start date for the appointed advisors straight after the AGM in 2020, after the vote on remuneration policy.
During the year, the Committee confirmed it was satisfied with the independence of Mercer.
The Committee evaluated the support provided by Mercer in 2018 and was comfortable that they provide effective and independent remuneration advice to the Committee.
Mercer provide guidance on remuneration matters at Board level and below.
Mercer do not have any other connection with the Group other than through their parent company, Marsh & McLennan Companies which is also the parent company of the Groups primary advisors on insurance Marsh and UK pensions and benefits Mercer.
Mercer are a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adhere to its code of conduct www.
Their total fees in 2018 for remuneration advice to the Committee were 55,260 2017: 54,947.
Meggitt PLC 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance AGM voting The following table shows the results of the advisory vote on the 2017 Directors remuneration report at the 2018 AGM: 1 Votes % of votes Votes % of votes Total Votes withheld Resolution text for cast for against cast against votes cast abstentions Approval of Directors remuneration report 589,813,824 94.96 31,322,813 5.04 621,136,637 502,335 1 A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
The following table shows the results of the binding vote on the current Directors remuneration policy at the 2017 AGM: 1 Votes % of votes Votes % of votes Total Votes withheld Resolution text for cast for against cast against votes cast abstentions Approval of Directors remuneration policy 548,956,542 90.34 58,674,318 9.66 607,630,860 43,942 1 A withheld vote is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast for and against a resolution.
Single total figure of remuneration for executive directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive director for the year ended 31 December 2018 and the prior year: Mr A Wood Mr D R Webb Mr P E Green 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 000 000 000 000 000 000 Base salary 650 460 474 465 382 375 1 Taxable benefits 14 20 14 14 14 14 Pension 163 115 118 116 191 187 2 STIP 800 467 570 505 460 395 3 LTIP 573 685 159 552 129 Total 2,200 1,062 1,861 1,259 1,599 1,100 1 Taxable benefits consist primarily of company car or car allowance, fuel allowance and private health care insurance.
For 2017 and 2018, it also included limited relocation expenses for Mr A Wood payable under his service contract until 31 December 2018.
2 STIP paid for performance over the relevant financial year.
Further details of the 2018 STIP, including performance measures, actual performance and bonus payouts, can be found on pages 104 to 106.
3 LTIP is calculated as the number of shares vesting based on certain performance measures and valued at the market value of the shares on the vesting date.
For 2018, the figure represents the actual vesting outcome of the 2016 award, for which the performance measures were based on EPS, ROTA and strategic measures.
Based on performance to 31 December 2018, the 2016 LTIP award will vest at 52.1%.
The market value of vested shares has been estimated using the average share price over the last quarter of 2018 of 509.27p.
This value will be trued up in next years report to reflect the share price on the vesting date.
For 2017, the figure represents the actual vesting of the 2015 award which has been trued up, compared to that reported last year, to reflect the share price on the date of vesting 434.26p.
Further details on performance criteria, achievement and resulting vesting levels can be found on pages 106 to 107.
The figures include the accrued distribution payable on the shares that vest equivalent to a dividend paid as income.
Global incentives review During 2018, executive management undertook a review of Groupwide remuneration schemes, to ensure close strategic alignment with the new organisation.
This review resulted in a small number of changes which are outlined below.
Where changes detailed in the following table apply to executive directors, the changes are within the current Remuneration Policy and no policy changes are proposed this year.
A full policy review for executive directors will be conducted in 2019 which will continue to take into account shareholder feedback, market practice and alignment to our strategy.
A revised Remuneration Policy for executive directors is due to be put before the shareholders at the AGM in 2020 for a binding vote.
Scheme Changes Executive director impact STIP The plan structure remains the same.
None financial performance is currently measured at the Group level for executive Financial results for 2019 for divisional participants directors will be based on Group performance to foster collaboration and shared success in the new organisational structure.
LTIP measures The plan structure remains the same.
New simplified strategic measures will apply to executive directors.
The weighting of Strategic measures will be simplified to increase strategic versus financial measures remains focus on key areas: Meggitt Production System the same as for 2018 and 2017. measured by quality and delivery, inventory and programme excellence which includes innovation and programme performance.
Deferred Bonus Plan Leaver rules for bonus deferral awards are None of the changes to the deferred bonus amended so that from 2019 deferred bonus is only plan apply to executive directors.
lost on dismissal for cause gross misconduct.
Vesting of awards does not accelerate with good leaver status and malus and clawback provisions will continue to apply.
Other Incentives Short term incentive structures and measures None.
across our management and professional populations will be standardised from 2019.
Meggitt PLC 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Chief Financial Officer retirement Mr D R Webb retired from the Board and as an employee on 31 December 2018.
Mr Webb submitted his notice to Meggitt on 17 September but agreed to waive the six month notice period he was entitled to, with all salary and benefits instead ceasing to accrue on 31 December 2018.
The Committee confirmed that Mr Webb would be granted the normal rights for retirees under the executive and UK employee share plans from 31 December 2018, and so all awards vest at the appropriate time, subject to the normal prorating and other plan rules.
As Mr Webb will no longer be an employee when the 2018 STIP is paid, it will not be subject to deferral.
There are no other terms associated with his retirement to note.
Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive directors audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each nonexecutive director: 2018 2017 000 000 Sir Nigel Rudd 355 350 Mr G S Berruyer 58 57 Mr C R Day 69 68 1 Mrs N L Gioia 82 63 Ms A J P Goligher 58 57 Mr P Heiden 80 79 Ms B L Reichelderfer 18 1 For 2018, includes fees to cover the cost of attendance at meetings that took place outside continent of residence.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2018 STIP in respect of 2018 performance The Board set stretching financial and strategic targets for the STIP at the start of the 2018 financial year.
These targets, and our performance against these, are summarised in the table below.
Executive directors 1 Measure Weighting Threshold Target for Stretch for Actual Percentage as a for 2018 2018 2018 of maximum percentage opportunity of target Financial U nderlying operating profit 33.3% 353.3m 372.8m 395.4m 382.7m 122% Free cash 33.3% 211.3m 235.1m 259.0m 250.9m 133% Personal See below 33.3% See tables below 1 For the purpose of STIP, targets and actual performance for both underlying operating profit and free cash flow are measured on a constant currency basis, adjusted where appropriate for any M&A activity and, in the case of free cash flow, exclude interest and tax.
The STIP targets and actual performance for underlying operating profit are measured before the impact of any share based payment expense.
Other adjustments are also made at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee to ensure the outcome is a fair reflection of the underlying performance of the Group for the year.
These are described on page 93 of this report.
A summary of the personal objectives applying to each executive director and the outcome is provided below: Tony Wood Chief Executive Overview Key achievements in the year Review and implement portfolio actions to focus the Group, Three noncore businesses sold in 2018. reduce debt and underpin EPS growth objectives Other potential bolt on acquisition opportunities reviewed weighting: 15%.
Strong organic revenue growth of 9% in 2018. Review business operating model to accelerate Revised operating model taking the business to a fully customer improvement in customer satisfaction and organic revenue aligned structure created with input from external consultants: growth whilst maintaining clarity of accountability approved by the Board in 2018 and launched on 1 January 2019. around route to market and operating performance Operations dashboard metrics impacted by ramp up on key weighting: 15%.
programmes below threshold including customer satisfaction and inventory turns.
Performance on footprint, purchasing costs, Accelerate improvements in the Groups operating reducing quality escapes and Services & Support revenue above performance for customers and competitiveness target.
Employee engagement index increased by 4%.
Chief Financial Officer succession plan concluded with hire of Louisa Burdett.
Improve inclusiveness and show demonstrable improvement High performance culture programme rolled out to 2,000 leaders in employee engagement and health and safety in 2018. in 2018, health and safety total recordable incident rate reduced Increase diversity and benchstrength of top 20 leaders by 34% year on year, with a corresponding 78% reduction in lost through external hires and internal promotions time incidents.
Payout % of maximum : 123% Meggitt PLC 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Doug Webb Chief Financial Officer Overview Key achievements in the year Manage Group financial structures in the context of the Prompt and effective action taken to respond to the implications substantial changes to international tax regulations of US tax reform and proactive measures taken to anticipate EU weighting: 30%.
state aid ruling changes and Brexit.
Very well executed analysis and restatement of accounts to meet Embed new IFRS accounting standards in both internal and the requirements of IFRS 15 and 16 changes auditors agreed with external reporting, including revised LTIP targets weighting: approach and FRC highlighted Meggitts interim disclosures as 10%.
A well executed transition to new Chief Financial Officer over the Manage investor relations programme to maintain balanced last two months of the year and completed work to explain share register and ensure sellside analysts and buyside accounting impacts of new organisation.
investors understand the impact of IFRS accounting changes Good progress with conversion of our largest and most complex on Meggitt weighting: 30%.
site in Simi Valley to SAP with relatively limited disruption.
Excellent progress with disposals in 2018 as we refocused the Obtain Cyber Essentials Plus certification and identify and portfolio.
execute a plan to move the business towards ISO27001.
Improved talent and engagement across the finance and IT Deliver key IT investment projects in 2018 weighting: 10%.
functions and high performance culture implemented amongst leadership.
Complete disposals of three noncore businesses and develop pipeline of bolton acquisitions weighting: 10%.
Deliver 3% improvement in employee engagement score for Finance and IT and ensure high performance culture is rolled out to all relevant employees.
Mature the finance talent process weighting: 10%.
Payout % of maximum : 120% Philip Green Executive Director, Commercial & Corporate Affairs Overview Key achievements in the year Improve customer relationships weighting: 20%.
A number of critical Group agreements and commercial settlements with key customers were finalised during the year.
Continue to develop a professional commercial function Government relations in the UK and US progressed.
Training relevant to the Commercial team delivered by Commercial, Legal and Trade Compliance of approximately Build an engaged and inclusive function weighting: 25%.
All required members of the function have completed high Develop and enhance appropriate commercial governance performance culture unfreezing and five facilitators have been to support our business weighting: 20%.
Sales representatives reduced from 65 to 16 at the end of the year Ensure Bermite remediation is on track for successful ahead of the planned reduction to 32.
Good progress made in completion by 30 June 2019 weighting: 10%.
consolidating distributors in the aerospace and defence sector Bermite remediation remains on track to be completed by the end of June 2019.
Payout % of maximum : 120% Meggitt PLC 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued The following STIP awards were received by directors in respect of 2018 performance: Executive % salary 000 Mr A Wood 123 800 Mr D R Webb 120 570 Mr P E Green 120 460 STIP deferral into shares As a result of the 2018 STIP vesting outcome described above, 25% of the STIP payout will be deferred into shares and released with no further performance conditions attached after a further period of two years, in line with the Policy.
In 2018, as a result of the 2017 STIP vesting, the following share awards were made under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan: Executive Form Date Shares over Award % of bonus Date 1 of award of grant which awards price of vesting granted 000 Mr A Wood Award 27.03.2018 26,884 434.26p 117 25 27.03.2020 Mr D R Webb Award 27.03.2018 29,072 434.26p 126 25 27.03.2020 Mr P E Green Award 27.03.2018 22,739 434.26p 99 25 27.03.2020 1 The award price is the average close price for the five days prior to the award date.
LTIP 2016 outcome The LTIP award made in April 2016 was subject to threeyear cumulative underlying EPS, threeyear average ROTA and a scorecard of strategic measures.
The outcome of the EPS measure has been adjusted for disposals see footnote 1 to the table.
Performance against each of these measures over the completed performance period is summarised in the table below: Performance period Targets Actual % vesting Element 2016 2017 2018 Weighting Threshold Mid-point Stretch performance of LTIP 1 Underlying EPS pence threeyear 33.3% 103.0p 108.0p 113.0p 107.1p 19.6% aggregate ROTA % average over three years 33.3% 19.0% 20.9% 23.0% 20.2% 17.5% 2 Strategic measures Organic revenue growth 5.6% 4.0% 5.5% 7.0% 3.6% 0.0% % CAGR Growth Programme 3 management average performance score per 5.6% 2.0 3.0 4.0 2.48 2.6% programme, out of 5 3 Innovation Schedule 5.6% 2.0 3.0 4.0 3.82 5.2% 3 MPS 5.6% 2.0 3.0 4.0 2.89 3.4% 3 Quality 57.0% 68.0% 80.0% 70.0% 1.3% Gross margin delivery 38.7% 39.5% 40.3% 38.8% 0.6% 5.6% 1.9% Execution of % improvement 38.0% 38.8% 39.6% 37.2% 0% 3 Delivery 45.0% 61.0% 77.0% 47.0% 0.6% 5.6% 510.8m 493.1m 451.3m 490.3m 1.2% 1.9% Inventory reduction 451.4m 421.4m 401.4m 473.1m 0% Overall outcome 52.1% 1 The Committee agreed that the EPS outcome for the 2016 LTIP should be adjusted for the impact of the disposal of Meggitt Target Systems, Piher, Piezotech, Meggitt Maryland, Thomson and Precision Micro all of which were sold in the three year performance period.
The Committee agreed that for small acquisitions and disposals, adjusting the outcome was more appropriate than adjusting the targets, however for more significant M&A adjusting the targets would be considered.
EPS actual figures for the performance period also exclude the impacts of IFRS 15 and IFRS 16, to ensure they are on a basis consistent with how the targets were set.
The resulting EPS in 2018 was 36.6p, versus the unadjusted EPS of 34.2p.
2 Progress against the targets for all strategic measures other than revenue growth are assessed annually, and the final vesting outcome based on performance in each period.
Programme management vesting is an assessment of programme performance and is based on independent assessments of the performance of our largest programmes approximately 100 in total at formal programme gate reviews against standard gate exit criteria.
MPS vesting is based on the number of our sites that have progressed up one stage of MPS in the year, against stretching targets set for overall progression.
Innovation vesting is determined based on progress with certain important innovation projects against detailed milestone criteria, as assessed by our Chief Technology Officer.
Quality and delivery vesting is based on progress against specific targets in each of these areas.
For each of these measures, vesting criteria were set at the start of the year and assessed at the end of the year.
Meggitt PLC 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Based on these performance outcomes, 52.1% of the 2016 LTIP award will vest.
Details of the awards vesting to executive directors are set out in the table below: Executive Interests Vesting Interests Date Share price Value 1 2 held % vesting of vesting at vesting 000 Mr A Wood 215,944 52.1 112,506 01.12.2019 509.27p 627 Mr D R Webb 250,746 52.1 130,638 05.04.2019 509.27p 727 Mr P E Green 202,020 52.1 105,252 05.04.2019 509.27p 586 1 The market value of vested stock is based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2018.
2 The value includes the accrued distribution payable on the shares that vest equivalent to a dividend paid as income.
Awards made in 2018 STIP and LTIP measures and their rationale for selection Measure Rationale for selection Targets set in the context of: STIP Underlying operating profit Our budget for the year Measures relate to our short term financial and Free cash flow Our budget for the year strategic priorities Personal performance Key priorities for each director LTIP Underlying EPS KPI Our strategic plan Can be benchmarked externally External benchmarks, including analyst forecasts and EPS ranges for comparators ROCE Replaces ROTA for executive directors for awards Our strategic plan made in 2018 and subsequent years, in response to investor feedback and to better reflect the value that acquisitions bring to Meggitt Strategic measures: Drivers of operational performance that underpin deployment of our key strategic goals Organic revenue growth KPI Our strategic plan External market trends Inventory Reinforces operational excellence and Meggitts Our budget for the year overall competitiveness Gross margin KPI.
Reinforces operational excellence and Agreed annual target, updated at the start Meggitts overall competitiveness of each year of the performance period to ensure the LTIP targets remain relevant and stretching over the threeyear period Our budget for the year MPS Measures our progress in deploying MPS across Agreed annual targets, updated at the start the Group, to drive operational improvements, of each year of the performance period to including in quality and delivery ensure the LTIP targets remain relevant and stretching over the threeyear period Programme management Measures our performance in passing programme Calibrated as three sets of annual targets gate reviews In determining the final vesting outcome at Innovation Measures achievement of innovation programme the end of the cycle, the Committee milestones considers performance over the threeyear performance period for each measure Meggitt PLC 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Scheme interests awarded in the year ended 31 December 2018 audited 1 2018 LTIP Executive Face value Form Date Shares over Award Date 2 of award of grant which awards price of vesting 3 granted 000 % of salary Mr A Wood Nil cost option 03.04.2018 332,852 429.62p 1,430 220 03.04.2021 Mr D R Webb Nil cost option 03.04.2018 243,903 429.62p 1,048 220 03.04.2021 Mr P E Green Nil cost option 03.04.2018 196,638 429.62p 845 220 03.04.2021 1 The 2018 LTIP measures were disclosed and explained in the 2017 Directors remuneration report.
2 The award price is the average close price for the five days prior to the award date.
The face value has been calculated using the award price for each award.
3 Based on salary at the date of award.
Vesting is dependent on the achievement of threeyear targets based on the following performance measures: Weighting Measure Threshold Mid-point Stretch 33.3% Underlying EPS pence threeyear aggregate equivalent to CAGR range of 3% to 9% 101.6 107.7 114.0 33.3% ROCE average over three years 11.1% 11.5% 11.9% 2 Inventory 13point 3 inventory value 451.4m 421.4m 401.4m 2 Gross margin Gross margin % 38.0% 38.8% 39.6% Execution Meggitt Average status 1 Production per schedule 2 System 2.0 3.0 4.0 1 Strategic measures 33.3% Organic revenue % organic revenue average over three years growth growth CAGR over three years 4.0% 5.5% 7.0% Growth Programme Average status 2 1 management per reviews 2.0 3.0 4.0 Average status 2 Innovation Schedule 1 per reviews 2.0 3.0 4.0 1 Performance against each strategic measure will be assessed at the end of the threeyear period against a scale of: 1.0 threshold objective not met 2.0 threshold met 3.0 on target 4.0 stretch objective met 5.0 stretch objective exceeded 2 The targets apply to year 1 of the 2018 LTIP award as well as year 2 of the 2017 LTIP award and year 3 of the 2016 LTIP award.
3 Inventory is measured at constant currency, gross of provisions, averaging month end balances over a year.
Total pension entitlements audited The table below sets out details of the pension entitlements under the Meggitt Pension Plan MPP for Mr Green.
Since reaching the governments Lifetime Allowance in April 2012, Mr Green ceased accruing further benefit under the MPP and receives a 50% pension allowance on his full salary which is a contractual requirement.
Mr Greens dependants remain eligible for dependants pensions and the payment of a lump sum on death in service.
Mr Webb and Mr Wood received a pensions allowance of 25% of base salary in 2018, but are not members of any defined benefit or defined contribution pension scheme operated by the Group.
Pension entitlements will be reviewed in 2019 as part of the 2020 Policy review, in light of the 2018 Code and recent proxy advisor guidelines.
The pension allowance payments made in 2018 are included in the single total figure of remuneration table.
1 Mr P E Green 2018 2017 000 000 Accrued benefit 80 76 Date benefit receivable 26.10.2018 26.10.2018 Total value of additional benefit if director retires early Nil.
Early retirement retirement factors factors cost neutral cost neutral 1 Mr Green opted to leave the MPP with effect from 31 March 2012.
He has not drawn his pension.
Meggitt PLC 108 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Percentage change in CEO cash remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all executive employees.
We have selected our senior executive population for this comparison because it is considered to be the most relevant, due to the structure of total remuneration: most of our senior executives receive benefits under the same STIP and LTIP structure as our CEO.
Base salary for Mr Wood as Chief Executive is disclosed on page 111.
Base salary data for executive employees is calculated using the increase in the earnings of around 220 fulltime executive employees using the same employee data set in 2017 and 2018.
2 This information is not collected for the executive employee population and is therefore estimated from a sample of executive employees, using a consistent set of employees.
3 STIP for executive employees is calculated using the increase in the STIP payout to around 220 fulltime executive employees using the same employee data set in 2017 and 2018.
Relative importance of spend on pay The chart below shows shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and share buybacks and total employee expenditure for 2018 and the prior year, along with the percentage change in both.
Shareholder distributions 2 Comprises wages and salaries and retirement benefit costs.
See note 9 to the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Exit payments made in the year No exit payments have been made in 2018.
Payments to past directors audited There were no payments to past directors in 2018.
A fide minimis of 10,000 applies to all disclosures under this note.
Review of past performance The remuneration package is structured to help ensure alignment with shareholders.
There is no direct correlation between share price movement and the change in the value of the pay package in any one year as the remuneration package comprises several components, some fixed and others based on nonfinancial measures.
The graph and table below show how the CEOs pay has correlated to total shareholder return over the last ten years.
Meggitt PLC 109 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued This graph illustrates the Groups performance compared to the FTSE 100 Index, which is considered an appropriate broad equity market index against which the Groups performance should be measured.
2 The outcomes are for those awards which are included in the single figure of remuneration for that year.
For 2018, this represents the outcome of the LTIP award which will vest in 2019.
Outcomes are expressed as a percentage of maximum.
UK Corporate Governance Code and other developments The Committee met in December 2018 and reviewed the changes introduced to the 2018 Code.
The 2018 Code widens the remit of the Committee, with the requirement to take into account workforce remuneration and related policies when setting directors remuneration, ensuring the remuneration policy aligns with company purpose and values and taking account of risk and sets out how wider remuneration schemes support strategy and longterm sustainable success.
As part of the remuneration policy review in 2019, we will consider the role of postemployment shareholding requirements and review executive pension contribution levels.
In December, we also reviewed and updated our annual schedule and Terms of Reference to take account of the 2018 Code changes.
Amendments to reporting, including the CEO pay ratio and the impact of share price increases on executive remuneration will be first reported in our 2019 Directors remuneration report.
Meggitt PLC 110 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2019 Base salary, pension and benefits Base salaries were reviewed in early 2019.
The base salaries for executive directors will be increased by 2% from 1 April 2019.
In agreeing these increases, the Committee took into account average expected salary increases across the general workforce 3% in the UK, industry benchmarks and broader retail price inflation, as well as the performance of the executive directors in 2018.
2 Mr Webb retired on 31 December 2018.
The Committee periodically benchmarks executive director salaries against other FTSE companies of similar size, as well as a defined group of UKlisted industry comparators, comprising: BAE Systems, BBA Aviation, Cobham, Halma, IMI, Melrose, Rolls Royce, Rotork, Senior, Spectris, SpiraxSarco, Ultra Electronics and Weir Group.
There are no changes in pension contribution rates or benefit provision for 2019.
2019 Incentive Plan Measures STIP measures for 2019 are unchanged from 2018, as follows: 2019 STIP measures Underlying operating profit 33.3% Free cash flow 33.3% Personal performance 33.3% The STIP targets for 2019, together with details of whether they have been met, will be disclosed subject to commercial sensitivity in the 2019 Directors remuneration report.
STIP award opportunities will be in line with the Policy disclosed on page 96.
2019 LTIP measures The LTIP measures for 2019 are 33% earnings per share, 33% ROCE and 33% based on three strategic measures, which are MPS, inventory and programme excellence.
These strategic measures have been simplified in the following ways for the 2019 award, as a result of the incentives review: Organic revenue growth and gross margin: These measures have been removed from the LTIP, as they are considered to be duplicative of other profit measures in the LTIP and STIP.
MPS: The underlying measure has changed from gate exits as sites progress through the process, which is an input measure, to quality and delivery, which is an output measure.
On review, it was considered that setting quality and delivery targets is appropriate, as they capture two of the key outputs of MPS.
Innovation and programme management: These measures have been merged to create a programme excellence measure weighted 50 50 innovation and programme management.
The Committee wanted to simplify the measures, but retaining both elements in a single measure will ensure the Group stays focused on customer satisfaction and efficient operation of current programmes and innovates to develop future products for our customers.
Targets Plan element Weight Threshold Target Stretch Financial measures EPS 3 year average 33.33% 108.9 115.5 122.3 ROCE 3 year average 33.33% 12.1% 12.5% 12.9% Strategic measures MPS 11.11% 40% 50% 60% Inventory 11.11% 3.0 3.2 3.4 Programme excellence 11.11% 2.0 3.0 4.0 Total 100% The targets apply to year 1 of the 2019 award, they also apply to year 2 of the 2018 LTIP and year 3 of the 2017 LTIP.
Meggitt PLC 111 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Directors remuneration report continued Chairman and non-executive director fees The remuneration of the Chairman and nonexecutive directors in 2019 will be as follows: 1 1 2019 2018 000 000 2 Chairman fee 364 357 3 Nonexecutive director base fee 60 58 Additional fee for chairing Audit or Remuneration Committee 11 11 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 11 11 1 Fees shown are effective for a year from 1 April.
2 Sir Nigel Rudd receives additional benefits of 20,000 per annum for secretarial and car services required for business purposes.
3 A fee of 4,000 is paid per meeting to US directors when travelling to meetings outside of their home continent.
Directors beneficial interests audited The beneficial interests of the directors and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of Meggitt at 31 December 2018, as notified under the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules DTR of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA including shares held beneficially in the SIP by executive directors, were as follows: Shareholding Ordinary shares of 5p each 2018 2017 Sir Nigel Rudd 133,850 124,650 Mr A Wood 11,308 10,479 Mr G S Berruyer 13,000 13,000 Mr C R Day 74,742 52,454 Mrs N L Gioia 3,090 3,000 Ms A J P Goligher 3,000 3,000 Mr P E Green 633,496 575,684 Mr P Heiden 6,675 6,470 Mr D R Webb 145,228 130,131 Between 1 January 2019 and 25 February 2019, the only changes to the beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of Meggitt are that Mr Green acquired 49 shares through the Meggitt PLC Share Incentive Plan.
External appointments held by executive directors as at 31 December 2018 Executive director Company Role Fees retained 2018 000 Mr D R Webb SEGRO plc Nonexecutive director 60 Chairman of Audit Committee 15 Total 75 Meggitt PLC 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Directors shareholding requirements audited Shares which are included within the shareholding requirement are: Source of shares Description ESOS, EPP and LTIP Share awards exercised and retained.
Investment shares Shares purchased as investment shares in respect of matching awards held under the EPP.
Deferred Bonus Shares released and retained after the twoyear deferral period.
Ordinary shares Shares purchased directly in the market.
Dividend reinvestment plan Shares acquired through the dividend reinvestment plan.
SIP Shares acquired under the SIP including those held in trust.
Sharesave Scheme Shares exercised and retained.
The table below shows the shareholding of each executive director against their respective shareholding requirement as at 31December2018.
Mrs Burdett did not own any shares as at 31 December 2018: Shareholding Shares Current Guideline guideline owned shareholding met?
1 % 2018 outright % 2018 2 Name salary salary Mr A Wood 300% 11,308 8% Building Mr D R Webb 200% 145,228 144% Building Mr P E Green 200% 633,496 777% Met 1 Includes shares invested to be eligible for outstanding EPP matching awards.
2 Assessment of shareholding is based on a share price of 471.00 pence the value of a Meggitt share on 31 December 2018.
Directors interests in share schemes audited All of the ESOS, EPP and LTIP awards have performance conditions attached as detailed in the Directors remuneration report in the year of grant and in this report for those awards made in 2018.
The awards made up to and including 2015 have already vested to the extent detailed in this and previous reports and the figures shown in the table below for those years are the vested share award amounts.
The awards made in 2016 and later years were unvested as at 31December 2018.
Sharesave awards are not subject to performance conditions.
