STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Attendance at Remuneration Committee As at 31 December 2018, the members of the Committee were all independent Non-Executive Directors: Meetings attended 2018 Attended Max possible lord Flight chairman 5 5 keith carby 5 5 roger Farah 5 5 1.
Keith Carby retires from the Board on 30 April 2019 Lord Flight, former Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Danielle Harmer, Chief People Officer Letter from the Chairman On behalf of the Board, and as former Chairman of the 2018 ACTIVITIES Remuneration Committee, Iam pleased to present the Remuneration Committee Report and the Directors The Committee oversees the key aspects of reward for Remuneration Report the Report for the year ending all colleagues.
Our activities are not focused solely on 31 December 2018.
I would like to thank our investors for Director remuneration: for example, they included a theirsupport during my time as Chairman.
I stepped down review of the performance of the Group personal from the Board and Roger Farah took over as Chairman pension scheme and the Companys gender pay gap of the Remuneration Committee from 1 April 20191.
We also review the principles of the annual Reward I wish him well in his role.
Review, including salaries and variable pay, for allcolleagues Our Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 25 April 2017, and is due for review in 2020.
We have included a summary of the current policy within our Remuneration Report for ease of 2019 FOCUS AREAS reference and the full policy can be found on our website.
The Committee is mindful of the changes within the UK We have again enhanced the level of disclosure in the Report Corporate Governance Code and their potential impact this year in response to feedback from investors and are on remuneration providing greater transparency with regard to variable remuneration outcomes for 2018.
We are again improving our disclosure and transparency this year including reporting early on the new CEO In January 2019, we announced that we had adjusted the risk payratio weighting of certain commercial loans secured on commercial Our approach this year also includes more clarity on property and certain specialist buy-to-let loans that had the performance assessment and the link to reward combined effect of increasing our risk weighted assets RWA We are pleased with the improvement in the gender pay by 900 million.
In light of this Craig Donaldson has asked that the Committee does not consider him for variable reward for gap and this remains an area of focus page 82 2018.
In addition, the Committee has decided to freeze vestings of share options and awards for Executive Directors and the Executive team, including share options for 2018, pending further internal analysis and any external investigations into the RWA adjustment.
Our approach to remuneration across MetroBank We believe oversight of the remuneration and benefits across the Bank for all colleagues, not just Directors, is an important part of our role.
Our approach to remuneration forExecutive Directors is consistent with that taken for all colleagues.
It comprises a salary, reasonable benefits and pension provisions and variable reward which is delivered primarily through share options.
We do not operate additional Long-Term Incentive Plans or LTIPs.
The above change in Committee Chair is subject to regulatory approval.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 81 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Variable reward for all eligible colleagues, including In 2018 variable reward was balanced with 72% of females Directors, is based on personal behaviours and delivery and receiving a bonus, versus 73% of males.
also how the Bank has performed during the year.
All share options are awarded at the market share price with no discount and are subject to deferral over up to five years.
This aligns all colleagues with both investors and other stakeholders in line with our customer-focused growth 28% 72% 27% 73% model and long-term vision.
Our customer-focused model isalso the reason why we weight a greater proportion of ourvariable reward outcomes on customer service metrics.
All variable reward is subject to malus and clawback.
Female Male Gender pay Received bonus Did not receive bonus We are pleased that we have a narrower pay gap this year.
The 2018 median gender pay gap is 9.8% 13.5% in 2017 and the The median bonus gap was 29% and the mean bonus gap mean gender pay gap is 21% 22.4% in 2017.
However, if gains made on the sale of share proportionately more women carrying out jobs in the top pay options or shares are excluded, the median bonus gap quartile than in the previous year and the gaps in the top and reduces to 27.9% and the mean bonus gap reduces to 30%.
The bonus gap is driven by the greater proportion of men in Median the top quartile where variable reward tends to be higher.
bonus gap Mean bonus Mean Median Mean excluding gap excluding Median pay bonus bonus share options share options Year pay gap gap gap gap sales gains sales gains Full details can be found on our website: metrobankonline.
co. uk 2018 9.8% 21.0% 29.0% 35.7% 27.9% 30.0% Looking back on 2018 2017 13.5% 22.4% 24.0% 38.7% 23.5% 27.1% Variable reward Variable reward outcomes for 2018 were based on key financial, risk, customer and people objectives balanced with We take fairness and transparency very seriously so we the personal behaviours, and delivery of individual Executive examined salaries for all roles with more than 10 colleagues Directors.
This is the same approach that we take with every in them.
This confirmed that we pay colleagues doing the colleague in MetroBank.
We apply the same Company same roles equitably, regardless of gender.
Nonetheless, multiplier for all employees who are eligible for variable reward wecontinue to focus on reducing the gap by supporting all at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
colleagues to develop in their careers and progress towards more stretching jobs that typically command a higher salary.
We again set exceptionally stretching targets for 2018 and we All of our talent development programmes are inclusive and had made a provisional proposal of total variable reward of we support leaders by providing them with diverse candidate 47% of salary, for the CEO: and total variable reward of 72% of lists for vacancies.
salary for our new CFO, David Arden.
The maximum allowed is 200% of salary.
Following our announcement of 23 January Pay quartiles 2019 regarding the RWA adjustment, Craig Donaldson asked LOWER LOWER MIDDLE that the Committee did not consider him for variable reward for 2018, such that he instead received an award of zero.
In addition, the Committee decided to freeze vestings of share options and awards for the Executive Directors and Executive team, including share options for 2018, pending further internal analysis and any external investigations into the RWAadjustment.
Male 49% Male 52% Female 51% Female 48% Page 88 details the scorecard measures, targets and Median pay gap 0.0% Median pay gap 3.5% outcomes relating to 2018 and 2017 as well as the total Mean pay gap -0.2% Mean pay gap 1.2% variable reward awarded.
Following shareholder feedback we have also included enhanced disclosure on our performance.
UPPER MIDDLE UPPER leadership changes David Arden was appointed as CFO on 19 March 2018 on a salary of 400,000 and with pension and variable reward arrangements in line with those for the CEO.
On joining MetroBank David was also made a compensatory award of share options and cash in line with our Remuneration Policy.
Male 51% Male 68% Details are on page 86 and are included in the single figure Female 49% Female 32% on page 87.
Median pay gap 0.6% Median pay gap 10.1% Mean pay gap 1.8% Mean pay gap 11.1% 82 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Mike Brierley, our former CFO, retired on 31 March 2018.
We do not offer LTIPs or operate any other long-term Mike did not receive any variable remuneration for the variable reward schemes.
portion of 2018 during which he remained in the role.
We agreed, in line with our Directors Remuneration Policy, that Appropriateness of executive remuneration Mikes share options and awards would continue and vest at We believe that the overall remuneration structure continues the normal time subject to their terms and conditions.
There is significant alignment between the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders, and Looking forward to 2019 we take the same approach with all employees as part Salaries from 1 april 2019 of our ethos to make every colleague feel like an owner.
The on-target pay Additionally the Remuneration Committee has complete increase for inflationary and behavioural  to challenge the formulaic variable reward related salary increases was 1.4%.
For growth and market outcome where it believes it is not appropriate.
data realignment increases, the average pay rise was 4.3% and the maximum was 21.6%.
In total, 2,043 or 52.2% of all The Remuneration Policy will be reviewed in 2020 and colleagues received a salary increase above the standard aspart of that process we will check that our structures inflationary and behavioural performance-related pay continue to be effective, competitive and aligned with rise.
This includes all our Cashiers, Customer Service theCompanys objectives.
We will remain mindful of the Representatives and AMAZE Direct Representatives where external and regulatory environment and evolving debate our entry-level salaries have increased by between 2.78% onexecutive remuneration.
All changes to the policy will and 5.51%.
We have also reviewed our Executive Directors salaries.
Specifically we are intending to review the following aspects OurCEO, Craig Donaldsons salary will remain flat in 2019 of executive remuneration based on investor feedback and at750,000.
recent regulatory and corporate governance changes: Formalise the shareholding requirement for Executive The salary of our new CFO, David Arden, who joined on Directors at 200% of salary 19 March 2018 increased by 1.25% below the standard Retrospectively amend the policy to reflect our move on-target inflationary pay rise from 400,000 to 405,000 to aproportionality level 2 firm from January 2019 under from 1 April 2019. the PRA, FCA, and EBA remuneration rules which will require more stringent deferral rules and post vesting chairmans fees holding periods The annual fees for the Chairman, Vernon W. Hill, II, remain Consider what our approach should be with respect unchanged at 385,000.
The 120,000 gross annual topost employment shareholding requirements allowance, paid in monthly instalments via PAYE as a contribution towards the Chairmans travel to from the Weengage with relevant organisations concerning our UKand accommodation and subsistence while here, also approach to remuneration and welcome feedback from remains unchanged.
No other expenses are payable in investors and stakeholders.
We incurred professional fees of 40,900 plus VAT for non-executive Director fees remuneration advisory services from Deloitte LLP.
The fees for our Non-Executive Directors remain unchanged at 52,500 per annum.
On behalf of the Committee, thank you for your support andI wish Roger well in his new role as Chairman1.
Variable reward for 2019 The Committee will again agree an appropriate balanced lord Flight scorecard to inform the Company variable reward multiplier remuneration committee chairman for the financial year for 2019, based on financial, risk, customer and people ending 31 December 2018 objectives.
We will disclose targets and measures in the 10 April 2019 Remuneration section of the Annual Report for 2019.
This disclosure will include information relating to performance against those targets except where we believe it is commercially sensitive in which case it will be disclosed once it is deemed not to be sensitive.
The majority of variable pay for Executive Directors will continue to be awarded as share options.
From 2019 variable reward for PRA-designated Senior Managers including theExecutive Directors will vest over seven years with a12-month holding period in line with our move to a proportionality level 2 firm.
Our simple approach to variable reward, applied across theorganisation, focuses executive leaders and employees on growth and the long-term, sustainable success of 1.
The above change in Committee Chair is subject to regulatory approval thebusiness.
Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018 83 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED The remuneration framework in brief Key areas discussed at Remuneration Committee Our primary objective is to design a remuneration Meetings in 2018 framework that promotes the growth and long-term success Area topics of MetroBank while supporting the unique culture and Policy and Approval of Directors Remuneration model to deliver outstanding customer service.
reporting Report, including letter from Remuneration Committee Chairman and This framework promotes sound and effective risk Remuneration Policy management and does not encourage risk-taking that Gender pay and approach to reporting exceeds the risk appetite agreed by the Board.
2018 data New Remuneration Committee Terms In line with our business strategy and objectives, the ofReference framework strongly emphasises long-term growth and share Feedback on 2017 Annual Report options as the major source of reward so that everyone is focused and rewarded for long-term, sustainable success.
Reward 2018 Annual Reward Review for all colleagues including multiplier for Because of the way we measure behaviours and variable reward, awards for 2017 performance for individuals, and how we capture and performance year, pay outcomes and actupon customer insight across the organisation, the CEO summary framework is also actively aligned to the delivery of Remuneration for Executive Directors, outstanding customer service.
members of the Executive Leadership Team and Director of Internal Audit Our approach rewards success and is attractive to talented Fees for Chairman and Non-Executive individuals.
In particular, it strikes a balance between Directors short-term rewards and the long-term performance of Share options number available for thebusiness.
The framework also complies with the FCA granting, dilution policy, approval of remuneration principles.
Full details are on our website: exchange value and VWAP to apply to metrobankonline.
the 2019 grant for 2018 performance year Composition of the Remuneration Committee Discretionary decisions regarding In addition to the members set out on page 81, Craig retention of share options by former Donaldson CEO and Vernon W. Hill, II Chairman attend employees meetings by invitation to assist the Committee in its Accelerated vesting of share options for deliberations, although not in relation to their own two Non-Executive Directors Roger remuneration.
The Committee receives assistance from Farah and Sir Michael Snyder theChief People Officer, Danielle Harmer, who acts as the Review of MetroBank Group Personal Secretary to the Committee.
Pension Plan Governance Report Regulation Regulation guidelines on remuneration Following each meeting, the Chairman provides a verbal and move to a proportionality level 2 firm update to the Board.
The Committee minutes are also Remuneration Code Annual Disclosure included in future Board papers.
Areas of discussion are for 2018 outlined here.
Ex-post checks for October and November 2018 share option vests CRO review of FCA remuneration guidelines, including ex-ante checks Director of Internal Audit sign-off of 2018 Reward Review Annual review of Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference New Corporate Governance Code requirements and changes to Remuneration Report legislation Remuneration Committee Annual Effectiveness Review 84 Metro Bank Plc AnnuAl report And Accounts 2018
