71 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear Shareholders, Share Plan, which applies to the most senior members of the executive management team, and determining the level of the awards made I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the during the year: year ended 31 December 2018.
This is my first report to shareholders The onboarding of the Committees remuneration consultant, since I was appointed as chair of the Remuneration Committee in  PwC, which was engaged from 1 November 2018.
I would like to thank my predecessor, Sue Farr, for her December 2017: and contribution and leadership of the Committee during her tenure.
Reviewing the Committees own performance and its terms of reference.
As usual, the Directors Remuneration Report is split into two sections: the first is our Remuneration Policy, which was last approved by Several principles guide the deliberations of the Committee.
shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting in May 2017, Fundamentally, our work is about finding a balance: ensuring that and the second is our annual report on remuneration, which includes remuneration structures are designed in a way that incentivises the this letter and is subject to an advisory vote at the Companys 2019 team to look after the medium-to-long term interests of stakeholders Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 May 2019. when executing the Companys strategy while allowing for sufficient flexibility for us to recruit the best people to deliver on that strategy.
REVIEW OF 2018 Like many multinational companies, we source talent globally in an During the year, Jennifer Fox was appointed as the Companys Group increasingly competitive marketplace, so a one-size-fits-all approach to Chief Executive Officer and as a Director of the Company.
She served in remuneration is not well suited for our business.
At the same time, we that capacity until 27 September 2018 at which point her employment remain cognizant of best practice in the UK and the expectations of our with the Group ceased after she and the Board mutually agreed it would institutional shareholders in terms of compensating our executive team, be best for her to step down.
In addition to her contractual entitlements, as well as the need to have in place fair employment and remuneration the Committee considered carefully whether any payments should be practices across the wider workforce.
One change implemented over the made under the Groups variable pay arrangements.
The Committee course of the year, for instance, was to require a two-year post-vesting agreed that it would be fair and equitable to pay Ms Fox a pro-rata bonus holding period for any LTIP awards made in the future.
This will be payment of 234,375 for the period that she was employed, taking into reflected in the next version of our Remuneration Policy.
consideration her efforts and achievements during that time.
Full details are included in the body of the report.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN AWARDS In connection with Ms Foxs departure in September 2018, the Aside from Ms Foxs remuneration arrangements, the primary focus of Committee agreed that her LTIP award lapsed effective as of the date the Committee this past year was to consider the changes to the UK she ceased to be employed by the Group.
No other awards were made Corporate Governance Code that will take effect from 1 January 2019. under the LTIP during the year and the only outstanding LTIP award Given the expansion of the Committees remit under the new version of was the award made to Aloysius Lee, the former Group Chief Executive the Corporate Governance Code, we wanted to take care to consider the Officer, in March 2016.
After reviewing the Companys achievement new requirements and how they will impact our work as a Committee.
against the relevant performance conditions for that award, the Committee determined that the Company had met a portion of one of Other key matters considered by the Committee during the year include: the performance conditions and that as a result 4,401 shares will vest in March 2019.
Considering a new diversity and inclusion policy that was rolled-out across the Group: GENDER PAY GAP Discussing the results of our first gender pay gap report and how we This was the first year the Group published its gender pay gap report.
As can improve the position over time: required by legislation, this information is based on snapshot of data as at 5 April 2017 and further information relating to this can be found at Determining the outcome of the performance conditions of the Long https: investors.
Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards granted on 3 August 2015: Reviewing the structure of awards under the Companys Executive Annual Report & Accounts 2018 72 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Our gender pay gap report, prepared for our operating subsidiary CHANGES IN COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP that manages two of our London properties, reflects an industry-wide As previously noted, Sue Farr, the former chair of the Committee, structural phenomenon where we have more men in senior, higherresigned from the Board on 31 October 2018, and on the paid roles than women rather than unequal pay for similar jobs.
We recommendation of the Nominations Committee, the Board approved are committed to achieving better gender balance across all positions in not only my appointment as chair of the Committee, but also the the Company and this remains a key priority for the Group in 2019. appointment of Christian fide Charnac as a member of the Committee, Accordingly, we will continue to measure our gender pay regularly to in each case with effect from 2 November 2018.
We welcome Christian ensure that what we are doing is having the desired effect, and if not, to the Committee and look forward to his participation in 2019. what we can do differently.
We will continue to strive to apply best practice when it comes to our LOOKING AHEAD remuneration policies and practices and listen carefully to feedback from In 2019, the Committee will continue to oversee the implementation of our shareholders.
We therefore hope that you show your support for our the new standards under the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, approach to remuneration by voting for the Directors Remuneration review whether our Remuneration Policy, which we intend to put forth Report at our 2019 Annual General Meeting.
for re-approval by shareholders at our 2020 Annual General Meeting, remains fit for purpose and recommend appropriate changes to the Yours faithfully, policy following that review, and we stand ready to consider any future Executive Director appointments that may be made during the year.
His Excellency Shaukat Aziz Chair of the Remuneration Committee 14 February 2019 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 73 COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE The composition of the Remuneration Committee, as at the date of this consider the compensation commitments payable to Executive report, comprises of His Excellency Shaukat Aziz, who was appointed to Directors under their service agreements or otherwise in the event of the Committee in June 2009 and now acts as its chair, Daniel Desbaillets early termination: and and Christian fide Charnac, all of whom are independent Non-Executive select and appoint consultants engaged to advise the Committee.
There were six scheduled meetings in 2018 and four ad hoc meetings.
Attendance at the regularly scheduled meetings is shown in the The Committees terms of reference are available at https: investors.
Corporate Governance Statement on page 61. millenniumhotels.
com corporate-governance board-committees and recently have been updated to take into account the expansion of the The Chairman of the Board, interim Group Chief Executive Officer Committees remit under the revised version of the UK Corporate and Chief Financial Officer are invited to attend Committee meetings Governance Code that has applied to the Company since 1 January as appropriate.
The Committee considers their views when reviewing 2019.
In particular, the key new areas of responsibility under the revised the remuneration of Executive Directors and other senior executives: Code will be for the Committee to: however, no Directors are involved in the consideration of their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Ensure that remuneration policies and practices are designed to Committee and an appointed remuneration consultant is in place to support strategy and promote long-term sustainable success of the support the work of the Committee.
Further information regarding the Group: Committees adviser can be found on page 85 of this report.
Ensure that executive remuneration is aligned to the Companys purpose and values, and is clearly linked to the successful delivery of No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the the Companys long-term strategy: matters to be decided by the Committee or involvement in the day-toDetermine the remuneration of senior management, in addition to day management of the business of the Group.
Board members ROLE Ensure that executive pension contributions are in line with those The Committee has delegated authority from the Board to determine, available to the rest of the workforce: and in consultation with the Chairman of the Board and Interim Group Provide enhanced reporting in the Companys annual report and Chief Executive Officer as appropriate, the remuneration policies and accounts.
individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman of the Board, Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the senior management team.
It also oversees the Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
In addition, the Committee is authorised to: administer the Companys share schemes: oversee major changes to employee benefit structures throughout the Group: ensure that performance related elements of remuneration form a significant proportion of the total remuneration of Executive Directors and are designed to align their interests with those of shareholders: consider whether the Executive Directors should be eligible for annual bonuses and benefits under long-term incentive schemes: provide packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the quality required: approve the terms and duration of any service agreement to be entered into with an Executive Director: Annual Report & Accounts 2018 74 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SUMMARY OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY The Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy was approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 5 May 2017 94.63% of votes cast being in favour.
There are no proposals to amend the Directors Remuneration Policy at the upcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 May 2019.
A summary of the policy is included for reference to assist with the understanding of the contents of this report.
The full policy is detailed in our 2016 Annual Report and Accounts, which can be found https: investors.
com financial annual-reports The following table sets out each element of remuneration and how it supports the Companys short and long-term strategic objectives.
Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy Salaries are a key component of the reward package in attracting, motivating and retaining executives who are instrumental in driving and growing the business and delivering the Companys strategic goals.
Operation Salaries in the Group are based on the value of the individual, the level of responsibility, experience and market conditions.
Salaries are reviewed at least annually but are not necessarily increased.
The Committee may award salary increases at other times of the year if it considers such an award to be appropriate.
In reviewing salaries, account is taken of market conditions, significant changes in role, pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group, inflation and budgets.
Maximum The salary payable to Executive Directors will normally be capped at the upper quartile of the relevant market benchmark for the role under review.
This maximum salary represents the highest end of the range at which the Committee would expect the base salary to be set, rather than the actual amount to be paid.
Salaries will be set on a case-by-case basis to reflect the role and the experience and qualifications of the individual.
There is no separate cap on the annual increase to base salaries.
However, the Committee will normally determine the appropriate level of increase for Executive Directors taking into account the general level of increase for the broader workforce, but on occasion may need to make a more significant increase to recognise additional responsibilities, or an increase in the scale or scope of the role.
Larger increases also may be considered appropriate if a Director initially had been appointed to the Board on a below-market salary.
Annual Bonus Purpose and link to strategy Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme to: incentivise executives to drive Group strategy and performance over the short term: and ensure that a significant proportion of the total reward of executives packages is linked to performance during the year.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 75 Operation The performance period for annual bonuses corresponds with the financial year.
Bonus measures, weightings and targets are set annually at the start of the financial year by the Committee which retains discretion to revise any calculated bonus downwards, but not upwards, if it is felt to have become misaligned with the Groups performance.
Payment of the annual bonus is normally contingent on the employee still being employed by the Group at the time of payment and the employee or the Company not having served notice of termination.
Annual bonus is not pensionable.
The Committee may defer and pay a proportion up to 100% of the earned annual bonus in shares which must be held for up to three years before vesting.
No performance conditions apply to such deferred bonus shares, but their release is subject to continued employment over the vesting period.
Deferred bonus share awards would be eligible, at the Committees discretion, for a dividend equivalent.
The bonus plan includes clawback and malus provisions.
Maximum The level of bonus opportunity for Executive Directors is: Group Chief Executive Officer: Other Executive Directors: Threshold: 0% of base salary Threshold: 0% of base salary Target: 75% of base salary Target: 50% of base salary Maximum: 150% of base salary Maximum: 100% of base salary Performance 70% of the bonus opportunity will be linked to financial performance, with the remainder linked to nonfinancial measures, which may include personal objectives and other non-financial operational measures as determined by the Committee, such as corporate social responsibility performance targets.
However, the Committee has discretion to vary those percentages by plus or minus 10% for any year to reflect particular corporate objectives.
Financial measures may include, but are not limited to, operating profit, profit before tax, revenue and revenue per available room.
The Committee determines bonus performance measures, weightings and targets annually which are closely aligned with the Groups short-term strategic priorities.
Targets for financial measures are set by reference to the Groups budget, while the personal element of the bonus is driven by personal performance objectives set at the start of the year.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Purpose and link to strategy The Companys 2016 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP forms the long-term variable element of executive remuneration at the Company and is intended to incentivise long-term outperformance.
The LTIP allows for the award of performance shares, nil cost share options and deferred bonus shares.
For the three-year period over which this policy is intended to apply, LTIP awards will normally comprise awards of performance shares, which are aimed at: driving and rewarding sustainable performance over the long term: aligning the interests of executives and shareholders: and supporting retention.
Operation Performance share awards are made annually and normally vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant, subject to the achievement of performance conditions over three years, continued employment with the Group and the rules of the Plan.
LTIP awards may additionally be subject to an additional post-vesting holding period of up to two years.
There is no re-testing of performance conditions under the Plan.
The Plan allows dividends or dividend equivalents to accrue, subject to the Committees discretion.
The Plan includes clawback and malus provisions.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 76 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Maximum The maximum annual value of performance shares and nil cost share options awarded under the LTIP is 150% of base salary, although awards with face values of up to 200% of salary may be awarded in exceptional circumstances including, but not limited to, the recruitment of a new Executive Director.
The level of award is otherwise determined by the Committee at the time of grant, details of which will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance The performance measures attached to LTIP awards will comprise a blend of measures determined by the Committee from time to time, with at least a 50% weighting on Earnings Per Share EPS.
A small element, not exceeding 10% of any award, may be based on a discretionary assessment of the achievement of key strategic objectives, such as those relating to asset management and the timely delivery of key projects within budget.
Under each measure, entry level performance will result in 25% of maximum vesting for that element, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting.
Pension Purpose and link to strategy The provision of retirement benefits supports the Company in attracting and retaining executives and promoting long-term retirement planning.
Operation A defined cash contribution may be made into either a Company sponsored pension plan or a private pension plan or as cash in lieu of pension.
Maximum Up to 20% of base salary.
Other benefits Purpose and link to strategy Allows the Company to recruit and retain appropriate executive talent through the provision of cost effective benefits consistent with market practice.
Executive Directors also may also participate, along with other employees, in the Groups tax advantaged United Kingdom Save as You Earn SAYE, or other equivalent savings-based share schemes to share in the success of the Group.
Operation Standard benefits are offered to ensure they are competitive with market practice by location and the level and responsibilities of the individual.
These may comprise although are not limited to a motor vehicle and driver or an appropriate allowance, insurances for life, personal accident, disability and family medical cover.
Special benefits such as relocation, removal, tax equalisation, house purchase rental allowance and childrens education allowance may be offered to attract the right candidate in the event that an Executive Director is appointed on expatriate or international assignment terms.
Maximum SAYE savings-based schemes are subject to individual limits.
In the UK the limit is set by the Committee up to the limits prescribed by legislation.
The value of standard benefits is consistent with relevant market practice and is kept under review by the Committee, but would not be expected to exceed more than the equivalent of a months salary, other than in exceptional circumstances.
The value of any special benefits is reviewed on a case-by-case basis but would not be expected to exceed more than the equivalent of three months base salary other than in exceptional circumstances.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 77 Shareholding requirement Overview Within five years of being appointed to the Board, Executive Directors are required to build up, and retain, ordinary shares in the Company equivalent in value to 200% of their base annual salary.
Should an Executive Director not hold the required level of shares then at least 50% of any vesting under a Company incentive plan is required to be retained until the requirement is met.
Provided that Executive Directors hold and maintain the appropriate level of shares, they may sell shares, subject to the normal requirement for directors dealings under applicable regulations.
Share interests which do not count towards the shareholding guidelines include: unvested performance share awards: SAYE options: unvested deferred bonus shares: and any notional accrued dividend equivalent shares with vesting subject to future performance.
Directors to whom this requirement applies are prohibited from engaging in any hedging transactions with respect to Company shares, including trading in any derivative securities.
There are no formal shareholding guidelines for the Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors and the senior management, however, they are encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Non-Executive Director Fees Chairman fee In the case of the Chairman, the Chairman receives a set fee and the fee level is determined by the Committee.
The Chairmans fee is determined by taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities of the role, as well as the role holders skills, gravitas and qualifications to lead the board.
Basic fee Fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board as a whole taking into account the time commitment and responsibilities.
The policy is to set fees at or around the median for companies of a similar size and complexity.
Their purpose is to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors.
Additional fees Non-Executive Directors are paid an additional fee for being Senior Independent Director, a member of a Board committee and for chairing a Board committee.
Other matters The Independent Non-Executive Directors each have rolling letters of appointment which may be terminated by either party on one months notice.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to bonuses, benefits or pension scheme contributions or to participate in any share scheme operated by the Company.
In addition to any remuneration payable, a Non-Executive Director may be paid reasonable travel, hotel and other expenses properly incurred in discharging the Directors duties.
Fees cease immediately in the event the Non-Executive Director ceases to be a Director.
REMUNERATION ON RECRUITMENT Reward packages for new Executive Directors will be consistent with the approved Remuneration Policy.
Fixed remuneration elements would be paid only from the date of employment and any bonus will be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year employed.
The maximum level of variable remuneration is as stated in the policy table above.
If, consequent to joining the Group, a new director forfeits elements of variable reward linked to their previous employment, the Committee reserves the right to make compensatory awards up to the maximum amount of the individuals actual or estimated loss.
Any such awards would be made taking into account the performance conditions and time horizon of the forfeited awards.
In the event that an internal candidate is appointed as an Executive Director, any contractual obligation in respect of a previous role will be honoured even if it is inconsistent with this policy at the time the obligation is fulfilled.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 78 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Committee retains discretion to use Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 and for this purpose only to compensate an Executive Director for long-term incentive scheme awards forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Such buyout awards will have a fair value no greater than the awards forfeited.
The arrangements that exist for current Executive Directors, as set out in the Policy Table, would then apply to the balance of the individuals remuneration package.
TERMINATION PAYMENTS The Companys normal policy is to limit payments to Executive Directors on termination to contractual entitlements under their service agreements and the rules of any incentive and pension plans.
There is no automatic entitlement to bonus as part of the termination arrangements, and the value of any terminating arrangement will be at the discretion of the Committee, having regard to all relevant factors.
This discretion allows the Committee to determine good leaver status, the consequences of which are set out in the table below: GOOD LEAVERS OTHER LEAVERS CHANGE OF CONTROL DISCRETION Performance Shares Performance conditions Award lapses Performance conditions To disapply the pro rata applied taking into account applied taking into vesting, or decide that the the foreshortened performance account the foreshortened award will vest on the normal period.
A time pro rata reduction is A time pro rata reduction is then applied.
Annual Bonus Performance conditions No bonus payable Performance conditions To disapply pro rata reduction applied taking into account applied taking into and maintain original sum.
the foreshortened performance account the foreshortened period.
Deferred Bonus Shares Vest in full Award lapses Vest in full To determine the number of shares that vest, up to the value of the applicable bonus.
Reasons for good leaver status include death, ill health, retirement with the approval of the Company, a office or employment being with either a company which ceases to be a Group Member or relating to a business or part of a business which is transferred to a person who is not a Group Member or any other reason determined by the committee.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 79 ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION AUDITED INFORMATION Single total figure of remuneration for each Director in 2018 The total remuneration for each person who served as a Director of the Company during 2018 is set out in the table below: REMUNERATION 000 SALARY AND ALL TAXABLE ANNUAL LTIP PENSION 1 FEES BENEFITS BONUS AWARDS CONTRIBUTIONS TOTAL DIRECTOR 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Chairman 2 Kwek Leng Beng 272 272 272 272 Executive Director 3 Jennifer Fox 187 6 36 229 Aloysius Lee 8 8 Non-Executive Directors 4 Shaukat Aziz 69 64 69 64 4, 5 Christian fide Charnac 55 19 55 19 6 Daniel Desbaillets 61 58 61 58 Martin Leitch 67 39 67 39 6, 7 Kwek Eik Sheng 54 56 54 56 7 Kwek Leng Peck 60 63 60 63 Past Non-Executive Directors 8 Susan Farr 56 65 56 65 6, 9 Gervase MacGregor 53 69 53 69 Total 934 705 6 36 8 976 713 Notes: 1.
Salaries and fees are shown inclusive of sums receivable by the Directors from the Company and any of its subsidiary undertakings.
I n addition to his basic fee, Kwek Leng Beng received 21,565 in director fees from subsidiary companies.
Chairman Kwek was the highest paid Director as at 31 December 2018.
His biography on page 48 reports the directorships and positions he holds in other publicly-traded Group subsidiaries and associate companies.
J ennifer Fox was appointed as Group Chief Executive Officer and a Director on 19 June 2018 and stepped down on 27 September 2018.
Details of payments made to Ms Fox for loss of office, including a portion representing a pro-rata bonus payment, are set out in the Payments for loss of office section of this report.
S haukat Aziz was appointed as chair of the Remuneration Committee on 2 November 2018 and Christian fide Charnac joined the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee on that date.
Christian fide Charnac was appointed to the Audit & Risk Committee as from 23 March 2018.
G ervase MacGregor, Daniel Desbaillets and Kwek Eik Sheng relinquished their roles on the Risk Committee as from 4 May 2018, when the remits of the Risk Committee and Audit Committee were amalgamated with the formation of the Audit & Risk Committee.
In addition to their basic fee, Kwek Leng Peck and Kwek Eik Sheng received 7,725, and 3,337 respectively in director fees from subsidiary companies.
Sue Farr resigned from the Board on 31 October 2018.
Gervase MacGregor resigned from the Board on 1 December 2018.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 80 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHARE INTERESTS AWARDED IN 2018 In June 2018, Jennifer Fox, the only Executive Director who was a member of the Board during the year, was awarded 178,299 conditional shares of the Company under the Companys LTIP.
The table below sets out the terms of the award.
The Remuneration Committee agreed that this award would not accrue dividends during the performance period.
Vesting of this award in full required achievement of certain performance conditions over the three-year performance period.
This LTIP award was also subject to a two-year post-vesting holding period.
MARKET EXERCISE DATE OF SHARES OVER WHICH PRICE AT DATE EXERCISE FACE VESTING 1 2 GRANTEE GRANT AWARDS GRANTED OF AWARD PRICE VALUE PERFORMANCE PERIOD PERIOD Jennifer Fox 27 June 2018 178,299 nil cost 5.258 n a 937,496 1 January 2018 31 December 2020 27 June 2023 performance shares Notes: 1.
T he market price on the date of the award is the average of the mid-market closing price of the Companys ordinary shares on the five dealing days immediately preceding 27 June 2018.
T he face value of shares under option for Jennifer Fox is calculated as the number of shares multiplied by the market price at the date of the award.
In line with the Companys Remuneration Policy, vesting of Ms Foxs award was dependent on the achievement of certain targets which were cumulative earnings per share EPS, annualised growth of the Companys revenue per available room, or RevPAR, measured on a like-for-like and constant currency basis and relative total shareholder return TSR over the three-year performance period.
The weighting and targets that were applicable to each condition are set out in the following table.
TARGET RANGE THRESHOLD MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE CONDITION WEIGHTING 25% VESTING 100% VESTING Cumulative EPS 60% 100p 120p Annualised RevPAR growth 20% 1.5% 3.0% Relative TSR compared to the companies in the FTSE 250, excluding investment trusts 20% Median Upper quartile On 27 September 2018 Jennifer Fox ceased to be an Executive Director and Group Chief Executive Officer of the Company and the Remuneration Committee exercised their discretion that her LTIP award over 178,299 conditional shares would lapse in full effective from that date.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN 2016 In 2016, Mr Aloysius Lee, the then Group Chief Executive Officer, was the only Director to be awarded performance shares under the Companys LTIP that year.
An award of 185,643 shares was made to him on 29 March 2016 and, subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions, was due to vest on the third anniversary of the award, 29 March 2019.
The performance conditions applicable to Mr Lees 2016 LTIP award included cumulative earnings per share EPS, net asset value NAV plus dividend growth, and relative total shareholder return TSR over the three-year period ended 31 December 2018.
The weighting and targets that were applicable to each condition are summarised in the table below.
TARGET RANGE THRESHOLD MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE CONDITION WEIGHTING 25% VESTING 100% VESTING Cumulative EPS 60% 95p 115p NAV plus dividend growth 20% 5% p. a.
Relative TSR compared to the companies in the FTSE 250, excluding 10% In line with the index Outperform index by 9% p. a. investment trusts 1 Relative TSR compared to a peer group 10% Median Outperform median by 9% p. a.
T he peer group comprises Accor, Banyan Tree Holdings, Belmond, Choice Hotels International, Hongkong & Shanghai Hotels, Hotel Properties, Hyatt Hotels, InterContinental Hotels Group, Mandarin Oriental, Marriott International, Melia Hotels International, NH Hotels, Overseas Union Enterprise, Rezidor, Shanghai Jin Jiang International, Shangri-La Asia, Starwood Hotels & Resorts, Whitbread and Wyndham Worldwide.
M erged with Marriott International on 23 September 2016.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 81 The Committee conducted an assessment of these performance conditions and determined that the Company partially had met 38.5% of the NAV plus dividend growth condition after achieving an average annual growth rate of 6.1% for this metric over the performance period.
Based on the scheme rules for the LTIP, Mr Lees relevant service for the purpose of time pro-rating this result is from the date of grant, 29 March 2016, to the date of his retirement, 28 February 2017, relative to the three-year vesting period.
Therefore, his award should be pro-rated by 30.8% to reflect the proportion of the performance period for which Mr Lee served as a Director calculated on a days basis, resulting in 4,401 shares vesting on 29 March 2019.
No shares were awarded to any Executive Directors in 2017.
PAYMENTS MADE TO PAST DIRECTORS Wong Hong Ren retired as a Director and the Group Chief Executive Officer on 28 February 2015, but continued to serve as a director of certain subsidiaries of the Company, primarily M&C REIT Management Limited and M&C Business Trust Management Limited until 12 February 2018 in each case, managers of the trusts that comprise CDL Hospitality Trusts.
As previously disclosed, as part of Mr Wongs retirement arrangements, he renounced any fees payable to him in relation to those directorships for the period between 1 March 2015 and 29 February 2016, but Mr Wong was entitled to retain any subsidiary directorship fees earned in respect of any period after February 2016.
As such, he was paid fees totalling S$7,658 for serving as a Non-Executive Chairman of, and as a member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees of, the Boards of M&C REIT Management Limited and M&C Business Trust Management Limited for the period from 1 January 2018 through 12 February 2018.
No other payments were made to past Directors during the year.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Jennifer Fox stepped down as Group Chief Executive Officer and an Executive Director on 27 September 2018.
Upon the termination of her employment and in accordance with the terms of her service agreement with the Company, Ms Fox received contractual termination payments of 625,000 representing 12 months of her annual base salary, 125,000 in lieu of her annual pension contribution and 20,000 for her annual car allowance.
She also received 10,000 for reimbursement of legal fees in connection with her review of her exit arrangements, 18,029 for accrued but unused annual leave and she will remain under the Companys private health insurance until 30 September 2019.
In determining the terms of her departure, the Committee considered carefully whether any payments should be made under the Companys variable pay arrangements.
The Committee agreed, in the aggregate, that it would be fair and equitable: for the LTIP award made to Ms Fox in June 2018 to lapse in full on her ceasing to be employed with the Group: and to pay Ms Fox a small pro-rata bonus payment of 234,375 for the period that she was employed, taking into consideration her efforts and achievements during that time.
This pro-rata bonus payment represents around 90% of her maximum pro-rata entitlement.
Of these amounts, 192,501 was deferred and paid in three equal instalments of 64,167 each in November 2018, December 2018 and January 2019.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 82 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS The interests of the Directors who served during 2018, and their persons closely associated, in the ordinary shares of the Company were as follows: NUMBER OF ORDINARY SHARES 2 OWNED OUTRIGHT NUMBER OF SCHEME INTERESTS LTIP AWARDS LTIP AWARDS WHICH ARE WHICH ARE NOT SUBJECT VALUE OF SUBJECT TO TO FUTURE ORDINARY PERFORMANCE PERFORMANCE TOTAL SHARES OWNED HOLDING ON HOLDING ON CONDITIONS AT CONDITIONS AT INTERESTS AS AT OUTRIGHT AS A 31 DECEMBER 1 JANUARY 31 DECEMBER 31 DECEMBER 31 DECEMBER PERCENTAGE OF DIRECTOR 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 SALARY Chairman 1 Kwek Leng Beng N A Past Executive Director 2 Jennifer Fox N A Non-Executive Directors Shaukat Aziz N A Christian fide Charnac N A Daniel Desbaillets N A 1 Kwek Eik Sheng N A Martin Leitch N A 1 Kwek Leng Peck N A Past Non-Executive Directors Susan Farr N A Gervase MacGregor N A Notes: 1.
T he interests of the Directors appointed by City Developments Limited in that company and its ultimate parent company, Hong Leong Investment Holdings Pte.
Ltd, are disclosed in the accounts of those companies.
I n June 2018 Ms Fox was awarded 178,299 conditional shares of the Company under the LTIP: however, these shares lapsed in full in September 2018 upon cessation of Ms Foxs employment with the Group.
There have been no changes to the Directors interests between 31 December 2018 and the date of this report.
SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS As set out in the Companys Remuneration Policy, within five years of being appointed to the Board, Executive Directors are required to build up, and retain, ordinary shares in the Company equivalent in value to 200% of their base annual salary.
Since Jennifer Fox was the only Executive Director who served during the year and she stepped down from her position in September 2018, none of the Directors who served during 2018 were required to comply with these requirements.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2019 This section provides an overview of how the Committee is proposing to implement the Remuneration Policy in 2019.
Remuneration of any Executive Directors to be appointed in 2019 The Committee expects that any recruitment benefits or compensation and the salary, bonus and share scheme arrangements, and pension and other benefits to be provided to any new Executive Director appointed during 2019 will be in line with the Directors Remuneration Policy last approved by the Companys shareholders, as disclosed in the 2016 Annual Report and Accounts.
In the event a new Executive Director is to be appointed in 2019, the Committee, mindful of the guidance set out in the Investment Association Principles of Remuneration and the requirements of the revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code that took effect as of 1 January 2019, Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 83 the Committee has agreed to apply a two-year post-vesting holding period to any awards under the Companys LTIP so that, in total, the performance and holding period for any such award will cover a period of at least five years.
In addition, the Committee anticipates working with its remuneration advisor to develop a more tailored and fit-for-purpose remuneration package for any permanent Group Chief Executive Officer or other Executive Director to be appointed during the year.
Non-Executive Director fees Payments to Non-Executive Directors will be in accordance with the current Directors Remuneration Policy.
Non-Executive Directors therefore will continue to receive a basic fee for Board membership and separate annual fees for their service as a member and, to the extent applicable, the Chair of a Board committee.
The Senior Independent Director will be paid an additional fee, currently of 10,000 per year, to serve in such capacity.
Details of the current additional committee and chair fees are set out in the table below and no changes are being proposed for 2019: ANNUAL FEE FOR MEMBERSHIP OF ADDITIONAL COMMITTEE A COMMITTEE ANNUAL CHAIR FEE Audit & Risk Committee 5,000 10,000 Remuneration Committee 5,000 10,000 Nominations Committee 2,000 The Chairman of the Board will receive a set fee determined by the Committee from time to time.
The total annual fee for the Chairman is 250,000 and this will remain the same in 2019.
The Chairman also may continue to receive additional fees for serving as a director of certain subsidiary companies.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURES Performance of the Company and historic remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer The following graph illustrates the total shareholder return of the Companys shares versus comparator indexes over the past ten years.
As the Company is a constituent of both the FTSE 250 and the FTSE All Share Travel & Leisure index, the Directors consider these indices to be the most appropriate broad equity market indices against which the Companys performance should be compared for these purposes.
R ichard Hartman retired as Group Chief Executive Officer and Wong Hong Ren was appointed to the post on 27 June 2011.
These figures are for both and are restated to be consistent with the other years.
W ong Hong Ren stepped down as Group Chief Executive Officer on 28 February 2015 and Aloysius Lee was appointed as Group Chief Executive Officer Designate from 1 February 2015 and assumed the full role as of 1 March 2015.
These figures are for both.
Includes the final two months of payments under Mr Wong Hen Rens service contract.
A loysius Lees pay, allowances and pension contributions ceased on 31 January 2017.
Remuneration for Mr Tan Kian Seng interim Chief Executive Officer has not been included as he did not serve as an executive director during the year.
Jennifer Foxs pay, allowances and pension contributions were for the period of her employment during the year, which commenced on 19 June 2018 and ended on 27 September 2018.
Percentage change in remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Officer The tables below show the percentage change in remuneration based on salary and fees, taxable benefits and annual bonus between 2017 and 2018 for the Group Chief Executive Officer and employees within the Groups bonus pool.
1 % INCREASE DECREASE FROM 2017 TO 2018 BASIC SALARY BENEFITS BONUS 2 Group Chief Executive Officer 70.0 0.3 100.0 Employees 10.0 19.0 14.0 1.
All percentages are based on converting relevant local currencies into pounds sterling using the average rates for the respective year.
2 The percentage change figures are based on average employee base pay, benefits and bonus amounts for each year.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the year-on-year change in total pay for colleagues across the Group being the aggregate personnel expenses as set out in Note 8 to the financial statements and distributions to shareholders being declared dividends.
The number of colleagues employed by the Group in 2018 was 11,504 2017: 11,602.
2017 2018 % INCREASE M M DECREASE Employee remuneration costs 370 374 1.1 Dividends distributed 25 21 16.0 Statement of voting at general meeting The following table sets out the proxy voting in respect of the resolutions to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy and the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report, which resolutions were passed at the Companys Annual General Meetings held on 5 May 2017 and 4 May 2018, respectively.
The Directors were pleased with the support received from shareholders.
VOTES VOTES RESOLUTION VOTES FOR % OF VOTE AGAINST % OF VOTE WITHHELD Approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 296,111,136 94.63% 16,813,616 5.37% 5,707 Approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 303,034,683 96.98% 9,437,101 3.02% 442,454 includes discretionary votes Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 85 Consideration by the Committee members of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Committee is authorised by the Board to appoint external advisers to support it in its efforts.
Following a tender process in 2017, PwC were selected as the Committees new remuneration adviser, with effect from 1 December 2017, and attended most of the Committee meetings in 2018.
PwC advises the Committee directly on matters within the Committees terms of reference to the extent the Committee chooses to consult PwC on these matters.
Its scope of work includes attending Committee meetings: updating the Committee on developments in the market and trends in remuneration best practices and governance: reviewing this report: carrying out total remuneration benchmarking for Executive Directors: arrangements concerning the on-boarding of Executive Directors, carrying out IFRS 2 valuations for the Company in relation to the Companys share schemes: providing regular TSR monitoring reports and independently validating the Companys annual LTIP vesting calculations.
PwC was paid 63,912.50 in respect of such services provided in 2018.
PwC may also be called upon to advise the Board of Directors of the Company or those Directors charged by the Board to make recommendations from time to time on the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman.
In 2018, PwC also acted as the primary tax advisor to the Group in the EU and provided tax consulting services to the Group in other regions upon request.
In 2019, PwC will be the Groups primary tax advisor on a global basis.
Aside from these services, PwC did not provide other significant services to the Group over the course of the year and currently is not engaged to provide any services in 2019, other than the tax consulting services, for which PwC has implemented confidentiality barriers between their tax consulting and remuneration advisory teams to help ensure that their remuneration advice remains independent.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest in connection with PwCs advice and the Committee is comfortable that the PwC engagement partner and team that provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have connections with the Company that may impair the independence of their judgment.
In addition, as a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group, PwC operates under the Voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Finally, as a member firm of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ICAEW, PwC complies with the ICAEWs ethical guidelines.
As a result, PwC operates under rigorous independence, compliance and quality assurance regimes.
For the reasons outlined above, the Committee has determined that the advice provided by PwC is objective and independent.
External appointments The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that such appointments can broaden the executives knowledge and experience, for the benefit of the Group.
If an Executive Director wishes to take on an external Non-Executive Director appointment, the Companys policy is to support an Executive Director with that appointment provided that there are no conflicts of interest and the role does not interfere with the executives commitment or duties.
They may retain any fees paid in connection with such other appointments, with the approval of the Committee.
During her tenure as Group Chief Executive Officer and a Director of the Company, Jennifer Fox also served as a Director of Village Roadshow Limited, which for the relevant period of her employment was listed on the Australian Securities Exchange.
Annual Report & Accounts 2018 86 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors service agreements and letters of appointment It is the Companys policy for Executive Directors to have service contracts that provide for a notice period for termination of up to 12 months.
The dates on which the Directors initial service agreements or letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows: NAME DATE OF CONTRACT NOTICE PERIOD UNEXPIRED TERM Chairman Kwek Leng Beng Appointed since listing Terms of appointment refreshed on Nominee of controlling shareholder 15 February 2017 Independent Non-Executive Directors Shaukat Aziz 16 June 2009 Rolling letters of appointment terminable 1 Daniel Desbaillets 11 August 2016 by either party on one months notice Martin Leitch 22 May 2017 Christian fide Charnac 16 August 2017 Other Non-Executive Directors Kwek Eik Sheng 13 May 2011 Nominees of controlling shareholder Kwek Leng Peck Appointed since listing Terms of appointment refreshed on 15 February 2017 Notes: 1.
The commencement date of Mr Desbaillets appointment to the Board was 14 September 2016. Letters of appointments for the Directors are kept at the Groups corporate headquarters at Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc, Scarsdale Place, Kensington, London, W8 5SY.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS We are committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
The Committee considers that its Annual General Meeting provides a good opportunity to meet with investors and consider their feedback.
In addition, the Committee seeks to engage directly with major shareholders and their representative bodies should it consider any material changes to the Companys Remuneration Policy.
REVISED UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE During the course of the year, the Committee received detailed reports concerning changes arising from the revised version of the UK Corporate Governance that took effect on 1 January 2019.
In terms of the Committees remit, key changes include expanded responsibilities for setting the remuneration arrangements for senior management, reviewing remuneration policies and practices applicable to the wider workforce of the Group and ensuring that they are designed to support the Companys strategy and long-term success and ensuring that executive remuneration is aligned to the Companys purpose and values, to name but a few.
Expanding on some of these requirements further, with regard to the requirement that the Committee set the remuneration arrangements for senior management, the Committee has developed and approved a senior management remuneration policy that applies to all Senior Vice President level employees as this level of employee generally reports into the Group Chief Executive Officer.
The policy, which includes maximum salary, bonus and share scheme elements, is designed to provide a framework within which remuneration packages for senior managers can be negotiated without requiring Committee approval, as long as the terms are within the parameters of the policy and any deviations from this policy and the final terms of any new appointments are approved by the Committee.
Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc 87 The Committee also assisted the full Board, in conjunction with senior management and PwC, in developing a formal framework that will allow the Board to better understand the views of and engage with the workforce.
This involves the establishment of a workforce advisory panel structure and assignment of a Director to help oversee the operation of this panel.
Whilst mechanisms were in place to engage with colleagues, this new structure will formalise the process to a greater extent.
THE GROUPS SHARE SCHEMES In addition to the LTIP, the Group operates two other share schemes for senior employees other than Executive Directors, the Deferred Share Bonus DSB scheme and the Executive Share Plan ESP.
Under the ESP awards of conditional shares are made to senior executive management.
The ESP was approved by the Group on 18 February 2016 to replace participation in the LTIP for this population.
The Committee determines the size of the awards to be made taking into account the Groups performance and the achievements of the executive management team over the previous year.
The shares are released to participants in tranches, subject to continued employment and the rules of the plan, with 25% vesting one year after grant: 25% two years after grant: and 50% three years after grant.
The awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions under the rules of the ESP.
In 2018, ESP awards were made on 4 December 2018 to 9 senior executives, over a total of 65,649 shares.
The DSB is the deferred element of the Groups annual bonus plan.
Awards of conditional shares are made to senior employees, but not to those who participate in the ESP, and are calculated based on a percentage of a participants bonus earned in respect of the previous year.
Awards also are subject to malus and clawback provisions under the rules of the DSB.
In December 2018 awards were made to 43 employees over 57,358 shares and vest as to 25% after one year, 25% after two years and the final 50% after three years, subject to continued employment and the rules of the scheme.
Satisfaction of performance share awards Performance share awards are made for nil consideration and are satisfied either by the issue of new shares or through market purchases of shares.
Currently the company has in place an employee benefit trust known as the Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Employee Benefit Trust 2006 the EBT, which was established to acquire shares to satisfy performance share awards that may vest from time to time.
As at 31 December 2018, the EBT held 2,483 unallocated shares 2017: 3,437 unallocated shares, representing approximately 0.0007% of the Companys issued share capital as at the same date.
Executive Directors who participate in the LTIP, together with other employees of the Group who participate in other share schemes, are potential beneficiaries of the EBT and, as such, are deemed to be interested in any shares held.
Dilution The Company ensures that the level of shares granted under the Companys share plans and the means of satisfying such awards remains within best practice guidelines so that dilution from employee share awards does not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share capital for all employee share plans and 5% in respect of executive share plans in any 10 year rolling period.
The Company monitors dilution levels on a regular basis and the Committee reviews these at least once a year.
Share price The market price of an ordinary share of the Company as at 31 December 2018 was 467.5 pence and the range during the year was 580.0 pence per share to 459.0 pence per share.
The Directors confirm that there exist no other obligations that might give rise to, or impact on, remuneration payments or payments for loss of office which are not disclosed elsewhere in this report and that this report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, reflects the provisions of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and was approved at a meeting of the Board held on 14 February 2019.
On behalf of the Board His Excellency Shaukat Aziz Chair of the Remuneration Committee 14 February 2019 Annual Report & Accounts 2018
