Report on Directors remuneration Our commercial culture has had a positive impact on mitigating many of the cost headwinds we face.
Consumer expectations, everywhere, continue to increase and guests are more willing to provide feedback on their experiences.
Immediate access to social media feedback through Reputation.
com allows our managers to see all online reviews for their business on one platform and to interact directly with guests.
In a fast-moving consumer environment, innovation is something that guests expect, and technology plays a fundamental role by enabling us to identify opportunities to improve.
All of our brands offer a facility to pay via an app and the ability to order food and drink at the table is now on trial in a number of businesses, with encouraging feedback from guests.
Last year, I explained that Phil Urban, our CEO was developing a programme, Ignite 2, to further improve sales and increase efficiencies and during 2018 the individual plans which make up the Ignite programme Imelda Walsh Chair of the Remuneration Committee were developed, resulting in a number of workstreams.
Examples of these include improved sales forecasting, which will support a more efficient scheduling of employees, the removal of cash expenditure from Dear fellow shareholder the business enabling costs to be better controlled and purchasing power I am pleased to present the Directors maximised and, the introduction of software that can identify potentially fraudulent activity.
In addition, our booking platform and processes have remuneration report in respect been streamlined to reduce the number of steps needed to complete a booking and to allow the suggestion of an alternative Mitchells & Butlers of the financial year, which ended venue when the guests first choice is not available.
People are essential to our success and consistently great guest experiences rely on a team of highly engaged people.
Engagement scores have again improved during 2018 reaching their highest ever level Background and business context for the retail team.
We have proven strong links between high levels of a For the second year in a row, like-for-like sales have been ahead of engagement, guest satisfaction and, in turn, sales performance and it was the market with growth of 1.3%, which would have been stronger but also encouraging that the turnover of retail management employees fell for the impact of several bouts of snow over the winter, the prolonged during the year.
However, retail team member turnover increased by hot weather this summer and Englands extended run in the football 2ppts and this has been predominantly seen in businesses in the South World Cup.
The wide range of brands and offers that make up the East and London where there is a higher proportion of employees from Mitchells & Butlers portfolio means that when there are unusual or the European Union.
The end of freedom of movement, when the UK unexpected events, these can impact both positively and negatively.
leaves the European Union, is likely to have an adverse impact on all For example, the summer heatwave and World Cup were great for hospitality businesses resulting in a shortage of talent, particularly in our more drinks-led pubs but not so good for our carvery businesses kitchen roles.
For this reason, our apprenticeship programme is now Toby Carvery and Stonehouse.
more important than ever and there are now c. 1,800 team members taking part across a range of roles.
Our strategic priorities remain unchanged: to build a balanced a business, instil a more commercial culture and drive an innovation Adjusted operating profit of 303m was 1.6% lower than last year agenda.
Around 240 capital investment projects were completed on a 52 week basis.
Profitability in the first half was negatively impacted during the year and once again the main focus of the conversion by snow in particular, resulting in a decline of 8m against last year.
a programme was Miller & Carter, which now has over 100 sites and However, in the second half, adjusted operating profit grew by 3m, is consistently delivering strong returns.
The remodel programme despite Easter shifting into the first half, as the momentum from our demonstrates how our brands can continue to evolve and innovate, strategic initiatives continued to gather pace and the summer heatwave in a very competitive consumer environment.
having a mixed impact across our portfolio of businesses.
Trading in the a new financial year has also started strongly with like-for-like sales growth of 2.2%.
68 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 2018 remuneration Employee engagement 6.3% out of 10% A clear correlation has been established between employee engagement Annual bonus and guest satisfaction, which, in turn, has a positive impact on sales For 2018 the annual bonus plan had four elements: Adjusted Operating performance.
Two surveys are held each year.
a Profit hereafter referred to as Operating Profit, Guest Health, Employee Engagement and Food Safety.
The plan measures reflect the overall In June, employees are invited to provide feedback through a business scorecard aligning all employees from Executive Directors comprehensive survey, YourSay, and this is supplemented by a shorter through to Retail Management employees.
Overall, around two-thirds of employees participate providing valuable and robust insight into employee satisfaction.
Operating Profit In determining the Operating Profit target range, the Committee took into The engagement target for 2018 was based on a combined score, with consideration a range of factors including the general and sector outlook, a greater weighting placed on the more comprehensive YourSay survey.
the continuing significant cost headwinds of c. 60m per annum and The final outcome was a combined score of 78.9, which represented the benefits likely to be realised over the financial year from the Ignite the highest ever employee engagement score, above the level of programme.
The target was set broadly in line with the 2017 outturn performance required for an on-target payment, but below that required 308m on a 52 week basis and market consensus.
The level of for a maximum payment.
performance required for a maximum award required a significant level As a result, a payout equivalent to 6.3% out of 10%, was awarded of performance ahead of the both the Companys business plan and to Executive Directors under this element.
Food safety 5% out of 5% The Committee also took the decision to increase the threshold level Food safety will always be a priority for the business, which is why a of Operating Profit required to trigger the non-financial elements from measure was introduced that is based on the number of businesses that 95% of target to 97.5% of target.
achieve either a 4 or 5 rating in the independently operated National The Group delivered an Operating Profit of 303m, which was 99% Food Hygiene Rating System NFHRS.
The stretching target set for of the performance required for an on-target award, resulting in a payout 2018 was for 96.9% of businesses to achieve a score of either 4 or 5 over of 28% of salary out of 70% for Executive Directors.
The Committee the year and the actual result was that 98% of businesses achieved this reflected on whether this represented a good performance for the year level.
As a result, Mitchells & Butlers was second in the league table and also versus the prior year and concluded that it did, given the for large pub and restaurants across the country over 2018. unprecedented cost challenges and our continuing outperformance As an additional check, the Committee has also taken into account 1 versus competitors.
overall workplace safety which again has been strong in all areas.
Non-financial measures 30% out of 100% The structure for this element is such that payout is based entirely Guest Health 0% out of 15% on achieving the target set, therefore a payout equivalent to 5% For 2018 a new method of measuring Guest Health was introduced was triggered against this element.
which comprised a combination of three elements, Net Promoter Score NPS, a combined social media score and guest complaints.
Final bonus outcome In determining the overall final bonus outcome, the Committee considered The NPS target was set at 61, a further improvement on the 2017 the wider performance of the Group as part of an overall quality of outturn of 59.
Good progress has been made across a number of our earnings assessment and was satisfied that the outcome was consistent brands and the overall score for the year was ahead of target at 62.1. with our performance over the year and therefore the bonus awarded to The target for the combined social media score reputation.
com Executive Directors is 39.3% of salary.
As a result, payments of 200,034 was set at 4.0.
To achieve this the overall average review score across and 167,283 will be made to Phil Urban and Tim Jones respectively.
the business, combining TripAdvisor, Facebook and Google, needed In line with our policy, half of the bonus award will be deferred into shares to average 4.0.
Achieving this level of review scores would have under the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP, which will be represented an outstanding performance, but the actual result released in two equal amounts after 12 and 24 months, and shares must fell just short of this ambitious target at 3.93. be retained until the relevant shareholding guideline has been met.
The guest complaints metric measures the proportion of complaints received for every 1,000 meals served.
The target for this measure was set at 0.67, with the overall outcome of 0.70 just missing the required level of performance, but again an improvement on the prior year.
Despite good progress being made across all three elements of the Guest Health measure, no bonus was payable in respect of this measure.
As measured by the Coffer Peach business tracker, the UKs leading sales tracker for pubs and restaurants.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 69 Report on Directors remuneration continued Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP The Committee believed that the retention of TSR was important, The 201618 PRSP award had two equally weighted elements: growth as it allows shareholders to assess the performance of Mitchells & Butlers a in adjusted earnings per share EPS and total shareholder return TSR.
against direct competitors at a time when performance across the Over the performance period EPS growth was 1.5% p. a. which was industry is quite polarised.
Therefore, Mitchells & Butlers performance below the threshold level of performance required for vesting of 4% p. a. for the 201820 award will be compared against a subset of Restaurants TSR performance was below the median threshold required for vesting & Bars companies comprising EI Group, Greene King, Marstons, and as a result, both elements of the award lapsed.
The Restaurant Group, JD Wetherspoon and Whitbread.
In my statement last year, I outlined the Committees intention to take Threshold vesting will require Mitchells & Butlers performance to be some time to consider the most appropriate measures and targets for equal to the median of the peer group, and maximum vesting will require future PRSP awards, given the uncertain market and the work ongoing an outperformance of the median of 8.5% p. a. with straight-line vesting to fully develop the range of Ignite initiatives.
The Committee believes an 8.5% p. a. outperformance factor for full vesting is stretching.
Having considered the challenges the business faces and the importance the Board places on improving cash generation, the Committee agreed Following consultation with our major shareholders, an award was made that a greater focus on cash flow was appropriate.
This is an important in July 2018 under the PRSP in respect of the 201820 performance area of focus given the significance of two fixed charges on cash flow period, with 75% of the award based on Operating Cash Flow and 25% which need to be covered before other more discretionary spend: on relative TSR.
Both Operating Cash flow and relative TSR will be namely pension deficit contributions under the current triennial measured over a three year performance period and any shares which agreement 2016 and mandatory bond amortisation.
vest will be subject to a further two year holding period.
The Committee considered a number of options for the measurement of Full details of the award are set out on page 84. cash flow and concluded that a definition of Operating Cash Flow before Remuneration policy and changes to the UK Corporate adjusted items, movements in working capital and additional pension Governance Code contributions best met our objectives of defining a cash flow measure Our remuneration policy was approved at the 2018 AGM, with 97% of that was understood, easy to monitor and communicate, and aligned to shareholders voting in favour of the new policy.
No changes are proposed operational delivery.
This definition is set out in our cash flow statement for this year.
The Committee is cognisant of the forthcoming changes to the Corporate Capital Expenditure, working capital and pension contributions have Governance Code and other reporting regulations and has begun to been excluded from the definition.
The Committee felt that the best way prepare for their introduction.
For the last two years we have published to take into account these elements was as part of the overall quality of our CEO pay ratio and welcome the clarity the new code brings to the earnings assessment undertaken at the end of the performance period.
calculation and we will adopt a code-compliant methodology from this Further detail on the specific approach to the quality of earnings report onwards.
We have also taken the opportunity to set out the assessment can be found on page 83. impact of a 50% increase in share price on LTIP vesting.
Threshold vesting for this part of the award will require around 2% p. a.
We have also introduced a new section to the report which growth in like-for-like sales and the delivery of further cost efficiencies, demonstrates how executive remuneration links to the overall strategy reversing the recent decline in profit and, on an earnings equivalent basis, and the relationship between executive remuneration and that of other a resulting in a compound annual growth in Adjusted EPS of approximately employees across the Group.
We anticipate that this section of the 2.5% p. a.
Full vesting can only be achieved if many or most of the new report will evolve and develop over time and will align to the aims programme of Ignite initiatives are successfully implemented, resulting of the new code.
in significant market outperformance and strong year-on-year growth in Operating Profit including an equivalent compound annual growth a in Adjusted EPS of approximately 5.5% p. a.
70 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Approach for FY 2019 201921 PRSP A PRSP award is due to be made in respect of the 201921 performance Salary period.
The Committee has reviewed the performance condition and With effect from 1 January 2019, Phil Urbans salary will increase by 2% concluded that the performance measures should remain unchanged to 520,000 and Tim Jones salary will also increase by 2% to 435,000. from the July 2018 award, with two independent elements, Operating Phil Urbans salary has not increased since his appointment in September Cash Flow 75% weighting and relative TSR 25% weighting.
2015 and Tim Jones salary was last increased in January 2015.
These increases are broadly in line with those applicable to other salaried In setting the target range for 201921 the Committee has considered employees in the group.
the ongoing cost headwinds that the business continues to face, along with the potential benefits flowing from Ignite initiatives in the coming Annual bonus years.
The conclusion of this review is that the Operating Cash Flow No changes are proposed to the annual bonus structure for 2019. target range will have a threshold set at 1,332m and maximum at Operating Profit 70% 1,362m, which represents an increase at both threshold and maximum.
The Committee considers this to be a stretching target range in the Half of the bonus opportunity will be payable for achieving a circumstances.
On an earnings equivalent basis, the adjusted EPS target demanding Operating Profit target.
The threshold at which bonus range will be between 4.5% and 7%, again, a further progression on the will begin to accrue will again be set at 95% of target and full payment 201820 PRSP targets.
of this element will require very strong performance, above current market consensus.
The current TSR comparator group comprises six peer companies EI Group, Greene King, Marstons, The Restaurant Group, JD Wetherspoon The remaining 30% of the annual bonus plan will be allocated against and Whitbread.
Following the announcement of the forthcoming sale of the business scorecard as follows: Costa Coffee by Whitbread to Coca-Cola, the Committee has further 15% for Guest Health NPS: combined social media scores reviewed the constituents of this group.
Once the Costa sale has and guest complaints concluded the residual Whitbread business will be primarily a hotels business, and therefore the Committee has decided that, going forward, 10% for Employee Engagement Whitbread should not form part of the group.
Threshold vesting will 5% for Food Safety again require Mitchells & Butlers performance to be equal to the median of the peer group, and maximum vesting requires an outperformance The non-financial elements are only payable if a threshold level of profit of the median of 8.5% p. a. with straight-line vesting between median is achieved.
For 2019 this will again be set at 97.5% of the Operating and maximum.
In what has been another busy year for the Committee, I would like In line with our established practice, the Committee will consider the to thank my colleagues for their engagement and commitment and the overall performance of the Company, not just the outcome of each efforts of those who have supported the Committee during the past year.
If you have any comments or questions on any element of the report,.
please email me, care of Craig Provett, Director of Compensation & Benefits, at Remco@mbplc.
com Imelda Walsh Chair of the Remuneration Committee 21 November 2018 This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board and has been approved by the Board.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act disclosure regulations the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
The Directors use a number of alternative performance measures APMs that are considered critical to aid the understanding of the Groups performance.
Key measures are explained on pages 148 to 150 of this report.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 71 Report on Directors remuneration continued Executive Remuneration at a glance This section briefly highlights performance and remuneration outcomes for FY 2018, and our approach for FY 2019.
More detail can be found in the Annual Report on remuneration on pages 78 to 91.
Full details of the remuneration policy can be found on the mbplc.
FY 2018 single figure remuneration for Executive Directors Basic Taxable Short-term Pension-related Long-term Total salaries benefits incentives benefits incentives Other remuneration 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 2018 Phil Urban 509 16 200 89 5 819 Tim Jones 425 16 167 75 5 688 Total 934 32 367 164 10 1,507 The single figure table sets out payments made to Executive Directors in respect of FY 2018, including base salary, annual bonus earnings, long-term incentives, payments made in lieu of pension contributions and taxable benefits such as company car and healthcare cover.
More detail is provided in relation to the 2018 annual bonus scheme and long-term incentive scheme outcomes below and a full version of the single figure table for all Directors can be found on pages 79 and 80.
FY 2018 annual bonus FY 2018 PRSP vesting The annual bonus was based on two elements: 70% on Operating Profit The PRSP awards granted in June 2016 had a performance period ending and 30% on non-financial scorecard measures.
50% of the award was based on relative TSR performance and 50% on EPS growth.
Bonusoutcome Target Actual %ofsalary Targetrange Actual %vesting Operating Profit 306 303 28 Total Shareholder Guest Health 0 Return relative to Median to peer group upper quartile Below median Nil NPS 61 62.1 Compound annual Social Media 4.0 3.93 adjusted EPS growth 4% to 8% CAGR 1.5% p. a. Nil Complaints 0.67 0.70 Employee Engagement 78.5 78.9 6.3 TSR performance was below median and EPS growth of 1.5% p. a.
Safety 96.9 98.0 5 over the period was below the threshold, therefore no part of the award vested.
Bonus payments equivalent to 39.3% of base salary will be made to Executive Directors 200,034 in respect of Phil Urban and 167,283 in respect of Tim Jones.
Half of the bonus award will be deferred into shares which will be released in two equal amounts after 12 and 24 months.
72 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Approach for FY 2019 Components of remuneration Fixed components The remuneration package for the Executive Directors Salary comprises both fixed and variable elements consistent with On 1 January 2019 Phil Urbans salary will increase by 2% to 520,000 our remuneration principles.
and Tim Jones will also increase by 2% to 435,000.
This is the first increase since Phil Urbans appointment on 27 September 2015 and Fixed Tim Jones last increase was on 1 January 2015.
Salary Benefits and pension Benefitsandpension A pension contribution or cash equivalent of 20% of salary will Fixedtotal continue to apply.
Variable Phil Urban Chief Executive 520,000 2% Annualbonus PRSPandshares Tim Jones Finance Director 435,000 2% Fixedtotal Variable components Annual bonus No change to potential quantum 100% of salary.
 Employee Food Measureswillbe: OperatingProfit GuestHealth Engagement Safety 70% 15% 10% 5% Half of any bonus payable will be deferred in the form of shares and released in equal parts after 12 and 24 months.
PRSP Phil Urban Chief Executive 200% salary Award levels unchanged Tim Jones Finance Director 140% salary Threshold TargetRange Maximum 25%ofthiselementvests 100%ofthiselementvests 1,332m Operating Cash Flow 1,362m Measures and targets Median Total Shareholder Return Median 8.5% p. a.
The measures for the 201921 cycle are unchanged, with 75% of the award based on Operating Cash Flow and 25% on relative TSR.
A two-year holding period applies for all long-term incentive awards made from 2018 onwards.
Share ownership guidelines Directors are required to retain all vested Phil Urban Chief Executive 200% salary shares net of tax until the share ownership guideline is met.
This applies to vested deferred bonus shares as well as shares All other Executive Directors 150% salary vesting from any long-term incentive plans.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 73 Report on Directors remuneration continued Remuneration context This new section of the report sets out Mitchells & Butlers the broader context for remuneration remuneration principles explaining how executive reward links Shareholder alignment to Mitchells & Butlers three strategic A high proportion of reward is delivered in the form of equity, ensuring priorities and also between executive Executives have strong alignment with shareholders.
pay and remuneration across the Group.
Competitive It is anticipated that this section will evolve Providing reward that promotes the long-term success of the business whilst enabling the attraction, retention and motivation of high-calibre over time, building on best practice and senior Executives.
aligning with the new corporate Performance-linked governance requirements.
A significant part of an Executives reward is linked to performance with a clear line of sight between business outcomes and the delivery of shareholder value.
Straightforward The remuneration structure is simple to understand for participants and shareholders and is aligned to the strategic priorities of the business.
74 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Alignment of Executive pay to strategy The table below sets out how the three strategic priorities of the business align to Executive remuneration for Executive Directors: Strategic priority Link to Executive remuneration Building a Strong cash flow and operating performance supports Operating Cash Flow is the main component of the LTIP.
more balanced the delivery and sustainability of the capital plan and Operating Profit delivery is the main component of the annual business estate optimisation.
A more balanced business delivers brands and food The Guest Health element of the annual bonus plan provides and drink offers in an environment that guests want a strong indicator of the success of each business and there to enjoy.
is a clear correlation between strong Guest Health performance and sales performance.
High-quality engaged teams are fundamental to the The engagement element of the annual bonus plan measures how success of any business.
our teams feel about working for Mitchells & Butlers, and in turn the service they provide to guests.
Instilling A commercial culture improves controls, efficiency, Operating Cash Flow is the main component of the LTIP.
a more purchasing and pricing, driving both improved Operating Profit delivery is the main component of the annual commercial cash flow and operating performance.
culture Commercial decisions must be guest focused The Guest Health quickly demonstrates where decisions are right and benefit from the input of customer feedback.
or wrong and Executives are incentivised to react.
Developing and evolving a commercial culture The employee engagement element of the annual bonus plan requires high levels of employee engagement supports and underpins the development of culture.
and business awareness throughout the business.
Driving an Innovation at small and large scale is an engine Operating Cash Flow is the main component of the LTIP.
innovation for improved sales and therefore cash and Operating Profit delivery is the main component of the annual agenda profit generation.
Guests expectations continue to increase, demanding The Guest Health element of the annual plan provides valuable higher standards of service and digital capability.
actionable feedback and incentivises action.
Innovation involves change and delivery of change The employee engagement element of the annual bonus plan requires strong employee engagement.
incentivises action to maintain and improve employee engagement.
Illustrations of the application of remuneration policy A key principle of the Groups remuneration policy is that variable shortand long-term reward should be linked to the financial performance of the Group.
The charts below show the composition of the remuneration of the Chief Executive and Finance Director at minimum, on-target and maximum levels of performance in FY 2019.
The charts also show the impact of a 50% increase in share price on the LTIP outcome.
Chief Executive 000 Finance Director 000 3,000 3,000 2,705 19.2% 2,500 2,500 2,185 1,875 2,000 2,000 16.3% 1,570 47.6% 38.5% 1,400 1,500 1,500 38.8% 32.5% 1,049 37.2% 29.0% 1,000 1,000 23.8% 19.2% 625 18.2% 27.7% 23.2% 526 20.8% 500 500 100.0% 44.6% 28.6% 23.1% 100.0% 50.2% 33.5% 28.0% 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Maximum plus 0 Minimum On-target Maximum Maximum plus 50% Share Price Gain 50% Share Price Gain Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Share Price Gain Fixed pay Short-term incentives Long-term incentives Share Price Gain  Mitchells & Butlers plc 75 Report on Directors remuneration continued The performance scenarios demonstrate the proportion of maximum remuneration which would be payable in respect of each remuneration element at each of the performance levels.
In developing these scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: Minimum Only the fixed elements of remuneration are payable.
The fixed element consists of base salary, benefits and pension.
Base salary is the salary effective from 1 January 2019.
Benefits are based on actual FY 2018 figures and include company car, healthcare and taxable expenses.
Pension is the cash allowance and or Company pension contribution payable in respect of base salary from 1 January 2019.
On-target In addition to the minimum, this reflects the amount payable for on-target performance under the shortand long-term incentive plans: 50% of maximum 50% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director is payable under the short-term incentive plan: and 50% of the award 100% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 70% of base salary for the Finance Director is payable under the long-term incentive plan.
Maximum In addition to the minimum, maximum payment is achieved under both the shortand long-term incentive plans such that: 100% of base salary is payable under the short-term incentive plan for the Chief Executive and Finance Director: and 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 140% of base salary for the Finance Director is payable under the long-term incentive plan.
Share Price Gain This shows the impact a 50% increase in the share price would have on the LTIP outcome.
Remuneration below Executive Director level The table below demonstrates how the key elements of Executive pay align with the wider workforce: Base pay Bonus Long-term incentives All-employee share plans Executive Directors Pay broadly around Bonus schemes for all Measures and targets All employees can mid-market levels.
schemes align to the for long-term incentive participate in any of Executive business scorecard.
plans consistent for the all-employee share Committee Overall, increases all participants.
schemes, subject to in percentage terms The majority of bonus qualifying service, Senior management consistent across all opportunity is linked to building a stake in salaried employee groups.
Support Centre Retail managers Retail team Pay set in line with market Our pay approach is aimed at providing regular and members requirements and closely predictable earnings through competitive base pay for monitored.
This is valued more highly than variable pay elements for retail team members and is in Base pay for many line with our competitive and straightforward employees is ahead of remuneration principles.
Many employees benefit from tip and service charge, and it is Mitchells & Butlers policy to pass 100% of these earnings on to employees.
76 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Pay ratios and gender pay The table below sets out the CEO pay ratio at the median, 25th and 75th percentiles.
CEOpayratio Financialyear P25 lower quartile P50 median P75 upperquartile 2018 61:1 58:1 52:1 More detail in relation to the pay ratio calculation can be found on page 89.
The table below provides a summary of Gender Pay data for the Group.
2018 2017 % % Mean Pay Gap 7.4 8.1 Median Pay Gap 4.7 5.2 Mean Bonus Gap 38.5 27.6 Median Bonus Gap 29.2 20.6 At a Group level the pay gap has reduced overall on both measures and the median pay gap compares very favourably to the national average of 18.4%.
More detail in relation to Gender Pay can be found as part of CSR section of the report on page 35.
More than just pay Our employees are fundamental to the delivery of great guest experiences.
For over a decade, Mitchells and Butlers has sought the views of employees through our annual Your Say employee engagement survey.
What this survey consistently tells us is that whilst pay is a very important element of the overall employee value proposition, there are other factors that are also important to our employees.
Over the past year, the Company has taken the time to understand in more detail what these other factors are, developing what is known internally as our People Promise.
In developing our People Promise we have identified that all employees value career progression, fair reward, the need to be challenged and feel safe and secure: this is the minimum expectation.
In addition to these core needs, employees also value the flexibility and convenience that working for Mitchells & Butlers brings, the sense of family that comes from working in our businesses and the variety and fun that a career in hospitality can provide.
We believe that delivering against these areas for our people will further improve employee engagement and has resulted in a number of initiatives this year.
For example, a new app is on trial that will allow employees to swap shifts with others easily: investment continues in our e-learning system that enables employees to develop on-job in a convenient and flexible way, and a number of policies have been reviewed to be more flexible and family focused.
Workforce engagement Whilst not specifically consulted on Executive remuneration, feedback from employees is gathered in a number of ways through the year as shown in the illustration below: Remuneration Committee Employee survey CEO roadshows Employee forum Overview of pay and policy decisions Outcomes reviewed by the The CEO and FD hold regular Elected representatives Remuneration Committee roadshows that allow both have direct access to the The Committee is updated and taken into account when support centre colleagues Executive Committee and for on employee terms and setting remuneration policy, and General Managers Executive remuneration conditions and made aware if appropriate.
the opportunity to engage matters, the Remuneration of significant changes with senior leaders and Committee chair.
to policies and other pay provide feedback.
The Committee is regularly updated throughout the year on pay and conditions applying to Group employees.
Where significant changes are proposed to employment conditions and policies elsewhere in the Group, these are highlighted for the attention of the Committee at an early stage.
The Committee takes into account the base pay review budget applicable to other employees and is cognisant of changes to the National Living Wage and the National Minimum Wage when considering the pay of Executive Directors.
The Committee considers a broad range of reference points when determining policy and pay levels: these include external market benchmarks as well as internal reference points.
Any such reference points are set in an appropriate context and are not considered in isolation.
As mentioned above, all employees are invited to take part in our annual YourSay employee engagement survey in which they have an opportunity to provide anonymous feedback on a wide range of topics of interest or concern to them.
The Committee reviews the results of the survey and any significant concerns over remuneration would be considered separately by the Committee and, if appropriate, taken into account when determining the remuneration policy and its implementation.
In addition, each year an employee forum is held, which gives the opportunity for employees to ask questions of senior management, via elected representatives.
Going forward, the Remuneration Committee Chair will attend the forum on an annual basis to respond to any questions raised by employee representatives concerning our approach to Executive pay.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 77 Report on Directors remuneration continued Annual report on remuneration Committee membership and operation This section details the remuneration Committee members and their respective appointment dates are payable to the Executive and detailed in the table below.
Non-Executive Directors including the Name  Imelda Walsh Chair 11 July 2013 Chairman for the financial year ended Colin Rutherford 11 July 2013 29 September 2018 and sets out how Stewart Gilliland 11 July 2013 Bob Ivell 11 July 2013 we intend to implement our remuneration Eddie Irwin 11 July 2013 policy for the 2019 financial year.
Dave Coplin 29 Feb 2016 This report, along with the Chairs annual Josh Levy 20 July 2017 Independent Non-Executive Directors.
statement, will be subject to a single advisory vote at the AGM on Committee activity during the year 22 January 2019.
The Committee met six times during the year and key agenda items included the following: October 2017 2018 annual bonus arrangements Committee terms of reference Long Term Incentive Plan review The Committees terms of reference were last reviewed in 2016 and Remuneration policy review are available on our website.
They will be reviewed again early in 2019 Gender pay to take account of the revised Corporate Governance Code.
Employee engagement The Committees main responsibilities include: November 2017 Remuneration policy determining and making recommendations to the Board on the 2017 annual bonus outcome Companys Executive remuneration policy and its cost: 201517 LTIP outcome Confirmation of 2018 bonus targets taking account of all factors necessary when determining the policy, the objective of which shall be to ensure the remuneration policy Executive Committee members salary review promotes the long-term success of the Company: Directors expenses determining the individual remuneration packages of the Executive March 2018 Gender pay Directors and other senior Executives including all direct reports Update on employment matters across to the CEO, and the Company Chairman: the Group 201820 LTIP proposal and timetable having regard to the pay and employment conditions across the Company when setting the remuneration of individuals under the All-employee share schemes remit of the Committee: and April 2018 201820 LTIP proposal aligning Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders by Gender pay update providing the potential to earn significant rewards where significant May 2018 201820 LTIP confirmation of targets and shareholder value has been delivered.
investor consultation timetable September 2018 2019 annual bonus arrangements 201921 LTIP structure Update on employment conditions across the Group, including employee engagement Changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code 78 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Advice to the Committee The Committee received advice from New Bridge Street NBS, a trading name of Aon Plc, until June 2018.
From June 2018 the Committee received advice from PwC on an interim basis pending the outcome of a competitive tender process.
Both NBS and PwC are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and any advice received is governed by that Code.
Total fees payable in respect of remuneration advice to 1 the Committee in the reporting year totalled 75,962 NBS 68,762 and PWC 7,200.
Aon Plc provided advice on a potential insurance product, but no fees have been paid in respect of such advice in FY 2018.
Advice was also received from the Companys legal advisers, Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, on the operation of the Companys employee share schemes and on corporate governance matters.
Clifford Chance LLP also provided advice in relation to pension schemes.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from its advisers was objective and independent.
Members of management including Susan Martindale, the Group HR Director and Craig Provett, the Director of Compensation & Benefits, are invited to attend meetings on remuneration matters where appropriate.
They are not present when matters affecting their own remuneration arrangements are decided.
The Company Chairman does not attend Board or Committee meetings when his remuneration is under review.
Phil Urban and Tim Jones were present at meetings where the Companys longand short-term incentive arrangements and share schemes were discussed.
However, each declared an interest in the matters under review.
20% VAT was paid on the advisers fees shown above.
Statement of voting at AGM At the last AGM held on 23 January 2018, the resolution on the Directors remuneration policy and the Annual report on remuneration received the following votes from shareholders: a b Votescast Votesfor % Votesagainst % Voteswithheld Directors remuneration policy 368,083,115 357,056,085 97.00 11,027,030 3.00 244,331 Annual report on remuneration 366,642,591 365,544,870 99.71 1,097,721 0.29 1,702,855 a.
The For vote includes those giving the Company Chairman discretion.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes For or Against the resolution.
Votes For and Against are expressed as a percentage of votes cast.
Pay outcomes The tables and related disclosures set out on pages 79 to 86 on Directors remuneration, deferred annual bonus share awards STDIP, PRSP share options, Share Incentive Plan and pension benefits have been audited by Deloitte LLP.
Directors remuneration The tables below set out the single figure remuneration received by the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Directors during the reporting year.
Details of performance under the annual bonus plan are set out on pages 80 to 82.
Taxable benefits for the year comprised car allowance, healthcare and taxable expenses.
Based on the value of supplements paid in lieu of contributions to the Company Scheme.
c. The base salary for Phil Urban is 510,000 and for Tim Jones 426,500.
The figures set out are the actual salaries received over the financial year, which had 364 days.
d. Taxable benefits for Non-Executive Directors include cash payments made or accounted for by the Company relating to the reimbursement of expenses and the value of personal tax on those expenses.
e. This amount includes the additional fee approved by the Board and paid in respect of the work carried out by Mr Rutherford in leading the Companys discussions with the trustee of the Companys two defined benefit schemes which resulted in the agreement of the 2016 triennial valuations of those schemes as described more fully on page 45 of the Annual Report.
f. Includes the award of free shares and the value of the discount applied to Sharesave options awarded during the year.
Annual performance bonus and STDIP The annual bonus and STDIP operate as set out in our remuneration policy which is available on the Companys website.
Details of the measures and targets applying to the 2018 plan are set out below: Threshold95%ofTarget Target Maximum103%ofTarget Outcome %ofsalarypayable %ofsalarypayable %ofsalarypayable %ofsalarypayable a Adjusted Operating Profit 290.7m 306m 315.2m 303m 70% 0% 35% 70% 28% Outcome Target Calculationofoutcome %ofsalarypayable %ofsalarypayable Guest Health 15% Net Promoter Score NPS 61 Each element is scored 1 if better than target, 62.1 0 if on target, and -1 if below target.
0% Social Media Score 4.0 3.9 If the sum of these scores is 3 than maximum 0% bonus is paid.
15% Complaints Ratio 0.67 0.70 If the sum of these scores is 1 or 2 then an 0% on-target payment would be made.
7.5% If the sum of these scores is 0 then threshold bonus is paid.
3.75% Threshold Target Maximum Outcome %ofsalarypayable %ofsalarypayable %ofsalarypayable %ofsalarypayable Employee Engagement 77 78.5 80 78.9 10% 2.5% 5% 10% 6.3% Target Outcome %ofsalarypayable %ofsalarypayable Food Safety 96.9% 98.0% 5% 5% 5% Payout is on a straight-line basis between points.
80 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Operating Profit In determining the Operating Profit target range the Committee took into consideration a range of factors including the general and sector outlook, the continuing significant cost headwinds and the overall benefits likely to be realised over the financial year from the range of initiatives put in place as part of the Ignite programme.
These cost headwinds continue to run at c. 60m per year and include further food and drink inflation, labour and energy costs and the ongoing impact of changes to the way in which business rates are calculated.
The target was set broadly in line with the 2017 outturn 308m on a 52 week basis and market consensus.
The level of performance required for a maximum award required a significant level of performance ahead of both the Companys business plan and market expectations.
Sales in the year were 2,152m and like-for-like sales increased by 1.3%, building on the 1.8% increase seen in 2017, and consistently above the market 2 overall as measured by the Coffer Peach business tracker.
The Operating Profit outcome of 303m represented a resilient and credible performance over the year, which was impacted by unusual weather conditions.
There were several bouts of snow over the winter and the extended period of hot weather, which combined with Englands extended run in the World Cup, impacted on sales and profit both positively and negatively.
For example, our Pubs division benefited from the good weather and the World Cup, whereas our Carvery businesses lost a number of key trading days to snow and then were impacted by the hot weather over the summer.
Disposals at the end of FY17 also contributed a 4m decline in profits.
The Operating Profit outcome of 303m was 99% of the performance required for an on-target award resulting in a payout equivalent to 28% of salary out of 70% for Executive Directors.
The Committee carefully reflected on whether the proposed level of payout represented a good performance for the year and also the outcome versus the prior year.
The Committee concluded that it did given the unprecedented cost challenges, which are set to continue, and our continuing outperformance versus competitors as measured independently.
The Coffer Peach business tracker is the UKs leading sales tracker for pubs and restaurants.
Non-financial measures 30% out of 100% Guest Health 0% out of 15% For 2018 a new method of measuring Guest Health was introduced which comprised a combination of three elements, Net Promoter Score NPS, a combined social media score and guest complaints.
This rounded assessment ensures that Guest Health is measured comprehensively and does not rely on a single measure.
The NPS target was set at 61, a further improvement on the 2017 outturn of 59.
Good progress was been made across a number of our brands and the overall score for the year was ahead of target at 62.1.
The target for the combined social media score reputation.
To achieve the overall average review score across the business, combining all reviews from TripAdvisor, Facebook and Google, needed to average 4.0.
Achieving this would have represented an outstanding performance but the actual result fell just short of this ambitious target at 3.93.
Despite good progress being made across all three elements of the Guest Health measure, no bonus was payable for this part as the overall combined Guest Health score is below the demanding target set by the Committee.
Employee engagement 6.3% out of 10% A clear correlation has been established between employee engagement and guest satisfaction, which in turn has a positive impact on sales performance.
In June employees are invited to provide feedback through a comprehensive survey, YourSay, and this is supplemented by a shorter pulse survey in February.
Overall around two-thirds of employees contribute providing valuable and robust insight into employee satisfaction.
The engagement target for 2018 was based on a combined score across both surveys, with a greater weighting placed on the more comprehensive YourSay survey.
The overall outcome was a combined score of 78.9, which represented the highest ever employee engagement score, above the level of performance required for an on-target payment, but below that required for a maximum payment.
As a result, a payout equivalent to 6.3% out of 10%, was awarded to Executive Directors under this element.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 81 Report on Directors remuneration continued Food safety 5% out of 5% Food safety will always be a priority for the business, which is why a measure was introduced that is based on the number of businesses that achieve either a 4 or 5 rating in the independently operated National Food Hygiene Rating System NFHRS.
The stretching target set for 2018 was for 96.9% of businesses to achieve a score of either 4 or 5 over the year and the actual result was that 98% of businesses achieved this level of performance.
As a result, Mitchells & Butlers was second in the league table for large pub and restaurant groups across the country over 2018.
As an additional check, the Committee has also taken into account overall workplace safety which again has been strong in all areas.
The structure for this element is such that payout is based entirely on achieving the target set, therefore a payout equivalent to 5% was triggered against this element.
Final bonus outcome In determining the overall final bonus outcome, the Committee considered the wider performance of the Group as part of an overall quality of earnings assessment and was satisfied that the outcome was consistent with our performance over the year and therefore the total bonus awarded to Executive Directors is 39.3% of salary resulting in bonus payments of 200,034 and 167,283 to Phil Urban and Tim Jones respectively.
In line with our policy, half of the bonus award will be deferred into shares under the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP, which will be released in two equal amounts after 12 and 24 months, and shares must be retained until the relevant shareholding guideline has been met.
Long-term incentives vesting during the year During FY 2016 share awards were made to Phil Urban and Tim Jones, under the terms of the PRSP to the value of 200% and 140% of their respective base salaries.
The performance condition had two independent elements: compound annual adjusted EPS growth and TSR performance against a group of sector peers, measured over the three year performance period ending 29 September 2018.
The table below summarises performance against each element of the performance conditions.
 Threshold 25% toMaximum 100% Range Actual %vesting Total Shareholder Return relative to peer group 50% weighting Median to upper quartile Below median Nil Compound annual adjusted Earnings Per Share EPS growth 50% weighting 4% to 8% CAGR 1.5% p. a. Nil Comprising the constituents of the FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure index.
The base point for the TSR calculation was the first three months following the appointment of Phil Urban as CEO.
Between threshold and maximum, vesting under each measure is on a straight-line basis.
Below threshold the award will lapse.
The 201618 PRSP measures performance over a three-year period.
Since the award was made, the well documented cost headwinds facing the business have impacted on earnings.
Increases in business rates, labour costs, increasing inputs costs after the referendum results announcement, combining with an uncertain economic outlook, significantly impacted the ability of the business to grow.
In this context the overall result is a resilient performance but as EPS fell below the threshold level of growth required, and TSR performance fell below the median performance of the comparator group, the FY 2016 plan awards lapsed in full.
82 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Long-term incentive awards made in FY 2018 As we explained in last years report, during 2018 a full review of the LTIP structure was undertaken.
The Committee concluded this review in June following a consultation with major shareholders.
Details of the changes and rationale are set out below.
Operating Cash Flow 75% of the award Having considered carefully the challenges the business faces and the importance the Board places on improving cash generation, the Committee agreed to include a measure that covered cash flow.
Cash flow is an important area of focus given the significance of two fixed charges, which need to be covered before other more discretionary spend, namely pension deficit contributions under the current triennial agreement and mandatory bond amortisation within the existing securitisation.
Neither of these substantial outflows results in a direct charge to the income statement, but they do significantly influence Group decisions concerning capital allocation, short-term borrowings and dividends to shareholders, which must be assessed predominantly on a cash rather than on an earnings basis.
The Committee considered a number of options for the measurement of cash flow and concluded that the following definition best meets our objectives of defining a cash flow measure that is well understood, easy to monitor and communicate, and aligned to operational delivery: Operating Cash Flow before adjusted items, movements in working capital and additional pension contributions.
This definition is set out in our reported cash flow statement on page 104.
Working capital and pension contributions were excluded from the definition.
Working capital can be volatile as the Companys year-end date moves and can therefore be impacted by significant VAT, rent, rates and payroll payments falling either side of this date.
The Committee is aware that working capital actions can also provide a benefit to vesting outcomes.
A three year cumulative measure will reduce the likelihood of both positive and negative impacts but a thorough review of the Groups working capital position at the end of the performance period will be undertaken as part of the overall quality of earnings assessment when finalising the vesting outcome.
Pension contributions for the third year are uncertain and will depend on the outcome of the next triennial review.
The Committee also considered how capital expenditure should be treated, given the importance of the capital plan to our strategic aims.
Over a three year period, it may be appropriate to increase or decrease capital expenditure, depending on the circumstances at the time.
If capital expenditure was deducted from cash flow, then discretionary decisions taken in relation to capital expenditure could impact vesting outcomes.
The Committee felt that the best approach was to review the level of capital expenditure and, specifically, the return on expansionary capital a current KPI over the period, again, as a part of the overall quality of earnings assessment.
a Threshold vesting for this part of the award will require around a 2% p. a. growth in like-for-like sales and the delivery of further cost efficiencies, a reversing the recent decline in profits.
On an earnings equivalent basis threshold vesting would result in compound annual growth in Adjusted EPS of approximately 2.5% p. a.
Full vesting of this element can only be achieved if many or most of the new programme of initiatives are successfully implemented leading to significant market outperformance and strong year-on-year growth in Operating Profit, resulting in an equivalent compound a annual growth in Adjusted EPS of approximately 5.5% p. a.
Overall, the Committee considered that the range set from threshold to maximum was demanding, given the significant cost headwinds the Company is faced with.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 83 Report on Directors remuneration continued Rationale for the retention of TSR as a performance measure The Committee believed that the retention of TSR as a measure was important as it allows shareholders to assess the performance of Mitchells & Butlers against direct competitors at a time when performance across the industry is quite polarised.
However, the Committee considered it more appropriate to compare Mitchells & Butlers performance against a subset of Restaurants & Bars, and the Committee identified six peer companies to form the TSR peer group for the 201820 award EI Group, Greene King, Marstons, The Restaurant Group, JD Wetherspoon and Whitbread.
Threshold vesting will require Mitchells & Butlers performance to be equal to the median of the peer group, and maximum vesting will require an outperformance of the median of 8.5% p. a. with straight-line vesting between median and maximum.
It is equal to the historic average gap between median and upper quartile of the group using historic three-year returns over the last six years.
The TSR element of the award is also subject to a share price underpin and awards may only be exercised where the Mitchells & Butlers share price has equalled or exceeded the share price at the date of award within six months of the vesting date.
If this condition is not met, then the TSR-related awards will lapse.
Summary of investor consultation Prior to making the awards major investors were consulted on the above proposals, covering around 90% of the issued share capital, along with the major institutional advisers The Investment Association, ISS and Glass Lewis.
Overall, investors were generally supportive of the proposals with some investors asking further questions in relation to the stretch in the target range for Operating Cash Flow.
In the Committees view the target range was more demanding than consensus using EPS and Operating Profit comparators at the time the target range was set and, given the significant cost headwinds which Mitchells & Butlers faced over the performance period and the uncertain consumer backdrop, shareholders generally accepted that the range looked demanding.
We also had a positive reaction to the clarity and assurance we provided in relation to the quality of earnings assessment that will be undertaken prior to confirming vesting.
The Committee has in the past demonstrated a willingness to make adjustments based on the circumstances at a particular time.
For example, in 2016 the PRSP award was adjusted to ensure that there was no potential benefit to Executive Directors as a result of the fall in the Mitchells & Butlers share price following the outcome of the referendum on the membership of the European Union.
Following the conclusion of the consultation process, an award was made to the Chief Executive and the Finance Director in July 2018.
75% of the award is based on Operating Cash Flow and 25% on Relative TSR, with both Operating Cash Flow and Relative TSR measured over a three year performance period and any shares which vest, subject to a further two year holding period.
Operating Cash Flow 75% of the award 1,306m 25% vests 1,336m 100% vests 2.
Total Shareholder Return TSR relative 25% will vest for matching the median 100% will vest for TSR performance to a peer group of comparator companies of the group that exceeds the median by 8.5% p. a.
25% of the award Between threshold and maximum, vesting under each measure is on a straight-line basis.
Comprising of EI Group, Greene King, Marstons, The Restaurant Group, JD Wetherspoon and Whitbread.
Options that vest under the TSR element of the performance condition may only be exercised where the share price has equalled or exceeded the share price at the date of grant on at least one day within six months following the vesting date.
If this condition is not met, then the vested option will lapse.
The Operating Cash Flow and TSR conditions are measured over three years from the start of the financial year in which they are granted.
Full details of awards made to Executive Directors under the PRSP are set out below: NilCost Market Options Basis priceper awarded ofaward shareusedto Actual duringthe %ofbasic determinethe planned Latest Face yearto annual Award award vesting lapse value 29 09 18 salary date p date date Executive Directors Phil Urban 393,517 200 03 07 18 259.2 Nov 2020 Nov 2022 1,019,996 Tim Jones 230,361 140 03 07 18 259.2 Nov 2020 Nov 2022 597,096 Total 623,878 Market price is the MMQ on the day prior to the award being made.
Face value is the maximum number of shares that would vest excluding any dividend shares that may accrue if the performance measure as described above is met in full, multiplied by the middle market quotation of a Mitchells & Butlers share on the day the award was made 259.2p.
The aggregate option price of each award is 1.
Performance measurement under the PRSP, which is not re-tested, is reviewed and certified by the Companys auditor.
84 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 All-employee SIP and Sharesave The tables below show the awards made to Directors under the Sharesave scheme and the free share element of the SIP during the year.
Sharesave Shares awarded during theyear Option Earliest Last 1 10 17to Award price exercise expiry 29 09 18 date p date date Director Phil Urban 7,317 20 06 18 246 1 10 21 31 3 22 Tim Jones 7,317 20 06 18 246 1 10 21 31 3 22 Total 14,634 SIP Shares awarded Marketprice during Marketprice pershare theyear pershare Normal atnormal Lapsed 1 10 17to Award ataward vesting vestingdate during 29 09 18 date p date p period Director Phil Urban 1,322 20 06 18 262.2 20 06 21 n a n a Tim Jones 1,127 20 06 18 262.2 20 06 21 n a n a Total 2,449 Directors entitlements under the Partnership Share element of the SIP are set out as part of the Directors interests table on page 86.
PRSP, STDIP and other share awards The table below sets out details of the Executive Directors outstanding awards under the PRSP, STDIP and Sharesave SAYE.
50% of this PRSP award is subject to a TSR condition and the other 50% is subject to adjusted EPS growth targets.
Shares awarded to Phil Urban on joining the Company as Chief Operating Officer in January 2015. c. The 201618 plan will lapse in November 2018. d. 75% of this PRSP award is subject to an Operating Cash Flow target and the remaining 25% is subject to a TSR condition.
e. Shares released in two equal tranches, 12 and 24 months after grant.
Date shown is first release date.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 85 Report on Directors remuneration continued Update on forecast performance of other PRSP awards 201719 PRSP With one performance year remaining, the position could change but specifically in relation to the EPS measure, the significant additional cost challenges and a more detailed assessment of the timing and impact of investment, result in a forecast level of vesting below the threshold level.
Directors interests Executive Directors are expected to hold Mitchells & Butlers shares in line with the shareholding guideline set out in the remuneration policy report.
This requires the Chief Executive to accumulate Mitchells & Butlers shares to the value of a minimum of 200% of salary 150% of salary for other Executive Directors through the retention of shares arising from share schemes on a net of tax basis or through market purchases.
Phil Urbans shareholding at 29 September 2018 was 48.7% of his basic annual salary 2017, 24.9% and Tim Jones shareholding was 57.6% of his basic annual salary 2017 45.2% and as a result the shareholding guideline is not met.
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 29 September 2018 and 30 September 2017 are as set out below: Unvestedoptions Unvestedoptions Whollyownedshares Shareswith awardswithout awardswith Vestedbut withoutperformance performance performance performance unexercised Total a b c conditions conditions conditions conditions options shares options 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Executive Directors Phil Urban 97,024 53,042 40,928 4,972 1,172,509 840,730 1,310,461 898,744 Tim Jones 95,944 80,461 33,753 2,486 686,377 617,872 816,074 700,819 Non-Executive Directors Bob Ivell 12,006 12,006 12,006 12,006 Ron Robson Stewart Gilliland 11,000 11,000 11,000 11,000 Eddie Irwin 31,560 30,974 31,560 30,974 Colin Rutherford Imelda Walsh 7,500 7,500 7,500 7,500 Dave Coplin 2,042 2,000 2,042 2,000 Josh Levy Keith Browne Total 257,076 196,983 74,681 7,458 1,858,886 1,458,602 2,190,643 1,663,043 a.
Includes Free Shares and Partnership Shares granted under the SIP.
Options granted under the Sharesave as detailed in the table on page 85 and deferred bonus awards granted under the STDIP.
c. Options granted under the PRSP as detailed in the table on page 84.
Directors shareholdings shares without performance conditions include shares held by persons closely associated.
The above shareholdings are beneficial interests and are inclusive of Directors holdings under the Share Incentive Plan both Free Share and Partnership Share elements.
Phil Urban acquired 105 shares and Tim Jones acquired 106 shares under the Partnership Share element of the Share Incentive Plan between the end of the financial year and 21 November 2018.
There have been no changes in the holdings of any other Directors since the end of the financial year.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary or in debenture stocks of the Company or any subsidiary.
The market price per share on 29 September 2018 was 264.0p and the range during the year to 29 September 2018 was 231.4p to 283.1p per share.
The Executive Directors as a group beneficially own 0.06% of the Companys shares.
86 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 Fees for external directorships No external non-executive directorships were held by either Executive Director during the year to 29 September 2018.
Payment for loss of office No payments for loss of office were made in the year ended 29 September 2018.
Payments to past Directors No payments were made to any past Directors in the year ended 29 September 2018.
TSR performance graph The Companys TSR performance for the last nine financial years is shown below against the FTSE 250 index.
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen to show TSR performance as the Company is a member of the FTSE 250.
Total shareholder return from September 2009 to September 2018 rebased to 100 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Mitchells & Butlers plc FTSE 250 TSR comparator group Source: Datastream Thomson Reuters This graph shows the value, by 29 September 2018, of 100 invested in Mitchells & Butlers plc on 26 September 2009, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and the constituents of the 201820 TSR comparator group on the same date.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 87 Report on Directors remuneration continued CEO earnings history Yearended 25 09 10 24 09 11 29 09 12 28 09 13 27 09 14 26 09 15 24 09 16 30 09 17 29 09 18 Phil Urban Single figure remuneration 000 613 770 819 Annual bonus outcome % of max 28 39 LTIP vesting outcome % of max Alistair Darby a Single figure remuneration 000 982 642 878 Annual bonus outcome % of max 71.0 LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a n a 19.0 Bob Ivell b Single figure remuneration 000 557 69 c c Annual bonus outcome % of max n a n a c c LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a n a Jeremy Blood Single figure remuneration 000 397 50 d c Annual bonus outcome % of max n a c LTIP vesting outcome % of max n a Adam Fowle e Single figure remuneration 000 1,315 483 Annual bonus outcome % of max 87.6 16.0 LTIP vesting outcome % of max 16.2 24.2 a. Alistair Darby formally took up the position of CEO on 12 November 2012 following a short period of induction and handover.
The figure shown reflects the date of his appointment to the Board 8 October 2012. b.
Figure shown is up to and including 11 November 2012 as Bob Ivell remained Executive Chairman to this date.
c. The Director was not a participant in the plan.
d. Jeremy Blood was not a participant in the short-term incentive plan: at the discretion of the Board a payment of 100,000 was made in respect of his contribution as Interim Chief Executive.
This payment is included in the single remuneration figure 397,000 above.
Earnings exclude the fee payable for the period 26 September 2010 to 14 March 2011 during which Mr Blood served as a Non-Executive Director.
e. Earnings disclosed are to 15 March 2011 when Mr Fowle stepped down as CEO.
Change in remuneration of the CEO Salary Taxablebenefits Bonus 2018 2017 %Change 2018 2017 %Change 2018 2017 %Change CEO 510,000 510,000 0 15,557 15,134 2.8 200,034 145,546 37.4 Salaried employees 32,383 31,572 2.6 728 704 3.4 2,449 2,739 10.6 The change in CEO remuneration is compared to the change in average remuneration of all full-time salaried employees, which includes house managers, assistant managers and kitchen managers employed in our businesses.
Salaried employees with part-year service in either FY 2017 or FY 2018 have been excluded from the comparison figures.
Retail staff employees have been excluded from the comparator group as they are hourly paid, largely part time and do not participate in any bonus plans.
The CEO figures do not include LTIP awards or pension benefits that are disclosed in the single figure table.
88 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 CEO pay ratios For the last two years Mitchells & Butlers has disclosed the pay ratio between the CEO and the median pay of other employees, reflecting emerging best practice.
The Government has now introduced legislation that will require all quoted companies with more than 250 employees to publish the ratio of their CEOs pay, using the single figure for total CEO remuneration to that of the median, 25th and 75th percentile total remuneration of full-time equivalent employees.
Whilst this legislation does not require Mitchells & Butlers to comply until the 2020 Annual Report the Committee feels that it is important to continue to take a lead in this area, as it provides a helpful opportunity to demonstrate the link between CEO pay in the context of overall workforce remuneration.
The table below sets out the CEO pay ratio at the median, 25th and 75th percentile.
CEOpayratio Financialyear P25 lower quartile P50 median P75 upperquartile 2018 61:1 58:1 52:1 The lower quartile, median and upper quartile employees were calculated based on full-time equivalent base pay data as at 29 September 2018.
This calculation methodology was selected as the data was felt to be the most accurate way of identifying the best equivalents of P25, P50 and P75.
The employee pay data has been reviewed and we are satisfied that it fairly reflects the relevant quartiles given the very large proportion of hourly paid team members employed by Mitchells & Butlers c. 86% of the total workforce.
The three representative employees used to calculate the pay ratios are hourly paid and the base pay elements were calculated using a full-time equivalent hourly working week of 35 hours.
Hourly paid employees do not participate in the annual bonus plan or long-term incentive plan and in most cases do not have any taxable benefits.
Employee pay does not include earnings from tips and service charge, from which many employees benefit.
It is Mitchells & Butlers policy to pass all earnings from tips and service charges to employees.
Pay details for the individuals are set out below: CEO P25 lowerquartile P50 median P75 upperquartile Salary 508,603 13,432 14,177 15,616 Total pay 819,045 13,432 14,177 15,616 The median pay ratios reported in 2016 and 2017 were completed using a different methodology that calculated actual pay and benefits over the financial year for all employees who had been employed for the full financial year.
This methodology is not compliant with the new regulations, but overall the median pay ratio is broadly in line with prior years at 63:1 in 2017 and 44:1 in 2016, a year in which no bonus was paid to the CEO.
In assessing our pay ratio versus likely ratios from industry peers, we believe that we are towards the lower end of the range but note that annual and long-term incentive payments have varied considerably amongst this group.
In our case, the CEO single figure comprises fixed pay, taxable benefits, pension benefits and bonus only, given that no long-term incentive vested in respect of performance in FY 2018, or in any of the prior years.
We also recognise that ratios will be influenced by levels of employee pay, and in the hospitality sector, despite significant increases over the past year, employee pay will be lower than in many other sectors of the economy.
Relative importance of spend on pay m 700 -0.8% 600 500 400 620 625 300 -0.5% -4.2% 200 197 198 2.2% 160 167 100 -100% 47 46 12 0 Wages and salaries Principal taxes Pension deficit contributions Debt service Cash Dividend and Share Buy Back FY 2018 FY 2017 From note 2.3, Accounts, excludes share-based payments.
Business Rates, Corporation Tax, Employers NI.
Figures shown for wages and salaries consist of all earnings, including bonus.
In FY 2018, 2m 0.3% was paid to Executive and Non-Executive Directors 2017 2m 0.3%.
The fall in wages and salaries and principal taxes are primarily a result of disposals made in 2017.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 89 Report on Directors remuneration continued Details of service contracts and letters of appointment Details of the service contracts of Executive Directors are set out below.
Noticeperiod Minimumnotice Compensationon Director Contractstartdate Unexpiredterm fromCompany periodfromDirector changeofcontrol a Phil Urban 27 09 15 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No Tim Jones 18 10 10 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No a. Phil Urban became Chief Executive and joined the Board on 27 September 2015.
His continuous service date started on 5 January 2015, the date on which he joined the Company as Chief Operating Officer.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors, including the Company Chairman, do not have service contracts but serve under letters of appointment which provide that they are initially appointed until the next AGM when they are required to stand for election.
In line with the Companys Articles, all Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, will stand for re-election at the 2019 AGM with the exception of Stewart Gilliland who intends to step down from the Board before then.
This is also in line with the recommendations set out in paragraph B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Non-Executive Directors appointments are terminable without notice and with no entitlement to compensation.
Payment of fees will cease immediately on termination.
Ron Robson and Josh Levy were appointed to the Board pursuant to the terms of the Piedmont Deed of Appointment, information on which is set out on page 51.
Copies of the individual letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors and the service contracts for Executive Directors are available at the Registered Office of the Company during normal business hours and on our website.
Copies will also be available to shareholders to view at the 2019 AGM.
Implementation of remuneration policy in FY 2019 Executive Directors salary review Salary increases take effect from 1 January 2019 and, from this date, Phil Urbans salary will be increased to 520,000 2% and Tim Jones salary will be increased to 435,000 2%.
Phil Urbans salary has not increased since his appointment in September 2015 and Tim Jones salary was last increased in January 2015.
These increases are broadly in line with those applicable to other salaried employees in the Group and follow an extended period during which Executive Directors salaries have not been increased.
Annual performance bonus The maximum bonus opportunity will remain at 100% of salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director with 70% of bonus to be based on Operating Profit and the remaining 30% on non-profit elements linked to the business scorecard.
Weighting Details Operating Profit 70% Bonus will begin to accrue at threshold with half of the bonus payable for on-target performance, reflecting the demanding nature of the targets set by the Committee.
Full payment will require very strong performance, well in excess of current market consensus.
Guest Health 15% Guest Health will comprise three measures, each with an equal weighting: NPS a well-established measure of Guest Health, will continue to be assessed in FY 2019.
Social media The monitoring tool enables all social media reviews, including TripAdvisor, Facebook and Google, to be combined into a single review score.
Guest complaints There has been an increased focus on improving the speed at which guest complaints are resolved, alongside a commitment to reducing the overall number of complaints received.
Combining NPS with an assessment of social media reviews and guest complaints provides a more holistic review of Guest Health.
To achieve a maximum payment, performance will need to exceed target on at least two elements, and be at target or better, for the third element.
Employee engagement 10% Mitchells & Butlers has measured employee engagement for a number of years, and a clear correlation has been established between employee engagement and guest satisfaction, which in turn has a positive impact on sales.
For this reason, the Committee has decided to include employee engagement in the bonus scheme.
Food Safety 5% Food safety will always be a key priority and including a measure based on the proportion of our businesses that achieve a high National Food Hygiene Rating Scheme score reflects our continued focus on the safe operation of our businesses.
An agreed food safety score must be achieved for this part of the bonus to payout and, as an additional check, overall workplace safety will also be taken into account when determining the outcome.
The non-financial elements will only become payable if a certain level of Operating Profit has been achieved.
For 2019, this will remain at 97.5% of target, which is ahead of the threshold required for payment under the Operating Profit measure.
There will also be a change to the method used to calculate NPS.
Previously it was calculated on a Business Weighted basis where each pub or restaurant carried the same weight irrespective of business size and the number of responses.
Going forward scores will be calculated on a Response Weighted basis where the score treats all responses as equally important, i. e. larger businesses with more responses will have a relatively greater bearing on the overall score than they do now, therefore providing a better representation of guest satisfaction and performance as each individual guest response carries the same weighting.
90 Mitchells & Butlers plc  STRATEGIC REPORT 1 TO 45 GOVERNANCE 46TO91 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 TO 147 OTHER INFORMATION 148 TO 152 The Committee will continue to consider the overall performance of the Company, not just the outcome of each individual measure.
All bonus targets are considered to be commercially sensitive and will not be disclosed in advance.
However, retrospective disclosure of targets and performance against them will be provided in next years Directors remuneration report.
The bonus structure for all Managers across Mitchells & Butlers is linked to the above business scorecard.
Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP 201921 The Committee has concluded that the performance measures should remain unchanged from the July 2018 award, with two independent elements, Operating Cash Flow 75% weighting and relative TSR 25% weighting.
In setting the target range for 201921, the Committee has considered the ongoing cost headwinds that the business continues to face, the upward pressure on food and drink inflation, along with the potential benefits flowing from the Ignite initiatives over the coming years.
The conclusion of this review is that the Operating Cash Flow target range will have a threshold set at 1,332m and maximum at 1,362m, which represents an increase at both threshold and maximum.
a On an earnings equivalent basis, the adjusted EPS target range will be between 4.5% and 7%, again a further progression on the 201820 PRSP targets.
The current TSR comparator group comprises six peer companies EI Group, Greene King, Marstons, The Restaurant Group, JD Wetherspoon and Whitbread.
Following the announcement of the forthcoming sale of Costa Coffee by Whitbread to Coca-Cola the Committee has further reviewed the constituents of this group.
Once the Costa sale has concluded, the residual Whitbread business will be primarily a hotels business and therefore the Committee has concluded that, going forward, Whitbread should not form part of the peer group.
The removal of Whitbread from the peer group reduces the number of constituents to five and the Committee has considered carefully if Whitbread could be replaced by an alternative company.
Having taken all factors into account, the Committee has concluded that the most appropriate approach is to continue with the slightly smaller comparator group, as this results in a well matched group making it more likely that any outperformance will be linked to management and Company action.
A summary of the performance measures and targets are set out in the table below:  Maximumvestingtarget 1.
Operating Cash Flow 75% of the award 1,332m 25% vests 1,362m 100% vests 2.
Comprising EI Group, Greene King, Marstons, The Restaurant Group and JD Wetherspoon.
Non-Executive Directors fee review The Chairmans and Non-Executive Director fee were last reviewed in January 2015.
The Chairman has indicated that he does not wish to have his fee increased at this time.
As detailed in the corporate governance section of this report, the base fee for Non-Executive Directors will increase by 2% to 53,000 per annum and the fee paid to Non-Executive Directors for chairing a Committee or for the role of Senior Independent Director will increase to 13,000 per annum.
Imelda Walsh Chair of the Remuneration Committee 21 November 2018 a.
 Mitchells & Butlers plc 91 Financial statements In this section 93 Independent auditors report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers plc 100 Group income statement 101 Group statement of comprehensive income 102 Group balance sheet 103 Group statement of changes in equity 104 Group cash flow statement Notes to the financial statements 105 Section 1 Basis of preparation 109 Section 2 Results for the year 109 2.1 Segmental analysis 109 2.2 Separately disclosed forms 111 2.3 Revenue and operating costs 113 2.4 Taxation 115 2.5 Earnings per share 116 Section 3 Operating assets and liabilities 116 3.1 Property, plant and equipment 120 3.2 Working capital 121 3.3 Provisions 122 3.4 Goodwill and other intangible assets 124 3.5 Associates 125 Section 4 Capital structure and financing costs 125 4.1 Net debt 126 4.2 Borrowings 127 4.3 Finance costs and revenue 128 4.4 Financial instruments 133 4.5 Pensions 137 4.6 Share-based payments 139 4.7 Equity 141 Section 5 Other notes 141 5.1 Related party transactions 141 5.2 Subsidiaries and associates 142 5.3 Events after the balance sheet date 142 5.4 Five year review 143 Mitchells & Butlers plc Company financial statements 145 Notes to the Mitchells & Butlers plc Company financial statements 92 Mitchells & Butlers plc 
