120 Corporate governance report Diversity of the executive committee DLC executive committee % Female 22% Composition Male 78% Meeting In 2018 we continued to make Members Committee attendance throughout member nine meetings strong progress on our major the year since in the year capital projects, while maintaining 1 Erik Bouts May 2017 9 2 our day-to-day operational focus Markus Grtner October 2018 2 3 on safety, quality and efficiency.
Michael Hakes April 2018 6 Our discussions centred around Georg May 2017 8 4 Kasperkovitz our ambitions on digitalisation, Andrew King May 2007 9 D&I and opportunities to grow our John Lindahl August 2011 9 Nationalities represented packaging and paper solutions Vivien October 2017 9 on the executive committee in a way that meets the needs of McMenamin South African 2 our customers, their products and Peter Orisich May 2017 9 Austrian 3 the planet.
Peter Oswald, May 2007 9 German 2 chair Peter Oswald British 1 Chair of the DLC executive committee Sara Sizer September 9 Finnish 1 2017 5 Clemens Wille May 2017 7 1 Erik Bouts stepped down from the committee on 23 December 2018.
Erik attended all meetings up to the time of his departure 2 Markus Grtner was appointed to the committee on 1 October 2018.
Markus attended all meetings following his appointment 3 Michael Hakes was appointed to the committee on 1 April2018.
Michael attended all meetings following his appointment 4 Georg Kasperkovitz was unable to attend one meeting during the year due to a meeting with a significant customer 5 Clemens Wille stepped down from the committee on 30 September 2018.
Clemens attended all meetings up to the time of his departure Other regular attendees e Representatives from corporate functions, each of whom present on relevant topics Key responsibilities e Day-to-day management of the Group within the limits set by the Boards, including implementation of operational decisions e Strategy implementation, including a more in-depth annual strategy session e Risk identification and the management of mitigation of those risks e Monitoring financial, operational and safety performance, in particular monitoring the achievement of budgets, forecasts and targets e Policy implementation Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 121 The disclosure committee meets regularly Key policies throughout the year.
Dealing in securities All dealings by directors and persons The Boards have adopted a share dealing discharging managerial responsibilities code for dealing in the securities of Mondi and their closely associated persons are Limited and Mondi plc.
The code is announced to the JSE and the LSE when based on regulatory and governance best they occur.
Details of the directors interests practice in South Africa and the UK and in the shares of both Mondi Limited and sets out in detail the restrictions placed on Mondi plc can be found on pages137 directors, senior management and other and 138. key employees with regard to their share dealing to ensure that they do not abuse Business ethics their access to information about the Group Mondi continues to have a stated policy of pending its public release and availability to zero tolerance of bribery and corruption.
The code is accompanied by Ethical decision-making and behaviour both clear procedures and guidelines.
at board level and throughout the business The code is reviewed regularly to ensure is fundamental to Mondis governance.
continued compliance with regulation The Boards have adopted a Code of and best practice.
A thorough review Business Ethics that governs our corporate and revision of the code was undertaken conduct and which applies throughout the in 2016 to reflect the introduction of Group.
The code sets out five fundamental the EU Market Abuse Regulation.
principles that govern the way in which Relevant employees are regularly reminded Mondi and its employees conduct of their obligations and the procedures they business.
Three of the principles are are required to follow.
monitored and reviewed by the sustainable development committee human rights, Mondi has established a disclosure stakeholders and sustainability and two by committee, of which the Chief Executive the audit committee legal compliance and Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the honesty and integrity.
More information Company Secretaries of Mondi Limited and about Mondis approach to anti-bribery and Mondi plc are members, to monitor Mondis anti-corruption can be found on page63.
Other than as set out in our online The committee is responsible for sustainability report, Mondi has not determining whether information should received any material fines or non-monetary be classified as inside information in sanctions for non-compliance with laws accordance with regulation and for and regulations.
procuring the prompt release of such information, or agreeing a delay in disclosure, as appropriate.
If disclosure is delayed, the committee will ensure that the conditions set out in regulation are met, including to maintain confidentiality of information.
The committee will oversee the creation and maintenance of insider lists, minimising the risk of an accidental leak or share dealing by employees while in possession of inside information.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 122 Remuneration report Statement from the DLC Remuneration Committee Chair e The performance period for the 2016 Remuneration principles LTIP ended on 31 December 2018.
I am committed to overseeing a Remuneration for our executive directors Half of the award was based on ROCE transparent and open approach is based on the principles of pay for performance and the other half on performance, alignment with shareholders regarding our framework and relative TSR performance.
Annual bonuses are policy for remuneration.
the three-year performance period was dependent on a scorecard of mainly financial 21.2%, above the stretch performance Tanya Fratto and some non-financial elements, and 50% Chair of the DLC requirement of 16%.
The Groups TSR of any bonus is deferred into Mondi shares remuneration committee over the period was 10.3% for Mondi for three years.
The Long-Term Incentive plc and 13.3% for Mondi Limited, Plan LTIP is aligned to sustained, 3-year which placed it above the median of performance, measured through percentage the comparator group.
As a result of Return on Capital Employed ROCE, and this performance, 100% of the ROCE our relative total shareholder return TSR element, and 53.1% of the TSR element, compared to other international companies and therefore 76.6% of the overall LTIP in our sector.
Executive directors are also award, vested.
required to build a personal shareholding in Mondi of 200% of their base salary.
2019 implementation Base salary increases of 2.7% Performance and Fellow shareholder, it is with pleasure were implemented with effect from remuneration for 2018 that I present the committees report on 1 January 2019, after consideration As described in the Strategic report, directors remuneration.
of percentage increases for the wider Mondis financial performance, which has employee population.
Due to Mondis DLC structure we are a weighting of 70% of the annual bonus required to comply with both UK and South compared with a weighting of 60% in The committee will continue to operate African voting regulations.
ROCE performance an annual bonus and LTIP in 2019 within 1 Remuneration Policy DRP remains was 23.6% and underlying EBITDA was the limits set by the DRP and subject to unchanged, having been approved by 1,764 million, relative to 19.3% and challenging performance requirements.
2 shareholders under the required triennial 1,482 million in 2017.
Bonus performance The ROCE metric which applies to 50% of binding vote of Mondi plc shareholders outcomes against the targets that were the LTIP award currently has a performance at the AGM in 2017 with a vote of over set are outlined in the annual report range of 10% at threshold and 18% at 95% in favour, and endorsed by Mondi on remuneration.
The committee has decided Ltd shareholders in 2017 and 2018 with to further increase the performance Following feedback from shareholders, votes of over 95% and 98% in favour.
requirements at threshold under this underlying EBITDA and ROCE ranges The same policy will be tabled for the usual metric to 12% ROCE, with effect from the that bonuses are based on are now annual advisory vote by Mondi Limited 2019 awards.
being disclosed for the year under review.
shareholders in 2019, in accordance with In previous years this was done on a prior South African regulations.
The remainder of UK Corporate year, retrospective basis.
This brings the this Directors Remuneration Report, which Governance Code disclosure of financial bonus ranges into describes how the policy was implemented The committee has monitored line with the disclosure of the safety and in 2018, will be put to the usual advisory developments in corporate governance, personal objectives elements.
vote by shareholders of both Mondi Limited both in the UK and South Africa.
Performance outcomes are reflected in the We have considered the changes to the remuneration received by directors: UK Corporate Governance Code and the amendments to the UK directors e Annual bonuses of 88% of the remuneration report requirements under the maximum have been awarded in UK Companies Act.
Requirements under respect of performance in 2018 for Peter both of these apply from the 2019 financial Oswald and 89% for Andrew King.
year, and will be reflected in Mondis This recognises the Groups financial Integrated report for 2019.
Many of the new performance as well as performance for requirements Mondi already complies with, the personal, operational and strategic for example: objectives that were set at the start of the year.
In terms of safety performance, e the remuneration committees the total recordable case rate TRCR in scope of responsibilities already 2018 was 0.68, within the range set.
As a includes all members of the DLC result of the tragic and unacceptable executive committee, and the fatality of a contractor engaged in Mondi committee has oversight of the wider operations the payment under the safety workforce remuneration: element of the bonus was limited to the 1 The full policy can be found on pages 123 to 129 of this report, and in the 2016 and 2017 integrated reports on Mondis website portion which was attributable to total 2 The 2017 figures have been restated for adoption of IFRS 16 recordable incidents.
Leases as disclosed in notes 32 and 33 of the combined and consolidated financial statements Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors remuneration policy 123 e a two-year, post-vesting holding period The report Directors remuneration policy for LTIP awards to executive directors The report has been prepared by the This part of the directors remuneration already applies to awards which were DLC remuneration committee and report sets out the remuneration policy granted from 2017 onwards.
This holding approved by the boards of Mondi for the Group and has been prepared in period continues to apply post cessation Limited and Mondi plc together the accordance with The Large and Mediumof employment: Boards.
 Inc. sized Companies and Groups Accounts e malus and clawback rules are already in and  LLP have and Reports Amendment Regulations place for executives incentive plans and independently audited the items stipulated 2013.
The policy has been developed have been further enhanced with effect in the regulations: taking into account the principles of from 2019 onwards: and the governance codes in South Africa e executive directors and non-executive and the UK and the views of our major e the committee already provides directors remuneration and associated shareholders.
The policy was approved by information in the Remuneration Report footnotes on page 130: a binding shareholder vote at the Mondi plc on the impact of share price growth e the table of share awards granted to Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2017, on the vesting value for LTIP awards, executive directors and associated and endorsed at Mondi Limiteds Annual and this year has included the potential footnotes on page 139: and General Meetings in 2017 and 2018. impact of share price appreciation on e the statement of directors shareholdings remuneration outcomes in the scenarios The Groups remuneration policy and share interests in Mondi on pages chart in the policy section of the report.
has been set with the objective of 137 and 138. attracting, motivating and retaining The committee is also considering high-calibre directors, in a manner that the impact of changes to the Code in promotes the long-term success of the relation to pension and post-employment Group, is consistent with best practice shareholding requirements for the and aligned with the interests of the executive directors.
Conclusion Our remuneration policy and practices are designed to drive achievement of the Groups business objectives and Remuneration policy for executive directors is framed deliver sustainable shareholder value.
 principles: The remuneration for 2018 reflects Mondis success in the continued delivery of e remuneration packages should be e a significant proportion of the our strategy.
set at levels that are competitive in the remuneration of executive directors Thank you for the strong support you relevant market: should be performance-based: have given for our remuneration approach e the structure of remuneration e the performance-based element of in prior years.
I hope that you will give packages and, in particular, the remuneration should be appropriately your support again for the 2019 Annual design of performance-based balanced between the achievement of General Meetings.
remuneration schemes, should be short-term objectives and longer-term aligned with shareholders interests objectives: and Tanya Fratto and should support the achievement Chair of the DLC remuneration committee e the remuneration of executive of the Groups business strategy and directors should be set taking the management of risk: appropriate account of remuneration and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 124 Directors remuneration policy Executive directors remuneration policy table The following table summarises key elements of the remuneration of executive directors in accordance with reporting regulations: Base salary Benefits Pension Bonus Share Plan BSP Purpose To recruit and reward To provide market To provide market To provide incentive and reward for and link to executives of a suitable competitive benefits.
competitive pension annual performance achievements.
strategy calibre for the role and contributions.
To also provide sustained alignment duties required.
with shareholders through a deferred component.
Operation Reviewed annually by The Group typically Defined contribution Awards are based on annual the committee, taking provides: to pension, or cash performance against a balanced account of Group and allowance of equivalent scorecard of metrics as determined by e car allowance or individual performance, value.
Only base salary is the committee from time to time such company car: changes in responsibility pensionable.
as underlying EBITDA and percentage e medical insurance: and levels of increase for ROCE and safety.
These have the the broader employee e death and highest weighting currently 80% of the population.
Individual performance is also assessed against suitable objectives, e limited personal taxation Reference is also made and currently has a 20% weighting.
and financial advice: to market median levels in and companies of similar size The policy gives the committee and complexity.
e other ancillary benefits, the authority to select suitable including relocation performance metrics, aligned to The committee considers and assistance with Mondis strategy and shareholders the impact of any base expatriate expenses interests, and to assess the salary increase on as required.
the total remuneration The policy authorises package.
Half of the award is delivered in cash the committee to make and half in deferred shares which Salaries and other minor changes to normally vest after three years subject elements of the benefits provision from to service conditions, and with no remuneration package time to time, including if matching element.
On vesting of may be paid in different appropriate implementing deferred shares, participants receive currencies as appropriate all-employee share plans a bonus of equivalent value to the to reflect their geographic up to the limits approved dividends that would have been location.
payable on those shares between the date when the awards were granted and when they vest.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to awards made since January 2011.
Maximum There is no prescribed Maximum values are The maximum company The maximum annual bonus is 175% opportunity maximum salary determined by reference pension contribution for of base salary.
to market practice, executive directors is The committee applied a limit of 165% However, increases will avoiding paying more 25%of base salary.
for the Chief Executive Officer and normally be no more thanis necessary.
135% for other executive directors for than the general level of the 2017 and 2018 performance years increase in the UK market i. e. below the policy maximum.
or the market against which the executives salary is determined.
On occasions a larger increase may be needed to recognise, for example, development in role or change in responsibility.
Details of the outcome of the most recent review are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 125 Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Share ownership policy Purpose To provide incentive and reward for the delivery of the To align the interests of executive directors with those of and link to Groups strategic objectives, and provide further alignment shareholders.
strategy with shareholders through the use of shares.
Operation Individuals are considered each year for an award of shares Executive directors are required to acquire and maintain that vest after three years to the extent that performance shareholdings in Mondi Limited or Mondi plc to a minimum conditions are met and in accordance with the terms of the of 200% of base salary.
The maximum shareholding requirement must be met within Under the plan rules, in exceptional circumstances, no more than five years from the date of appointment.
the committee has the ability to cash-settle awards, if While the executive director is building to the required necessary.
There is no current intention for awards to the shareholding level, deferred bonus awards under the BSP, executive directors to be delivered in this way.
net of the expected tax liability that will apply on vesting, Awards are granted subject to continued employment and will count towards the requirement.
Once the required satisfaction of stretching performance conditions measured shareholding has been met, such shares will not count over three years, which are set by the committee before unless the committee, at its sole discretion, determines each grant.
that a number of deferred shares may count towards the entitlement of a director.
For awards to be granted in 2019, metrics comprise TSR against a suitable peer group, and percentage ROCE, each Unvested LTIP awards i. e. those awards where with a 50% weighting.
The vesting outcome can also be performance targets and or a service requirement must reduced, if necessary, to reflect the underlying or general still be met for awards to vest will not count towards the performance of the Group.
Performance is measured over entitlement.
LTIP shares that have vested and on which tax three calendar years, starting with the year of grant.
has been paid and that are within the two-year post-vesting holding period will count towards the entitlement.
For awards granted from 2013 onwards, an amount equivalent to dividends that would have been payable on Previously compliant directors who do not meet the the unvested share awards are rolled up and paid out in minimum requirements on annual assessment are to cash and or additional shares at the end of the vesting achieve compliance by 31 December of the same year.
period based on the proportion of the award that actually In order to allow the committee to deal with unexpected vests.
circumstances, the committee retains discretion on how Malus and clawback provisions apply to awards made to operate the Policy and may make exceptions and since January 2011. allowances if it sees fit.
A post-vesting holding period applies to executive directors for awards made from 2017 onwards.
Executive directors are required to retain the LTIP shares that vest net of tax for a period of two years.
The two-year holding requirement will continue if they leave employment during the holding period.
The shares held will count towards the executive directors normal holding requirement.
Maximum The maximum grant limit is 225% of base salary face value Not applicable.
opportunity of shares at grant, to any individual in a single year.
For the awards made in 2017 and 2018, the committee made awards, below the policy maximum, of 210% of base salary to the Chief Executive Officer and 175% to other executive directors.
25% of the grant is available for threshold performance, rising on a straight-line scale to 100% of the grant for performance at the stretch level.
Individual awards, up to the policy limit, are determined each year by the committee.
The committees practice has historically been to make grants below the policy maximum as detailed in the annual report on remuneration.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 126 Directors remuneration policy Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting Bonus Share Plan BSP The table below shows the metrics for 2018, why they were chosen and how targets are set.
How targets are set Underlying EBITDA Underlying EBITDA provides a measure of Targets and ranges are set each year by the cash-generating ability of the business the committee taking account of required KPI that is comparable from year to year.
progress towards strategic goals, and the Page 37 prevailing market conditions.
ROCE % A key indicator of the efficient and effective Targets and ranges are set each year by the use of capital.
committee taking account of the required KPI progress towards strategic goals, and the Page 36 prevailing market conditions.
Safety One of the key indicators of whether the The committee considers input from the business is meeting its sustainability goal of DLC sustainable development committee, KPI zero harm.
and sets appropriate standards and goals.
Page 37 Personal performance An indicator of the contribution each Targets are set each year by the committee, executive director is making to the overall based on the specific priorities, and areas of success of the management team.
The policy gives the committee the authority to select suitable performance metrics, aligned to Mondis strategy and shareholders interests.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP The table below shows the metrics for 2018 grants, why they were chosen and how targets are set.
How targets are set TSR, relative to a peer group of competitors TSR measures the total returns to Mondis The committee sets the performance shareholders, so provides close alignment requirements for each grant.
A peer group with shareholder interests.
of packaging and paper sector companies is used.
25% vests for median performance: 100% vests for upper quartile performance, with a straight-line scale between these two points.
ROCE % A key indicator of the efficient and effective The committee sets threshold and stretch use of capital.
levels, aligned to the Groups strategic KPI targets for ROCE.
Page 36 Nothing vests below threshold.
25% vests for threshold performance: 100% vests for stretch performance, with a straight-line scale between these two points.
Remuneration policy for executive directors compared to other employees The remuneration policy for the executive directors and employees varies, which is necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility and market practices.
The key difference is the increased emphasis on performance-related pay in senior roles.
Lower maximum incentive pay opportunities apply below executive level, driven by market benchmarks and the relative impact of the role.
Only the most senior executives in the Group participate in the LTIP and the BSP as these plans are targeted on those individuals who have the greatest accountability for Group performance.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 127 Executive directors existing service contracts, and policy on loss of office CEO Peter Oswald was recruited, and is based, in Austria.
His service contract is required under Austrian law to be for a fixed period, which renewable fixed period expires on 30 April 2022.
However, the contract has also been structured as far as possible to conform to the accepted practice for directors in the UK, and can be terminated on one years notice by either party.
Prior to 2008, he did not have a notice period, and was entitled to receive compensation on termination equivalent to remuneration for the unexpired term of the fiveyear fixed term contract.
The committee re-negotiated this contract in 2008 to substantially reduce the Groups potential liabilities, and introduced a standard 12-month notice period, together with an accompanying lump sum payment on termination, which was necessary to facilitate the transition from the previous contract.
In the event of termination by Mondi, other than for cause, the current contract provides for payment of base salary, benefits and pension contribution in respect of the 12-month notice period and eligibility for annual bonus in respect of the period he has worked.
He would also be eligible for a lump sum amount calculated as 908,800 plus interest on this amount accrued at the Euribor interest rate for the period since 1 January 2008.
CFO The service contract for Andrew King provides for one years notice by either party.
It includes pay in lieu of notice provisions which may be invoked at the discretion of the Group.
The payment in lieu of notice would comprise base salary, benefits and pension contributions for the notice period and an amount in compensation for annual bonus only for that part of the financial year the individual has worked.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an executive director under the Groups share plans will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment is that any outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, disability, retirement or other circumstances at the discretion of the committee taking into account the individuals performance and the reasons for their departure good Ieaver status can be applied.
For good leavers, vesting of BSP awards that are not subject to performance conditions is accelerated to as soon as practical after employment termination.
LTIP awards remain subject to performance conditions measured over the original time period and are reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served.
The committee has the discretion to disapply the application of performance conditions and or time pro rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
However, it is envisaged that this would only be applied in exceptional circumstances.
In determining whether an executive should be treated as a good Ieaver or not, the committee will take into account the performance of the individual and the reasons for their departure.
Notice periods for the executive directors who served during the period under review are as follows: Executive director Unexpired term notice period Peter Oswald A fixed term expiring on 30 April 2022 but terminable at any time on 12 months notice Andrew King Terminable on 12 months notice A directors service contract may be terminated without notice and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
Service contracts for new appointments Normally, for any new executive director appointments, the Groups policy is that the service contracts should provide for one years notice by either party.
The contract would provide that, in the event of termination by the company, other than for cause, the executive would be eligible for: e payment of the base salary, pension contribution and benefits in respect of the unexpired portion of the 12-month notice period: e annual bonus only in respect of the period they have served, payable following the relevant performance year end and subject to the normal performance conditions for annual bonus: and e share-based awards they hold, subject to the plan rules, which include arrangements for pro ration of LTIP awards and continued application of performance conditions.
The Group would seek to apply the principle of mitigation to the termination payment by, for example, making payments in instalments that can be reduced or ended if the former executive wishes to commence alternative employment during the payment period.
In exceptional circumstances, such as to secure for the Group the appointment of a highly talented and experienced executive in a market such as Germany or Austria where it is common for the most senior executives to have three-year or five-year fixed term contracts, the committee may need to offer a longer initial notice period that reduces progressively to one year over a set time period.
In such exceptional circumstances, the committee would seek to ensure that any special contract provisions are not more generous than is absolutely necessary to secure the appointment.
The committee would also take account of the remuneration and contract features that the executive may be foregoing or relinquishing in order to join Mondi, in comparison with the overall remuneration package that Mondi is able to offer.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 128 Directors remuneration policy Approach to remuneration for new executive director appointments The remuneration package for a newly appointed executive director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Groups approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
The variable remuneration for a new executive director would be determined in the same way as for existing executive directors, and would be subject to the maximum limits on variable pay referred to in the policy table on pages 124 and 125.
For an internal appointment, any legacy pay elements awarded in respect of the prior role would be allowed to pay out according to their terms.
For internal and external appointments, the Group may meet certain relocation expenses, as appropriate.
For external appointments, the committee may also offer additional cash and or share-based elements when it considers these to be in the best interests of Mondi and shareholders, to replace variable remuneration awards or arrangements that an individual has foregone in order to join the Group.
This includes the use of awards made under section 9.4.
Any such payments would take account of the details of the remuneration foregone including the nature, vesting dates and any performance requirements attached to that remuneration.
1 Assumptions: Minimum fixed pay only salary benefits pension On-target 70% vesting of the annual bonus and 50% for LTIP awards Maximum 100% vesting of the annual bonus and LTIP awards Salary levels on which other elements of the package are calculated are based on those applying on 1 January 2019 2 Benefit values for both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer exclude the costs of business travel and accommodation 3 To reflect the impact of a share price increase between award and vesting, the LTIP value in the Maximum column has been increased by 50% in the Share Price Growth column Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 129 Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Non-executive To attract and retain high-calibre The Joint Chairs each receive an allThe Joint Chairs fees are reviewed chair fees chairs, with the necessary experience inclusive fee.
To provide fees which take While there is not a maximum fee level, account of the time commitment and fees are set by reference to market responsibilities of therole.
median data for companies of similar size and complexity to Mondi.
Other nonTo attract and retain high-calibre The non-executives are paid a Non-executive directors fees are executive fees non-executives, with the necessary basicfee.
reviewed periodically by the Joint experience and skills.
To provide Chairs and executive directors.
Attendance fees are also paid to reflect fees which take account of the time the requirement for non-executive While there is not a maximum fee level, commitment and responsibilities of directors to attend meetings in various fees are set by reference to market therole.
The chairs of the main board committees and the senior independent director are paid additional fees to reflect their extra responsibilities.
The Group may reimburse the reasonable expenses of board directors that relate to their duties on behalf of Mondi including tax thereon if applicable.
The Group may also provide advice and assistance with board directors tax returns where these are impacted by the duties they undertake on behalf of Mondi.
All non-executive directors have letters of appointment with Mondi Limited and Mondi plc for an initial period of three years.
In accordance with best practice, non-executive directors are subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meetings.
Appointments may be terminated by either party with six months notice.
No compensation is payable on termination, other than accrued fees and expenses.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group The Groups remuneration policy for the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives is set taking appropriate account of remuneration and employment conditions of other colleagues in the Group.
The committee annually receives a report from management on pay practices across the Group, including salary levels and trends, collective bargaining outcomes and bonus participation.
At the time that salary increases are considered the committee additionally receives a report on the approach management proposes to adopt for general staff increases.
Both these reports are taken into account in the committees decisions about the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives.
The Group does not engage in formal consultation with employees on directors remuneration policy.
However, employees of the Group are encouraged to provide feedback on the Groups general employment policies.
In some countries where the Group operates, more formal consultation arrangements with employee representatives are in place relating to employment terms and conditions, in accordance with local custom and practice.
The Group also conducts periodic employee engagement surveys which gauge employees satisfaction with their working conditions.
The Boards receive feedback on these survey results.
Shareholder context The committee considers the views of shareholders in its deliberations about the remuneration of executive directors and other senior executives, and consults directly with major shareholders when any material changes to policy are being considered.
In the event that either the remuneration policy or implementation resolutions receive a significant proportion of votes against, the committee will seek to further engage with shareholders to understand the reasons behind these votes and any particular concerns they may have.
Legacy arrangements For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this policy report, authority is given to the Group to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the annual report on remuneration as they arise.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 130 Annual report on remuneration 2018 remuneration of directors audited This table reports executive and non-executive directors remuneration in accordance with UK reporting regulations applicable to financial reporting periods ending on or after 1 October 2013.
For the period 1 January 2017 to 11 May 2017, as Chief Executive Officer Europe & International, Peter Oswalds maximum annual bonus was 135% of base salary and was determined with reference to his base salary in that role.
For the period from 12 May 2017 to 31 December 2017, his maximum annual bonus was 165% of base salary.
His maximum bonus for 2018 was 165% of salary 2 Andrew Kings salary is denominated in pound sterling and his 2018 salary was 579,000 3 The non-executive directors fees are also denominated in pound sterling.
Euro amounts are reported based on exchange rates on the dates actual payments were made.
Non-executive director fees were increased by circa 2.5% with effect from 16 May 2018 following the passing of a resolution at the Annual General Meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
See the table on page 137 for current fee levels 4 Mondi asked Andrew King to relocate to the UK from South Africa, to be based closer to the Groups principal centre of operations in Europe.
In accordance with the DRP, Andrew was eligible for assistance with relocation expenses.
These expenses, and the cost of the grossed-up income tax amount payable to HMRC, amounted to 1,299,029 of the benefits total for 2017.
These expenses reflect the cost of stamp duty on the purchase of a UK property, estate agents commission on disposal of the South African property, return flights for purpose of house-hunting, school search and orientation and packing and removal of household effects to the UK 5 For 2018, the three-year performance cycle of the 2016 LTIP award ended on 31 December 2018.
The award value shown has been based on the average share price over the last three months of the financial period.
The 2018 LTIP vesting value includes cash amounts of equivalent value to all dividends including ordinary dividends and, where applicable, special dividends on vested LTIP awards during the year.
For the 2017 LTIP dividend equivalents, these are included in the 2017 other column as reported last year.
For 2017, the three-year performance cycle of the 2015 LTIP award ended on 31 December 2017.
The award value shown in the 2017 remuneration report was an estimate based on the average share price over the last three months of the financial period which was 18.45 for Mondi plc LTIP awards and ZAR 333.46 for Mondi Limited LTIP awards.
The actual award price on vesting was 19.81 for Mondi plc LTIP awards and ZAR 327.48 for Mondi Limited LTIP awards.
The award values for 2017 have been restated on this basis 6 For 2018, the value is shown of the 2016 LTIP award made at the start of the three-year performance cycle, and for 2017, the value of the 2015 LTIP award made at the start of the three-year performance cycle 7 For 2018, the enhanced value is shown of the 2016 LTIP based on the share price gain between grant and the average share price over the last three months of the financial period.
The value of Mondi plcs shares increased from 12.88 to 16.34, and the value of Mondi Limited shares from ZAR 282.00 to ZAR 309.57 during this time.
For 2017, the enhanced value is shown of the 2015 LTIP that vested based on share price appreciation during the holding period.
The value of Mondi plcs shares increased from 13.30 to 19.81, and the value of Mondi Limited shares from ZAR 234.44 to ZAR 327.48 8 Includes cash amounts of equivalent value to all dividends including ordinary dividends and, where applicable, special dividends on vested BSP shares during the year.
See table of share awards granted to executive directors on page 139.
Accommodation cost for some of Peter Oswalds business trips is, for reasons of UK tax regulation, subject to UK income tax, and is therefore required to be included in the disclosure.
The figure for Peter Oswald in the Other column includes 1,960.70 in respect of accommodation cost for this business travel and the cost of any grossed up income tax paid during the year.
Accommodation costs in Vienna for Andrew Kings business trips are, for reasons of Austrian and UK tax regulation, subject to income tax, and are therefore required to be included in the disclosure.
The figure for Andrew King in the Other column includes 58,030.02 in respect of accommodation costs for his business travel and the cost of any grossed up income tax paid during the year.
For Fred Phaswana and Dominique Reiniche the taxable values of the UK tax returns are shown 9 John Nicholas fees for 2018 cover the period to his retirement from the Boards on 16 May 2018 10 Stephen Youngs fees for 2018 cover the period from his appointment to the Boards on 1 May 2018 11 None of the executive directors has entitlements under a defined benefit pension scheme.
No retrospective payments were made to past directors in respect of the period during which they served as directors and no payments were made to past directors for loss of office Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 131 Annual bonus Approach to disclosure of bonus targets Since its 2012 report, Mondi has disclosed the performance measures used for the annual bonus as well as outcomes against these measures.
In the 2015, 2016 and 2017 reports we went substantially further in providing details of the performance against safety objectives that were set for the year under review.
In the case of executives personal objectives we described the achievements of our executives against key focus areas, together with the ratings awarded to each executive.
In the case of financial performance, we provided retrospective disclosure of the financial bonus ranges and outcomes for the year prior to the year under review.
We additionally provided outline disclosure of financial bonus outcomes for the year under review.
Following feedback from shareholders we are, for this report, providing disclosure of the financial bonus ranges for the year under review.
In addition to this we are retrospectively providing the financial target ranges and outcomes for 2017 as we indicated we would do in the 2017 remuneration report.
1 2017 ranges and outcomes audited Entry level Ceiling Outcome Underlying EBITDA m 1,196m 1,482m 1,618m 7.5 20.7 30.0 Bonus outcome points Outcome 17.1% 19.3% 23.1% ROCE % Bonus outcome points 7.5 17.3 30.0 1 The audited annual financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2017 were restated due to the adoption of IFRS 16, Leases, which has been disclosed in notes 32 and 33 of the combined and consolidated financial statements.
The bonus outcomes were calculated based on the reported 2017 annual financial statements before they were restated.
However, restated gures are shown in the graph for consistency with the rest of this Integrated report 2018 bonus outcomes audited For the annual bonus in respect of 2018 performance, the performance measures and achievement levels were: BSP performance measures Underlying EBITDA ROCE Safety Personal Total Weight 35 35 10 20 100 Outcomes: Peter Oswald 35 35 3 15 88 Andrew King 35 35 3 16 89 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 132 Annual report on remuneration Financial element of 2018 bonus audited Financial performance was assessed against the underlying EBITDA and ROCE ranges that were set for 2018.
The ranges and outcomes were: 2018 Financial bonus elements Threshold Maximum Outcome Underlying EBITDA m 1,286m 1,764m 1,740m 8.75 35.0 Bonus outcome points Maximum Outcome 16.6% 22.4% 23.6% ROCE % Bonus outcome points 8.75 35.0 Safety element of 2018 bonus audited A maximum of 10 points are awarded for safety.
Up to five points are awarded, based on the assessment of the Total Recordable Case Rate TRCR, as follows: 2018 Safety bonus elements Threshold Maximum Outcome TRCR 0.73 0.68 0.65 Bonus outcome points 1 3 5 The other five points were payable if there were no fatalities within the Mondi Group.
If there is one fatality then these five points are forfeited.
If there are two fatalities during the year then the entire 10 points attributable to safety are forfeited.
The TRCR that was achieved for 2018 was 0.68 and three points were therefore awarded for this part of the safety element.
As a result of the tragic and unacceptable fatality of a contractor engaged in Mondis operations as reported on page 51, no payment was made under this part of the safety element.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 133 Personal objectives of executives for 2018 bonus audited Key objectives and achievements The executive directors share many key objectives and also have individual objectives that are specific to their roles.
Key objectives, and achievements against these objectives during 2018, included: Strategy development e Kraft paper footprint improved with successful modernisation and expansion of cost-advantaged tt mill andexecution Czech Republic and divestiture of high cost mill in the US e Progressing with investment in new kraft top white machine at Ruomberok Slovakia, after having received final permits during the year.
Pulp mill upgrade in progress e Investigation and evaluation of alternatives for the modernisation of the Richards Bay mill South Africa e Industrial bags footprint optimised via two acquisitions in Egypt and closure of plants in the US and Europe e Corporate simplification announced and in progress e Acquisition of Powerflute Finland completed and a number of acquistions considered Organisational e Strong operational performance across the Group performance e Continued good progress on cost management e Integration of acquisitions on track and synergies above plan e Selective digitalisation projects across all business units in progress Financial efficiency e Maintained upgraded Moodys Baa1 rating and Standard & Poors BBB andfinancing e 600 million Eurobond successfully launched, ensuring strong Group liquidity e Further progress on tax risk mitigation Organisational structure e Key senior appointments made during the year andresourcing e Reorganisation of the Packaging Paper and Fibre Packaging business units to improve strategic alignment and operational coordination across the fibre-based packaging value chain e Record participation of 1,200 people at the Mondi Academy, celebrating its 20th anniversary Stakeholder relationships e Extensive roadshows and individual meetings held throughout the year with existing and potential investors e In-depth investor perception study undertaken and action plan developed to further enhance shareholder engagement e Virtual leadership meetings introduced to enhance group-wide communication with employees The ratings of the two Peter Oswald 15 20 executive directors were: Andrew King 16 20 Detail of annual bonus awarded in the year Name Awarded in cash Awarded in shares Total Peter Oswald 781,176 781,176 1,562,352 Andrew King 393,163 393,163 786,326 Malus and clawback Under Mondis BSP and LTIP rules, malus and clawback can be applied to awards made on or after 1 January 2011 if there has been a misstatement of financial results, or misstatement of performance relative to the conditions that are relevant to the Plans, that had the effect that awards were larger than they would have been had such errors not been made.
This may at the committees discretion take the form of a demand for the participant to repay amounts to Mondi, a reduction of future bonus payments to the participant, and a reduction in the number of conditional share awards held by a participant.
For awards from 2019 onwards the potential malus and clawback triggers have been extended to include gross or serious misconduct, corporate failure, a severe downturn in financial or operational performance or severe reputational damage where this is as a result of management failure.
In the case of employment termination Mondi is able to cancel subsisting but unvested share awards, withhold payments that would otherwise be due to the participant, and where appropriate initiate legal proceedings to recover funds to which the Group is legally entitled.
The committee considered whether there were any circumstances in the year that would have required clawback and agreed that such circumstances did not exist.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 134 Annual report on remuneration Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP audited Vesting of the 2016 awards The LTIP awards that were made in 2016, with a three-year performance period ending on 31 December 2018, were assessed by the committee in February 2019, against the equally weighted relative TSR and ROCE performance conditions.
As this exceeded the 10% to 16% ROCE target range for these awards, 100% of the shares attributable to the ROCE performance condition vested in March 2019.
Vesting of the 2016 awards Threshold Maximum Outcome Three-year ROCE % 10% 16 21.2% Mondi plc achieved a TSR of 10.3%, and Mondi Limited 13.3%, over the performance period and Mondis rank within the TSR peer group was 7th.
This was above the median position required for vesting of 25% of the relevant shares, but below the upper quartile required for full vesting.
Based on the performance calculation performed for the committee by Aon, 53.1% of the shares attributable to this element vested.
TSR peer group ranking Threshold Maximum Mondis rank in Outcome Upper Median 7th quartile the TSR peer group Vesting 25% 53.1% 100% % of relevant shares Overall, 76.6% of the 2016 LTIP shares under award therefore vested with the remainder lapsing.
For Peter Oswald, 65,932 of the 86,073 shares under award vested.
For Andrew King, 33,721 of the 44,022 Mondi plc shares under award and 14,579 of the 19,032 Mondi Limited shares vested.
No discretion was exercised by the committee in determining the vesting outcomes.
As shares vested on 7 March 2019, after the finalisation of this report, the average share price, and average exchange rates, over the last three months of the financial year were used to estimate the value for the purpose of the table on page 130.
The average share price was 17.65 for the Mondi plc LTIP awards and ZAR329.45 for the Mondi Limited LTIP awards.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 135 Awards granted in 2018 The maximum award that can be made to any LTIP participant in any year under the policy approved at the 2017 AGMs is equal to 225% of base salary.
For 2018, the award made to Peter Oswald was 210% of base salary and the award made to Andrew King was 175% of base salary.
For the LTIP awards made in 2018, the performance conditions are based on two performance measures of equal weight relative TSR and ROCE measured over a three-year performance period ending on 31 December 2020.
This combination of metrics provides an appropriate means of aligning the operation of the LTIP with shareholders interests and the Groups business strategy.
The TSR performance condition is based on the Groups TSR relative to a group of competitor companies.
Since the 2013 LTIP awards, the following companies were selected: 4 1 2 Amcor Domtar Huhtamaki 2017 MeadWestvaco Sappi The Navigator Company Bemis DSSmith International Paper Mets Board Smurfit Kappa UPM 4 3 BillerudKorsns Holmen Mayr-Melnhof RPC 2017 Stora Enso WestRock 1 MeadWestvaco was included in LTIP awards until its merger with Rock Tenn in 2015 when it was, in accordance with committee practice, removed from the peer group for all subsisting awards 2 Portucel Soporcel Group rebranded in February 2016 as The Navigator Company 3 WestRock, the company that was formed by the merger of MeadWestvaco and Rock Tenn, has been included in the peer group for 2016 and subsequent awards 4 Huhtamaki and RPC were added to the peer group for 2017 and subsequent awards For the 50% of awards attributable to TSR: If the Groups TSR is below the median when ranked against the comparator group, this part of the award will lapse in full.
For TSR at the median, 25% of this part of the award i. e. 12.5% of the total award will vest, with a straightline progression to the upper quartile, at which point 100% of this part of the award i. e. 50% of the total award will vest.
For the 50% of awards attributable to ROCE: This part will lapse in full if ROCE is below 10%.
25% of this part of the award i. e. 12.5% of the total award will vest for achievement of ROCE of 10%, with a straight-line progression to full vesting of this part of the award for achievement of ROCE of 18% i. e. 50% of the total award.
For the 2019 awards, the peer group remains unchanged from 2018.
Details of the awards granted in 2018 can be found on page 139.
Mondis TSR performance over the last ten years The following graphs set out the comparative TSR of Mondi Limited relative to the JSE All-Share Index, and Mondi plc relative to the FTSE All-Share Index, for the period between 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2018 as required in the reporting regulation.
Those indices were chosen because they are broad equity market indices of which Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, respectively, are members.
JSE All-Share Index FTSE All-Share Index Total shareholder return Total shareholder return Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Mondi plc FTSE All-Share Mondi Limited JSE All-Share 1,400 1,400 1,200 1,200 1,000 1,000 800 800 600 600 400 400 200 200 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2018 of R100 invested in Mondi Limited on This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2018 of 100 invested in Mondi plc on 31 December 2008, compared with the value of R100 invested in the JSE All-Share Index on the same date 31 December 2008, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Index on the same date Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Value Value 136 Annual report on remuneration CEO remuneration from 2009 Year Total remuneration % of maximum bonus earned % of LTI vested 2018 4,396,643 88 76.6 1,2 2017 3,828,077 63 72.5 2016 5,786,958 68.7 92.5 2015 7,016,785 89.6 100 2014 7,763,908 91.6 100 2013 5,900,140 73 100 2012 6,305,794 80 100 3 2011 12,824,112 78 92 2010 3,160,318 89 33 2009 2,627,196 83 12 1 For 2017 the CEO remuneration reflects David Hathorns remuneration up to his retirement from the Boards on 11 May 2017, including the pro rata CEO annual bonus, and Peter Oswalds base salary, pension, benefits and pro rata CEO annual bonus, as well as the 2015 LTIP vesting amount, with effect from 11 May 2017 2 In 2017, the three-year performance cycle of the 2015 LTIP award ended on 31 December 2017.
The award value shown in the 2017 Remuneration report was an estimate based on the average share price over the last three months of the financial year which was 18.45 for Mondi plc LTIP awards and ZAR 333.46 for Mondi Limited LTIP awards.
The actual share price on vesting was 19.81 for Mondi plc LTIP awards and ZAR 327.48 for Mondi Limited LTIP awards.
The total remuneration for 2017 has been restated on this basis 3 David Hathorns remuneration in 2011 included 3.9 million from the proceeds of a one-off, shareholder approved, share award under a Co-Investment Plan he participated in at the time of the Groups demerger from Anglo American plc in 2007.
Under this plan, he invested 1 million from his own funds in Mondi plc shares in August 2007.
He was eligible to receive a match of up to 250% of the number of investment shares based on a relative TSR performance measure over a four-year period.
As the TSR achieved by Mondi plc was better than the upper quintile Mondi was the top-performing company in the comparator group the committee approved the maximum vesting in accordance with the Plan rules Comparison of 2018 and 2017 remuneration of CEO with other employees Percentage change in remuneration elements from 2017 to 2018 Salary Benefits Bonus 1 CEO 2.6% -5.8% 54.1% 2 3 4 Mondi Group 3.1% N A 13.4% 1 For 2017 the CEO remuneration reflects David Hathorns remuneration up to his leaving the Boards on 11 May 2017, and Peter Oswalds base salary, pension, benefits and pro rata CEO annual bonus remuneration thereafter.
Remuneration is reported in euros but denominated in pound sterling for David Hathorn.
Change percentages are for euros values 2 Includes salaries and bonuses where applicable for all employees of Mondi Group excluding the CEO with year-on-year movements reported in per capita terms 3 In most of the Group the majority of benefits are provided through social security.
Additional benefits represent less than 5% of the salary bill 4 Aggregate bonuses paid during 2018 are compared with those paid in 2017.
This includes annual bonuses that are paid in arrears and periodic bonuses that are paid more frequently.
Each years numbers therefore include some payments attributable to that year and some that reflect performance in the previous year.
Bonuses are often based on specific objectives that are set at the level of local operations that do not necessarily correlate with group-wide metrics that underpin the CEOs bonus Relative importance of spend on pay million 2018 2017 % change 2 Dividends 793 273 190.8% 1 Overall remuneration expenditure 1,039 1,053 -1.4% 1 Remuneration expenditure for all Mondi Group employees 2 This includes ordinary and special dividends.
Ordinary dividends 309 million and special dividends 484 million Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 137 Non-executive directors remuneration audited Current fee levels are as follows: 2 Role Annual fee 1 Joint chair fee 296,500 Non-executive base fee 47,350 Additional fees: Supplement for DLC audit committee chair 11,840 Supplement for DLC remuneration committee chair fee 11,270 Combined supplement for DLC sustainable development committee & Mondi Limited social & ethics committee chair 11,270 Supplement for senior independent director 11,270 Supplement for senior independent director role if held by a non-executive who already chairs a committee 6,150 Attendance fee per meeting outside country of residence 5,920 Attendance fee per day inside country of residence 1,770 1 No supplement is payable for additional commitments in relation to this role 2 Fees are determined in pound sterling.
In the remuneration table on page 130, euro amounts are reported based on exchange rates on the dates actual payments were made The joint chairs and the other non-executive directors are appointed by Mondi Limited and Mondi plc.
The terms of their appointment provide for the appointment to be terminable on six months notice.
Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests audited Until the Annual General Meetings in May 2017, the CEO was required to achieve and maintain a shareholding equivalent to 150% of base salary, and other executive directors a shareholding of at least 100% of base salary.
From the AGMs in 2017, all executive directors are required to build a holding of a minimum of 200% of base salary, normally within a period of not more than five years from joining the Boards.
As at 31 December 2018, Peter Oswald was compliant.
Despite increasing his shareholding year-on-year by 5,000 shares, due to a number of factors, Andrew King was not compliant as at 31 December 2018.
To remain compliant with the minimum requirement, Andrew will retain sufficient of the shares released to him under the BSP vesting in March 2019 to meet the policy.
The beneficial and non-beneficial share interests of the directors and their connected persons as at 1 January 2018 or, if later, on appointment, and as at 31 December 2018 or as at their date of resignation if earlier were as follows: Executive directors audited Deferred Deferred Deferred Deferred Total BSP shares BSP shares as LTIP shares LTIP shares as Shareholding Shareholding shareholding outstanding multiple outstanding multiple at 1 Jan at 31 Dec as multiple of at 31 Dec of salary at 31 Dec of salary 1 2 2018 2018 salary % 2018 % 2018 % Peter Oswald Mondi plc 154,872 172,391 294% 71,018 121% 290,507 495% Andrew King Mondi plc 60,000 65,000 36,527 133,635 Mondi Limited 208 208 10,352 34,828 Total 60,208 65,208 186% 46,879 133% 168,463 479% 1 BSP shares subject to service condition 2 LTIP shares subject to service and performance conditions Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 138 Annual report on remuneration Shareholding at Shareholding at Non-executive directors audited 1Jan 2018 31Dec 2018 Mondi plc Fred Phaswana 5,482 5,773 David Williams 5,000 5,000 Stephen Harris 1,000 1,000 Tanya Fratto 1,000 1,000 John Nicholas 6,000 6,000 as at resignation Dominique Reiniche 1,000 1,000 Stephen Young 2,026 There has been no change in the interests of the directors and their connected persons between 31 December 2018 and the date of this report.
Remuneration committee governance The DLC remuneration committee The DLC remuneration committee is a formal committee of the Boards.
Its remit is set out in terms of reference adopted by the Boards.
A copy of the terms of reference is available on the Groups website at www.
The committees performance against these terms of reference is reviewed on an annual basis and the committee is satisfied that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference during the year.
The primary purposes of the committee, as set out in its terms of reference, are: e to make recommendations to the Boards on the Groups framework of executive remuneration: e to determine individual remuneration packages within that framework for the executive directors and certain senior executives: e to determine the remuneration of the joint chairs: and e to oversee the operation of the Groups share schemes.
Composition Meeting Committee attendance member five meetings in Members throughout the year: since: the year : Tanya Fratto, chair January 2017 5 Stephen Harris March 2011 5 Dominique Reiniche October 2015 5 David Williams May 2007 5 Other regular attendees e Chief Executive Officer e Joint Chair who is not a member of the committee Fred Phaswana e Group Head of Reward e External remuneration consultant The committee is authorised to seek information from any director and employee of the Group and to obtain external advice.
The committee is solely responsible for the appointment of external remuneration advisers and for the approval of their fees and other terms.
No director or other attendee takes part in any discussion regarding his or her personal remuneration.
In the year to 31 December 2018, New Bridge Street NBS, part of Aon, provided remuneration advice and benchmarking data to the committee.
NBS is appointed by the committee, taking account of their experience and expertise in remuneration advisory work.
The committee expects the advisers to provide independent advice.
NBS does not undertake any other work for the Group.
However, Aon provides actuarial advice to the trustees of Mondis three UK pension schemes and pension administration services.
NBS is a signatory to The Code of Conduct of the Remuneration Consultants Group, which requires the advice NBS provides to be objective and impartial.
Total fees paid to NBS in respect of the year under review were 94,337 based on consulting time required by the committee.
Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018 Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 139 Sums paid to third parties in respect of a directors services No consideration was paid or became receivable by third parties for making available the services of any person as a director of Mondi Limited or Mondi plc the Companies, or while a director of the Companies, as a director of any of the Companies subsidiary undertakings, or as a director of any other undertaking of which he she was while a director of the Companies a director by virtue of the Companies nomination, or otherwise in connection with the management of the Companies or any undertaking during the year to 31 December 2018.
Share awards granted to executive directors audited The following tables set out the share awards granted to the executive directors.
All share awards are determined by the three day average share price commencing the day Mondi announces its results.
Mondi Limited Awards held at beginning of year or on Awards Awards Award Awards appointment granted exercised price held as at Type of to the during Shares during basis Date of 31December Release 1 award Boards year lapsed year ZAc award 2018 date Andrew King BSP 6,543 6,543 23444 Mar 15 Mar 18 BSP 6,744 28200 Mar 16 6,744 Mar 19 BSP 3,608 30352 Mar 17 3,608 Mar 20 LTIP 17,985 4,945 13,040 23444 Mar 15 Mar 18 LTIP 19,032 28200 Mar 16 19,032 Mar 19 LTIP 15,796 30352 May 17 15,796 Mar 20 1 For note 1 please refer to the table below Mondi plc Awards held at beginning of year or on Awards Awards Award Awards appointment granted exercised price held as at Type of to the during Shares during basis Date of 31December Release 1 award Boards year lapsed year GBp award 2018 date Peter Oswald BSP 27,029 27,029 1330 Mar 15 Mar 18 BSP 30,258 1288 Mar 16 30,258 Mar 19 BSP 17,730 1876 Mar 17 17,730 Mar 20 BSP 23,030 1922 Mar 18 23,030 Mar 21 LTIP 75,910 20,875 55,035 1330 Mar 15 Mar 18 LTIP 86,073 1288 Mar 16 86,073 Mar 19 LTIP 99,555 1876 May 17 99,555 Mar 20 LTIP 104,879 1922 Mar 18 104,879 Mar 21 Andrew King BSP 15,164 15,164 1330 Mar 15 Mar 18 BSP 15,599 1288 Mar 16 15,599 Mar 19 BSP 8,427 1876 Mar 17 8,427 Mar 20 BSP 12,501 1922 Mar 18 12,501 Mar 21 LTIP 41,685 11,463 30,222 1330 Mar 15 Mar 18 LTIP 44,022 1288 Mar 16 44,022 Mar 19 LTIP 36,894 1876 May 17 36,894 Mar 20 LTIP 52,719 1922 May 18 52,719 Mar 21 1 The value on award of the 2018 BSP awards set out in this table were: Peter Oswald Mondi plc: 442,636.60 Andrew King Mondi plc: 240,269.22 The LTIP performance measures for the awards made in 2018 as set out in this table are detailed on page 135 of this report.
The face values of the 2018 LTIP awards granted as conditional share awards were: Peter Oswald Mondi plc: 2,015,774.38 Andrew King Mondi plc: 1,013,259.18 2 In addition to the number of shares that vested as shown in the table above in respect of the BSP and in respect of the LTIP awards that vested in 2018, the executive directors also received the following cash amounts of equivalent value to dividends on vested shares over the vesting period, in accordance with the plan rules: Peter Oswald 128,733.79 Andrew King 97,871.23 85,559.03 Mondi Group Integrated report and financial statements 2018
