Governance Remuneration report A statement to shareholders from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
I am pleased to present the Remuneration 2018 Committee Activity Report for the year ended 31 December 2018, During the year, the Committee met four times, Committee members my first as Committee Chair.
I would like to take and its activities included: 1 Helen Bunch Chair this opportunity to thank Douglas for his service Determination of whether the 2017 bonus 2 Andrew Shilston as Committee Chair over the past five years and and 2015 LTIP were achieved, and, if so, to 3 wish him continued success in his new role as Douglas Caster what extent.
Laurence Mulliez A review of external benchmarking of Jane Aikman The past year has seen significant progress in the executive Directors remuneration packages.
implementation of the Groups strategy.
Helen Bunch was appointed Chair of the Determination of the remuneration packages Remuneration Committee effective delivered 7.4% organic revenue growth for the for the executive Directors and other senior 1 January 2019.
2018 financial year while investing further in executives, considering remuneration of the 2.
Andrew Shilston retired from the Board R&D, sales, and the wider business wider workforce and applying consistent on 31 December 2018. infrastructure for sustainable, long-term growth.
Douglas Caster was appointed Chairman The foundation of the organisation also of the Board effective 1 January 2019 and A review of whether the measures for the continues to strengthen with a significant stepped down as Chair of the Remuneration bonus and share incentive schemes remain Committee on 31 December 2018. reduction in lost-time accidents, relaunch of the appropriate.
thinkSAFE programme, launch of the Morgan Determination of appropriate performance Code of Ethics and investment in our leaders.
targets for the bonus and share incentive 2018 has also seen significant change in the schemes.
investment landscape: the FRC issued an update A review of the Groups Remuneration Policy, to the UK Corporate Governance Code and changes required, and how its implementation several investor proxy groups issued can best support the Groups business strategy interpretations and guidance on the updated and performance-based culture.
Within this context and the requirement to put the Remuneration Policy to a binding vote at the 2019 AGM, the Committee conducted a thorough review of the current Remuneration Policy in 2018.
This review concluded that the current framework continues to support Group strategy and culture, and provides strong alignment of executive Director and shareholder interests.
It also highlighted the appropriateness of making a number of changes to reflect the significant shift in the external landscape and as such, I wrote to our largest shareholders in December 2018 to consult on the changes that are being proposed to the Remuneration Policy for 2019 onwards.
58 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2018 remuneration outcomes Proposed changes to Remuneration Policy Further details on the proposed 2019 Policy are set out in the Policy Report beginning on page in 2019 In reviewing performance in 2018, the 61 of this Remuneration Report.
Committee determined that payouts of 67.4% In line with the remuneration reporting and 67.4% of the 2018 annual bonus regulations, the Directors Remuneration Policy This Report is consistent with the current opportunity for the CEO and CFO, respectively, must be submitted for shareholder approval at reporting regulations for executive remuneration were appropriate.
The 2016 LTIP award will also least every three years.
The Policy was last and, as last year, includes an At a glance section partially vest, resulting in a 42.9% achievement approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM, summarising the key elements of executive of the maximum.
These outcomes are and therefore is required to be put to a new Director remuneration.
I hope we have been consistent with the Group performance, details binding vote at the 2019 AGM.
successful in continuing to achieve the clarity of which are summarised later in this Report.
and transparency that will be of help to our During 2018, the Committee reviewed the shareholders.
Implementation of Policy in 2019 Remuneration Policy for executive Directors in the context of our remuneration philosophy, The Remuneration Committee decided that, the updated UK Corporate Governance Code taking into account the continued exceptional Helen Bunch released in 2018, and recent developments in performance of the Group in 2018, labour Committee Chair remuneration governance.
The Committee market conditions, and the below-median salary concluded from its review that the 2016 Policy of the Chief Executive Officer CEO, the framework continues to reinforce our strategy appropriate level of salary increase for the CEO and culture, and provides strong alignment of would be 4.81% and for the Chief Financial executive Director and shareholder interests.
The process However, the Committee recognises that the for reviewing executive Director salaries takes remuneration governance landscape and the into account individual and Group performance views of some shareholders on the subject of and salary position relative to the relevant executive remuneration continues to evolve market, which is consistent with the approach at pace.
Accordingly, I wrote to our largest taken for the entire senior population.
There will shareholders in December 2018 to consult also be an inflationary increase to the fees for the on the changes that are being proposed to Chairman and non-executive Directors of 2% the Remuneration Policy for 2019 onwards: for 2019 as determined by the Committee for the Chairman and the Chairman and executive Aligning pension contributions for executive Directors for the non-executive Directors.
Directors appointed after 1 January 2019 with those for the wider workforce.
The Committee also reviewed the structure of Introducing a timeframe for executive the annual bonus and LTIP plans, and concluded Directors to achieve the share ownership that the existing framework remains guidelines.
appropriately aligned with our strategic aims, motivates and rewards management for Implementing a post-exit shareholding delivering sustainable out performance, and requirement of one year for executive supports retention.
Accordingly, no changes are Directors when they leave the Group.
proposed to the performance linkage of the The Committee believes the proposed annual bonus or LTIP for 2019.
For the LTIP, it is level and length of the holding period to proposed to retain an EPS performance range of be appropriate in the context of Morgan, 4%-11% pa: the Committee considers this to in particular the short cycle nature of remain appropriate in the context of the Groups our business.
strategic plan, external market factors and Clarifying that any dividends accruing on broker forecasts.
No changes are proposed deferred shares over the vesting period and to the TSR benchmarks and relative TSR LTIP shares over the post vesting holding performance range median-upper quartile, but period will be paid in shares.
it is proposed to increase the ROIC range for Confirming that a two-year holding period that element of the 2019 LTIP to 17%-20% to will apply to future LTIP awards to the reflect our latest expectations for performance executive Directors as implemented over the three-year performance period.
Annual since 2017. bonus targets are considered to be commercially Providing further clarification on situations sensitive at this time, but will ordinarily be where malus and clawback may apply.
disclosed in next years Remuneration Report.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 59 Governance Remuneration report continued Remuneration at a glance Components of remuneration Salary Pension and Benefits Fixed total Total remuneration Annual Bonus Variable total LTIP Key features of how our executive remuneration policy will be implemented in 2019 Fixed components Base salary Policy Pete Raby CEO 545,000 Executive Directors salaries are generally reviewed each January, with reference Peter Turner CFO 408,600 to individual and Group performance, experience and salary levels at companies of similar sector, size and complexity.
Pension and other benefits Pension Benefits Policy Pete Raby CEO fixed at a 104,000 Pete Raby CEO 13,456 Executive Directors may receive defined contributions and or cash in lieu Peter Turner CFO fixed at 80,120 Peter Turner CFO 12,030 thereof up to 20% of salary.
Proposed policy change to be approved at the 2019 AGM will align pension contribution for new executive Directors with that available to the wider workforce.
Other benefits can include company car car allowance, health insurance and, where appropriate, relocation allowances and other expenses.
Implementation The monetary value of the pension allowance for the current executive Directors will be fixed at the 2018 value for 2019 onwards, to help align executive Director pensions with those of the wider workforce over time.
Variable components, Annual bonuses Maximum opportunities for 2019 Performance measures weighting Policy no change EBITA 40% Maximum award opportunity: 150% of base salary Cash generation 40% Performance measures are set by the Committee at the start of the year and are Pete Raby CEO 150% of salary Peter Turner CFO 150% of salary Strategic personal objectives 20% weighted to reflect a balance of financial and strategic objectives.
67% of any annual bonus paid is delivered in cash with the remainder deferred into shares and released after a further period of three years.
50% of the bonus opportunity is paid for on-target performance.
LTIP Maximum opportunities for 2019 Performance measures weighting Policy TSR vs. FTSE All-Share Maximum award opportunity: 250% of base salary no change Industrials Index 1 6 The award levels and performance conditions on which vesting depend are Pete Raby CEO 150% of salary TSR vs. peer group 1 6 reviewed prior to the start of each award cycle to ensure they remain Peter Turner CFO 150% of salary EPS growth 1 3 appropriate.
Vested shares are subject to a post-vesting holding period of two Group ROIC 1 3 years.
The vesting of awards is usually subject to continued employment and to the Groups performance over a three-year performance period.
25% of an award vests for achievement of the threshold level of performance.
Pay at risk Fixed 30% Fixed 30% Annual Bonus 35% Annual Bonus 35% Pete Raby Peter Turner CEO LTIP 35% CFO LTIP 35% Variable 70% Variable 70% Pay scenarios Stretch 2,298k Stretch 1,727k 30% 35% 35% 30% 35% 35% 52% 32% 16% 1,276k 52% 32% 16% 960k Target Target 100% 663k 100% 501k Below Threshold Below Threshold 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 0 750 1,500 1,700 Variable Fixed total Annual Bonus LTIP Shareholding requirements Pete Raby CEO 200% of salary Peter Turner CFO 200% of salary 60 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Proposed Remuneration Policy for Compliance statement 1.
Policy report executive Directors During the year under review, the Company has Key principles of the The key changes to the proposed Remuneration complied with the principles and provisions Remuneration Policy Policy for executive Directors that will be relating to Directors remuneration in the April The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure submitted for approval at the 2019 AGM are: 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code and this that all executive remuneration packages offered Align pension contributions for executive Remuneration Report has been prepared in by Morgan are competitive and designed to Directors appointed after 1 January 2019 accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large promote the long-term success of the Company with those available for the wider workforce.
and Medium-sized Companies and Groups by ensuring that we are able to attract, retain Accounts and Reports Amendment Introduce a timeframe for executive Directors and motivate executive Directors and senior Regulations 2013.
In accordance with Section to achieve the share ownership guidelines.
executives of the right calibre to create value 439A of the Companies Act, a binding resolution Implement a post-exit holding period for for shareholders.
on the Remuneration Policy and an advisory executive Directors when leaving the Group.
resolution to approve the Annual Report on The Committee ensures that a significant Clarify any dividends that accrue on deferred Remuneration will be proposed at the Annual proportion of the total remuneration shares over the vesting period and LTIP General Meeting AGM on 10 May 2019. opportunity is performance-related, with an shares over the post-vesting holding period appropriate balance between short-term and This Report covers the period 1 January 2018 to will be paid in shares at the end of the long-term performance, and is based on the 31 December 2018 and provides details of the vesting period.
achievement of measurable targets that are Remuneration Committee and how the Confirm a two-year holding period will apply relevant to, and support the business strategy Remuneration Policy, approved by shareholders at to any future LTIP shares that may vest through the execution of the policy.
the 2016 AGM, has been implemented for the as implemented in 2017. year under review.
The Policy Report sets out the The Remuneration Committee will keep the Provide further clarification on situations Policy that is proposed to apply for up to the next Remuneration Policy under periodic review where malus and clawback may apply.
The proposed implementation of this to ensure it remains aligned with the Groups Policy for the 2019 financial year is summarised in strategy, reinforces the Groups culture, and the section of the Annual Report on Remuneration is in line with the principles set out in the UK titled Implementation of Remuneration Policy Corporate Governance Code in relation to for 2019.
This includes ensuring that performance-related elements Remuneration Committee are transparent, stretching and rigorously The Remuneration Committee determines applied, as well as reflecting the views and and agrees with the Board the framework and guidance of institutional investors and their Policy for the remuneration, including pension representative bodies.
rights and any compensation payments, of the Groups executive Directors and the Chairman.
Summary of Morgan Advanced The Committee also reviews the remuneration Materials plcs proposed 2019 in relation to other senior executives, and is Remuneration Policy kept fully informed of remuneration policy This section of the Report sets out the proposed decisions impacting the wider workforce.
Remuneration Policy for executive Directors The Committees terms of reference are and non-executive Directors.
This Policy will be available on the Groups website.
submitted for approval by shareholders at the The Remuneration Committee consults the 2019 AGM.
If approved, it is intended that this CEO and invites him to attend meetings when Policy be effective for a period of up to three appropriate.
The Group Human Resources years from that date.
Director and Group Head of Reward attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
The Committee also has access to advice from the CFO.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
No executive Director or other attendee is present when his or her own remuneration is being discussed.
Membership of the Committee is shown on page 58.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 61 Governance Remuneration report continued Purpose and link Operation Opportunity Performance metrics to strategy Fixed pay Base salary Base salaries are generally reviewed Our policy is to pay salaries that are An executive Directors each January, with reference to an broadly market-aligned with increases performance and that of the Provides the fixed individuals performance and that of the applied in line with the outcome of the Group as a whole is taken element of the Group as a whole, their experience, annual review.
Salaries in respect of the into account when making remuneration package.
and the range of salary increases applying year under review and for the following decisions in relation to Set at competitive levels across the Group.
year are disclosed in the Annual Report base salary.
The Committee also considers salary levels at companies of similar sector, Salary increases for executive Directors size and complexity when determining will normally be within the range of increases.
increases for the general employee population over the period of this Policy.
Where increases are awarded in excess of those for the wider employee population, for example in instances of sustained strong individual performance, if there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, or if an individual was intentionally appointed on a below-market salary, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Defined contribution scheme and or For executive Directors appointed from Not applicable.
Pension a cash allowance in lieu thereof.
1 January 2019 onwards, contributions Provides postor cash in lieu thereof will be aligned retirement benefits for with the level of contribution available to participants in a the wider workforce at that time.
For current executive Directors already in role, the Policy limit will remain up to 20% of salary.
Benefits Can include company car car Benefits values vary by role and are Not applicable.
allowance, health insurance and, reviewed periodically relative to the Designed to be where appropriate, relocation allowances market.
competitive in and other expenses.
the market in which the It is not anticipated that the cost of benefits individual is employed.
provided will change materially year on year over the period for which this Policy will apply.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances eg relocation expenses, expatriate allowances etc or in circumstances where factors outside the Groups control have changed materially eg market increases in insurance costs.
Benefits in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
62 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Purpose and link Operation Opportunity Performance metrics to strategy Variable pay Performance measures are set by the Up to 150% of salary.
Bonuses for the executive Directors may Annual bonus Committee at the start of the year and are be based on a combination of financial Provides a direct link The payout for weighted to reflect a balance of financial and and non-financial measures.
The between annual threshold performance strategic objectives.
weighting of non-financial performance performance and may vary year on year, will be capped at 30% of the maximum reward.
At the end of the year, the Remuneration but will not exceed 25% opportunity.
Committee determines the extent to which of the maximum Incentivises the these have been achieved.
The Committee retains discretion to achievement of key adjust the bonus outcome if it considers specific goals over the To the extent that the performance criteria have that the payout is inconsistent with the short term that are also been met, up to 67% of the resulting annual Companys underlying performance aligned to the long-term bonus is paid in cash.
The remaining balance is when taking into account any factors business strategy.
deferred into shares and released after a further it considers relevant.
period of three years, subject to continued Deferred bonus employment only.
Further details are set out in the supports retention and Annual Report on Remuneration provides additional Cash and deferred share bonuses awarded for on pages 68 to 75. alignment with the performance will be subject to malus and interests of clawback until the end of the deferral period.
Further details of our Malus and Clawback Policy are set out at the end of this table.
Dividends may accrue over the deferral period on deferred shares that vest.
Any dividends that accrue will be paid in shares at the end of the vesting period.
Long-Term Incentive The Remuneration Committee has the authority The LTIP provides for a The vesting of awards is usually subject each year to grant an award under the LTIP.
conditional award of to continued employment and the Plan LTIP shares up to an annual Groups performance over a three-year Aligns the interests The award levels and performance conditions on limit of 250% of salary.
This is currently of executives and which vesting depends are reviewed prior to the based on a combination of TSR, EPS shareholders with start of each award cycle to ensure they remain 25% of an award vests and ROIC measures.
Vested shares will be subject to a for achievement of the value creation.
post-vesting holding period of two years.
threshold level of The Committee has discretion to extend performance.
the performance period and adjust the Incentivises participants Awards are subject to malus and or clawback for measures, their weighting, and to manage the business a period of five years from the date of grant.
performance targets prior to the start for the long term and Further details of our Malus and Clawback of each cycle to ensure they continue deliver the Companys Policy are set out at the end of this table.
to align with the Groups strategy.
Dividends may accrue on vested shares during The Committee also retains discretion to the holding period.
adjust the vesting outcome if it considers that the level of vesting is inconsistent with the Companys underlying performance when taking into account any factors it considers relevant.
Further details of the measures attached to the LTIP awarded in the year under review and the coming year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 68 to 75.
Sharesave An HMRC-approved scheme where employees Up to the savings limit as None.
may save up to a monthly savings limit out of determined by HMRC A voluntary scheme open their own pay towards options granted at up to from time to time, to all UK employees a 20% discount.
Options may not be exercised across all Sharesave which aligns the interests for three years.
schemes in which an of participants with those individual has enrolled.
of shareholders through any growth in the value of shares.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 63 Governance Remuneration report continued Malus and Clawback Policy Use of discretion EPS targets are set taking account of multiple relevant reference points, including internal Malus and clawback will apply to the annual To ensure fairness and align executive Director forecasts, external expectations for future EPS bonus and LTIP as set out on page 63 in cases remuneration with underlying individual and performance at both Morgan Advanced of misconduct or material misstatement in the Group performance, the Committee may Materials plc and its closest sector peers, and published results of the Group or where, as a exercise its discretion to adjust, upwards or typical EPS performance ranges at other FTSE result of an appropriate review of accountability, downwards, the outcome of any shortor 350 companies.
LTIP EPS performance ranges a participant has been deemed to have caused long-term incentive plan payment within the are set to represent demanding and challenging in full or in part a material loss for the Group as limits of the relevant Plan Rules for corporate or performance targets over the three-year a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or exceptional events including, but not limited to: performance period.
inappropriate values or behaviour, including but corporate transactions, changes in the Groups not limited to significant breaches of EHS codes, accounting policies, minor or administrative ROIC targets are set using a similar approach to fraud, or other events which may cause serious matters, internal promotions, external the EPS targets, after consideration of external reputational damage.
Cash bonuses will be recruitment, and terminations.
Any adjustments reference points and reflecting the returns subject to clawback, with deferred shares subject in light of corporate events will be made on a required to meet and exceed the Groups to malus over the deferral period.
LTIP awards neutral basis, meaning that they will not be to internal strategic plan.
For the 2019 LTIP cycle, are subject to malus over the vesting period and the benefit or detriment of participants.
ROIC will continue to be calculated as follows: clawback from the vesting date to the fifth Any use of discretion by the Committee during EBITA pre-specific adjusting items anniversary of grant.
the financial year under review will be detailed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
12-month average third-party working capital Payments under existing awards total fixed assets total intangible fixed assets The Company will honour any commitment Performance measure selection entered into, and Directors will be eligible to Share ownership guidelines The Committee considers carefully the selection receive payment from any award granted, prior of performance measures at the start of each In order to encourage alignment with to the approval and implementation of the performance cycle, taking into consideration the shareholders, executive Directors are Remuneration Policy detailed in this Report macro-economic environment as well as specific encouraged to build and maintain an individual ie before 10 May 2019, even if these Group strategic objectives.
shareholding in the Company equivalent to at commitments and or awards fall outside the least 200% of base salary.
The required level of above Policy.
The Company will also honour Annual bonus measures are selected to closely shareholding is expected to be achieved within any commitment entered into at a time prior to reinforce the Groups short-term KPIs.
Because five years from an executive Directors an individual becoming a Director if, in the these can change from year to year in line with appointment.
Executive Directors shareholdings opinion of the Committee, the payment was not the Remuneration Policy, information on the are reviewed annually by the Committee to in consideration of the individual becoming a rationale for the selection of bonus measures for ensure progress is being made towards Director of the Company.
Details of these each year will be detailed in the relevant years achievement of the guideline level of awards will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Annual Report on Remuneration.
However, if it becomes apparent Remuneration.
to the Committee that the guideline is unlikely to LTIP performance measures are reviewed be met within the timeframe, then the Difference in policy between executive periodically to ensure they continue to align with Committee will discuss with the Director a plan Directors and other employees the Companys strategy, as well as provide an to ensure that the guideline is met over an appropriate balance between growth and The Remuneration Policy for other employees is acceptable timeframe.
returns, internal and external performance, and based on principles broadly consistent with absolute and relative performance.
those described in this Report for the executive From 2019, executive Directors will also be Directors remuneration.
Annual salary reviews subject to a post-employment shareholding For 2019 awards, the TSR element of the LTIP across the Group take into account individual requirement.
Executive Directors will be award will continue to comprise two parts.
One and business performance, experience, local pay required to hold shares at a level equal to the half of the TSR element will vest subject to the and market conditions, and salary levels for lower of the share ownership requirement or Groups performance relative to a TSR similar roles in comparable companies.
All the actual shareholding on departure for a benchmark comprising the 103 constituents of executives are eligible to participate in an annual period of one year from departure date.
The the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index.
Opportunities and performance Committee retains the discretion to modify the benchmark is robust to merger and acquisition measures vary by organisational level, post-employment shareholding requirement in activity and comprises companies that are geographical region and an individuals role.
certain, extraordinary circumstances: for subject to the same market influences as Morgan Other senior executives participate in the LTIP example on a change of control during the Advanced Materials plc.
The remaining half of on similar terms to the executive Directors, period or if a conflict of interest arises with an the TSR element will vest subject to Morgans although award sizes and performance executive Directors next appointment.
performance relative to a TSR benchmark measures may vary according to each individual, comprising 16 listed international carbon, Current executive Director shareholdings are and by organisational level.
Below this level, ceramics and other materials companies.
This set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration executives are eligible to participate in the LTIP benchmark was selected to complement the on page 73. and other share-based incentives by annual FTSE All-Share Industrials Index with a group of invitation.
companies that better reflect Morgans business, the markets in which Morgan operates and the geographical footprint of the Group.
For each part of the TSR award, the vesting performance range is calibrated to be stretching and in line with common market practice for FTSE TSR-based long-term incentives.
64 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements External appointments With the approval of the Board in each case, and subject to the overriding requirements of the Group, executive Directors may accept external appointments as non-executive Directors of other companies and retain any fees received.
Details of external directorships held by executive Directors along with fees retained are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 71.
Pay-for-performance: scenario analysis The graphs below provide detailed illustrations of the potential future reward opportunity for executive Directors, and the potential mix between the different elements of remuneration under three different performance scenarios: Below threshold, Target and Stretch.
These have been updated to illustrate the potential opportunity under the 2019 packages proposed for executive Directors.
Pete Raby CEO Peter Turner CFO Stretch 30% 35% 35% 2,298k Stretch 30% 35% 35% 1,727k 52% 32% 16% 1,276k 52% 32% 16% 960k Target Target 100% 663k 100% 501k Below Threshold Below Threshold 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 0 750 1,500 1,700 Fixed total Annual Bonus LTIP Potential reward opportunities illustrated above are based on the Policy, which will be submitted for approval at the 2019 AGM, applied to the annual base salary in effect at 1 January 2019.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2019 before mandatory deferral into shares.
The LTIP is based on the face value of awards to be granted in 2019 150% of salary.
It should be noted that any awards granted under the LTIP in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
This illustration is intended to provide further information to shareholders on the relationship between executive pay and performance.
The value of the LTIP assumes no change in the underlying value of the shares once an award is made.
The following assumptions have been made in compiling the above charts: Scenario Annual bonus LTIP Fixed pay Performance warrants full vesting Stretch Maximum annual bonus.
Latest disclosed base salary, pension Performance warrants threshold vesting and benefits.
Below threshold No annual bonus payable.
Details of executive Directors service contracts The executive Directors are employed under contracts of employment with Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Contracts may be terminated on 12 months notice given by the Company or on six months notice given by the executive Director concerned.
The following table shows the date of the contract for each executive Director who served during the year: Notice period Executive Director Position Date of appointment Date of service agreement From employer From employee Pete Raby CEO 1 August 2015 30 January 2015 12 months 6 months Peter Turner CFO 11 April 2016 30 March 2016 12 months 6 months Exit Payments Policy The Groups policy on exit payments is to limit severance payments on termination to pre-established contractual arrangements comprising base salary and any other statutory payments only.
In the event that the employment of an executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined in accordance with the terms of the service contract between the Company and the employee, as well as the rules of any incentive plans.
The Group may terminate the employment of an executive Director by making a payment in lieu of notice equal to base salary, together with the fair value of any other benefits to which the executive is contractually entitled under his or her service agreement, for the duration of the notice period.
The Remuneration Committee will exercise discretion in making appropriate payments in the context of outplacement or the settling of legal claims or potential legal claims by the departing executive Director, including any other amounts reasonably owing to the executive Director, for example, to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
On termination of an executive Directors service contract, the Remuneration Committee will consider the departing Directors duty to mitigate his or her loss when determining the timing of when any payment in lieu of notice will be made.
There is no automatic entitlement to bonus or the vesting of long-term incentives on termination.
However, the table that follows summarises the Policy on how awards under the annual bonus, LTIP and deferred bonus plan will normally be treated in specific circumstances, with the final treatment remaining subject to Committee discretion: Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 65 Governance Remuneration report continued Treatment of awards on cessation of employment and a change of control Reason for cessation Calculation of vesting payment Time of vesting Annual bonus All reasons The Committee may determine that a bonus is payable on cessation of employment, and the Committee retains discretion to determine that the bonus should be paid wholly in cash.
The amount of bonus payable will be determined in the context of the time served during the performance year, the performance of the Group and of the individual over the relevant period, and the circumstances of the Directors loss of office.
If Group or individual performance has been poor, or if the individuals employment has been terminated in circumstances amounting to misconduct, no bonus will be payable.
Mandatory deferred bonus share awards Injury, disability, death, Awards will normally vest in full ie not pro-rated for time.
At the normal vesting date, unless the redundancy, retirement, Committee decides that awards should vest or other such event as the earlier eg in the event of death.
Committee determines Change of control Awards will normally vest in full ie not pro-rated for time.
Awards may On change of control.
alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
All other reasons Awards normally lapse.
LTIP awards Injury, disability, death, Awards will normally be pro-rated for time and will vest based on At the normal vesting date, unless the redundancy, retirement, performance over the original performance period unless the Committee decides that awards should or other such event as the Committee decides to measure performance to the date of cessation.
vest earlier eg in the event of death.
Committee determines Change of control LTIP awards will be pro-rated for time and will vest subject to On change of control.
performance over the performance period to the change of control.
LTIP awards may alternatively be exchanged for equivalent replacement awards, where appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion, where permitted by the plan rules, to alter these default provisions on a case-by-case basis, following a review of circumstances and to ensure fairness for both shareholders and participants.
Approach to recruitment remuneration External appointment In cases of hiring or appointing a new executive Director from outside the Group, the Committee may make use of all existing components of remuneration, as follows: Pay element Policy on recruitment Maximum Salary Based on: the size and nature of the responsibilities of the proposed role: current market pay levels for comparable roles: the candidates experience: implications for total remuneration: internal relativities: and the candidates current salary.
Pension Option to join the defined contribution scheme available to the wider workforce.
If the executive In line with Policy limits Director is ineligible to join the standard defined contribution scheme, the company may grant a cash allowance of equivalent value.
Benefits As described in the Policy table and may include, but are not limited to, car, medical insurance, and relocation expenses and or allowances.
Sharesave New appointees will be eligible to participate on identical terms to all other UK employees.
Annual bonus As described in the Policy table and typically pro-rated for the proportion of the year served: Up to 150% of salary.
performance measures may include strategic and operational objectives tailored to the individual in the financial year of joining.
LTIP New appointees may be granted awards under the LTIP on similar terms to other executives.
Other The Remuneration Committee may make an award under a different structure under the relevant Listing Rule to replace incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Any such award would have a fair value no higher than that of the awards forfeited, taking into account relevant factors including performance conditions, the likelihood of those conditions being met and the proportion of the vesting period remaining.
Details of any such award will be disclosed in the first Annual Report on Remuneration following its grant.
66 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Internal promotion to the Board In cases of appointing a new executive Director via internal promotion, the Policy will be consistent with that for external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments made prior to their promotion to executive Director, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements even if there are instances where they would not otherwise be consistent with the prevailing executive Director Remuneration Policy at the time of promotion.
Chairman and non-executive Directors Remuneration Policy Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance metrics 1 Annual fee Annual fees paid to the Chairman and Annual fees are applied in line None.
To attract and retain high-calibre non-executive Directors are reviewed with the outcome of each non-executive Directors.
An additional fee is payable to periodic review.
the Senior Independent Director, and also in respect of chairing a Board Committee.
The maximum aggregate annual fee for all non-executive Directors including the Chairman as provided in the companys Articles of Association is 750,000.
None of the non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company.
They do have letters of appointment.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in any of the incentive, share or share option plans.
The dates relating to the appointments of the Chairman and non-executive Directors who served during the reporting period are as follows: Non-executive Director Position Date of appointment Date of letter of appointment Date of election re-election 1 Andrew Shilston Chairman 8 May 2012 30 March 2012 11 May 2018 2 Helen Bunch Non-executive Director 24 February 2016 19 January 2016 11 May 2018 3 Douglas Caster Non-executive Director 14 February 2014 15 January 2014 11 May 2018 Laurence Mulliez Non-executive Director 6 May 2016 4 April 2016 11 May 2018 Jane Aikman Non-executive Director 31 July 2017 27 April 2017 11 May 2018 1.
Andrew Shilston retired from the Board on 31 December 2018.
Helen Bunch was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee, effective 1 January 2019.
Douglas Caster was appointed Chairman of the Board effective 1 January 2019 and stepped down as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 31 December 2018.
Consideration of stakeholder views The Group seeks to promote and maintain good relations with employee representative bodies including trade unions and works councils as part of its broader employee engagement strategy, and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
In making remuneration decisions, the Remuneration Committee also considers the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, but the Committee does not currently consult with employees specifically on the executive Remuneration Policy and framework.
Prior to the annual salary review, the Remuneration Committee is briefed by the Group Human Resources Director about pay increase data that individual business units will consider when deciding local pay awards for their specific businesses and countries.
The Committee is also kept fully informed of remuneration policy and implementation decisions affecting the wider workforce.
This important context forms part of the Committees considerations for determining executive Director remuneration.
The Committee considers shareholder views received during the year and at the AGM each year, as well as guidance from investor representative bodies more broadly, in shaping its Remuneration Policy.
The Committee keeps the Remuneration Policy under regular review, to ensure it continues to reinforce the Groups long-term strategy, and aligns executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
It is the Remuneration Committees policy to consult with major shareholders prior to any major changes to its executive Remuneration Policy.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 67 Governance Remuneration report continued 2.
Annual report on remuneration The following section provides details of how the Remuneration Policy was implemented during the year.
Remuneration Committee membership in 2018 During 2018 the Remuneration Committee was comprised of five non-executive Directors.
Each of the non-executive Directors was regarded by the Board as independent, except the Chairman of the Company who was considered independent upon appointment.
The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at meetings by individual members is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 47.
Summary of shareholder voting at the 2016 and 2018 AGM The following table shows the results of the latest binding vote on the Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM and advisory vote on the 2017 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2018 AGM.
1 Resolution For Against Withheld Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM 98.86% 1.14% 932,484 Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2018 AGM 94.16% 5.84% 921,819 1.
Votes withheld are not votes in law and, therefore, have not been included in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against the resolution.
Single total figure of remuneration for executive Directors The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2018 and the prior year.
Base salary: amount earned for the year.
Benefits: the taxable value of benefits received in the year.
Includes private medical insurance and a company car or car allowance.
Annual bonus: the total bonus earned on performance during the year before mandatory deferral into shares.
LTIP: the estimated value on 31 December 2018 of 2016 LTIP shares vesting in 2019 subject to performance over the three-year period ended 31 December 2018.
Figure based on the average share price for the three months to 31 December 2018 of 276.23p.
The figure for 2017 has been trued up from that disclosed in last years Remuneration Report to reflect the share price on the vesting date 3 August 2018 of 351.40p.
Pension: the figure is a cash allowance of 20% of base pay in lieu of pension.
Incentive outcomes for the year ended 31 December 2018 Annual bonus in respect of 2018 performance Targets for the annual bonus are set by the Remuneration Committee, taking into account the shortand long-term requirements of the Group.
Challenging goals are set, which must be met before any bonus is paid.
This approach is intended to align executive reward with shareholder returns by rewarding the achievement of stretch targets.
For 2018, the bonus targets for the executive Directors were split between Group EBITA before restructuring weighted 40%, cash generation weighted 40% and individual strategic personal objectives weighted 20%.
The targets were set to incentivise the executive Directors to deliver stretching profit and cash performance for the Group.
Performance in line with target results in a payout of 50% of maximum.
In addition to the achievement of the targets set, in considering any awards to be made, the Committee also takes into account the quality of the overall performance of the Group.
68 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The table that follows sets out retrospectively the assessment of performance relative to the 2018 bonus targets for the executive Directors.
Actual bonus payments are shown in the single total figure of remuneration table on page 68.
Performance range Actual % of maximum Threshold Maximum performance % payout % salary Performance measure bonus element 0% payout 100% payout outcome of element earned 1 Group EBITA 40% 119.0m 131.5m 130.7m 93% 56% 1 2 Cash generation 40% 141.8m 156.8m 149.1m 29% 17% Personal objectives Pete Raby 20% 93% 28% Please see narrative below for further details Peter Turner 20% on objectives and performance against these 93% 28% % of salary earned Maximum bonus Group Cash Personal Total Total 1 1 Overall outcome % salary EBITA generation objectives outcome payable Pete Raby 150% 56% 17% 28% 101.1% 525,720 Peter Turner 150% 56% 17% 28% 101.1% 405,007 1.
For both the EBITA and cash generation metrics, there was a straight-line payout between the threshold and maximum figures and all figures were calculated using 2018 budgeted exchange rates.
Group performance was just below budget.
However, all of the quarterly cash targets set at the start of the year were missed.
As a result, pay out of this element was reduced from 49% to 29%.
Pete Rabys personal objectives for 2018 were: 1 drive improvement in the safety culture and behaviours for the Group, 2 deliver technology investments to improve differentiation, strengthen margins, and accelerate growth, 3 improve operational performance creating an environment that encourages idea sharing across the company 4 enhance sales effectiveness to position the Group to grow at least in line with its markets for 2019, 5 strengthen the Group talent to support the delivery of the strategy.
Performance of our leaders is assessed against all expectations of the role, specific personal objectives that are set and how outcomes are delivered with reference to our defined leadership behaviours.
With all of these considerations, the personal performance element has been assessed at 93% of the maximum to reflect excellent progress across the Group.
Peter Turners personal objectives for 2018 were: 1 drive improvement in the safety culture and behaviours for the Group, 2 establish prioritisation and tracking of key R&D projects to enable the best investment to improve differentiation, strengthen margins, and accelerate growth 3 establish KPIs and tracking mechanisms to measure operational performance and identify areas for improvement, 4 establish tracking tools, approaches, and data availability to support sales effectiveness to position the Group to grow, 5 strengthen the finance talent to improve the financial management of the business and 6 renew the Revolving Credit Facility.
Considering the performance against these objectives, broader expectations of the role, the leadership behaviours exhibited and the strong performance of the Group in 2018, the personal performance element of Peter Turners bonus has been assessed at 93% of the maximum.
2016 LTIP award vesting Awards granted to executive Directors in 2016 were subject to relative TSR performance, EPS growth and Group ROCE over a three-year period ended 31 December 2018.
The EPS target applying to one-third of each award required three-year EPS growth of 4% per annum for 25% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for EPS growth of 11% pa or higher.
Over the period Morgan Advanced Materials plcs actual EPS growth was above the maximum for this performance criterion and accordingly the EPS element of the award will fully vest.
The TSR element applying to one-third of each award required Morgan Advanced Materials plcs three-year TSR performance to rank at median against two comparator groups equally split, the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index and a tailored comparator group comprising 16 listed international carbon, ceramics and other materials companies for 25% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting if Morgan Advanced Materials plcs TSR ranked at or above the upper quartile against these two comparators.
Morgan Advanced Materials plcs TSR was 16.6%, which was at the 46th percentile versus the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index and the 44th percentile versus the tailored comparator group.
Accordingly, none of the TSR element of the award will vest under these criteria.
The Group ROCE target applying to the remaining one-third of each award required three-year Group ROCE of 27% for 25% of that element to vest, rising to full vesting for Group ROCE of 33% or higher.
Morgan Advanced Materials plcs Group ROCE was 27.3%, which resulted in 28.8% of this element vesting.
This combined performance resulted in a partial vesting of the 2016 awards based on 42.9% achievement of maximum.
Details of the awards to executive Directors are set out in the table below: Maximum Maximum potential potential LTIP LTIP-CSOP LTIP award LTIP-CSOP LTIP-CSOP Director award award vested award vested award exercised Date of vesting Pete Raby 292,022 125,277 23 May 2019 1 Peter Turner 226,783 12,426 97,289 TBC 23 May 2019 1.
Outcome of the LTIP-CSOP element is dependent on the Companys share price on the date of vesting.
Please refer to page 75 for further information.
For the purposes of the 2016 LTIP award, the financial results were adjusted to neutralise the effects of divestments in 2017 and 2018.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 69 Governance Remuneration report continued Pension The auditor is required to report on this information.
Pete Raby and Peter Turner each receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension of 20% of base salary.
Single total figure of remuneration for non-executive Directors The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each non-executive Director in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018 and the prior year.
Douglas Caster was appointed Chairman of the Board on 1 January 2019 and stepped down as Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 31 December 2018.
Helen Bunch was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee on 1 January 2019.
Scheme interests awarded in 2018 2018 LTIP awards In 2018, Pete Raby and Peter Turner were granted awards under the LTIP as follows: Value of awards at grant As % of 2018 Number of LTIP annualised 1 Executive Director shares granted salary Date of vesting Pete Raby 233,981 780,000 150% 21 March 2021 Peter Turner 180,255 600,900 150% 21 March 2021 1.
Calculated using the award price of 3.3336, being the average share price for the five dealing days prior to the award date.
The Committee discusses and reviews the performance criteria for new three-year LTIP awards before they are granted.
For the awards granted in 2018, the Committee considered the balance of measures in light of the Groups business plan and shareholder feedback, and decided to maintain the equal one-third weighting of the three performance criteria with the TSR element continuing to be split into two parts.
One-half of this element will vest based on Morgans TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE All-Share Industrials Index comprising 103 companies and one-half will vest based on Morgans TSR performance relative to a tailored comparator group of 16 industry comparators.
The table below sets out the targets attaching to the 2018 LTIP awards: TSR vs FTSE All-Share % of award TSR performance % of award % of award % of award Industrials Index that vests vs peer group that vests EPS growth that vests Group ROIC that vests Upper quartile 16.67% Upper quartile 16.67% 11% pa 33.33% 19% 33.33% Median 4.17% Median 4.17% 4% pa 8.33% 16% 8.33% Below median Nil Below median Nil 4% pa Nil 16% Nil For executive Directors, there is a two-year holding period in relation to the 2018 LTIP.
Dividends accrue over this holding period on any shares that vest.
70 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2018 Deferred Bonus Plan awards In 2018, 33% of the annual bonus results for Pete Raby and Peter Turner for performance in the 2017 financial year were deferred into shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP, in line with Morgans Remuneration Policy.
The following DBP awards were granted: Value of awards at grant Number of Value of 1 DBP shares award Date of Executive Director granted vesting Pete Raby 52,955 176,531 21 March 2021 Peter Turner 42,011 140,048 21 March 2021 1.
Exit payments made in year The auditor is required to report on this information.
No exit payments were made to executive Directors during the 2018 financial year.
Payments to past Directors The auditor is required to report on this information.
No payments were made to past Directors during the 2018 financial year.
External appointments No external appointments were held by either executive Director in the 2018 financial year.
Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2019 Base salary In line with the Remuneration Policy, executive Directors salaries were reviewed by the Committee and increased for 2019.
The table below shows the base salaries in 2018, and those that took effect from 1 January 2019: Base salary at: Executive Director 1 January 2019 1 January 2018 Increase Pete Raby 545,000 520,000 4.81% Peter Turner 408,600 400,600 2.0% For the 2018 performance year, the Group introduced a more formal link between performance and pay within the senior leadership population.
Specifically, the process considers individual and Group performance, as well as salary relative to the relevant market.
The increases awarded to both Pete Raby and Peter Turner were calibrated in line with this.
The Committee considered Pete Rabys continued excellent performance in the role as well as the below-market positioning of his salary in determining to increase his salary above the rate of inflation.
Considering Peter Turners continued strong performance and salary above market benchmarks, the Committee determined that an inflationary salary increase was appropriate.
The rationale for any future increases will be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension While Pete Raby and Peter Turner will continue to receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension, the monetary value will be fixed at the 2018 level disclosed in the table on page 68 in an effort to align executive Director pensions with those of the wider workforce over time.
Annual bonus in respect of 2019 performance The maximum bonus opportunity remains at 150% of salary with the payout for on-target performance continuing to be 50% of the maximum.
33% of any bonus result will ordinarily be deferred into shares for a further three-year period.
The performance measures attached to the annual bonus remain unchanged from 2018, as follows: EBITA 40% Cash generation 40% measured against quarterly cumulative targets as well as over the complete financial year.
For every quarterly target that is missed, the payout warranted for full-year performance under this element will be reduced by 10% Strategic personal objectives 20% The actual performance targets set at the beginning of the performance period are not disclosed as they are considered commercially sensitive at this time, given the close link between performance measures and the Groups longer-term strategy.
This is particularly relevant in the context of some of the Groups close and unlisted competitors who are not required to disclose such information, and for whom the assumptions in our targets would provide valuable information in the current trading year.
We will disclose these targets retrospectively, at such time as these targets have become less commercially sensitive, and within three years of the end of the performance year.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 71 Governance Remuneration report continued 2019 LTIP awards In March 2019, Pete Raby and Peter Turner will be granted awards under the 2019 LTIP with a face value of 150% of their respective base salaries for 2019.
The three-year performance period over which performance will be measured began on 1 January 2019 and will end on 31 December 2021.
Further details of the awards will be disclosed in next years Remuneration Report.
The performance measures are detailed below: Each TSR element will operate independently, with vesting determined based on Morgans TSR rank relative to constituents of each TSR benchmark.
The performance range for each element will remain median to upper quartile.
The EPS performance range will remain unchanged at 4%-11% p. a.
The ROIC range will increase from 16%-19% in 2018 to 17%-20% to reflect improving performance.
The Committee believes these ranges appropriately support the Groups strategy for sustainable long-term growth over the next three years whilst continuing to represent suitably demanding targets.
For all three measures, awards will continue to vest on a straight-line basis between threshold and maximum, with 25% of each element vesting at threshold.
For the 2019 LTIP cycle, executive Directors will be required to hold any vested 2019 LTIP awards for an additional two-year period.
Vested awards that are subject to the holding period will remain subject to clawback in line with our Policy, but will not be forfeitable on cessation of employment.
Chairman and non-executive Director fees The Chairmans and non-executive Directors fees were reviewed in December 2018.
The following fees will apply in 2019: Role 2019 fee pa 2018 fee pa Increase Chairman 189,500 185,750 2.0% Non-executive Director 49,900 48,900 2.0% Committee Chair additional fee 8,000 8,000 0% Senior Independent Director additional fee 8,000 8,000 0% Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from 2017 to 2018 compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for other UK-based employees over the same period.
The UK employee workforce was chosen as a suitable comparator group as the CEO is based in the UK albeit with a global role and responsibilities and pay changes across the Group vary widely depending on local market conditions.
Although similar remuneration principles apply across the wider Group, pay decisions for this subset are impacted by similar external market forces eg wage inflation, local practice with respect to the provision of benefits, etc.. CEO % change in 2018 vs 2017 for other Elements of remuneration 2018 2017 % change employees Base salary received during the year 520,000 495,000 5.05% 2.5% Taxable benefits excluding pension 13,456 13,482 -0.2% 12.3% Annual bonus 525,720 529,650 -0.7% -7.5% Relative importance of spend on pay The graphs below show shareholder distributions ie dividends and share buybacks and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018, and the percentage change year on year.
Shareholder distributions Total employee pay expenditure m m 2018 2018 31.4 358.4 2017 2017 31.4 348.6 Total employee pay across the Group has increased by 2.7% to 358.4 million 2017: 348.6 million.
The 2017 figure has been restated to remove the divestment of the Composites and Defence systems business.
72 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Advisers Kepler now branded Mercer Kepler was appointed by the Committee in 2010 as its executive remuneration adviser and was retained during the most recent financial year.
In 2018 Kepler provided independent advice on performance measurement, the setting of incentive targets, TSR analysis and the structure of long-term incentives, and provided market data in respect of senior executive remuneration and non-executive Director fees.
Kepler reports directly to the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and does not provide any other material  services to the Group nor does Keplers parent company, Mercer, and is considered to be independent.
Kepler is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Groups voluntary Code of Conduct.
Fees paid during the year to advisers for advice to the Remuneration Committee, charged on a time and materials basis, were as follows: Adviser Fees including expenses, excluding VAT Kepler 39,650 Comparison of Company performance The graph below shows the value, at 31 December 2018, of 100 invested in Morgan Advanced Materials plcs shares on 31 December 2008 compared with the current value of the same amount invested in the FTSE 350 Index.
The FTSE 350 Index of which the Company is a constituent has been chosen because it is widely followed by the UKs investment community and easily tracked over time.
Figure represents percentage achievement of maximum opportunity.
Bonus maximum as a percentage of salary increased to 150% of base salary in 2016 compared to 100% in previous years.
Directors interests in shares Shares owned outright The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
The following table shows the number of shares held by each person who was a Director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc as at 31 December 2018 together with shares held by their connected persons in the Ordinary share capital of the Company: As at As at As at 1 1 January 2018 31 December 2018 26 February 2019 Executive Directors Pete Raby 71,646 82,743 82,743 Peter Turner 40,000 140,000 140,000 Non-executive Directors 2 Andrew Shilston 70,000 70,000 70,000 Laurence Mulliez 1,260 1,260 1,260 Douglas Caster 18,000 18,000 18,000 Helen Bunch 925 925 925 Jane Aikman 1,000 1,000 1.
As at 15 March 2019, the Directors interest in shares had not changed since the end of the period under review.
Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 73 Governance Remuneration report continued Executive Directors shareholding guidelines The table below shows the shareholding of each executive Director against their respective shareholding guideline as at 31 December 2018.
Shareholding Shares Shares Per formance - Shares subject Options Current guideline owned subject to tested but to DBP vested but shareholding Guideline 1 2 3 4 % 2018 salary outright performance unvested shares deferral unexercised % 2018 salary met?
2016, 2017 and 2018 LTIP and LTIP-CSOP awards.
Estimated number of shares, net of tax 50%, deferred under the DBP.
Options granted under the Sharesave scheme for Pete Raby.
Based on an executive Directors 2018 salary and the share price at 31 December 2018 of 263.20 pence, comprising shares owned outright and shares subject to deferral.
Unless otherwise stated, figures given in the tables on pages 73 to 75 are for shares or interests in shares.
Pete Raby The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of at date Performance Status at 31 December 2018 Plan 2018 the year the year the year 2018 allocation of release period 2015 127,543 19,641 107,902 344.98p 352.40p 01.01.15 31.12.17 No further performance 2015 conditions, released funding 8,696 1,311 7,385 344.98p 352.40p 01.01.15 31.12.17 No further performance conditions, released 2016 292,022 292,022 241.42p 01.01.16 31.12.18 2017 236,074 236,074 314.52p 01.01.17 31.12.19 Subject to performance conditions 2018 233,981 233,981 333.36p 01.01.18 31.12.20 Share options As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of at date Performance Status at 31 December 2018 Plan 2018 the year the year the year 2018 allocation of release period Subject to performance 2015 conditions, released LTIP-CSOP 8,696 1,339 7,357 344.98p 352.40p 01.01.15 31.12.17 Subject to continued 2016 service only Sharesave 3,862 3,862 233.00p 01.12.16 30.11.19 Total interests in share plans As at 1 January 2018 As at 31 December 2018 1,2 1,2 698,644 840,645 1.
Peter Turner The auditor is required to report on the information in this table.
LTIP As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of at date Performance Status at 31 December 2018 Plan 2018 the year the year the year 2018 allocation of release period Subject to performance conditions 2016 226,783 226,783 241.42p 01.01.16 31.12.18 Subject to performance 2016 conditions funding 12,426 12,426 241.42p 01.01.16 31.12.18 2017 187,285 187,285 314.52p 01.01.17 31.12.19 Subject to performance conditions 2018 180,255 180,255 333.36p 01.01.18 31.12.20 74 Morgan Advanced Materials Annual Report 2018 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Share options As at Allocations Released Lapsed As at Market price Market price 1 January during during during 31 December at date of at date Performance Status at 31 December 2018 Plan 2018 the year the year the year 2018 allocation of release period Subject to performance 2016 conditions LTIP-CSOP 12,426 12,426 241.42p 01.01.16 31.12.18 Total interests in share plans As at 1 January 2018 As at 31 December 2018 1,2 1,2, 3 454,093 676,359 1.
Includes a funding award of 12,426 shares to be used to the extent required to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOP and therefore not transferable to Peter Turner.
Details of plans LTIP Plan Details 2016, 2017, 2018 The performance conditions attached to the 2016 awards are set out on page 69.
The 2017 awards were on the same basis as the 2016 awards except that the ROCE measure was replaced by ROIC, as detailed earlier in this Report.
The 2018 awards were on the same basis as the 2017 awards.
Share options Plan Details LTIP CSOP LTIP 2016: The CEOs award was structured as an LTIP award in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
The CFOs award was structured as an Approved Performance Share Plan APSP and comprised three elements: i HMRC-approved options CSOP over shares to the value of up to 30,000 with an exercise price of 241 pence per share: ii an LTIP award in the form of a conditional award of free shares to the value of the remainder of the award above this limit: and iii a funding award, also in the form of a conditional award of free shares, over such numbers of shares whose value at exercise at the approved option equals up to 30,000.
The award is also subject to malus and clawback provisions.
The provisions of these CSOP options, funding awards and LTIP awards was linked so that the maximum aggregate number of shares that could be acquired on exercise of LTIP and CSOP awards the funding award being used to pay the exercise price arising on exercise of the CSOP was limited to that number of shares that had a market value on the date of the awards equal to 150% of Peter Turners 2016 annual salary.
Vested funding awards were not transferable to the participant.
LTIP 2017: The awards to the CEO and CFO were structured as LTIP awards in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
LTIP 2018: The awards to the CEO and CFO were structured as LTIP awards in the form of a conditional award of free shares.
2016 Sharesave HMRC-approved all-employee Sharesave scheme.
Exercise price set at 20% discount to share price on date of grant.
Options 2017 Sharesave vest after three years of continuous service and must be exercised within six months of vesting.
Details of options held by 2018 Sharesave Directors under Sharesave are outlined in the individual Director shareholding tables above.
Deferred Bonus Plan Plan Details 2017 and 2018 Mandatory deferral of one-third of gross bonus result relating to the previous year, which is provided as a conditional award of shares of the equivalent value.
The award vests on the third anniversary of the award date and is subject to forfeiture if the executive Director leaves before the vesting date.
Other transactions involving Directors are set out in note 26 Related Parties to the financial statements.
This Report was approved by the Board on 26 February 2019.
Signed on behalf of the Board Helen Bunch Committee Chair Annual Report 2018 Morgan Advanced Materials 75
