Corporate Governance 74 Directors Remuneration Report Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chair Dear fellow Shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the Remuneration Committees report for the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
The business has continued to build on the strong Jane Kingston performance of recent years, despite Committee Chair operating in difficult competitive trading and economic conditions, to again deliver record-breaking results.
Primary role Appoint independent remuneration The Committees agenda for the year To review and recommend to the Board consultants was another full one as we consulted with the framework, policy and practices for Activity highlights major shareholders on the Policy, assessed remuneration of the Chairman, the Consulted with major shareholders and year end outcomes and approved new Executive Directors and other senior obtained approval for a new Directors awards and targets under the bonus and executives, and for implementing the policy.
Remuneration Policy Policy LTIP, and considered the impact of the new The Committees terms of reference, Reviewed and determined for the statutory accounting standard IFRS 16 on reviewed and approved annually, are Executive Directors and SMG: outstanding LTIP awards.
We also began available on the Companys website at salary levels work in response to the new UK Corporate www.
outcomes vs. performance conditions Governance Code Code and secondary for outstanding incentive plan awards legislation coming into force for 2019.
Key responsibilities the impact of IFRS 16 on key financial Determine the remuneration of the Aligning pay and performance in 2018 performance metric targets for Executive Directors and Senior 2018 was another standout year of outstanding and future Long-Term Management Group SMG members, achievement for the Group.
The financial Incentive Plan LTIP awards with due regard to remuneration and highlights panel on page 76 shows our targets and participation levels for workforce policies and practices existing strong and balanced outperformance new bonus and LTIP awards elsewhere in the Group compared with 2017 as we again delivered Reviewed and determined fees for Determine the Chairmans fees in excess of plan on all key metrics.
The the Chairman Oversee administration of the Executive Directors also made significant Considered developments in executive Companys share incentive plans progress on a number of strategic projects pay and corporate governance Review and monitor the Groups with tangible results, most notably in compliance with relevant gender relation to safety improvements, digital pay reporting requirements channel delivery and increasing our focus around hubs in large, dense urban areas, Membership, meetings and attendance all with the aim of continuing our growth Meeting attended Meeting not attended trajectory into 2019 and beyond.
Additionally, and despite the political Committee member Appointed Meetings attended uncertainty surrounding Brexit and the 1 Jane Kingston Chair 26.02.14 turbulence experienced in the London stock market towards the end of the 1 Lee Sander 01.06.11 year, our share price proved resolute, 1 Matthew Crummack 06.05.16 outperforming both the FTSE 250 Index and our peer group average during the 1 Dr Ashley Steel 29.01.19 n a year.
The Board is also recommending a 10% increase in the final dividend, the third 1 Independent Non-Executive Director consecutive year of this level of increase.
Other attendees by invitation and advice services provided:  LLP PwC : independent remuneration and governance advice Company Chairman : input and recommendations relating to the performance and remuneration of the Group Chief Executive Group Chief Executive : input and recommendations relating to strategy and the performance and remuneration of other Executive Directors and SMG Group Finance Director, HR Director and Company Secretary : input and advice relating to financial performance, HR policies and practices, governance and administration Does not attend or participate in discussions concerning their own performance or remuneration Biographical details of the members are set out on pages 56 and 57 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 75 During the year, we have operated the new Policy to motivate, reward and retain a high quality executive team, under the leadership of Dean Finch, which is continuing to deliver superior performance as it executes on an ambitious strategy.
The Committee has undergone a robust Arising from the above, the following During the year, we have operated the new and full assessment of the Groups incentive outcomes were approved by Policy to motivate, reward and retain a high performance during the year, taking into the Committee without the exercise of quality executive team, under the account both financial and non-financial any discretion: leadership of Dean Finch, which is measures.
As part of that, it consulted with continuing to deliver superior performance annual bonuses of between 58-90% of the Chair of the Safety & Environment as it executes on an ambitious strategy.
As maximum opportunity for 2018, of which Committee before satisfying itself that: can be seen from this years performance a portion will be deferred into shares.
and outturns, I believe the Policy is as per the revised safety underpin These will be paid in March: working and properly aligns the executive introduced by the Policy see below, 96.3% of maximum vesting for the teams interests with those of shareholders no significant negative event occurred 2016 LTIP awards with a three-year for the long-term.
during the year, as a result of a systemic performance period ended 31 December failure of management to put in place 2018.
These are due to vest in April We have simplified the Directors and operate effective safety processes, 2019: and Remuneration Report this year by only that had a material adverse impact on 95.8% of maximum vesting for the including a summary of the Policy in the reputation of the Company and its legacy 2014 LTIP award held by Dean relation to Executive Directors remuneration.
share price: and Finch with a five-year performance The full Policy, covering both Executive the executive team has continued to period ended 31 December 2018.
This is and Non-Executive Directors remuneration, operate and manage a robust set of the last of this type of award and is also can be found on pages 74 84 of the safety systems and processes across due to vest in April 2019.
Companys 2017 Annual Report and the Group with an overall year-on-year on its website at The Committee believes that the high level improvement being delivered.
com about-us outturn bonus payments and LTIP vestings corporate-governance remuneration.
Accordingly, and given that the threshold fairly reflect the impressive performance of targets for both the Group normalised the business and individuals as well as the profit before tax PBT and North America strong results delivered to shareholders.
Directors Remuneration normalised earnings before interest and tax These include total shareholder return Report EBIT were achieved, the Committee was TSR and basic statutory earnings per This Directors Remuneration Report able to confirm that all the conditions share EPS growth of 42% and 27% has been prepared in accordance with required to be satisfied before any respectively over the past three years and the Large and Medium-sized payment can be made under the short and 80% and 140% respectively over the past Companies and Groups Accounts and long-term incentive plans had been met.
Reports Regulations 2008 as amended However, the Committee noted the slight Directors Remuneration Policy review Regulations, the Listing Rules and the year-on-year increase in the Groups The Committee reviewed the Policy last provisions of the 2016 Code and absolute Fatalities Weighted Injuries FWI year to ensure that the remuneration comprises the following sections: Index score, although on a normalised per structure remained fit for purpose in million miles operated basis FWI was flat Annual Statement by the continuing to support the Groups strategic on last year and remains the lowest on Remuneration Committee Chair priorities and incentivise the executive record.
While disappointing that FWI did Remuneration at a glance this team to achieve stretching targets, not improve again, and that as a result a contains an overview of our balanced against the need to be sensitive 10% bonus opportunity was missed for remuneration strategy and the to shareholder requirements and corporate Dean Finch and Chris Davies, it should not performance outcomes of the governance best practice.
We consulted detract from the ongoing significant safety variable elements of executive on a draft Policy with many of our investment and commitment of the remuneration shareholders, and various shareholder executive team and the safety performance Summary of the Directors advisory groups, and made a number of improvements made throughout the Group Remuneration Policy as approved refinements as a result of that exercise.
during the year, particularly the outstanding by shareholders at the 2018 AGM The final Policy received over 95% support performance in North America, as Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2018 AGM and it became effective explained in the Safety & Environment this describes the implementation from that date for an intended three-year Report on pages 70 73. of the Policy and sets out details of period.
I would like to thank our payments made to Directors in 2018. shareholders for engaging in what was a This report is subject to an advisory constructive two-way dialogue during the vote by shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
The relationship that exists between the Committee and our shareholders is greatly valued and we will ensure it continues.
National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Corporate Governance 76 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Statement by the Remuneration Committee Chair continued Remuneration for 2019 the FWI safety element 10% opportunity, 2018 financial The Committee has recently completed its currently measured on a year-on-year performance highlights annual review of salary and can confirm improvement per million miles operated that for 2019 the base salary increase for basis, will move to a no-worse than GROUP REVENUE each of the Executive Directors will be previous year per million miles operated 2.8% this compares to increases in the basis.
Given the continuing growth in the 2.45bn range of 2-3% for the wider UK workforce business and current record low level of 1 up 6.9% during 2018 and as projected for 2019.
The FWI, maintaining this performance next Committee believed it was appropriate to year is felt to be a sufficiently demanding award the Directors an increase towards challenge: and NORMALISED PROFIT BEFORE TAX the top of this range to reflect both strong Matt Ashleys profit-related element 220.0m corporate and individual performances.
50% opportunity will be based solely on North America EBIT rather than on 1 up 11.3% As reported last year, the Company a mix of Group PBT and North America continues to provide Matt Ashley with an EBIT.
This will now fully align his profit international relocation assistance package focus with his day-to-day executive STATUTORY PROFIT AFTER TAX in support of his two-year Chicago-based responsibilities.
138.7m assignment as President and CEO, North America, which expires at the end of By way of reminder, 2019 will be the first 2 up 8.0% August 2019.
The estimated gross cost of three consecutive and equal years to the Company of his relocation package reduction in Dean Finchs pension in 2018 was 434,311.
While the allowance from the Company.
This FREE CASH FLOW Committee is fully supportive of Matt voluntary position offered by him last year 198.6m Ashley and believes that such assistance will see his allowance reduce to 33.3% is appropriate in the context of the role he of salary in 2019 from 35% in 2018 and up 35.7% is performing, this package will be subject subsequently to 31.6% in 2020 and 30% to review and reduction by the Committee, in 2021.
NORMALISED DILUTED in line with best practice, in the event his New accounting standard IFRS 16 original term assignment is extended.
EARNINGS PER SHARE During the year, the Committee considered 3 32.8p The Committee undertook a review of the the introduction of the new statutory performance targets for the bonus profit accounting standard, IFRS 16, replacing up 13.1% metrics for 2018 and determined that it IAS 17 Leases, which applies to the was appropriate to reduce the width of Company from 2019, and its expected 1 the threshold to maximum range around impact on the return on capital employed On a constant currency basis 2 On a continuing basis the target level from -10% to -5%.
ROCE and EPS performance metric 3 On an IFRS 16 restated basis, The purpose of the change was to more targets attaching to outstanding and future this equates to 32.3p closely reflect the realistic range of LTIP awards.
The Committee decided to outcomes either side of target.
In addition, neutralise the impact on outstanding the Committee gave consideration to the awards i. e. by converting IFRS 16 outturns For LTIP awards to be made in 2019, the fact that the wider range for Group PBT back to IAS 17 to ensure that participants EPS and ROCE targets will be set with in 2018 could have resulted in a payment are neither rewarded nor penalised reference to their 2018 outturns, as being made for a performance below vis--vis the basis on which their awards restated for IFRS 16, and will remain that of 2017 which was not acceptable were originally granted.
This decision is stretching taking into consideration the to the Board.
consistent with both the advice received by principal operating and external risks the Committee from PwC, its remuneration facing the business over the next three The structure, performance conditions and consultants, as to expected market years as highlighted on page 40. award opportunity for the bonus and LTIP practice on this matter and the approach arrangements in 2019 will be unchanged previously taken by the Committee in and operated as per the 2018 plans, save similar circumstances.
that in respect of the bonus: National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 77 Corporate governance developments The wider workforce environment Further information on our diversity The Company complied throughout the I continue to be encouraged by approach at the Board and activity in the year with all remuneration aspects of the managements commitment to invest in business is set out in the Nominations 2016 Code.
Being cognisant of the new staff at all levels and our commitment to Committee Report on pages 58 and 61.
Code and supporting guidance introduced always meet or exceed national minimum Committee effectiveness by the Financial Reporting Council FRC standards of employment in each of our The Committees effectiveness and in July 2018 which applies to the Company business territories, offering pay, terms and activities formed part of the internal review from 2019, the Committee has also been conditions that are appropriate to each of Board effectiveness performed for the working with management to review our labour market in which we operate.
Details of this review are provided in approach to the new Code, in particular As a Committee, we already receive the Effectiveness section on pages 52 in addressing the employee voice and comprehensive information on pay and 53.
Overall, the Committee continued engagement provisions which will form practices and economic conditions across to operate effectively and to a high part of a broader Board exercise as how the Group, including on pay increases standard having delivered on a significant best to consider stakeholder views more across the UK, Spain and North America.
With a view to generally in its decision-making process.
In addition, we have oversight of the strengthening the overall knowledge and Our review highlighted that we are already remuneration of all individuals in the Group experience of the Committee, I am pleased compliant with a number of the principles earning above 100,000 per annum.
As to confirm that Dr Ashley Steel was and provisions of the new Code relating part of setting the scene for and appointed a Committee member on to executive remuneration, including: contextualising the pay review and 29 January this year.
a well thought-out and implemented decisions of the Committee, we will Looking forward Policy that has a strong link to Group continue to develop this reporting in 2019 I am comfortable that the Policy now in strategy and long-term success: and intend to take into account broader force continues to support the business appropriate use of judgement and information on workforce pay, policies and strategy and the Committee can operate discretion within incentive plans practices, including diversity, the gender appropriately within it, using judgement and the Policy: pay gap and the employee agenda where necessary to assess outcomes phased release and a five-year term generally.
and determine awards in the light including vesting and holding period for Gender pay of performance.
LTIPs, which apply regardless of whether In line with new UK regulations, we the Executive remains employed or not: Together with the Board, the Committee published our first gender pay gap reports consideration by the Committee of welcomes the introduction of the new in April 2018.
They showed an aggregated workforce pay, including annual salary Code and believes we have a responsibility median gender pay gap of 13.34% and a budgets and awards and oversight to embrace it.
Accordingly, we will continue mean gender pay gap of 4.24% across of incentive provisions across the our assessment and implementation work affected UK employees.
We are confident Group: and in 2019 while also keeping an eye on that our gender pay gap is not an issue of full disclosure of the decisions made emerging best practice as it develops, and equal pay but rather one caused by the by the Committee and engagement that engage with shareholders as required.
We imbalance in gender diversity of those has been carried out with shareholders will report against the new Code next year.
occupying senior management positions in each year.
As a business, we are committed I hope you find the information contained We will continue our new Code to promoting a culture of inclusion and in this report helpful and I welcome any assessment work during this year and diversity and continue to develop initiatives comments you may have.
I also look implement any extended and or new to attract, retain and engage more women forward to receiving your support for the processes deemed necessary.
While we do across the business and at all levels.
I have Annual Report on Remuneration at this not intend to make any structural changes always been impressed by the Groups years AGM.
to remuneration in 2019 as we have just focus on talent and commitment to build undertaken a full review of the Policy, we long-term leadership capability through will continue to monitor market practice its global graduate and apprentice and respond appropriately.
programmes with diversity, in its broadest sense, continuing to be a key objective of our actions in this area.
Jane Kingston Remuneration Committee Chair 28 February 2019 National Express Group PLC Annual Report 2018
