STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration report Annual Statement of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, variable pay that can be realised is enhanced when robust performance conditions are met.
As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the Companys Remuneration Report for the year to 30 Following this review and having taken into account developing September 2018. market practice and feedback received from shareholders through a detailed consultation process, the Committee will The Group has continued to deliver strong financial results be putting forward a new Policy for approval at the AGM on 7 this year, including an increase of Group profit before tax of February 2019.
23%, an increase in Group adjusted profit before tax of 17.9%, an increase in adjusted proforma EPS of 20.5% and a total Full details of the proposed Policy are set out on pages 65 to72, shareholder return of 25.3% but the key changes are: In the context of this performance and as noted last year, one of The introduction of bonus deferral, such that up to 50% of the main activities of the Committee over the past 12 months future annual bonus awards will be deferred into shares has been to review the Remuneration Policy the Policy for two years: which was approved by shareholders following the Groups The introduction of non-financial bonus performance IPO in September 2015 and is therefore due for renewal measures to increase alignment with the wider business at the 2019 AGM.
The Committees review also took into strategy, while retaining a primary focus on stretching consideration the significant progress of the business since financial performance: flotation.
The LTIP opportunity will increase from 150% to 200% of base salary: and As set out earlier in the report, the strategy of the business has The shareholding requirement will increase from 150% to evolved since the Groups IPO as evidenced by the M&A activity 200% of base salary.
In order to support this, the Board understood the need to carefully underpin the values and behaviours in the The Committee has also begun to consider how it will meet business and reinforce the culture required to drive the business the requirements of the new UK Corporate Governance forward.
This has touched many parts of the business including Code the Code from next year.
The Group already has the investment into a new office in the heart of Manchester an established employee engagement programme in place, city centre.
From a remuneration perspective, the Committee with regular employee engagement meetings chaired by the has sought to enhance the remuneration strategy to ensure CEO, separate working groups for specific projects including continued strong alignment with the delivery of business diversity & inclusion and the new office, and the Committee objectives and reward the successful delivery of these.
has determined that the most appropriate approach to ensure an effective two-way dialogue between the wider employee As a consequence, the Committee undertook a detailed population and the Board is to appoint a Non-Executive review which highlighted that the link between performance Director responsible for this role.
Over the coming year the and reward needed to be strengthened to enable the Group Group will identify which of the Independent Non-Executive to ensure it can recruit and retain key talent at all levels.
The Directors will take on this responsibility and formalise how and Committees review therefore has been focussed on ensuring when their involvement will be incorporated into the existing an appropriate mix of fixed versus variable pay in order that employee engagement framework.
the senior team remain aligned with shareholders by creating shareholder value, balanced with ensuring that the level of The Committee has sought to enhance the remuneration strategy to ensure continued strong alignment with the delivery of business objectives David Kelly CHAIR, RENUMERATION COMMITTEE 61 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Remuneration report While the Committee already has oversight of the remuneration The performance period for the LTIP awards which were practices of the senior management and across the wider granted following our IPO ended on 30 September business, the Committees terms of reference will also be 2018.
Performance was assessed against EPS 70% reviewed to formally reflect the requirements of the new Code, weighting and returns to shareholder 30% weighting.
including the extension of remit.
EPS performance in 2018 was 21.3 pence and therefore 0% of this element of the LTIP awards vested.
Exceptional Remuneration highlights for the 2018 financial year value was created for shareholders over the three year In 2018, remuneration highlights included the following: performance period with an annualised TSR of 32.4%.
As a result, 100% of the TSR element of the LTIP awards As part of its wider review of remuneration this year the vested.
Overall therefore 30% of the first grant of LTIP Committee also reviewed base salaries during the year.
Chief Financial Officers base salary was increased LTIP awards for the 2018 financial year were granted on 20 to 310,000 from 1 October 2018 to reflect his strong December 2017.
The awards will vest at the end of a performance since appointment and increased three year performance period and will be subject to a responsibilities around M&A activity and shareholder further two year holding period.
In line with previous engagement.
awards, the performance metrics for these awards are The Committee recognises that the Chief Executive Officers based 70% on EPS performance and 30% on returns to current base salary is below the market level, but when shareholders.
setting his base salary has continued to have regard to his The Committee approved the award of restricted stock to considerable shareholding in the Company and so no a number of key members of the senior management team increase will be awarded this year.
in October 2017 in order to maximise alignment between The annual bonus measures were based on financial targets the senior management team and shareholders and address which link directly to both strategic and operational the retention challenges being faced by the Company at this initiatives of the Company.
Despite the strong performance level.
The awards will vest in October 2020.
No awards of the Company over the year, due to the stretching nature were made to Executive Directors.
of the threshold PBT target, no bonus in respect of the 2018 financial year will be paid.
62 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Key activities of the remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee met 8 times during the 2018 financial year and its key activities were as follows: Approval of FY17 performance and remuneration decisions for Executive Directors Review of group-wide pay and conditions Review of FY17 year end compensation process and budgets for all employees Consideration of reward strategy for the broader employee population and employee engagement Review of Executive Directors remuneration Review of gender pay report Assessment of FY17 performance Approval of FY18 annual bonus plan Preliminary review of FY19 annual bonus plan in light of policy review Approval of FY18 performance measures and awards Grant of LTIP awards Approval of FY18 restricted share award Review of proposal for FY19 restricted share awards Review of in-flight awards Approval of the FY17 DRR Planning for FY18 DRR Review performance of independent advisers and fees over the year Preparation for AGM Market update session Review Terms of Reference Update on Remuneration Policy review 63 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Governance Bonus & LTIP Overall renumeration 27 Oct 2017 2 Nov 2017 27 Nov 2017 20 Dec 2017 26 March 2018 28 June 2018 24 July 2018 12 Sept 2018 Remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with The Large The Committee is committed to ensuring that we are and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and responsive to developments in best practice, as well as a Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, the UKLA Listing transparent approach in respect of executive pay.
Should Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The report is you have any queries or comments on this Report, or more split into three parts: generally in relation to the Companys remuneration, then please do not hesitate to contact me via the Company This Annual Statement.
The Directors Remuneration Policy, which sets out the Companys proposed remuneration policy for directors, the I hope that you find the information in this report helpful key factors which were taken into consideration in setting and informative, and I look forward to your continued the policy and details of the changes from the current policy.
support at the Companys Annual General Meeting The proposed policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM and will apply for three years from David Kelly the date of approval.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee The Annual Report on Remuneration which sets out 28 November 2018 payments made to the Directors and details the link between Company performance and remuneration for the 2018 financial year.
The Annual Report on Remuneration together with this statement is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
64 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Remuneration policy Introduction Competitive remuneration - Maintain a competitive This section describes the Committees Policy on the package against businesses of a comparable size and remuneration of Directors.
The Policy will be put to shareholders nature in order to attract, retain and motivate high calibre for approval at the AGM on 7 February 2019.
If approved, it will talent to help ensure the Companys continued growth and come into effect from the date of the AGM and is intended to success: apply for a period of three years.
Strategic alignment - Provide a package with an appropriate balance between short and longer term The Remuneration Committee considers that a successful performance targets linked to the delivery of the Companys remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to business plan: take account of future changes in the Companys business Performance focused compensation - Encourage and environment and in remuneration practices, while delivering support a high performance culture: and appropriate remuneration for the performance, responsibility, Setting appropriate performance conditions - in line with skills and experience of Executive Directors.
the agreed risk profile of the business.
The Policy is therefore designed around the following key Changes to the remuneration policy that were approved by principles: shareholders at the AGM in 2016 Shareholder alignment - Ensure a strong link between The Committee has undertaken a review of the existing reward and individual and Company performance to align remuneration policy to ensure it is fit for purpose following the the interests of Executive Directors, senior management and Companys transition into a more mature, business over the last employees with those of shareholders: three years since IPO.
As a result, the Committee is proposing to make changes to the incentive plans as well as to increase the shareholding requirement, as outlined below.
Element of Current policy Amendment to policy Reason for change remuneration Base salary and Salaries are reviewed annually and any No change N A benefits changes are normally effective from 1 January in the financial year.
A competitive level of benefits is provided.
Pension 15% of base salary for existing Executive No change N A Directors.
Pension contribution will be aligned with the wider workforce for any future recruited Executive Director.
Annual bonus Up to 100% of base salary.
Up to 100% of base Introduction of bonus deferral salary, with up to 50% aligns with market best practice For every 1 above the Board of any award deferred and ensures that performance is approved PBT budget, a proportion into shares for a period sustained over the longer term.
goes into a bonus pot which is of two years.
used to fund Executive and Senior Adjustment of performance Manager bonuses.
The majority of the measures ensures stronger annual bonus will be alignment between performance based on performance of the business and annual against stretching bonus outcomes and enables PBT targets, with the measurement of non-financial balance based on nonmetrics which are core to the financial metrics which wider business strategy, while are aligned to the maintaining an appropriate level business strategy.
65 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Remuneration policy Element of remuneration Current policy Amendment to policy Reason for change Long term incentive plan Up to 150% of base salary.
Up to 200% of base Maximise alignment salary.
between Executive Three year performance period plus a Directors and two year post-vesting holding period.
Three year shareholders performance period by increasing Performance based on EPS and TSR plus a two year postweighting on the performance.
long term elements of the remuneration Performance based policy.
on EPS and TSR performance.
Increase alignment with more typical incentive levels in the wider market.
Shareholding 150% of base salary 200% of base salary Maximise alignment requirement between Executive Directors and shareholders.
66 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table summarises each element of remuneration and how it supports the Companys short and long term strategic objectives.
Performance metrics Element of Operation Opportunity used, weighting and time remuneration period applicable Base Salary Salaries are reviewed annually and Base salaries will be set at None Provides a any changes are normally effective an appropriate level within base level of from 1 January in the financial year.
a comparator group of listed remuneration companies of comparable size to support When determining an appropriate and will normally increase in line recruitment level of salary, the Remuneration with increases made to the wider and retention Committee considers: employee workforce.
of Executive remuneration practices Directors with within the Company: Individuals who are recruited or the necessary the performance of the promoted to the Board may, on experience individual Executive occasion, have their salaries set and expertise Director: below the targeted policy level to deliver the the individual Executive until they become established Companys Directors experience and in their role.
responsibilities: subsequent increases in salary the general performance may be higher than the average of the Company: until the target positioning is salaries within the ranges achieved.
paid by the companies in the comparator group The Committee recognises that used for remuneration Simon Coopers current base benchmarking: and salary is below the market level, the economic but when setting Simons base environment.
salary has given regard to his considerable shareholding in the Company, and the desire to focus the remuneration structure on a long term strategy.
Benefits The Executive Directors receive The maximum will be set None Provides a benefits which include family private at the cost of providing the competitive level health cover.
The Remuneration Committee recognises the need to maintain suitable flexibility in the determination of benefits that ensure it is able to support the objective of attracting and retaining personnel.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee expects to be able to adopt benefits such as relocation expenses, car allowance benefit, death in service life assurance, travel expenses including tax if any, tax equalisation and support in meeting specific costs incurred by directors.
67 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Remuneration policy Performance metrics used, weighting Element of remuneration Operation Opportunity and time period applicable Pensions On recruitment, the 15% of base salary None Paul Meehan currently Committee maintains the p. a. for existing receives an employers ability to provide pension Executive Directors.
contribution equal funding in the form of The Committee to 15% of his base a salary supplement, intends to align the salary.
Due to which would not form pension contribution his considerable part of the salary for the with the wider shareholding, Simon purposes of determining workforce for any Cooper is not provided the extent of participation Executive Directors with pension funding.
in the Companys incentive recruited in the arrangements.
Annual Bonus Plan Annual bonuses are part The maximum bonus Performance is measured over the The Annual Bonus paid in cash and part in opportunity is 100% financial year.
Up to 50% of any of base salary.
significant incentive to award will be deferred into The majority of the annual bonus will the Executive Directors shares for two years.
be based on performance against linked to achievement stretching PBT targets, with the in delivering goals that Malus will apply up to balance based on non-financial are closely aligned the date of the bonus metrics which are aligned to the with the Companys determination and clawback business strategy.
strategy and the will apply for two years creation of value for from the date of bonus The Remuneration Committee shareholders.
is of the opinion that given the commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial targets used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the bonus plan in advance would not be in shareholder interests.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance periods so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any pay-outs under the annual bonus.
The Remuneration Committee retains discretion in exceptional circumstances to change performance measures and targets and the weightings attached to performance measures part-way through a performance year if there is a significant and material event which causes the Remuneration Committee to believe the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer appropriate.
Discretion may also be exercised in cases where the Remuneration Committee believe that the bonus outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
68 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Element of Operation Opportunity Performance metrics used, weighting remuneration and time period applicable Long-Term Incentive Awards are granted annually to Maximum award The performance conditions Plan LTIP Executive Directors in the form of of 200% of base for awards are currently split Awards are designed nil cost options.
between earnings per share to incentivise the at the end of a three year period EPS growth 70% and Executive Directors subject to: 25% of the absolute total shareholder return to maximise total the Executive Directors award will vest TSR 30%.
shareholder returns by continued employment at the for threshold successfully delivering date of vesting: and performance.
100% The Remuneration Committee the Companys satisfaction of the of the award will may change the balance of objectives and to performance conditions.
vest for maximum the measures, or use different share in the resulting performance.
measures for subsequent awards, increase in total The Remuneration Committee Straight line vesting as appropriate.
may award dividend equivalents between these change will be made to the type on awards to the extent that points.
of performance conditions without The use of earnings these vest.
per share EPS ensures Executive A further two year holding The Remuneration Committee Directors are focused period post vesting will apply.
retains discretion in exceptional on ensuring the annual circumstances to change profit performance Malus will apply for the period performance measures and targeted by the from grant to vesting with targets and the weightings Annual Bonus Plan clawback applying for the two attached to performance flows through to longyear period post vesting.
measures part-way through a term sustainable EPS performance period if there is growth.
a significant and material event which causes the Remuneration The use of absolute Committee to believe the original TSR measures measures, weightings and targets the success of the are no longer appropriate.
implementation of the Companys strategy in Discretion may also be exercised delivering a minimum in cases where the Remuneration level of return.
Committee believe that the vesting outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
HMRC Share The Company has a share UK scheme in line None Incentive Plan incentive plan in which the with HMRC limits To encourage Executive Directors are eligible as amended from wide employee to participate which is HMRC time to time.
share ownership registered and is open to all and thereby eligible staff.
align employees interests with shareholders.
69 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Remuneration policy Performance metrics used, weighting and time period applicable Element of remuneration Operation Opportunity Shareholding The Remuneration 200% of salary.
None Requirement Committee has adopted To support long term formal shareholding commitment to the guidelines that will Company and the encourage the Executive alignment of Executive Directors to build up over Director interests with a five year period and those of shareholders.
then subsequently hold a shareholding equivalent to a percentage of base salary.
Adherence to these guidelines is a condition of continued participation in the equity incentive arrangements.
Non-Executive The Board as a whole is The base fees for None Director fees responsible for setting the Non-Executive Provides a level of fees remuneration of the Directors are set at a to support recruitment Non-Executive Directors, market rate.
and retention of other than the Chairman Non-Executive whose remuneration In general, the level Directors with the is considered by the of fee increase for necessary experience Remuneration Committee the Non-Executive to advise and assist and recommended to the Directors will be with establishing Board.
set taking account and monitoring the of any change in Companys strategic Non-Executive Directors responsibility and objectives.
are paid a base fee and will take into account additional fees for acting the general rise in as chair of committees.
The salaries across the Chair of the Board does UK workforce.
not receive any additional fees for membership of The Company will committees.
pay reasonable expenses incurred Fees are typically reviewed by the Chairman every three years based and Non-Executive on equivalent roles in an Directors.
appropriate comparator group used to review salaries paid to the Executive Directors.
Fees may be reviewed more regularly than this in exceptional circumstances, such as a significant increase in the size or complexity of the business.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
70 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Discretion The Remuneration Committees policy is not to provide sign on The Remuneration Committee has discretion in several areas of compensation.
However, in exceptional circumstances where Policy as set out in this report.
The Remuneration Committee the Remuneration Committee decides to provide this type of may also exercise operational and administrative discretions compensation it will endeavour to provide the compensation under relevant plan rules approved by shareholders as set in equity, subject to a holding period during which cessation out in those rules.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee of employment will generally result in forfeiture and subject to has the discretion to amend the Policy with regard to minor or the satisfaction of performance targets.
The maximum value of administrative matters where it would be, in the opinion of the this one off compensation will be proportionate to the overall Remuneration Committee, disproportionate to seek or await remuneration offered by the Company and in all circumstances shareholder approval.
Differences in policy from the wider employee population The Committee will carefully consider this matter to ensure The Group aims to provide a remuneration package for all consistency with the principles outlined earlier, particularly in employees that is market competitive and operates the same relation to shareholder alignment, and will take appropriate reward and performance philosophy throughout the business.
external advice before finalising a decision in this regard and As with many companies, the Group operates variable pay where practical consult with the Companys key shareholders.
plans primarily focussed on mid to senior management level.
The Remuneration Committees policy is not to provide buyouts Recruitment policy as a matter of course.
However, should the Remuneration The Companys approach when setting the remuneration of Committee determine that the individual circumstances of any newly recruited Executive Director will be assessed in line recruitment justified the provision of a buyout, the equivalent with the same principles for the Executive Directors, as set value of any incentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a out in the remuneration policy table above.
The Remuneration directors previous employment will be calculated taking into Committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no account the following: more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role from the market in the proportion of the performance period completed on the which the Company competes.
date of the Directors cessation of employment: the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these The Remuneration Committee will have regard to guidelines incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced any other terms and condition having a material effect on short-term or long-term incentive payments made on their value lapsed value.
recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
The Remuneration Committee may then grant up to the same value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it was not be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved possible or practical to provide the buyout within the terms of policy.
Given a new Executive Director would not have the the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement significant shareholding of the current Executive Directors, the would be used.
base salary on recruitment may be higher than the incumbent.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the In the year of recruitment, the maximum variable pay will be policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion 300% of salary other than in exceptional circumstances where but there would be no retrospective application of the policy up to 400% of salary may be made if sign-on compensation in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration is provided.
The pension contributions for a newly recruited arrangements.
Executive Director will be in line with the wider workforce.
71 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Remuneration policy Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package The Non-Executive Directors of the Company including the for an existing employee would be honoured and form part Chair of the Board do not have service contracts.
The Nonof the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These Executive Directors are appointed by letters of appointment would be disclosed to shareholders in the Remuneration Report which set out the terms and conditions of their appointment.
for the relevant financial year.
The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors and The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment their notice periods are as stated in the table below.
of new Non-Executive Directors is to apply the policy which applies to current Non-Executive Directors.
The terms of the Non-Executive Directors positions are subject to their re-election by the Companys shareholders at the AGM Service agreements and letters of appointment scheduled to be held on 7 February 2019 and to re-election at Each of the Executive Directors service agreements is for any subsequent AGM at which the Non-Executive Directors a rolling term and may be terminated by the Company stand for re-election.
or the Executive Director by giving 6 months notice.
The Remuneration Committees policy for setting notice periods is that a 6 month period will apply for Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee may in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period of up to 12 months, which would in any event reduce to 6 months following the first year of employment.
Non-Executive Director Date of original appointment Notice period Lee Ginsberg 28 September 2015 3 months David Kelly 28 September 2015 3 months Elaine ODonnell 3 July 2018 3 months 72 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 S STR TRA ATE TEGIC REP GIC REPOR ORT T GO GOVERNANCE VERNANCE FINANCIAL S FINANCIAL ST TA ATEMENT TEMENTS S OUR VALUES: RESPECT Our regular employee engagement surveys, as well as our employee engagement committee, provide opportunities for everyone to express their view and have their voice heard.
And we really listen to what they have to say it helps us perform better and build stronger teams.
Charlene HR Advisor ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 73 73 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration How remuneration links with strategy It is essential that a fair, competitive and attractive remuneration policy is in place in order to ensure the future success of the Company.
Our remuneration policy is designed to be fair and competitive, support the strategic objectives of the Company, and motivate the Executive Directors to deliver the short and long term strategy as set out in the CEOs statement on pages 12 to 14.
In the diagram below, we summarise how the Companys strategic priorities are aligned with the remuneration policy.
LTIP Annual bonus Short term: Longer term: Longer term: profit before EPS TSR Tax Annual bonus Short to medium term: Employee engagement Score Annual bonus Short term: Short term: Annual profit before profit before bonus tax tax Longer term: Longer term: EPS EPS LTIP LTIP Longer term: Longer term: TSR TSR Short term: Short to medium profit before term: Tax Net promoter score Annual bonus 74 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Illustrations of application of remuneration policy Bonus opportunity and LTIP award levels are the The charts below illustrate how the potential future maximum levels set out in the Policy table above.
remuneration of the Executive Directors may vary at different For target performance, assumptions of bonus payout levels of performance and the percentage each element may of 60% of maximum and LTIP vesting at 62.5% of form together with the possible total value.
For the purpose of maximum.
this chart, the following assumptions have been made: For maximum performance, assumptions of bonus payout of 100% of maximum and maximum vesting The base salary levels are those in effect as at the date of 100% for LTIP.
No share price increase has been assumed, save for in Fixed elements comprise of base salary, pension and other the scenario which illustrates the impact of 50% benefits.
share price appreciation on the potential value of future Benefits levels are assumed to be the same as in the 2018 remuneration.
financial year for each Executive Director.
Dividend equivalents have not been added to LTIP share awards.
CEO '000 Maximum with share 20.2% 20.0% 39.9% 20.0% 1,022 price appreciation Maximum 25.2% 24.9% 49.9% 818 On-Target 35.3% 21.0% 43.7% 583 Minimum 100% 206 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 Salary, Benefits & Pension Bonus LTIP LTIP 50% share price growth CFO '000 Maximum with share 22.5% 19.4% 38.8% 19.4% 1,600 price appreciation Maximum 27.9% 24.0% 48.1% 1,290 On-Target 38.5% 19.9% 41.5% 933 Minimum 100% 360 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800 Salary, Benefits & Pension Bonus LTIP LTIP 50% share price growth At minimum, variable remuneration is 0% of salary: at target, variable remuneration represents 185% of salary and at maximum, variable remuneration represents 300% of salary for both the CEO and CFO.
On the basis of 50% share price growth over the three year LTIP performance period the maximum value of one years remuneration for the CEO and CFO would increase to 1,022,000 and 1,600,000 respectively as illustrated above.
75 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Annual report on remuneration Single total figure of remuneration audited Executive and Non-Executive Directors audited The table below sets out the single total figure of remuneration Figures provided have been calculated in accordance with the and breakdown for each Executive and Non-Executive Director Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts in respect of the 2018 financial year.
Comparative figures for and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. the 2017 financial year have also been provided.
2 No salary or fee increases were awarded during FY17.
3 The value of the LTIP for 2018 relates to the 2016 award, which had a three-year performance period ending 30 September 2018.
Based on performance over this period, the Remuneration Committee determined that 30% of the maximum award vested on 27 November 2018, equivalent to 27,522 nil-cost options.
The value of the award included above is therefore 110,638.44 based on the closing share price of 402 pence at the vesting date.
50,640.48 of this is attributable to share price appreciation over the period to the vesting date based on the original share price of 218 pence used to determine the original number of awards on grant.
4 Paul Meehan was appointed to the Board with effect from 16 January 2017.
His FY17 base salary, benefits, pension and annual bonus relate to the period he served as an Executive Director during FY17.
5 From 3 September 2018, Richard Segal stepped down as Non-Executive Chair of the Board and Chair of the Nomination Committee and stepped down from the Board on 28 September 2018.
6 From 3 September 2018, Lee Ginsberg stepped down as Senior Independent Director and Chair of the Audit Committee.
From this date, he succeeded Richard Segal as Non-Executive Chair of the Board and Chair of the Nomination Committee.
7 From 3 September 2018, David Kelly succeeded Lee Ginsberg as Senior Independent Director.
8 Elaine ODonnell was appointed to the Board with effect from 3 July 2018 and succeeded Lee Ginsberg as Chair of the Audit Committee on 3 September 2018.
76 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Additional information regarding single figure table audited bonus target set.
As a result, the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee considers that performance determined that no bonus pot was created for the Executive conditions for all incentives are suitably demanding, having regard Directors.
to the business strategy, shareholder expectations, the markets in which the Group operates and external advice.
To the extent The performance targets for the 2018 annual bonus that any performance condition is not met, the relevant part of the award are set out below.
Had a bonus pot been created, award will lapse.
There is no retesting of performance.
the Remuneration Committee would have determined individual allocations of this pot based on satisfaction of Bonus awards audited a matrix of key strategic targets including UK revenue, 2018 annual bonus awards and performance targets international revenue, traffic from branded and free sources A bonus pot for Executive bonuses is formed from a proportion and directly contracted hotels as a percentage of sales.
of the excess PBT above a pre-determined target.
For 2018, the Group Adjusted profit before tax excluding exceptional items was However as no bonus pot was created, no consideration 33.6m before amortisation of acquired intangibles, share based was given as to the extent to which strategic metrics had payments and any bonuses are paid which was lower than the been met.
Actual Excess over Threshold Maximum Bonus pot performance threshold Group adjusted 34.3m 35.7m 33.6m 0 0 PBT Long term incentives awarded in 2018 audited The table below sets out the details of the Long-Term Incentive Plan awards granted in the 2018 financial year.
Vesting will be determined according to the achievement of performance conditions as outlined below.
Percentage of Number Performance Face value of Exercise Value of award vesting Performance of shares period end Director LTIP award Price award at threshold conditions awarded date 000 performance EPS 70% Simon LTIP nil 100% of 30 September 200 50,441 Nil 25% Absolute Cooper salary 2020 cost option TSR 30% EPS 70% Paul 150% of 30 September LTIP nil 375 94,578 Nil 25% Absolute Meehan cost option salary 2020 TSR 30% 77 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Annual report on remuneration The awards were granted on 20 December 2017.
The number of shares awarded was calculated using the closing share price on 30 September 2017, which was 396.5 pence.
The EPS condition applying to 70% of the awards is provided in the table below: EPS for year ending 30 September 2020 Vesting Less than 29.25p 0% 29.25p 25% 35.75p or above 100% Between 29.25p and 35.75p Straight line vesting between 25% and 100% The Absolute TSR condition applying to 30% of the awards is provided in the table below: Annualised TSR of the Company over the three year Vesting period to 30 September 2020 Less than 8% 0% 8% 25% 15% or above 100% Between 8% and 15% Straight line vesting between 25% and 100% Absolute TSR is averaged over a one month period prior to the beginning and end of the performance period or such shorter period as is available.
78 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Long term incentives awarded in 2016 with performance period ending in 2018 Simon Cooper only The Companys first long term incentive award was granted on 20 May 2016 with a three year performance period commencing on 1 October 2015 and ending on 30 September 2018.
The award vested on 27 November 2018.
Performance under the awards was based on EPS 70% weighting and annualised TSR 30% weighting, as set out below.
The EPS condition applying to 70% of the awards is provided in the table below: EPS for year ending 30 September 2018 Vesting Less than 21.5p 0% 21.5p 25% 23.3p or above 100% Between 21.5p and 23.3p Straight line vesting between 25% and 100% Actual EPS: 21.3p 0% The Absolute TSR condition applying to 30% of the awards is provided in the table below: Annualised TSR of the Company over the three year Vesting period to 30 September 2018 Less than 15% 0% 15% 25% 25% or above 100% Between 15% and 25% Straight line vesting between 25% and 100% Actual TSR: 32.4% 100% Based on the above performance outcomes, 30% of the awards vested on 27 November 2018 which is equivalent to 27,522 nil-cost options.
79 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Annual report on remuneration Payments to past directors payments for loss of office audited Wendy Parry, former Chief Financial Officer, was granted 80,275 nil-cost options on 20 May 2016 under the Companys first LTIP grant alongside Simon Cooper.
She retired from the Board as a good leaver on 16 January 2017.
As such, her entitlement to awards under the 2016 grant will be pro-rated for time and performance on vesting, such that 7.9% of the maximum award will vest, equivalent to 6,368 nil-cost options.
The value of these awards is 25,599.36 based on the closing share price of 402 pence at the vesting date 27 November 2018.
Statement of directors shareholdings and share interests audited Shareholding requirements in operation at the Company as 28 September 2018 were 150% of base salary for the CEO and the CFO.
These will increase to 200% from the date of the 2019 AGM subject to approval of the proposed Remuneration Policy.
Executive Directors are required to build up their shareholdings over a five year period.
The number of shares of the Company in which current Directors had a beneficial interest and details of long-term incentive interests as at 30 September 2018 are set out in the table below: Unvested LTIP Shareholding Current Beneficially Shareholding interests subject requirement shareholding Owned requirement Director to performance % of salary % of salary Shares met?
conditions 2 4,936% - 241,686 Yes Simon Cooper 150% 1 Paul Meehan 150% 0% - 281,145 No Notes: 1 Paul Meehan joined the Company as CFO on 16 January 2017 and has five years from this date to build up his shareholding requirement.
2 Under the 2016 LTIP, 27,523 nil cost options vested on 27 November 2018.
The remaining 64,220 nil cost options lapsed on this date.
The share price of 495 pence as at 28 September 2018 the last business day of the financial year ending 30 September 2018 has been taken for the purpose of calculating the current shareholding as a percentage of salary.
Unvested LTIP awards do not count towards satisfaction of the shareholding guidelines.
No changes in the above Directors interests have taken place between 27 September 2018 and the date of this report.
Non-Executive Directors are not subject to a shareholding requirement.
Details of their interests in shares are set out below: Director Shares held 30 September 2018 Richard Segal 406,680 Lee Ginsberg 16,300 David Kelly 0 Elaine ODonnell 0 80 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Comparison of overall performance and pay TSR graph The graph below shows the value of 100 invested in the Companys shares since listing compared to both the FTSE 250 and FTSE Small Cap indices.
The graph shows the Total Shareholder Return generated by both the movement in share value and the reinvestment over the same period of dividend income.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the FTSE 250 index is the appropriate comparator as On the Beach became a constituent of this index over the last financial year.
The comparison against the FTSE Small Cap index is included for consistency with previous years.
This graph has been calculated in accordance with the Regulations.
It should be noted that the Company listed on 28 September 2015 and therefore only has a listed share price for the period from 28 September 2015 to 30 September 2018.
IPO 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 30 September 30 September 30 September 30 September 2015 2016 2017 2018 On the Beach FTSE Small Cap FTSE 250 Chief Executive Officer historical remuneration The table below sets out the total remuneration delivered to the Chief Executive Officer over the last three years valued using the methodology applied to the single total figure of remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that the remuneration payable in its earlier years as a private company bears any comparative value to that paid in its later years and therefore the Remuneration Committee has chosen to disclose remuneration only for the five most recent financial years: Chief Executive Officer 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Total Single Figure 000s 316 201 239 131 131 Annual bonus payment level achieved - - 27.8% - - % of maximum opportunity LTIP vesting level achieved % of maximum 30% N A N A N A N A opportunity It should be noted that the Company only introduced the LTIP on Admission, with the first grant made in May 2016.
81 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Total shareholder return assuming 100 invested at IPO Annual report on remuneration Change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared with employees The following table sets out the change in the remuneration percentage change is based is calculated using the paid to the Chief Executive Officer from 2017 to 2018 increase in the earnings of full-time UK employees using compared with the average percentage change for employees.
P60 and P11d data from tax years 2017 and 2018.
The same individuals have been included in each year to ensure The Chief Executive Officers remuneration disclosed in the a true like for like comparison.
Consequently, 2017 figures table below has been calculated to take into account base have been updated.
Part time employees have been salary, taxable benefits, and annual bonus including any excluded from the analysis, as have any employees who amount deferred.
The employee pay on which the average have been promoted or changed role.
Salary Taxable benefits Bonus 000 000 000 Percentage Percentage Percentage change change change 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Chief Executive Officer 203 200 1.5% 2 1 100% - - - Total for all employees 5,432 4,972 9% 26 21 24% 207 184 13% Number of employees 152 152 - - - - 152 152 - Average per employee 36 33 9% - - - 1 1 - The employee engagement committee formed last year and other engagement initiatives continue to meet and have a tangible input into all matters affecting the company, including remuneration and benefits.
Further details on these initiatives can be found on pages 34, 38 to 39.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below sets out the relative importance of spend on pay in the 2017 and 2018 financial years compared with other disbursements.
All figures provided are taken from the relevant Company Accounts.
Disbursements from profit Disbursements from profit in 2018 financial year in 2017 financial year % change m m Profit distributed by 4.3 4.0 7.5% way of dividend Overall spend on pay including Executive 13.3 10.0 33% Directors 82 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Shareholder voting at general meeting The Committee is committed to shareholder dialogue, seeks to ensure optimal alignment for all stakeholders and to ensure shareholders views are taken into account in shaping remuneration policy and practice.
The Directors Annual Report on Remuneration was subject to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 8 February 2018, the results of which were as follows: Resolution For Against Abstentions Ordinary Resolution to approve the 92,479,656 221,627 0 Directors remuneration report for the 99.76% 0.24% 0% year ended 30 September 2017 Implementation of remuneration policy in financial year 2019 The Remuneration Committee proposes to implement the policy for 2019 as set out below: Salary The Remuneration Committee has determined that a salary increase of 22% will be applied for Paul Meehan, effective from 1 October 2018.
No salary increase will be awarded to Simon Cooper.
The current salaries are set out below: Salary Percentage Change 1 2019 2018 Simon Cooper 204,000 204,000 0% Paul Meehan 310,000 255,000 22% Note: 1 Salaries effective from 1 January 2018 Changes to NED fees The NED fees approved by the Board at IPO were in place for the period from 28 September 2015 for a period of three years.
Following a thorough benchmarking process, the Board approved the following fees for a period of three years from 28 September 2018.
The breakdown of fee components is as follows: Position Fee Chair of the Board 161,000 Non Executive Director 48,000 Additional fees are paid for: Senior Independent Director 6,000 Chair of Audit Committee 9,000 Chair of Remuneration Committee 9,000 No additional fee is paid to the Chair of the Nomination Committee 83 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Annual report on remuneration Benefits and pension Advisers to the Remuneration Committee No changes are proposed to benefits or pension.
During the financial year the Committee took advice from  LLP PwC who were retained as Annual bonus plan external independent remuneration advisors to the Committee.
The maximum bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors will remain at 100% of salary with up to 50% of any award During the financial year, PwC advised the Company on all being deferred into shares for two years.
aspects of remuneration policy and its implementation for Executive Directors and members of the Executive team.
In line with the proposed Policy, 70% of the annual bonus for the 2019 financial year will be based on PBT performance, The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice with the remaining 30% based on performance against nonreceived was objective and independent.
PwC is a member of financial targets aligned with the companys strategy.
For the the Remuneration Consultants Group and the voluntary code 2019 financial year the non-financial metrics will be based on of conduct of that body is designed to ensure objective and Net Promoter Score and Employee Engagement Score.
independent advice is given to remuneration committees.
The Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that given PwC received fees of 54,900 for their advice during the year the commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed to 30 September 2018. performance targets used for the annual bonus, disclosing precise targets for the bonus plan in advance would not be in On behalf of the board shareholder interests.
Actual targets will be published following the end of the performance period in line with established David Kelly practice so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any payChair of the Remuneration Committee outs under the annual bonus.
28 November 2018 LTIP award It is intended that a grant under the LTIP will be made during FY19.
The maximum LTIP awards for the Executive Directors will be 200% of salary in line with the proposed Policy.
The performance conditions will be based 70% on EPS performance and 30% on absolute TSR measured over a three year period.
Composition and terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee, under agreed terms of reference, responsibility for the remuneration policy and for determining specific packages for the Chairman, Executive Directors and such other senior employees of the Group as the Board may determine from time to time.
The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are currently under review to ensure alignment with the new UK Corporate Governance Code, and the current terms of reference are available on the Companys website, onthebeachgroupplc.
com, and from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
All members of the Remuneration Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors and were appointed on 28 September 2015, with the exception of Elaine ODonnell who was appointed on 3 July 2018.
The Remuneration Committee receives assistance from the CEO, CFO and Company Secretary, who attend meetings by invitation, except when issues relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
The Remuneration Committee met 8 times during 2018.
84 ON THE BEACH GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018
