Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report of the Corporate Governance Code the 96.1% of shares awarded to the CEO Code and the evolving perspectives in March 2016 will vest, as will 94.7% of of shareholders in this area.
We have shares awarded to the CFO.
In line with discussed the implications of the Code our shareholding guideline, some of these as a Committee, balancing future shares will be subject to an additional two expectations against existing contractual year holding period, depending on the commitments in place for Executives.
Executives overall level of holding at the We have started a process to review point of vesting.
the existing Policy ahead of tabling Application of the Policy an updated Policy to shareholders at our AGM in 2020, and we will be This is the second report since the undertaking an engagement exercise Remuneration Policy was approved by Angela Seymour-Jackson with shareholders during 2019 to seek shareholders in 2017.
We have seen the Committee Chair feedback on any changes we propose.
single plan ESIP structure continue to drive alignment with performance.
We Company performance are seeing two areas behind the design SECTION A: 2018 has been a strong year for the of the ESIP come through in reward ANNUAL STATEMENT business with profit performance outcomes for the Executives: ahead of internal budgets and investor Dear Shareholder, Alignment of Executives to forecasts at the end of 2017.
Headline business performance through I am pleased to introduce my first report Profit Before Tax PBT has grown by shareholding.
The mandatory as Chair of the Remuneration Committee 20% over 2017, and we continue to deferral of a significant part of any since joining PageGroup in October outperform many of our peers and our award into Company shares has 2017 and becoming the chair of the gross profit performance has been in led to an increase in the level of Remuneration Committee in June 2018. the upper quartile of our peer group.
shareholding against the minimum I would like to thank my predecessor, We have also seen robust strategic shareholding guideline for the CFO.
Danuta Gray, for her extensive achievement against stretching targets, His shareholding as a percentage contribution to the business and the details of which can be seen within this of salary has increased from 36% Remuneration Committee.
Earnings per Share EPS in December 2016 to 113% in has grown by 22.6% over the last year In this years report to address feedback December 2018, which increases and has averaged 15.3% over the past from shareholders we have sought to further to 194% when deferred three years.
give enhanced disclosure to provide shares awarded under the ESIP more focus on the way we implement in 2018 are included.
Our CEO Although not a measure used within our our existing Policy.
We are committed has chosen to continue to hold reward design, our Total Shareholder to providing transparent and informative significant wealth in the Company, Return TSR has grown over the past disclosures on reward to demonstrate with current shareholding in excess year at a time when the FTSE 250 has how the Policy agreed by shareholders in of 550% of his salary.
2017 is being implemented in practice.
Reduction in volatility year on How this performance is seen in In this disclosure we have therefore year.
We wanted a structure that reward outcomes also included a series of spotlight areas encourages Executives to make designed to place specific focus on the This level of performance has resulted appropriate long-term value creating operation of the Policy and the way this in strong outcomes under all elements decisions for the business.
Awards is addressing some of the aims identified of the 2018 ESIP measures, with Steve under the ESIP continue to be when the Policy was introduced.
Ingham CEO receiving an award of performance based and linked 87.7% of maximum and Kelvin Stagg to achievement against defined This is the second year of the operation CFO 86.8% of maximum.
The significant levels of of the single plan ESIP and awards under the ESIP, 60% of the deferral mean that Executives shareholders will recall some transition value is deferred into Company shares are aligned to future Company measures within our Policy, designed which vest over the following three years performance and movements to enable us to move successfully from subject to continued employment.
Key to the the previous operation of annual bonus design is the phased vesting of and LTIP to a single plan structure.
The Long-term awards granted in March these deferred share awards.
This disclosure will highlight the way this has 2016 linked to Earnings per Share, means that in a given year, part operated in 2018 consistent with that Strategic achievement and Gross Profit of the shares awarded from three explained when the Policy was agreed against peers have also vested at high previous ESIP plans vest.
This by Shareholders and additionally the levels reflecting the achievement against structure is expected to reduce way we will operate the structure for targets, both financial and non-financial the volatility of reward received by 2019. in nature.
Full details of the performance the individual year on year, while targets and corresponding achievement The Committee is aware of the not compromising our pay for are provided within the report.
Overall, expectations cited within the publication performance philosophy.
Corporate Governance | 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors Remuneration Report implemented changes to reward at this we want to support and you will see Disclosure of the ESIP and level over the past year to drive greater details of the existing alignment and legacy long-term awards standardisation and consistency within how this has been developed within the As was the case in our 2017 Annual the business.
More broadly, we have Directors Remuneration Report.
Report, the transition to the single plan discussed progress against certain key We recognise the external expectations means that any shares that are no longer people metrics, in particular around of pension contribution levels for subject to Company performance are diversity and inclusion, considering the Executives.
Current contribution included within the single figure value.
activities in place across the organisation levels form part of our contractual Therefore, the single total figure of to ensure that PageGroup is an open relationship with each Executive.
remuneration includes an estimate for accessible place to work, where people Future appointments will have lower the value vesting under the 2016 LTIP can advance careers based on the contribution levels than the existing along with the value of both cash and contribution they make.
We reviewed Executives and this will form part of the shares awarded under the 2018 ESIP.
in detail our Gender Pay position the new Remuneration Policy presented to Therefore, during this transition phase disclosure of which can be found on shareholders at next years AGM.
In the the single figure value appears higher our website.
event we recruit a new Executive Director than would otherwise be the case and Corporate Governance Code in the intervening period the pension set reflects the reporting requirements with for this individual would be at a reduced which we are obliged to comply.
Following the publication of the amended rate to the current incumbents.
Application of the Policy in 2019 Corporate Governance Code we considered the expectations described Conclusion 2019 will be the third year of operation of against our current Policy and contractual We look to engage and discuss reward our ESIP our single variable incentive agreements in place with each Executive.
topics with shareholders on a regular plan designed to reward achievement We recognise that our ESIP structure is basis to understand their perspectives against a balanced scorecard of atypical within the market, designed to on the Policy and the way it has been measures.
We have agreed to implement reflect the cyclical nature of our business implemented.
We also look to make the structure in line with that operated model and align Executives effectively disclosures as clear and transparent in 2018, with a balance of long-term to performance through the economic as possible, to demonstrate the way measures measured over three years cycle.
In interpreting the Code we have the Policy is working and the success and annual performance.
40% of any had to assess our variable reward in aligning reward with performance.
awards under the Plan will be paid in structure against a more standard annual This section of the Annual Report cash, with 60% deferred into Company bonus and LTIP structure that aspects will be subject to an advisory vote shares for up to three years.
Given this is the of shareholders at the 2019 Annual first year of standard operation of our The Committee has reviewed salary General Meeting and I hope that the ESIP following introduction i. e. with levels for the CEO and CFO and have disclosure means you will support a combination of one year and three made amendments in line with the core the implementation of the Policy by year metrics we will look to operate award to UK based employees of 2.3%.
We look forward to the structure unchanged for 2019 and Revised salary levels, effective from constructive dialogue ahead of tabling a commit to a more detailed review as part 1 January 2019, are 629,800 for the new Remuneration Policy in 2020. of our Policy review.
Additionally, we have confirmed that Consideration and alignment to we will introduce a post-cessation the wider workforce Angela Seymour-Jackson shareholding policy as part of our Chair of the Remuneration Committee Our role as a Committee has broadened proposed Policy review, which we will 5 March 2019 over the past few years, very much include as part of our consultation aligned to expectations of investors and process to ensure we gain feedback the corporate governance environment.
We firmly believe We have direct oversight of all reward that alignment of Executives to business for the layer of management below the performance through Company Executives, and have discussed and shareholding is a key underlying principle 59 | Corporate Governance
