86 SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The Companys Remuneration Policy If challenging performance conditions Executive Directors for Executive Directors and Nonattached tovariable pay are achieved The Committees policy for the Executive Executive Directors was approved by in full, asubstantial proportion of an Directors is to provide remuneration which Shareholders atthe AGM on 27 April Executive Directors remuneration will is largely performance orientated, closely 2017, and took effect from that date.
Overall, the aligns the Directors interests with those A summary of the policy for the Executive Committees policy is to ensure that the ofshareholders and which will retain Directors, Chairman and Non-Executive balance of performance conditions atalented executive team who can deliver Directors isset out below in the policy provides a good link to the Companys excellent long term Company performance.
The entire policy, asapproved business strategy and continues To achieve the aim of this policy the by shareholders, may be found tomakethe Company successful remuneration of the Executive Directors ontheCompanys website at onasustainable basis.
ismade up of different elements of fixed www.
com corporate and variable pay, with a significant investors in the 2016 Annual Report.
emphasis on performance related pay forachievement of stretching targets.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors Base salary Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework Market competitive salaries Usually reviewed annually with any increases normally The Committee does not consider Although performance conditions commensurate with a taking effect from 1 January.
itappropriate to set maximum salary do not apply, the individuals Directors experience are paid levels.
Any future increases will performance and the scope of When reviewing salaries, consideration is given to current to attract and retain Executive generally be in line with increases therole are taken into account business and market conditions: any increases awarded Directors with the skills applied to Group monthly paid indetermining the level of any tostaff in the business generally and any change in necessary to lead the business employees in percentage terms.
and successfully implement Increases may be made either the Companys strategy.
Where an Executive Director is to be promoted or where above or below that received by their role is to be expanded or changed, the Committee will thewider workforce in appropriate review the salary payable and decide whether an increase circumstances, which may include decrease is appropriate, in order that base salaries remain but are not limited to, promotions, appropriate.
where the Committee has purposefully set a lower starting salary for a newly appointed Director, or if a Directors salary isno longer market competitive orto reflect development and performance in role or a change inthe size or complexity of the role.
Current salary levels are set out inthe Annual Report on Remuneration.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 87 Annual bonus Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework Annual bonuses are Any annual bonuses earned are paid in cash up to 100% The maximum annual bonus Annual bonus performance performance related.
potential is 200% of base salary conditions are set annually by The aim is to set stretching forthe Group Chief Executive and the Committee to ensure that To further link the Executive Directors pay to the interests targets which will incentivise 150% of base salary for other they take into consideration of Shareholders, any bonus earned in excess of 100% of the Executive Directors to Executive Directors.
Maximum the Companys strategy and the base salary is made through awards under the Companys achieve excellent performance bonus is only payable if stretching outlook for the Company over the Bonus Share Scheme subject to a fide minimis limit inline with the Companys targets are met and excellent medium term and are appropriate of5,000.
The Committee may adjust the bonus pay-out up or down Financial metrics such as profit, should the formulaic outcome be considered not to reflect and cash generation will have the underlying business performance.
Non-financial Vesting of Bonus Share Scheme awards is not subject to metrics such as customer care further performance conditions, other than the Director and health and safety, where must remain employed at the date of exercise subject to applied, will have a minority thestandard good leaver or change of control provisions.
Bonus Share Scheme awards vest and become exercisable Financial metrics: in two equal tranches, on the announcement of the Companys final results for the two years immediately The minimum payment at following the bonus year.
threshold performance is up to 10%, up to 67% of the maximum A dividend equivalent is payable on Bonus Share Scheme potential will vest for on-target awards that vest based on dividends and returns of cash performance and all of the bonus toShareholders with payment dates occurring between the will vest for maximum date of grant and the date of vesting.
may be paid in cash or shares and their value shall be calculated as determined by the Committee, which may Non-financial strategic or assume the reinvestment of dividends into shares.
individual metrics: A clawback arrangement allows for the Company to recover Vesting of the non-financial for up to two years following the determination of the strategic or individual metrics bonus annual bonuses made as a result of an error or willapply on a scale between 0% misstatement, or if a Director is guilty of gross misconduct and100% of that element based which substantially affects the Companys financial onthe Committees assessment performance or reputation.
ofthe extent to which a non-financial performance metrichas been met.
Pension Salary supplement Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework Market competitive pension Base salary is the only component of remuneration which Pension accrual in the DB scheme None salary supplements are offered ispensionable.
The Company operates a defined benefit is on a CARE basis at one-sixtieth to attract and retain Directors DB pension scheme, which is closed to new members of Pensionable Salary per year.
with the skills necessary to lead andadefined contribution DC scheme.
Accrual in the DB The Company will match a the business and successfully scheme is based on a career average revalued earnings Directors contributions into the DC implement the Companys CARE basis for all active members and normal retirement scheme up to a maximum of 9% of strategy.
age for Directors is 60 or 65, dependent on date of base salary.
The Committee retains appointment to the Board.
the discretion to amend the If a Director opts out of future pension accrual, a salary contribution level should market supplement is payable.
The maximum salary supplement in lieu of pension is between 9% and 30% of base salary, dependent upon the level of pension benefits given up.
Any Executive Director appointed externally after the date of the Policy will be awarded a pension orcash contribution in line with the maximum payable to the salaried workforce.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 88 SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY continued Benefits Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework Market competitive benefits The benefits include: fully financed cars or cash car The Committee has not set a None are offered to attract and allowance, Group medical scheme membership, life maximum for benefits.
Benefit retain Directors with the skills assurance, income protection scheme membership, costs will remain a small component necessary to lead the business professional subscriptions and some telephone costs.
and successfully implement The Committee does not currently expect to change the the Companys strategy.
benefits offered to Executive Directors but retains the discretion to add to the benefits available in appropriate circumstances, which may include providing relocation benefits where appropriate.
HMRC qualifying all-employee scheme Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework HMRC qualifying all-employee Executive Directors are eligible to participate in all-employee Maximum is subject to limits in the None share schemes are to schemes on the same basis as other qualifying employees.
encourage employees to take a stake in the business, which aligns their interest with that of Shareholders.
The Persimmon 2017 PSP Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework To provide a link between Under the 2017 PSP, the Committee may grant awards The usual maximum award level Performance conditions applying theremuneration of Executive asconditional shares, nil-cost options or in such other form inrespect of any financial year to awards under the 2017 PSP Directors and the creation asthe Committee determines has a substantially similar ofthe Company is 200% of base will be based on financial measures ofShareholder value by economic effect or as cash settled equivalents and share salary.
However, in exceptional aligned to the Companys long term rewarding Executive Directors awards may be settled in cash.
circumstances such as on strategic aims.
for the achievement of longer recruitment of an Executive Awards vest subject to the satisfaction of performance Awards will vest as to 25% term objectives aligned to Director, awards may be granted conditions assessed over a period of not less than forthreshold performance, Shareholder interests.
inrespect of any financial year three years.
increasing to 100% for maximum ofthe Company at the level of Executive Directors appointed performance.
Awards are granted subject to a holding period of two years upto300% of base salary.
before the 2017 AGM will only following the end of the performance period, with the be granted awards under the awards usually only released to the Executive Director so 2017 PSP when their awards that the Executive Director can acquire the shares subject under the 2012 LTIP have to the award following the end of the holding period.
An additional payment in the form of cash or shares may bemade to reflect the value of dividends which would have been paid on vested shares over such period as the Committee determines, ending no later than the date onwhich the award is released.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions which enable the Committee to cancel or reduce an unvested award or require repayment of a vested award for up to two years following the end of the performance period which is effected through the cancellation or reduction of the award if it remains subject to a holding period.
These provisions may be applied in the event of material misstatement of financial results, gross misconduct which substantially affects the Companys financial performance or reputation and error in the assessment of an awards performance condition.
The Committee retains discretion to operate the 2017 PSP In accordance with its rules, including the ability to adjust the terms of any award to take account of any variation ofthe Companys share capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event that may affect the Companys share price.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 89 Share ownership guidelines Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework To align the interests of the Executive Directors are required to retain shares under all 200% of base salary.
None Executive Directors with those of the Companys share schemes until the guideline is met, of Shareholders.
other than sales required to settle tax liabilities.
Choice of performance conditions Annual bonus conditions Rationale for selection and how performance targets are set Profit before tax and cash Aligned with the Companys strategy to deliver high quality growth and return cash to Shareholders.
These are important factors generation.
in ensuring overall business performance, sustainability and reputation.
Customer satisfaction and health Annual bonus performance conditions are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure that they take into consideration the and safety.
Companys strategy and the outlook for the Company over the medium term and are appropriate from a risk perspective.
The Committee retains the right to adjust or set different performance measures if events occur such as a change in strategy, amaterial acquisition and or a divestment of a Group business or a change in prevailing market conditions, which cause the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so that they achieve their original purpose.
2017 PSP The Committees approach Awards under the 2017 PSP will only be granted to: 1 Executive Directors appointed after the 2017 Annual General Meeting: and 2 Executive Directors appointed before the 2017 AGM when their awards under the 2012 LTIP have vested.
Since it is not, therefore, currently proposed to grant awards to Executive Directors under the 2017 PSP, the details of any measures have not been considered.
The Committee would consult with Shareholders as appropriate in relation to the applicable performance measures in advance of any award under the 2017 PSP being granted to an Executive Director.
For initial awards to senior managers under the 2017 PSP, the intention is to align the performance targets with the Capital Return Plan.
This is aligned with our strategy and provides consistency with the participants in the current 2012 LTIP.
2017 PSP The Committees approach Differences between the Executive Directors and general employees remuneration policy Performance related pay makes up a significantly higher proportion of remuneration for the Executive Directors and senior employees than for employees generally, reflecting the role of these individuals in managing the business to achieve the Companys strategic objectives.
The Committee considers that the emphasis on performance related pay for Executive Directors and senior employees closely aligns the Directors interests with those of Shareholders and helps to deliver excellent long term Company performance.
Chairman Fees Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework Market competitive fees are The Chairmans fees are set by the Committee.
The Chairmans fees will be N A paid to attract a Chairman with The Chairmans initial fee was set at a market competitive increased in line with increases the skills necessary to lead the level, commensurate with the size and complexity of applied to Group monthly paid Board and ensure it is effective our business.
employees in percentage terms, in setting the right strategy although fee increases may be Fees are reviewed annually with any increases normally forthe business and for its awarded above this level in taking effect from 1 January.
appropriate circumstances When reviewing the Chairmans fees, consideration is given including but not limited to : where to current market conditions, the size of the business and there has been a change in market any increases awarded to staff in the business generally.
practice: where there has been a change in the size or complexity of Benefits may be provided in connection with the the business: where there has been undertaking by the Chairman of his duties.
an increase in the time commitment required for the role.
The Chairman does not receive bonus, pension or salary supplement payments or share scheme awards but may receive other benefits such as provision of secretarial support, travel expenses and a fully financed car or cash car allowance as appropriate.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018 90 SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY continued Non-Executive Directors Fees Purpose How it operates Maximum payable Performance framework Market competitive fees are Fees are determined by the Board as a whole.
The Non-Executive Directors N A paid to attract Non-Executive They are set at market competitive levels, commensurate feeswill be increased in line with Directors with a broad range with their duties and responsibilities for a company of increases applied to Group monthly of skills and experience to our size and complexity.
paid employees in percentage complement the Board.
terms, although fee increases Fees are reviewed annually with any increases normally maybe awarded above this level Non-Executive Directors taking effect from 1 January.
inappropriate circumstances with diverse skills and When reviewing the Non-Executive Directors fees including but not limited to : where experience will assist the consideration is given to current market conditions, the size there has been a change in market Board when setting the of the business and any increases awarded to staff in the practice: where there has been a Companys strategy and business generally.
change in the size or complexity of overseeing its successful the business: where there has been implementation.
Benefits may be provided in connection with the an increase in the time commitment undertaking by a Non-Executive Director of his duties.
Additional fees are payable to Non-Executive Directors for extra responsibilities, such as chairing aBoard committee.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive bonus, pension or salary supplement payments or share scheme awards.
They may be entitled to benefits, such as the useof secretarial support or the reimbursement of travel expenses as appropriate.
Legacy arrangements The Committee retains discretion to make any remuneration payment or payment for loss of office including exercising any discretion available to it in respect of any such payment outside the policy in this report: where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect including the satisfaction of options granted under the 2012 LTIP, provided in the case of any payment whose terms were agreed after the previous Directors Remuneration Policy was approved at the Companys 2014 AGM and before the policy in this report became effective, the remuneration payment or payment for loss of office was permitted under that former policy: and where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes, payment includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed no later than the time the award is granted.
External appointments None of the Executive Directors currently have an external appointment.
The Directors recognise that external appointments can broaden an individuals skills and experience.
If an Executive Director wishes to take up an external appointment, he must first seek approval from the Chairman.
Persimmon Plc | Annual Report | December 2018
