Directors Remuneration Report Paul Moody Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Introduction Who is on the Remuneration Committee?
On behalf of the Remuneration Committee Committee, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for Member No.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to Paul Moody Chairman 2 3 an advisory vote at our 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Dennis Millard 3 3 Policy review and ongoing shareholder consultation Amy Stirling 1 1 At the AGM in July last year we were delighted that our Tessa Green 3 3 shareholders approved both our new Remuneration Policy Policy and our new Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, Sharon Flood 2 2 with 85.16% and 84.42% of votes in favour, respectively.
We recognise the importance of the consultation we had What we did in 2018 with shareholders and the valuable feedback we received from them, as we shaped our proposals.
As a consequence, Approved share awards under the new LTIP to all colleagues: and especially given there has been some change to our shareholder base since last year, we have proactively reached Agreed the annual bonus targets for the Group Executive out to all new shareholders to explain the rationale behind our Management Team for FY18 and measured performance against them: approach to executive remuneration.
We are committed to ongoing dialogue with all our shareholders and we will always Reviewed the gender pay gap analysis results and agreed the listen actively to their thoughts and share any feedback and actions for starting to address the issues identified: subsequent Committee response where appropriate.
Considered and recommended the remuneration package Remuneration in respect of FY18 for the new Group Chief Executive Officer: Results for FY18 At the end of FY17, as detailed on page 14 in the Chairmans Discussed and reviewed attainment against the performance Statement, we repositioned the Merchandise business by conditions for the Groups LTIPs due to vest during the period: investing in value for the customer, so giving ourselves a stronger platform from which to deliver sustainable, profitable Reviewed the wider remuneration structure for all colleagues: and growth in future years.
We are seeing the benefits of this repositioning coming through in the exceptionally strong performance in our retail division for FY18, with more Reviewed the terms of reference of the Committee.
customers coming back to shop with us and the development of our subscription service bringing in some excellent results.
Our veterinary business is already a profitable business, What we will do in 2019 delivering strong returns.
We have chosen to slow our practice Approve share awards under the LTIP to all eligible colleagues: rollout, but this is to ensure that we open practices in the right Agree the annual bonus targets for the Executive Management Team locations with the right vet partners and, in parallel, we can for FY19 and measure performance against them: focus on accelerating growth in our existing practices.
Continue to engage with shareholders on our Remuneration Policy: FY18 saw: The 13m price investment in Merchandise remaining on Implement the revised remuneration structure for the wider colleague population: and track and delivering positive results faster than expected, with FY18 like-for-like growth of 5.0% and market share Continue to monitor changes in corporate governance and respond gains in food and accessories.
Omnichannel revenues of 51.4m grew at 75.1%, ahead of the online pet market and key competitors.
Total incomes from the First Opinion Joint Venture vet practices up 16.1% to 53.1m and double digit revenue growth in Specialist Referral Centres.
Net openings completed: 13 superstores, 25 vet practices and 27 grooming salons.
Total dividend payable of 7.5 pence per share, maintained at the prior year level.
Pets at Home Group Plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Annual bonus outcomes Remuneration in respect of FY19 Targets for the annual bonus for FY18 were set by the FY19 salary review Committee to reflect the repositioning of the business The Committee reviewed the salary level of Mike Iddon and and were based on EBITDA 75% and free cash flow 25%.
concluded that he would receive an increase of 2% in line with In determining the payouts under the annual bonus plan for increases made to other colleagues.
This increase took effect the Executive Directors, the Committee has been mindful from 30 March 2018.
Ian Kellett received no increase to his not only of the formulaic outcome against the targets set, base salary as he had resigned.
but also of the overall performance of the business, how FY19 bonus targets management have delivered against the change in strategy The Committee has been reviewing the performance and our shareholders, experience over the period.
measures for the annual bonus plan and agreed to replace The EBITDA outcome at 123.3m resulted in that portion the profit measure, previously EBITDA, with PBT.
PBT has of the annual bonus paying out at 49.8% of base salary become a key externally reported business measure for us, versus a maximum of 75%.
This shortfall against the and its use as a bonus measure will enable managements maximum reflected the performance of the veterinary control and use of capital to be reflected in any bonus business in FY18.
payment and will be very transparent for our shareholders.
The business delivered well against the stretching free PBT will still make up 75% of the bonus as EBITDA did, cash flow targets, with a cash conversion rate of 48%.
recognising the importance of profit delivery, with free cash The free cash flow portion of the bonus therefore paid flow remaining as the other performance measure at 25%.
out at maximum equal to 25% of base salary.
The Committee has adopted a rigorous approach to setting In total, the overall bonus payout was 74.8% of base salary, bonus targets for FY19, calibrating proposals against a range versus a maximum opportunity of 100% of base salary.
of data points, and feels confident that these targets are Full details can be found on page 96 of our Annual Report appropriately stretching.
Further details of this approach on Remuneration.
can be found on page 99 of our Annual Report on Whilst under the terms of the approved Policy, Remuneration.
Full details of the targets for FY19 and notwithstanding his resignation, Ian remained eligible outcomes against them will be reported in the FY19 for an annual bonus for the performance year.
However, Annual Report on Remuneration.
in view of the shareholder experience throughout the Peter Pritchards remuneration performance period and to ensure consistency of treatment As previously disclosed, when Peter took up the position of with other colleagues who resigned during the financial CEO on 27 April 2018, he received a base salary of 494,200. year but received no bonus, Ian Kellett agreed that it was His maximum bonus opportunity for FY19 will be 100% of appropriate to waive his bonus.
base salary and he will be eligible to receive an award under the RSP of 75% of base salary.
Under the Policy Peter is Share incentive plans required to build up his shareholding in the Group to 200% of Restricted Stock Plan RSP his base salary.
However, as at 29 March 2018, he already had The first awards under our newly approved RSP were made a shareholding of 1039% of his then base salary at a share price in July 2017, the first tranche of which will not vest until 2020. of 169p, so comfortably exceeding the requirement.
We intend to make a further grant of awards after our preliminary results in June 2018, with the same vesting schedule and underpin as last year.
Full details of the awards made in 2017 are contained in the Remuneration Report on page 97.
Co investment Plan The second tranche of Matching Shares under the 2014 Co-Investment plan were released in March 2018 Further details can be found on page 97 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 83 Directors Remuneration Report continued Our colleagues Board changes During this year, we have revitalised our approach to listening Following Ian Kelletts resignation as CEO, the Board was and engaging with our colleagues.
We have set up new direct delighted to be able to appoint Peter Pritchard to succeed listening sessions with our Group Executive Management Ian.
The ability to appoint an internal successor to ensure Team and have changed our colleague engagement survey a smooth transition recognises the strength of our talent so we can improve the feedback from our colleagues on what development and succession planning.
they feel about our business.
We were delighted to hear that Lastly I would like to thank Amy Stirling for her service to the we had been ranked 5th in the UKs Best Workplaces, large Committee and as a Non-Executive Director.
Sharon Flood company category, and the only retailer to make it into the top joined the Committee on her appointment to the Board at the 10.
This is a great tribute to the hard work and dedication of all AGM last year.
As ever, we would welcome any feedback or comments on Widespread share ownership is a key part of our engagement this report.
The Committee remains committed to paying for and culture and the majority of our colleagues hold shares performance and ensuring that the interests of the Executive either through our Sharesave plan, our previous share plans Directors are aligned with those of our shareholders.
All eligible colleagues received an award under the new RSP in July last year and they will do so again Yours faithfully at the time of the next award.
We also had a further offering of the Companys Sharesave plan in September 2017 and our first Sharesave award, made in 2014, vested in December 2017.
In June, this year, colleagues excluding the Executive Directors second discretionary awards under the CSOP PSP Plans will also vest.
Paul Moody We published our Gender Pay Gap report on 28 March this Chairman of the Remuneration Committee year.
In common with many retailers, women make up the 21 May 2018 majority of our colleagues.
Across our stores we were encouraged to see that our average gender pay gap is less than 0.5%, however, we do have an overall gender pay gap of 17.9% for which there are three main reasons: a higher proportion of women in our lower paid roles: the large number of women we have in part time roles: and fewer women in senior leadership positions.
One of our core values is that we get better everyday: we are committed to making the changes necessary to ensure that we develop the skills and experience in our already very talented female colleagues so that more women have the potential to occupy senior leadership positions.
Our Gender Pay Gap report can be found at https: investors.
com responsibility  gender-paygap-report, where we detail the initiatives and plans that we have committed to.
Pets at Home Group Plc 84 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Our Directors Remuneration Policy 1.
Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration principles a Policy report The objectives of our Directors Remuneration Policy are: The following section on pages 86 to 88 sets out our Directors Policy for all of the Executive Directors and the Non-Executive To align with our programme of Group Strategy Directors as well as any individuals who may become wide simplification.
Directors whilst this Policy is in effect, which was approved by To have incentives that are appropriate for shareholders at the Companys AGM in July 2017.
The Policy is our business for the next three years as we intended to remain in force for up to three years.
focus on delivering long term, sustainable returns to investors.
The Policy explains the purpose and principles underlying the structure of remuneration packages and how the Policy links To adopt a bottom-up approach to Culture remuneration to the achievement of sustained high remuneration a policy that works for our colleagues and can be applied to performance and long term value creation.
Overall remuneration is structured and set at levels to enable To support our ongoing desire to embed us to recruit and retain high calibre colleagues necessary for share ownership across the organisation.
business success, whilst ensuring that our reward structure To assist with succession planning.
and performance measures are aligned to the strategy and To simplify and therefore enhance are simple to communicate to participants and shareholders.
Retention perceived value of awards and thereby A significant portion of the package is performance related reduce flight risk.
via the annual bonus plan and the LTIP, which requires To deliver better value to shareholders Shareholders achievement of a TSR underpin before it vests.
Remuneration for their reward spend by: has been set taking into account practice within the FTSE 250 Improving perceived value: and practice at other retail companies.
Creating stronger alignment with shareholders: and Increasing focus on long term sustainable value creation.
How we ensure pay for performance linkage Annual bonus Pay-out linked to achievement of robust and challenging annual performance targets.
Full disclosure of bonus commitment to disclosing all target ranges on a retrospective basis at the end of the financial year in question.
Underpin The absolute TSR underpin guarantees baseline performances below which awards will not vest.
Serves as a security mechanism to prevent pay-outs for poor performance.
Share price Share price inherently links pay to performance.
Build up of shareholding and long term vesting horizon incentivises senior colleagues to increase focus on long term, sustainable performance.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 85 Our Directors Remuneration Policy continued Pay element Fixed pay Base salary Purpose and Operation Maximum opportunity Base salaries are paid in cash and are pensionable.
Whilst there is no maximum salary level, link to strategy any increases will normally be broadly in line with The Company Base salaries are reviewed annually, typically at the the wider colleague population.
provides competitive March Remuneration Committee meeting.
Any salaries suitable to changes are usually with effect from the start of Higher increases may be made under certain attract and retain the next financial year.
The Committee takes into circumstances, at the Committees discretion.
individuals of the right consideration a number of factors when setting salaries, For example, this may include: calibre to develop including but not limited to : Increase in the scope and or responsibility of the and execute the Size and scope of the individuals responsibilities: individuals role: and business strategy.
The individuals skills, experience and performance: Development of the individual within the role.
Typical salary levels for comparable roles within appropriate pay comparators, including practice for Annual base salaries for the Executive Directors are set out retail companies and the broader FTSE 250: and on page 95 of this report.
Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Benefits Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity The Company provides a range of benefits, The cost to the Company of providing other benefits to strategy which may include: may vary depending on, for example, market practice The Company and the cost of insuring certain benefits.
provides colleagues a company car or cash equivalent with market The Committee keeps the level of benefit provision under life assurance competitive benefits regular review.
permanent health insurance suitable to attract and Details of the current benefit provision for the Executive retain individuals of private medical insurance Directors is set out on pages 99 and 100 of this report.
the right calibre to These benefits are not pensionable.
develop and execute Other benefits may be offered from time to time, if the business strategy.
considered appropriate by the Committee and consistent with the Companys overriding purpose for offering such benefits.
The Company may also meet certain mobility costs, such as relocation support, expatriate allowances, temporary living and transportation expenses, in line with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for other senior executives.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in any tax-approved all-colleague share plans operated by the Company on the same basis as other eligible colleagues such as the SAYE scheme set out below on page 88.
Pensions Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Pension contributions are made to either the Group The contribution level for an individual Executive Director to strategy Pension Plan, or to personal pension schemes or cash is capped at 15% of base salary per annum for employer To provide colleagues allowances in lieu of contributions are paid.
Details of current pension provision for the with an allowance for Executive Directors are set out on page 88 of this report.
Pets at Home Group Plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Pay element Variable pay Annual bonus Purpose and Operation Maximum Performance measures Delivery will normally be in cash and is not Each year, the Committee determines link to strategy opportunity pensionable.
the measures and weightings within the To incentivise the The maximum following parameters: delivery of our bonus Performance measures are set annually business plan on opportunity and pay-out levels are determined by the At least 75% of the annual bonus will be based an annual basis.
is 100% of Committee after the year-end, based on on financial performance measures: and base salary.
performance against those targets during To reward No more than 25% of the annual bonus will the relevant financial year.
performance be based on performance against nonagainst key Awards are subject to malus and clawback financial measures, including for example, performance provisions where there has been a material individual and strategic objectives.
indicators which misstatement of audited results: serious financial The Committee ensures that targets are are critical to the irregularity: any circumstances justifying appropriately stretching in the context of delivery of our summary dismissal of a participant from his the business plan and that there is an business strategy.
office or employment with any Group Company appropriate balance between incentivising including, but not limited to, dishonesty, fraud, Executive Directors to meet financial targets for misrepresentation or breach of trust: any the year and to deliver specific non-financial material breach of a participants terms and goals.
This balance allows the Committee to conditions of employment: and or any material effectively reward performance against the key violation of Company policy, rules or regulations.
The Company may, in the context of the underlying business strategy, amend the performance measures or targets.
The performance metrics for the annual bonus for the Executive Directors are set out on page 99 of this report.
1 Long Term Incentive Plan Purpose and Operation Maximum Performance measures Awards will be made under the RSP annually.
There are no performance targets attached to link to strategy opportunity the awards.
To promote The maximum Share awards are normally made in the form of continued value of restricted nil cost options but may be awarded in other A baseline performance underpin applies, which alignment shares that may forms if appropriate such as conditional share requires absolute TSR performance to be between be awarded in awards.
The plan rules specify that awards may positive over the first three years of the vesting Executive respect of any also be satisfied in cash although this is unlikely period.
If the underpin is not achieved, the Directors and financial year is to apply to Executive Directors.
No award will vest under the RSP unless the TSR The plan rules stipulate that the Committee may increasing underpin has been achieved.
amend the performance measures or underpin focus on in exceptional circumstances where it considers Subject to the achievement of the TSR underpin long term that they are no longer appropriate.
If this at year three and continued employment: sustainable discretion was used, we would consult with 50% of the award will vest after three years.
value creation shareholders and the rationale would be clearly 25% of the award will vest in each of years To support our explained in the remuneration report.
principle of embedding Additional shares or cash may be awarded in share lieu of dividends on any shares which vest, ownership which would have been paid during the vesting across the period.
organisation Malus and clawback provisions apply to these To assist with awards in circumstances as set out succession on page 92 of this report.
planning Change of control provisions apply as set out on page 92 of this report.
Leaver provisions apply as set out on page 92 of this report.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 87 Our Directors Remuneration Policy continued 1 SAYE Purpose and Operation Maximum Performance measures SAYE is a HMRC-approved scheme where There are no performance measures attached to link to strategy opportunity eligible colleagues are granted savings-related awards under the SAYE.
An all-colleague The market value share options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares plan, which of the shares in the Company.
encourages under option long term at the date of Options are granted to be exercisable in shareholding maturity of the conjunction with either a three-year or five-year and aligns the Sharesave savings savings contract with a monthly savings limit set interests of UK contract, less the according to HMRC limits currently 500 per colleagues with grant price of month.
shareholders the option at the Options are normally granted at a discount to contract start date.
Executive market price at the time of invitation, as per Directors are HMRC regulations currently 20%.
eligible to participate Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Purpose and Operation Maximum Performance measures Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee in N A. link to strategy opportunity respect of their Board duties.
To attract and Current fee levels retain high calibre can be found on Further fees are paid to Non-Executive Directors individuals by page 100. in respect of Deputy Chairman of the Board offering market and or chairmanship of Board Committees.
Fees are set at competitive fee a level which The Non-Executive Chairman receives an arrangements.
is considered all-inclusive fee for the role.
appropriate to The remuneration of the Non-Executive attract and retain Chairman is set by the Remuneration the calibre of Committee, whilst the Board as a whole is individual required responsible for determining Non-Executive by the Company.
These fees are the sole element The Companys of Non-Executive remuneration and they are Articles of not eligible for incentive awards, pensions or Association other benefits.
provide that the Fees are typically reviewed annually.
total aggregate Expenses incurred in the performance of remuneration Non-Executive duties for the Company may be paid to the reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as Non-Executive appropriate, including any tax due on the benefits.
Chairman and the NEDs will be within the limits set by shareholders.
1 T he Committee may in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital demerger, delisting, or other event which may affect the value of awards, adjust or amend the terms of awards in accordance with the rules of the relevant share plan.
In the case of the SAYE, any changes may be subject to HMRC approval if required.
Pets at Home Group Plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Legacy matters Remuneration arrangements throughout the Company The Committee will honour remuneration related The Policy for our Executive Directors is designed in line with commitments to former, current and future Executive and the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin Non-Executive Directors including the exercise of any remuneration for the wider Company.
The Company believes discretions available to the Committee in relation to such in having a consistent approach to remuneration rather than commitments where the terms were agreed prior to them designing alternative plans for our Executive Directors.
becoming a Director provided that, in the opinion of the All our reward arrangements are built around the common Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the objectives and principles outlined below: individual becoming an Executive Director or Non-Executive Director of the Company and or where the terms were Aligned incentives A meaningful proportion of agreed and commitments made in accordance with the remuneration is based on performance.
Individuals are previous remuneration policy approved by the Companys incentivised towards consistent financial and non-financial shareholders in September 2014. business goals and objectives, in addition to appropriate individual goals.
For these purposes, payments include the Committee Colleagues as shareholders Our culture is built on a satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to cohesive team approach and widespread shareholding an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at amongst colleagues which we believe enhances our long the time the award is granted.
This includes allowing the term sustainable success by promoting stewardship and vesting of outstanding awards under the Co-Investment Plan, alignment amongst a wide colleague participation group CSOP and PSP, the terms of which are detailed in the previous Simplification our Policy aligns with a much wider policy that was approved by shareholders at the Companys programme of simplification across the Group as a whole, AGM in September 2014. from how we operate our supply chain and stores, right through to our Support Offices.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 89 Our Directors Remuneration Policy continued b Recruitment policy The following table sets out the various components which would be considered for inclusion in the remuneration package for the appointment of an Executive Director and the approach to be adopted by the Committee in respect of each component and which remain unchanged from the previous Policy.
Element Policy and operation The Committees approach when considering the Where an Executive Director is appointed from within Overall overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment the business, in addition to considering the matters of a member of the Board from an external party is to detailed for external candidates, the normal policy of the take account of the Executive Directors remuneration Company is that any legacy arrangements would be package in their prior role, the market positioning of the honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
remuneration package, and not to pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment of the individual.
We recognise that salary levels drive other elements of The Company may meet certain mobility costs, Fixed elements the package and would therefore seek to pay a salary including relocation support, expatriate allowances, Base salary, which is competitive, but no more than necessary to temporary living and transportation expenses in line pension and other secure the individual.
with the prevailing mobility policy and practice for benefits senior executives.
The Executive Director would be eligible to participate in our benefit and pension plans, including coverage under all Executive Director and colleague pension and benefit programmes in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plans, as may be amended by the Company from time to time.
The individual will be eligible to participate in the annual Short term bonus plan, in accordance with the rules and terms of incentives the plan in operation at the time.
The maximum level of opportunity will be no greater than that set out in the Policy Table above i. e. 100% of base salary.
The individual will be eligible to participate in the RSP, The maximum level of opportunity will be no greater Long term in accordance with the rules and terms of the plan in than that set out in the Policy Table above i. e. 75% of incentives operation at the time.
The Committee will consider what buy-out awards Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using the Buy-out awards if any are reasonably necessary to facilitate the Companys existing Long Term Incentive Plans to the recruitment of a new Executive Director in all extent possible, although awards may also be granted circumstances.
This includes an assessment of the outside of these plans if necessary and as permitted awards which would be forfeited on leaving their under the Listing Rules.
In the case of an internal hire, any outstanding awards The Committee will seek to structure any buy-out made in relation to the previous role will be allowed to awards such that overall they are no more generous in pay out according to their original terms.
terms of quantum or vesting period than the awards If promotion is part way through the year, an additional due to be forfeited.
top-up award may be made to bring the Executive In determining the quantum and structure of these Directors opportunity to a level that is appropriate in commitments, the Committee will seek to provide the circumstances.
broadly equivalent value and replicate, as far as practicable, the timing and performance requirements of the awards forfeited.
Pets at Home Group Plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report c Service contracts and loss of office arrangements The Committees policy on service contracts and termination arrangements for Executive Directors is set out below.
In principle, it is the Committees policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of a loss of office is to take account of the individual circumstances, including the reason for the loss of office, Company and individual performance, contractual obligations of both parties as well as share plan and pension scheme rules.
The key employment terms and conditions of the current Executive Directors, as stipulated in their service contracts, are set out below: Area Policy and operation The service contract for Ian Kellett provides for a notice New Executive Directors will be appointed on service Notice period of 12 months from the Company and six months contracts that have a notice period of not more than period from the individual.
12 months for both the Company and the individual.
The service contract for Mike Iddon provides for a notice The Committee considers this policy provides an period from both the Company and the individual of six appropriate balance between the need to retain the services months.
of key individuals for the benefit of the business and the need to limit the potential liabilities of the Company in the The service contract for Peter Pritchard provides for a notice event of termination.
period of 12 months from the Company and six months from the individual.
Executive Directors service contracts allow for termination Payment in lieu of notice will be limited to base salary and Contractual with contractual notice from the Company or termination by contractual benefits for the relevant notice period.
payments way of payment in lieu of notice PILON, at the Companys There is no contractual entitlement to a payment under the discretion.
Payment in lieu of notice would be made where annual bonus in respect of the notice period.
circumstances dictate that the Executive Directors services Service contracts allow for mitigation if the individual finds are not required for their full notice period.
Neither notice nor PILON will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
The Committees policy is not to award an annual incentive Where an Executive Director leaves office during a Short term for any portion of the notice period not served.
performance year, any bonus would be at the Committees incentives absolute discretion and would take into account Where an Executive Director leaves office after the end of performance and the time served during the period.
a performance year but before the payment is made, the executive will remain eligible for an annual bonus for that No bonus will be paid in the event of gross misconduct.
performance year, subject to the normal assessment of performance achieved over the period.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 91 Our Directors Remuneration Policy continued Area Policy and operation The treatment of unvested long term incentive awards is Long term CSOP, PSP, RSP and SAYE governed by the rules of the relevant incentive plan.
Under the CSOP, PSP and RSP, the default position is for both incentives vested to the extent not yet exercised and unvested awards CIP to lapse upon a loss of office event.
Treatment under the CIP is dependent on the period elapsed since the IPO.
Where an individual is determined to be a good leaver which includes for reasons of death, illness, injury, disability, a Within the first 24 months following Admission retirement, sale or transfer out of the Group or any other Where an individual with a six month notice period reason at the discretion of the Committee the Committee voluntarily resigns less than 18 months following the date may allow vested awards to the extent not yet exercised to of Admission, they will forfeit their Invested Shares and their be retained and unvested awards to subsist until the relevant Matching Awards.
This period ended on 17 March 2016. vesting date, subject to satisfaction of the performance b Between 24 months and 36 months following Admission conditions financial underpin and pro-rated for time served.
Where an individual with a six month notice period Alternatively, the Committee may, at its discretion, allow voluntarily resigns between 18 months and 30 months unvested awards to vest at an earlier date, having regard following the date of Admission and completes at least two to the achievement of performance conditions financial years service by working his notice period or being put on underpin to that date and the period of time that has passed garden leave, or would have done so but is given PILON, since the date of grant.
The Committee may choose to they will retain their Invested Shares and may retain a portion apply no reduction in the amount vesting if it is considered of their Matching Award subject to achievement of appropriate given the particular circumstances.
performance targets measured over the first two years of the Under the SAYE, the default position is for unvested awards performance period.
This period ended on 17 March 2017. to lapse upon a loss of office event.
c On or after 36 months following Admission Where an individual is determined to be a good leaver Where an individual with a six month notice period in accordance with HMRC regulations which include for voluntarily resigns on or after 30 months following the date reasons of death unvested awards may vest pro-rata by of Admission and completes at least three years service reference to the period of time that has elapsed since the by working his notice period or being put on garden leave, date of the grant and up to six months following the leaver or would have done so but is given PILON, they will retain event 12 months in the case of death.
their Invested Shares and, if a good leaver as defined under the PSP, also their vested Matching Award, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Matching Awards vest after three, four and five years, subject to achievement of performance conditions at year three.
Any participant who is dismissed for reasons of fraud or negligence will forfeit their Invested Shares and Matching Awards in full.
The Committees policy is that service contracts should not Under the SAYE, awards shall vest pro-rata by reference to Change in provide for additional compensation on severance as a the period of time that has elapsed since the date of grant control result of a change in control.
and up to six months following the change of control.
Under the CSOP, the PSP, the Co-Investment Plan and the RSP, the Committee will determine whether and to what extent awards shall vest, taking into account all relevant factors including Company performance, the period of time elapsed since the date of grant and the interests of our shareholders.
Malus and Annual bonus payments and long term incentive awards but any material breach of a participants terms and conditions not including SAYE awards are subject to malus and clawback of employment: and or any material violation of Company clawback for a period beginning on the date of award and ending two policy, rules of regulation.
years following vesting in the event of: Malus and clawback will continue to apply to any bonus a material misstatement of audited results: payments or awards retained by leavers and or on a change of control.
serious financial irregularity: any circumstances justifying summary dismissal of a participant from his office or employment with any Group Company including, but not limited to, dishonesty, fraud, misrepresentation or breach of trust: Pets at Home Group Plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Scenario Assumptions External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold an external Fixed pay appointment with the prior consent of the Board.
Any fees All performance Consists of total fixed pay, including base may be retained by the individual.
scenarios salary, benefits and pension Base salary salary effective as at Chairman and Non-Executive Directors 30 March 2018 The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman of the Benefits amount estimated to be received Board, have letters of appointment which set out their duties by each Executive Director in FY19 and responsibilities.
They do not have service contracts.
Pension salary supplement effective as at The key terms of the appointments are set out in the 30 March 2018. table below: Variable pay Minimum No pay-out under the annual bonus Provision Policy performance No vesting under the RSP Initially appointed for a period of three years, Period On-target 50% of the maximum pay-out under the subject to annual review and notice.
performance annual bonus i. e. 50% of salary In line with the UK Code, all Directors will seek annual re-appointment by shareholders at the 100% vesting under the RSP i. e. 75% of salary AGM.
Maximum 100% of the maximum pay-out under the Three months notice by either the Company performance annual bonus i. e. 100% of salary Appointment or the Non-Executive Director.
terms 100% vesting under the RSP i. e. 75% of salary Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman 1 Under the RSP, the normal maximum limit of 75% of salary has been shown.
of the Board are not entitled to compensation 2 All-colleague share plans i. e. the SAYE have been excluded.
3 A ny legacy awards made in accordance with the policy for 2014 which Executive Directors hold have been excluded.
Fees Expiry of See page 64 for details of the expiry of the Group Chief Executive O cer current term of Non-Executive Directors current term Illustrative example under the RSP letters of appointment.
1,600,000 Availability of documentation 1,415,000 1,400,000 Service contracts and letters of appointment for all Directors 1,200,000 1,168,000 26% are available for inspection by any person at our registered 1,000,000 office in Handforth, Cheshire.
They will also be available for 19% 800,000 35% inspection during the 30 minutes prior to the start of our AGM 25% 600,000 550,000 to be held in Handforth on 12 July 2018.
400,000 d Illustration of the Remuneration Policy 56% 39% 100% 200,000 Our remuneration arrangements have been designed to 0 ensure that a significant proportion of pay is dependent Minimum Meeting Maximum on the delivery of stretching short term and long term expectation performance targets, aligned with the creation of sustainable shareholder value.
The Committee considers the level Group Chief Financial O cer of remuneration that may be received under different Illustrative example under the RSP performance outcomes to ensure that this is appropriate 1,200,000 in the context of the performance delivered and the value 1,016,000 1,000,000 added for shareholders.
839,000 26% 800,000 The charts on the right provide illustrative values of the 19% remuneration package for Executive Directors under three 600,000 35% assumed performance scenarios.
25% 397,000 400,000 These charts are for illustrative purposes only and actual 200,000 outcomes may differ from those shown.
100% 56% 39% 0 Minimum Meeting Maximum expectation Fixed pay Annual bonus RSP Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 93 Our Directors Remuneration Policy continued Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer f Consideration of shareholder views Base salary 494,200 353,700 The Committee consulted extensively with the Companys Benefits 11,500 11,500 largest shareholders on the proposed changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy last year and we were pleased that all of Pension 44,478 31,833 our majority shareholders were very supportive of our Total fixed pay 550,178 397,033 remuneration principles and the proposed design.
e Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee remains committed to ongoing dialogue As per the Committees terms of reference, we also review with the Companys shareholder base and has offered the the pay and conditions of colleagues at levels below the opportunity for dialogue with the major new shareholders Executive Directors.
This includes approving the design who have joined the Companys shareholder base in the last of and determining targets for the principal performance 12 months.
related pay schemes, such as the bonus scheme operated by the Company, and approving the total annual payments We will continue to monitor shareholder views when made under such schemes.
The Committee is also consulted evaluating and setting ongoing remuneration strategy, and concerning any major changes in colleague benefit and we are committed to consulting with shareholders prior to pay structures throughout the Group.
any significant changes to our Policy.
The remuneration package for all colleagues including the g Minor amendments Executive Directors is reviewed on an annual basis and a The Committee may make minor amendments to the consistent approach is applied at all levels.
As part of the Policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax annual salary and benefits review, the Company takes into or administrative purposes or to take account of a change account industry standards, future legislative framework in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for including the national minimum wage, the national living that amendment.
wage, the Apprenticeship levy and the gender pay gap reporting requirements and the financial and economic environment of the Group both internally and externally.
The annual salary and benefits review is presented to the Committee with recommendations on remuneration throughout the colleague base, including a proposed salary increase to be applied to all colleagues wages, including the Executive Directors.
As such, the Committee has regard to this Group-wide annual review process when setting its remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
Whilst our colleagues are not directly consulted as part of the process of determining pay, the output from our colleague listening groups and engagement surveys is considered when carrying out the annual salary and benefits review.
A significant number of our colleagues are also shareholders and so are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
Pets at Home Group Plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Annual Report on Remuneration 2.
Annual Report on Remuneration a Directors remuneration report on implementation for the year ended 29 March 2018 This section of the report sets out how the Policy, approved by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 11 July 2017, has been applied in the financial year being reported on, and how it will be applied in the coming year.
A copy of this current Policy can be found on the Groups website investors.
com The information presented from this section up until the relevant note on page 97 represents the audited section of this report.
b Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended 29 March 2018 The following table sets out the total remuneration for Executive Directors for the year ended 29 March 2018.
All payments are in line with the Policy.
Based on performance in the period March 2014 to March 2017 the performance conditions for these shares were measured and the Committee determined that 16.8% of the awards would vest.
The vested award becomes exercisable in equal tranches, subject to continued employment, between May 2017 and March 2019.
The first tranche of shares was released when the award vested in March 2017.
The value for FY17 is based on the share price of 198.19p, being the average share price over the last three months of the performance period, being the period from 1 January to 30 March 2017.
The second tranche of shares was released on 17 March 2018.
The value is based on the share price of 178.3p being the share price on 16 March 2018, being the last working day before the shares were released.
2 Ian Kellett waived his bonus for FY18.
3 M ike Iddon did not receive a Co-Investment Plan Award in 2014 as this was prior to his joining the Company.
4 Mike Iddon was appointed on 17 October 2016 and his remuneration has been pro-rated from 17 October 2016 to 30 March 2017 including his annual bonus payment.
5 N ick Wood resigned as a Director on 4 April 2016: however, he remained with the Group in an advisory role until 1 July 2016.
The remuneration shown for FY17 includes payments up to 1 July 2016.
Base salary corresponds to the amount received during the relevant financial year.
Benefits corresponds to the taxable value of benefits received during the relevant financial year and principally includes company car or cash equivalent, life assurance and permanent health insurance.
Pension corresponds to either the amount contributed to personal pension plans or the cash value of the salary supplement received during the relevant financial year.
Executive Directors receive a Company pension contribution worth 9% of their salary or a cash allowance where the annual allowance has been reached.
Annual bonus corresponds to the amount earned in respect of the relevant financial year.
Details of how this was calculated are set out below.
Long term incentives corresponds to the amount earned by the Executive Directors in respect of the relevant financial year.
Annual bonus Whilst Peter Pritchard was not an Executive Director for FY18, his bonus payout for the last financial year is included for completeness.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive Directors and Peter Pritchard in respect of FY18 was 100% of base salary.
For FY18, the annual bonus was based on EBITDA 75% and free cash flow 25% : the EBITDA performance measure was set at a Group level for Ian Kellett and Mike Iddon and at a retail level for Peter Pritchard.
the free cash flow measure was set at a Group level for all three and is defined as net cash from operating activities, less net cash used in investing activities, interest paid and finance lease commitments and is stated before loans issued, non-underlying costs and acquisitions of subsidiaries.
Measurement was over a 52 week period.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 95 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The tables below show the targets and achieved payout levels: Peter Pritchard Achieved Performance measures % Base salary Minimum Maximum m % Retail EBITDA 75% 81.5m 87.5m 87.47m 74.7% Group free cash flow 25% 53.0m 57.0m 59.8m 25.0% Ian Kellett and Mike Iddon Achieved Performance measures % Base salary Minimum Maximum m % Group EBITDA 75% 120.7m 129.4m 123.3m 49.8% Group free cash flow 25% 53.0m 57.0m 59.8m 25.0% Following a rigorous target setting process the Committee was confident that the targets stated above were stretching and required individuals to deliver performance which significantly exceeded business expectations in order to achieve full pay-out.
This is evident in the bonus payout for Peter Pritchard, where Retail EBITDA achievement was just short of the maximum stretch level of performance.
For Ian Kellett and Mike Iddon, the shortfall in the payout against the Group EBITDA performance measure reflects the performance of the veterinary business in FY18.
Notwithstanding the formulaic outturn of his bonus, in view of shareholder experience throughout the performance period and to ensure consistency of treatment with other colleagues who resigned during the financial year but received no bonus, Ian Kellett agreed that it was appropriate to waive his bonus.
Long term incentives The Committee determined in May 2017, and reported in the last Remuneration Report, the vesting level of the performance conditions attached to the Matching Awards granted under the March 2014 Co-Investment Plan for which the final year of performance was FY17.
The Committee determined that 16.8% of the total awards had vested.
The second tranche of Matching Shares was released on 17 March 2018. c Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 29 March 2018 The following table sets out the total remuneration for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board for the year ended 29 March 2018.
Nomination & Corporate Pets Before Remuneration Audit & Risk Governance Profit CSR Additional Committee Committee Committee Committee Total single Total single Basic fees fees Chairman Chair Chairman Chair figure 2018 figure 2017 Director Tony DeNunzio 200,000 n a n a n a n a n a 200,000 200,000 1 Dennis Millard 50,000 20,000 n a n a n a n a 70,000 70,0000 2 Paul Coby 13,846 n a n a n a n a n a 13,846 50,000 Tessa Green 50,000 n a n a n a n a 10,000 60,000 61,154 3 Amy Stirling 14,038 n a n a 1,462 n a n a 15,500 61,154 Paul Moody 50,000 n a 10,000 n a n a n a 60,000 60,000 4 Nicolas Gheysens Nil n a n a n a n a n a Nil n a 5 Stanislas Laurent 41,651 n a n a n a n a n a 41,651 n a 6 Sharon Flood 42,500 n a n a 5,424 n a n a 47,924 n a 1 The additional fee paid to Dennis Millard is in respect of his position as Deputy Chairman of the Board.
2 Paul Coby resigned from the Board on 10 July 2017.
3 Amy Stirling stepped down as Chair of the Audit Committee on 23 May 2017 and resigned from the Board on 11 July 2017.
4 N icolas Gheysen was appointed to the Board on 2 December 2016 as KKRs nominated director on the Board.
As Nicolas was representing KKR, it was agreed that he would not receive any Directors fees in respect of his appointment.
He resigned from the Board on 28 November 2017.
5 Stanislas Laurent was appointed to the Board on 25 May 2017.
6 Sharon Flood was appointed to the Board on 25 May 2017 and took over as Chair of the Audit Committee on 11 July 2017.
Pets at Home Group Plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report d Scheme interests awarded during the financial year In 2017, Executive Directors received RSP awards in line with the Policy as follows: Number of Executive shares awarded Grant price of % of salary for Performance Director Date of award under the RSP RSP awards total awards period end date Ian Kellett 25 July 2017 229,548 Nil cost awards 75% 27 March 2020 Mike Iddon 25 July 2017 164,308 Nil cost awards 75% 27 March 2020 All awards are made as performance shares based on a percentage of salary and the value is divided by the closing share price the day before the grants, being 158.3p.
The awards were made subject to the satisfaction of the achievement of the TSR underpin at the end of the performance period of the three financial years FY18-FY20.
An absolute TSR greater than the average TSR measured over the three months before the start of the performance period must be achieved for the awards to vest.
In accordance with the Policy, 50% of the awards will vest after three years and 25% of the award will vest in each of years four and five.
e Payments for loss of office No payments for loss of office were made during the financial year.
Leaving arrangements for Ian Kellett Ian Kellett resigned from the Board with effect from 26 April 2018.
To ensure a smooth transition and provide support to the new CEO, he has worked his notice period and will leave the Group on 31 May 2018.
Ian will not receive a termination payment, as he has resigned.
During the period of his notice, Ian will receive his salary and contractual benefits up to his date of termination on 31 May 2018.
Ians third tranche of Matching Award under the Co-Investment Plan will lapse in line with the early leaver provisions of the plan rules.
His 2016 PSP and CSOP awards and 2017 RSP awards will also lapse in line with the early leaver provisions.
f Payments to past Directors No payments were made to past Directors during the year.
g Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests The Committee believes that colleague share ownership is an important means to support long term commitment to the Company and the alignment of colleague interests with those of shareholders.
Executive Directors are subject to a shareholding requirement of 200% of base salary, which should be built up over a period of five years.
A similar policy applies to the Executive Management Team.
The Committee reviews share ownership levels annually.
Current shareholding levels for Directors are set out in the table below: Number of shares Interests in share Interests in share incentive schemes, incentive schemes, Shareholding awarded without awarded subject requirement Shares owned performance to performance Shares owned as a % of salary outright at conditions at conditions at outright at 1 Director target % achieved 29 March 2018 29 March 2018 29 March 2018 31 March 2017 2 Ian Kellett 1,414% 4,053,484 0 496,847 4,047,056 Mike Iddon 37% 76,329 0 364,025 45,996 Tony DeNunzio 3,313,026 3,158,026 Dennis Millard 30,000 30,000 Tessa Green 40,816 40,816 Paul Moody 27,470 27,470 Stanislas Laurent 30,000 Sharon Flood 60,088 1 F or the purposes of determining the target shareholding achieved, we have used the individuals salary and the closing share price 169 pence as at 29 March 2018 and the shares owned outright at the same date.
2 The figure includes all the second and third tranche of Matching Awards that vested at the end of the vesting period on 30 March 2017.
18,285 are exercisable in the second tranche.
This represents the end of the audited section of the report.
Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Annual Report on Remuneration continued h TSR performance chart The Companys shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List maintained by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange plcs main market for listed securities on 17 March 2014.
The chart below shows performance from that date until the end of FY18.
This disclosure will be expanded in subsequent years in line with the regulations.
2 Ian Kellett was appointed on 4 April 2016.
3 N ick Wood resigned as an Executive Director on 4 April 2016, however, he continued in the business until 1 July 2016.
His payment in FY17 relates to the period from 1 April 2016 to 1 July 2016.
4 U nder the early leaver provisions of the plan rules, Nick Wood received 19.2% of his total Matching Award under the Co-Investment Plan, as shown in the single figure table.
Given that this included time pro rating, with performance against the performance conditions being at 96% of maximum, the latter is shown here and the value of 198,168 of the Matching Awards.
5 Ian Kellett waived his bonus for FY18.
i Percentage change in remuneration of the Group CEO The table below sets out the increase in total remuneration of the CEO and that of all colleagues: % change in base salary % change in bonus earned % change in benefits FY17 to FY18 FY17 to FY18 FY17 to FY18 1 Chief Executive 2.0% n a No change 2 All colleagues 2.0% 56.7% No change 1 Ian Kellett waived his bonus for FY18.
2 All colleague information is presented by comparing the average colleague information in FY17 to the average colleague information in FY18.
Pets at Home Group Plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report j Relative importance of the spend on pay Benefits The following table shows the relationship between the The Committee sets benefits in line with the policy set out Groups EBITDA, distributions to shareholders and the total on page 86 of the Appendix.
There are no changes proposed remuneration paid to all colleagues.
to the benefit framework in FY19.
Pensions FY18 FY17 m m Despite the ability in the policy to permit contributions up 1 to 15% of base salary, there is no increase proposed to salary EBITDA 123.3 130.5 supplement levels for the Executive Directors in FY19.
The Returned to shareholders: table below shows salary supplements for FY19.
Dividend 37.3 39.9 Payments to colleagues: Executive Director % of salary Wages and salaries 181.0 161.1 Ian Kellett 9% 1 T he Committee considers that EBITDA is an important KPI for the Company and provides Mike Iddon 9% shareholders with additional context as to how the business has performed financially in the last two years.
Annual bonus k Dilution limits The maximum annual bonus opportunity for Executive In accordance with the IA Guidelines, the Company can satisfy Directors in respect of FY19 will remain at 100% of base salary.
awards under its colleague share plans with new issue shares The annual bonus framework will be in line with that up to maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling presented in the policy table on page 87.
As highlighted in the ten-year period and within this 10% limit, the Company can Chairmans letter, during the year the Committee reviewed the only issue 5% of its issued share capital to satisfy awards under annual bonus framework for FY19, with a view to ensuring discretionary plans i. e. the CSOP, PSP and RSP.
As at 29 March that it remains appropriate for the business.
It was decided, 2018, the Companys dilution position was 2.6% for all plans following this review, to replace EBITDA with PBT as the profit and 1.9% for the executive plans.
measure within the annual bonus plan.
Historically EBITDA l External appointments has been used as the profit measure for bonus purposes, Executive Directors are entitled to accept one external reflecting the focus on EBITDA in our internal business unit appointment outside the Company with the consent of the reporting and as a key external measure.
Any fees received may be retained by the Director.
will enable closer scrutiny of managements control and use of capex.
PBT will make up 75% of the annual bonus the same As at the date of this report, neither of the Executive Directors as for EBITDA, with free cash flow the remaining 25%.
The held an external appointment for which they receive a fee.
Committee adopted a rigorous approach to setting the bonus m Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment targets for FY19, discussing the targets at two Committee A summary of the Non-Executive Directors letters of meetings.
In order to satisfy itself that the targets were appointment is contained on page 93 of the Policy.
stretching, the Committee looked at a range of internal and external data points, including historical targets and 3.
Statement of implementation for FY19 performance against them, strategic plan targets, analyst This section provides an overview of how the Committee consensus and TSR forecast growth for both the FTSE 250 is proposing to implement our Policy in FY19.
and a select group of retailers.
Base salary Although the targets remain commercially sensitive at this Base salaries were reviewed with effect from 30 March 2018 time, we will provide shareholders with full disclosure of the and the salary of the Group CFO was increased by 2% which PBT and free cash flow targets in next years report.
mirrors the increase generally awarded to colleagues in the As for FY18, the annual bonus will be subject to malus and Group.
The Group CEOs salary was not increased as he had clawback provisions.
This provides the Committee with the resigned.
ability to take back amounts previously paid out for a period Executive Director Base salary of up to two years under certain circumstances, including misstatement and misconduct.
Chief Executive Officer 484,500 Chief Financial Officer 353,700 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long term incentive awards Committee membership and meetings It is proposed that awards under the RSP will be made in FY19 The Directors listed below in the table served on the shortly after the preliminary results announcement at 75% of Committee during the year.
The Committee met three times salary for Executive Directors in line with the Policy.
during FY18 and the Committee members attendance is also shown in the table below.
Sharesave The Company intends to operate the Sharesave scheme again Meetings Member Period from To attended for FY19.
The maximum monthly savings will be retained at 500 per month.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate.
Paul Moody Chairman 1 April 2017 To date 2 Dennis Millard 1 April 2017 To date 3 Non-Executive Director remuneration Tessa Green 1 April 2017 To date 3 The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors have been Amy Stirling 1 April 2017 11 July 2017 1 reviewed and they will remain at the same level for FY19.
Sharon Flood 11 July 2017 To date 2 The table below shows the Non-Executive Director fee structure for FY19: The individuals listed in the table below, none of whom were FY19 Committee members, attended at least part of a meeting by invitation during the year.
Chairman of the Board all-inclusive fee 200,000 Basic Non-Executive Director fee 50,000 Attendee Position Board Committee Chairman fee 10,000 Tony DeNunzio Chairman of the Board Deputy Chairman 20,000 Ian Kellett Group CEO Chief People and Legal Officer and Group There are no fees paid for membership of Board Committees.
Louise Stonier Company Secretary Peter Pritchards remuneration as CEO Peter Pritchard CEO of Retail Peter Pritchard took over as CEO from Ian Kellett on 27 April Stanislas Laurent Non-Executive Director 2018.
His base salary on appointment is 494,200.
This base salary is below other typical salaries for comparable roles and None of the individuals attended part of any meeting in which the Committee may over time approve salary increases higher their own compensation was discussed.
than the broader colleague population, subject to Peters Governance performance in the role and in order to ensure that Peters The Board and the Committee consider that, throughout FY18 base salary is competitive.
Peter, as CEO, will have a maximum and up to the date of this report, the Company has complied bonus opportunity of 100% of base salary and an RSP award with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code of 75% of base salary.
His pension and other benefits on relating to Directors remuneration.
appointment are in line with the Policy.
The Remuneration Committee Shareholder context for the Committees activities During the year, the Committee received independent advice on executive remuneration matters from Willis Towers Watson WTW.
WTW is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Committee has reviewed the advice provided by WTW during the year and is comfortable that it has been objective and independent.
Total fees received by WTW in relation to the remuneration advice provided to the Committee during FY18 amounted to 38,200 58,034 FY17 based on the required time commitment.
During FY18 the Committee also received support from Travers Smith LLP on the terms of the discretionary and all-colleague share plans.
Pets at Home Group Plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance report Shareholder voting At the Annual General Meeting on 11 July 2017, the total number of shares in issue with voting rights was 500,000,000.
The resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report received the following votes from shareholders: 1 2 3 4 Votes for % Votes against % Votes total % of isc Votes withheld Ordinary resolutions 2 To approve the Directors 382,375,480 98.87 4,350,053 1.12 386,725,533 77.35 3,266,171 Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 March 2017 3 To approve the Directors 329,361,414 85.16 57,363,515 14.83 386,724,929 77.34 3,266,775 Remuneration Policy 4 To approve the Pets at Home 328,903,767 84.42 60,679,437 15.58 389,583,204 77.92 26,057 Group Plc Restricted Stock Plan the RSP 1 Votes for include discretionary votes.
2 Percentages above are rounded to two decimal places.
3 Issued share capital at meeting date: 500,000,000.
4 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
Annual General Meeting As set out in my statement on page 82, our Directors Remuneration Report will be subject to an advisory vote at our AGM to be held on 12 July 2018.
On behalf of the Board Paul Moody Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 21 May 2018 Pets at Home Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Financial statements Independent Auditors Report 103 Consolidated income statement 108 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 108 Consolidated balance sheet 109 Consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 29 March 2018 110 Consolidated statement of changes in equity as at 30 March 2017 110 Consolidated statement of cash flows 111 Company balance sheet 112 Company statement of changes in equity as at 29 March 2018 113 Company statement of changes in equity as at 30 March 2017 113 Company income statement 113 Company statement of cash flows 114 Notes forming part of the financial statements 115 Glossary Alternative Performance Measures 169 Advisors and contacts 172 Pets at Home Group Plc 102 Annual Report and Accounts 2018
