DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIRS LETTER DEAR SHAREHOLDER INCENTIVE OUTCOMES FOR 2018 On behalf of the Board and its Remuneration Committee The Committee believes that Phoenixs approach to Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration plays a key part in supporting the Groups Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2018. strategic priorities and alignment with shareholders and This report covers remuneration for Executive Directors customers interests.
As indicated in last years report, andNon-Executive Directors of the Company, operated following the acquisition ofthe Standard Life Assurance inlinewiththe Remuneration Policy approved by businesses, the Committee reviewed the business targets shareholdersat the2017 AGM.
within our variable pay plans and made the necessary adjustments to ensure that the plansoperated as originally 2018 was a transformational year for Phoenix withthe intended and properly reflected our aim to reward longacquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses, as termvalue generation.
setout in the Group Chief Executive Officersreport at the beginning of this Annual Report andAccounts.
This and other Specifically: achievements, inline with , reflect the strong performance, commitment and leadership shown by 2018 Annual Incentive Plan AIP : the Groups management team.
Solvency II Management Action targets have beenincreased by 260 million to reflect the Particular operational and financial highlights for the equityhedging actionannounced to the market.
year included: Solvency II Own Funds targets have been increasedby1,837 million to reflect equity Highlights raisedaspartofthe acquisition.
Cash generation of 664 million in 2018 taking the No changes were made to other AIP metrics.
totalcashgeneration in 2017 and 2018 to 1.3 billion andexceeding the upper end of the target range for 2016 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP : thisperiodof 1.0 billion to 1.2 billion.
No changes were made to the targets, recognising Completion of the acquisition of the Standard Life thatnonet cash is expected from the Standard Life Assurancebusinesses financed in partbya950 million Assurance businesses over the performance period rights issue and a 945 million debt issuance.
Strategic Partnership with Standard Life Aberdeen plc.
Completion of AXA Wealth and Abbey Life integrations.
For completeness, the targets relating to the 2017 and 2018LTIP awards were also reviewed and the adjustments Completion of three Bulk Purchase Annuity aredescribed on page 94.
Successful on-shoring of the Group.
The Committee evaluated the performance of each Executive Strong Customer Satisfaction scores of 93%.
Director against both business objectives and individual personal objectives anddecided the overall outturns of theAIPandLTIP are appropriate, specifically: 2018 AIP: Clive Bannister and James McConville shouldreceive 85.5% and 88.0% oftheirmaximum bonusopportunity, respectively.
2016 LTIP: Awards will vest at 49.5% of maximum opportunity for both CliveBannister and James McConville.
Further details of the performance assessment are providedinthis report.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 76 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION REMUNERATION POLICY APPROVAL FOR 2019 LTIP 2019 metrics unchanged from 2018 The current Directors Remuneration Policy was approved Metric 2019 Weightings byshareholders at the 2017 AGM, with a 99% vote in favour.
Cumulative Cash Generation 40% While this policy was put in place for three years, the recent Return on Adjusted Shareholder establishment of Phoenix Group Holdings plc as the ultimate SolvencyII Own Funds 35% parent company of the Group means that the Directors Remuneration Policy will need to be submitted for aformal TSR 25% binding shareholder approval at this years AGM before anupdated Remuneration Policy is put to shareholders BOARD CHANGES atthe2020 AGM.
During the year, Henry Staunton announced his retirement from the Phoenix Group Holdings Board.
Following an This will largely be a roll forward of the previously approved intensive search process, Henrywas succeeded by Phoenix Group Holdings policy.
However, in recognition NicholasLyons from 31 October 2018.
Nicholas brings a ofthe2018 update to the UK Corporate Governance Code, wealth of experience in life insurance as well as the broader wepropose the following twochanges to our current Policy: financial services sector.
The Board is delighted to welcome Nicholasand looks forward to working with him inthe future.
Alignment of pension contributions for new Executive The newChairmans annual fee is the same as that paid Directors with those provided to the wider workforce, tohis predecessor.
withareview of the policy for current Executive Directors aspart of the full policy review later this year.
LOOKING FORWARD Introduction of post-cessation shareholding requirements During 2019 the Committee will conduct a full review forboth new and current Executive Directors.
oftheRemuneration Policy to ensure that it continues toalignwith the Groups strategy, motivates and incentivises AIP AND LTIP FOR 2019 management, and promotes alignment with shareholders The Committee reviewed the AIP and LTIP metrics in light andcustomers interests.
This review will incorporate the new ofthe acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses requirements ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code, which and concluded that they continue to reflect the Groups we have already started to embrace through the early evolving business focus and are aligned to the success adoption of certain aspects of the Code and expanded remit oftheEnlarged Group.
Therefore, we propose no changes ofthe Committee asset out in the Terms of Reference.
An updated Remuneration Policy will be put to shareholders atthe 2020 AGM.
AIP 2019 metrics unchanged from 2018 Metric 2019 Weightings As part of the review process, I will be formally reaching outtoengage with and seek the views of the Groups Cash Generation 24% 30% of Corporate component majorshareholders.
As ever, I welcome the views of all Adjusted Shareholder 24% 30% of Corporate component stakeholders, look forward to these meetings, and am SolvencyIIOwnFunds verygrateful for your time taken and valuable feedback.
Management Actions 12% 15% of Corporate component Customer Experience 20% 25% of Corporate component Personal Objectives 20% KORY SORENSON REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIR 4 March 2019 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AT A GLANCE HOW WE PERFORMED IN 2018 Group performance measures Annual Incentive Plan AIP : Below we show the target ranges and outturn against the metrics within the 2018 AIP.
More details of the 2018 AIP can be found on page 89.
AIP metrics that are stated Group KPIs are flagged below and evidences the direct link between Company strategy and remuneration outcomes.
Threshold Target Maximum Outturn 1 S ee note 5 on page 89 for detail of the FOS Overturn Rate used in the AIP.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP : Below we show outturn against the measures which applied for the 2016 LTIP awards which are reflected in the Single Figure Table on page 88.
Cumulative cash generation and TSR performance are shown over the three-year performance period financial years 2016, 2017 and 2018.
TSR is measured against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts, with median being the 50th percentile and upper quintile being the 80th percentile.
Cash generation continues to be one of our keycorporate strategic objectives, while TSR provides a direct linkage to shareholder interests.
Threshold Target Outturn PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 78 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES SOGs INTRODUCTION The charts below show the shares and vested LTIP awards This report contains the material required to be set out as held by the Executive Directors as a percentage of salary as theDirectors Remuneration Report Remuneration Report at31 December 2018.
The figures are based on a share price for the purposes of Part 4 of The Large and Medium-sized of 5.63 as at 31 December 2018.
LTIPs which have vested Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment but are subject toaholding period have counted towards Regulations 2013, which amended The Large and MediumtheSOGs figure.
The LTIPvested figure reflects performance sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports outturn, dividend accrual, and the expected impact of income Regulations 2008 the DRR regulations.
tax and National Insurance that will be payable on exercise.
Further details on shareholding requirements are included in Phoenix Group Holdings previously voluntarily complied with the Remuneration Policy under the Shareholding Guidelines theDRR regulations as a matter of good practice although it section on page 84. wasnot strictly required to do so as a non-UK incorporated quoted company.
Subsequent to the completion of Phoenix Group Holdings re-domicile to theUK and following the SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES % OF SALARY completion of a Scheme of Arrangement on 12 December 2018, Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director and Group Director, Phoenix Group Holdings plc was inserted as the new ultimate officer Clive Bannister Scotland Group FD James McConville parent company of the Group in place of Phoenix Group 740% Holdings.
Accordingly, the Company, as a UK-registered quotedcompany, must now comply with the DRR regulationsasa matter of UK company law.
399% The appointment of the Directors of Phoenix Group Holdings plc, Shareholding as shown on page 102, became effective from the date of 200% 200% guidelines admission of Phoenix Group Holdings plc to the London Shares held at StockExchange on 13 December 2018.
31 December 2018 The tables shown on pages 88 and 92 show the total remuneration received by Directors over the full year to 31 December 2018.
The DRR regulations require the disclosure of the remuneration paid to the Directors of the Company in respect of services provided to Phoenix Group Holdings plc or its subsidiaries and this is shown on page 104with services considered to have been provided effectivefrom 13 December 2018.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The 2019 AGM is the Companys first AGM as a UK-registered quoted company, and so the Company is seeking approval from its shareholders for its Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration Policy which is being put forward for approval by shareholders of Phoenix Group Holdings plc at the2019 AGM is in all material respects the same as the policy approved by the shareholders of Phoenix Group Holdings at thatcompanys AGM on 11 May 2017.
From the date of listing of Phoenix Group Holdings plc on 13 December 2018 the Remuneration Committee has voluntarily applied the policy previously established by Phoenix Group Holdings.
This Policy will be reviewed in 2019 in light of changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and other investor body guidelines and a new revised Policy will be presented to shareholders for approval at the AGM of Phoenix Group Holdings plc in 2020.
Ahead of this full review however, the Group has taken the opportunity to make two immediate updates to the Policy: The alignment of pension entitlement for newly appointed Executive Directors to that of the majority of the workforce.
The introduction of a shareholding requirement post cessation of employment.
The Remuneration Policy is set out in sectionAof this report overleaf.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SECTION A: THIS SECTION CONTAINS THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY AS PROPOSED FOR APPROVAL BY THE COMPANYS SHAREHOLDERS AT THE COMPANYS 2019 AGM ON 2MAY 2019.
GENERAL POLICY The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors is summarised in the table below along with the policy on the Chairmans andthe Non-Executive Directors fees.
Summary of changes from previous policy: As explained in the Remuneration Committee Chairmans letter at the beginning of this Directors Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Policy proposed for adoption by the Companys shareholders at the 2019 AGM is largely unchanged from the Remuneration Policy approved by the shareholders of Phoenix Group Holdings at its 2017 AGM with the exception of the specific details outlined on page 79 and the addition of the 2019 LTIP metrics.
In line with legislative requirements, a revised Remuneration Policy will be presented to shareholders in 2020 being three years following the 2017 AGM.
Overall positioning The Companys overall positioning on remuneration for Executive Directors remains unchanged from prior years: An appropriate balance is maintained between fixed and variable components of remuneration.
Our Remuneration Policy benchmarks the total target remuneration for the Executive Directors between FTSE 31-100 and FTSE 250 data sets, and remuneration for both Executive Directors is positioned appropriately between these data sets.
This benchmark will be reviewed in 2019 in accordance with Phoenixs position within the FTSE market.
This section does not form part of the Remuneration Policy and is for information only.
HOW MUCH THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EARNED IN 2018 POTENTIAL REWARDS UNDER VARIOUS SCENARIOS 000 The charts below compare the maximum levels of Total Remuneration payable under the Directors Remuneration Policy seepage 81 and the actual payments for 2018 detailed in the Single Figure Table see page 88.
TOTAL REMUNERATION OPPORTUNITY 000 Group Chief Executive officer Clive Bannister Group Finance Director James McConville 2,516 3,992 18% 3,292 18% 2,076 2,482 1,582 5% 5% 43% 35% 35% 42% 1,086 1,717 25% 24% Total xed pay 20% 21% 32% 26% 32% 26% AIP 37% 36% 839 533 31% 30% LTIP 100% 49% 25% 21% 34% 100% 49% 26% 21% 34% Share price growth and dividends Minimum On-target Maximum Maximum Actual Minimum On-target Maximum Maximum Actual with growth with growth Minimum, on-target and maximum represent the scenario charts required under the Directors Remuneration Policy see the data assumptions below.
Maximum with growth is the maximum scenario, but with the LTIP element increased to reflect a 50% share price growth assumption over the three-year period until LTIP vesting.
The element of the total representing the value from these assumptions on share price growth and dividends is shown separately.
Actual represents the values shown in the 2018 Single Figure Table.
Within this, the actual share price growth and dividends in the three-year period until LTIP vesting are shown separately.
Base salary Benefits Pension Total fixed Name 000 000 000 000 Clive Bannister 700 16 140 856 James McConville 440 16 88 544 Minimum Consists of base salary, benefits and pension: Base salary is the salary to be paid in 2019 unchanged from 2018.
Benefits measured as benefits paid in 2018 as set out in the Single Figure Table.
Pension measured as the full entitlement of approximately 17.6% of base salary receivable after the reduction to payments made in cash for employers National Insurance Contributions.
On-target Based on what the Executive Director would receive if performance was on-target: AIP: consists of the on-target annual incentive 75% of base salary.
LTIP: consists of the threshold level of vesting 50% of base salary.
In addition, the potential value of Sharesave and Share Incentive Plan SIP participation is also recognised.
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable: AIP: consists of the maximum annual incentive 150% of base salary.
LTIP: assumes maximum vesting of awards and valued as on the date of grant normal award 200% of base salary.
Sharesave and SIP valued on the same basis as in the on-target row.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 80 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE Element and purpose Base Salary This is the core element of pay and reflects the individuals role and position within the Group with some adjustment to reflect their capability and contribution Policy and operation Base salaries are reviewed each year against companies of similar size and complexity.
Both salary levels and overall remuneration are set by reference to the median data of comparators which the Remuneration Committee considers to be suitable using both the FTSE 31-100 and the FTSE 250 as a whole, and positioning the Executive Directors salaries around the average of the median positions in these pan-sector groups.
Consideration is also given to other relevant insurance company data.
The Remuneration Committee uses this data as a key reference point in considering the appropriate level of salary.
Other relevant factors including corporate and individual performance and any changes in an individuals role and responsibilities, and the level of salaryincreases awarded to other employees of the Group are also considered.
Base salary is paid monthly in cash.
Changes to base salaries normally take effect from 1 January.
Maximum The Remuneration Committee will apply the factors set out above in considering any salary adjustments during the duration of this policy.
No increase will be made if it would take an Executive Directors salary above 780,000 being the median level ofsalaries for CEOs in the FTSE 31-100 when the prior policy was adopted in 2017, provided that this figure may be increased in line with UK RPI inflation from the adoption of the prior policy in May 2017.
Performance measures N A Element and purpose Benefits To provide other benefits valued by recipient Policy and operation The Group provides market competitive benefits in kind.
Details of the benefits provided in each year will be set out in the Implementation Report.
The Remuneration Committee reserves discretion to introduce new benefits where it concludes that itisintheinterests of the Group to do so, having regard to the particular circumstances and to market practice.
Where appropriate, the Company will meet certain costs relating to Executive Director relocations.
Maximum It is not possible to prescribe the likely change in the cost of insured benefits or the cost of some of the other reported benefits year-to-year, but the provision of benefits will normally operate within an annual limit of 10% of an Executive Directors base salary.
The Remuneration Committee will monitor the costs in practice and ensure that the overall costs do not increase by more than the Remuneration Committee considers to be appropriate in all the circumstances.
Relocation expenses are subject to a maximum limit of 150,000.
Performance measures N A Element and purpose Pension To provide retirement benefits and remain competitive within the marketplace Policy and operation The Group provides a competitive employer sponsored defined contribution pension plan.
All Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Group Personal Pension GPP.
Executive Directors receive a contribution to the GPP or they may opt to receive the contribution in cash if they are impacted by the relevant lifetime or annual limits.
Any such cash payments are reduced for the effect of employers National Insurance Contributions.
Phoenix will honour the pensions obligations entered into under all previous policies in accordance with the terms of such obligations.
Maximum Pension contributions for new Executive Directors will be aligned with the wider workforce.
The exact contribution rate will be disclosed next year following a review of overall Company pension provision.
Pension contributions for current Executive Directors are limited to 20% of base salary per annum reduced to 17.6% when taken as cash in lieu of contribution, with the intention to review this against the wider workforce as part of the full policy review later this year.
Performance measures N A PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 81 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Element and purpose Annual Incentive Plan AIP and Deferred Bonus Share Scheme DBSS To motivate employees and incentivise delivery of annual performance targets Policy and operation AIP levels and the appropriateness of measures are reviewed annually to ensure they continue to support the Groups strategy.
AIP outcomes are paid in cash in one tranche less the deferred share award.
At least 40% of any annual AIP award is to be deferred into shares for a period of three years although the Remuneration Committee reserves discretion to alter the current practice of deferral whether by altering the portion deferred, the period of deferral or whether amounts are deferred into cash or shares.
Such alterations may be required to ensure compliance with regulatory guidelines for pay within the insurance sector, but will not otherwise reduce the current deferral level or the period of deferral.
Deferral of AIP outcomes into shares is currently made under the DBSS.
Awards under DBSS will be in the form of awards to receive shares for nil-cost with the shares either being delivered automatically atvesting or being delivered at a time following vesting at the individuals choice.
DBSS awards are made automatically each year on the fourth dealing day following the announcement of annual results, using the average of the preceding three dealing days share prices to calculate the number of shares in awards.
The three-year period of deferral will run to the third anniversary of the award date.
Dividend entitlements will accrue over the three-year deferral period and be delivered as additional vesting shares.
Malus clawback provisions apply to the AIP and to amounts deferred under DBSS as explained in the notes to this table.
Maximum The maximum annual incentive level for an Executive Director is 150% of base salary per annum.
Performance measures The performance measures applied to AIP will be set by the Remuneration Committee and may be financial or non-financial and corporate, divisional or individual and in such proportions as it considers appropriate.
However, the weighting of financial performance measures will not be reduced below 50% of total AIP potential in any year for the duration of this policy.
In respect of the financial performance measures, attaining the threshold performance level produces a nil annual incentive payment and for non-financial performance measures the threshold performance level produces an annual incentive outcome that is 10% of theweighting given to these measures.
On-target performance on all measures produces an outcome of 50% of maximum annual incentive opportunity.
However, the Remuneration Committee reserves the right to adjust the threshold and target levels for future financial years in light of competitive practice.
The AIP operates subject to three levels of moderation: i.
The Committee seeks to set suitable ranges for each measure in the context both of the Companys own internal budgets and of external projections whether through management guidance or consensus forecasts.
As an entirely closed life business, targets aresignificantly impacted by management actions and year-on-year growth is not an inherent objective.
Recognising that the business ofthe Company is to engage in corporate activity, the Remuneration Committee may adjust targets during the year totakeaccount ofsuch activity and ensure the targets continue to reflect performance as originally intended.
There is a specific adjustment factor of 80%-120% of the provisional outturn whereby the Remuneration Committee may adjust theprovisional figure but subject to any over-riding cap to take account of its broad assessment of performance both against pre-settargets and more generally, of the wider universe of stakeholders.
With respect to financial performance measures, this assessment will include consideration of the quality of how particular outcomes were achieved.
The AIP remains a discretionary arrangement and the Remuneration Committee reserves discretion to adjust the outturn from zeroto any cap should it consider that to be appropriate.
In particular, the Remuneration Committee may operate this discretion inrespect ofany risk concerns.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 82 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Element and purpose Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP To motivate and incentivise delivery of sustained performance over the long term, and to promote alignment with shareholders interests, the Group operates the Phoenix Group Holdings Long Term Incentive Plan Policy and operation Awards under the LTIP may be in any of the forms of awards to receive shares for nil-cost as described for DBSS above.
LTIP awards are made automatically each year on the fourth dealing day following the announcement of annual results, using the average of the preceding three dealing days share prices to calculate the number of shares in awards.
The vesting period will be at least three years and run until the third anniversary of the award date unless a longer vesting period isintroduced.
A holding period will apply so that Executive Directors may not normally exercise vested LTIP awards until the fifth anniversary oftheaward date.
Dividend entitlements will accrue until the end of the holding period in respect of performance vested shares and be delivered asadditional vesting shares.
Malus clawback provisions apply on a basis consistent with the equivalent provisions in the AIP and DBSS and as explained in the notesto this table.
The Company will honour the vesting of all awards granted under previous policies in accordance with the terms of such awards.
Maximum The formal limit under the LTIP is 300% of base salary per annum and 400% per annum in exceptional cases.
The Remuneration Committees practice is to make LTIP awards to Executive Directors each year over shares with a value as at the award date of 200% of the individuals annual base salary although discretion is reserved to make awards up to the maximum levels forthe policy as stated above.
Performance measures The Remuneration Committee may set such performance measures for LTIP awards as it considers appropriate whether financial ornon-financial and whether corporate, divisional or individual.
The measures for the 2019 LTIP are as set out below unchanged from2018 : Measure Weighting Cumulative Cash Generation 40% Return on Adjusted Shareholder Solvency II Own Funds 35% Total Shareholder Return 25% The Remuneration Committee retains discretion to adjust the weightings substitute metrics but would expect to consult with its major shareholders if it proposed changing materially the current performance measures applied for LTIP awards made to Executive Directors or the relative weightings between these performance measures.
For every LTIP award, appropriate disclosures regarding the proposed performance conditions will be made in the annual Implementation Report.
Once set, performance measures and targets will generally remain unaltered unless events occur which, in the Remuneration Committees opinion, make it appropriate to make adjustments to the performance measures, provided that any adjusted performance measure is, in its opinion, neither materially more nor less difficult to satisfy than the original measure.
For each part of an LTIP award subject to a specific performance condition, the threshold level of vesting will be no more than 25% ofthat part of the LTIP award.
The performance period for LTIP awards will be at least three years, but the Remuneration Committee reserves discretion to lengthen the applicable performance periods for LTIP awards.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 83 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Element and purpose All-employee share plans To encourage share ownership by employees, thereby allowing them to participate in the long-term success of the Group and align theirinterests with those of the shareholders Policy and operation Executive Directors are able to participate in all-employee share plans on the same terms as other Group employees as required byHMRC legislation.
Maximum Sharesave the Remuneration Committee has the facility to allow individuals to save up to a maximum of 500 each month orsuchother level as permitted by HMRC legislation for a fixed period of three or five years.
At the end of the savings period, individualsmay use their savings to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a discount of up to 20% of the market price set at thelaunchof each scheme.
Share Incentive Plan SIP the Remuneration Committee has the facility to allow individuals to have the opportunity to purchase, out of their pre-tax salary, shares in the Company and receive up to two matching shares for every purchased share.
Maximum saving is 150 each month or up to such level as permitted by the Company in line with HMRC legislation.
SIP also has the facility to allow for reinvestment of dividends in further shares, or the award of additional free shares up to the limits as permitted by HMRC legislation.
Performance measures Consistent with normal practice, such awards are not subject to performance conditions.
Element and purpose Shareholding guidelines To encourage share ownership by the Executive Directors and ensure interests are aligned Policy and operation Executive Directors are expected to retain all shares net of tax which vest under the DBSS and under the LTIP or any other discretionary long term incentive arrangement introduced in the future until such time as they hold a minimum of 200% of their basesalary in shares.
Only beneficially owned shares and vested share awards discounted for anticipated tax liabilities may be counted for the purposes ofthe guidelines.
Share awards do not count prior to vesting including DBSS awards.
Once shareholding guidelines have been met, individuals are expected to retain these levels as a minimum.
The Remuneration Committee will review shareholdings annually in the context of this policy.
Post cessation of employment, Executive Directors are expected to retain their full level of employment shareholding requirement inthefirst year and half the level of their employment shareholding requirement in the second year.
Maximum N A Performance measures N A Element and purpose Chairman and Non-Executive Director fees Policy and operation The fees paid to the Chairman and the fees of the other Non-Executive Directors are set to be competitive with other listed companies of equivalent size and complexity.
Fee levels are periodically reviewed.
The Company does not adopt a quantitative approach to pay positioning and exercises judgement as to what it considers to be reasonable in all the circumstances as regards quantum.
Additional fees are paid to Non-Executive Directors who chair a Board committee, or sit on the board of a subsidiary company or on the Solvency II Model Governance Committee, and to the Senior Independent Director SID.
No separate Board committee membership fees are currently paid.
Fees are paid monthly in cash.
Fee levels for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed annually with any changes normally taking effect from 1 January.
Maximum The aggregate fees of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors will not exceed the limit from time to time prescribed within theCompanys Articles of Association for such fees currently 2 million per annum in aggregate.
The Company reserves the right to vary the structure of fees within this limit including, for example, introducing time-based fees orreflecting the establishment of new Board committees.
Performance measures N A PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 84 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION NOTES TO THE REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE 3.
Malus and clawback Malus being the forfeiture of unvested awards and 1.
Differences between the Policy on Remuneration clawback being the ability of the Company to claim forDirectors and the Policy on Remuneration of repayment of paid amounts as a debt provisions apply otheremployees totheAIP, DBSS and LTIP.
These provisions may be When determining Executive Directors remuneration, the appliedwhere the Remuneration Committee considers Committee takes into account pay throughout the Group to itappropriateto do so following: ensure that the arrangements in place remain appropriate.
a review of the conduct, capability or performance The Group has as required by Solvency II regulations ofan individual: oneconsistent reward policy for all levels of employees andthis policy is made available to all staff.
Therefore, a review of the performance of the Company thesame reward principles guide reward decisions for oraGroup member: allPhoenix employees, including Executive Directors, any material misstatement of the Companys or a althoughremuneration packages differ to take into account Groupmembers financial results for any period: appropriatefactors in different areas of the business: any material failure of Risk Management by an individual, aGroup member or the Company: or AIP all Phoenix employees participate in the AIP, althoughthe quantum and balance of corporate to any other circumstances that have a sufficiently individualobjectives varies by level.
The most senior staff significantimpact on the reputation of the Company.
are subject to the regulatory requirements of Solvency II, and these individuals also receive part of their bonus 4.
Travel and hospitality inCompany shares deferred for a period of three years.
While the Remuneration Committee does not consider this A different scorecard of AIP performance measures toform part of benefits in the normal usage of that term, appliesfor employees in control functions risk, ithasbeen advised that corporate hospitality whether paid compliance, internal audit and actuarial to exclude forby the Company or another and certain instances of financialperformance measures.
business travel including any related tax liabilities settled bythe Company or another Group company for Directors LTIP our most senior employees participate in the LTIP maytechnically be considered as benefits and so the currently based on the same performance conditions as Remuneration Committee expressly reserves the right to those for Executive Directors, although the Committee authorise such activities and reimbursement of associated reserves the discretion to vary the performance conditions expenses within its agreed policies.
for awards made to employees below the Board for future awards.
Discretions reserved in operating incentive plans All-employee share plans the Committee considers The Remuneration Committee will operate the AIP, DBSS itisimportant for all employees to have the opportunity andLTIP according to their respective rules and the above tobecome shareholders in the Company.
The Company Remuneration Policy table.
The Remuneration Committee offers two HMRC tax advantaged arrangements in which retains certain discretions, consistent with market practice, allUK employees can participate andacquire shares on inrelation to the operation and administration of these adiscounted and tax advantaged basis Sharesave and plans including: SIP, and equivalent arrangements in foreign jurisdictions including on a tax advantaged basis permitted under local as described in the Remuneration Policy table the laws.
In addition, selected individuals may receive ad-hoc determination of performance measures and targets share awards contingent on continued employment.
andresultant vesting and pay-out levels: as described in the Remuneration Policy table the 2.
Stating maximum amounts for the abilitytoadjust performance measures and targets RemunerationPolicy toreflectevents and or to ensure the performance The DRR regulations and related investor guidance measuresand targets operate as originally intended: encourages companies to disclose a cap within which each as described in the Termination Policy determination element of remuneration policy will operate.
Where maximum ofthetreatment of individuals who leave employment, amounts for elements of remuneration have been set within basedon the rules of the incentive plans, andthe the Remuneration Policy, these will operate simply as caps treatmentof the incentive plans on exceptional events, and are not indicative of any aspiration.
suchas a change of control of the Company: and the ability to make adjustments to existing awards madeunder the incentive plans in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructurings or special dividends.
Any exercise of discretion will be disclosed intheImplementation Report for the year.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 85 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION POLICY DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims Executive Directors togivethe Remuneration Committee sufficient flexibility Executive Director service contracts, which do not contain tosecure the appointment and promotion of high calibre expiry dates, provide that compensation provisions for executives to strengthen the management team and termination without notice will only extend to 12 months securethe skill sets to deliver our strategic aims.
ofsalary, certain fixed benefits and pension which may bepayable in instalments and subject to mitigation.
In terms of the principles for setting a package for a new By excluding anyentitlement to compensation for loss of the Executive Director, the starting point for the Remuneration opportunity toearn variable pay, the Remuneration Committee Committee will be to apply the general policy for Executive believesthecontracts to be consistent with best practice.
Directors as set out above and structure a package in The Remuneration Committee also has discretion to mitigate accordance with that policy.
further by paying on a phased basis with unpaid instalments ceasing after the initial period of six months if the Executive The AIP and LTIP will operate including the maximum Director finds alternative employment.
Contracts do not award levels as detailed in the general policy in relation contain change of control provisions.
The template contract toany newly appointed Executive Director.
isreviewed from time to time and may be amended provided For an internal appointment, any variable pay element it is not overall more generous than the terms awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue described above.
onits original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment as appropriate.
Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted For external and internal appointments, the Remuneration to accept outside appointments on external boards as long Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain asthese are not deemed to interfere with the business of relocation expenses as it considers appropriate.
For external candidates, it may be necessary to make awardsin connection with the recruitment to buy-out awards Non-Executive Directors forfeited by the individual on leaving a previous employer.
The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, For such buy-out awards, Phoenix will notpay more than haveletters of appointment which set out their duties is, inthe view of the Remuneration Committee, necessary andresponsibilities.
Appointment is for an initial fixed term and will in all cases seek, in the firstinstance, todeliver any ofthreeyears which may be renewed, terminable by one such awards under the terms ofthe existing incentive pay months notice from either side six months in the case structure.
It may, however, be necessary insome cases to oftheChairman.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible make such awards on terms that are morebespoke than the toparticipate in incentive arrangements or receive pension existing annual and equity-based paystructures in Phoenix provision or other benefits such as private medical inorder to secure a candidate.
Details of any buy-out awards insuranceand life insurance.
Copies of Executive Director service contracts and NonAll such buy-out awards, whether under the AIP, LTIP Executive Director letters of appointment are available for orotherwise for example, specific arrangements made inspection at the Company's registered office.
2, will take account of the service obligations and performance requirements for any remuneration relinquished by the individual when leaving aprevious employer.
The Remuneration Committee will seek to make buy-out awards subject to what are, in its opinion, comparable requirements in respect of service andperformance.
However, the Remuneration Committee maychoose to relax this requirement in certain cases suchas where the service and or performance requirements are materially completed, and where the Remuneration Committee considers it to be in the interests of shareholders and where such factors are, in the view of the Remuneration Committee, reflected in some other way, such as a significant discount to the face value of the awards forfeited.
Exceptionally, where necessary, this may include aguaranteed or non pro-rated annual incentive in the year of joining.
For the avoidance of doubt, such buy-out awards are not subject to a formal cap.
A new Non-Executive Director would be recruited ontheterms explained in the Remuneration Policy forsuchDirectors.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 86 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION TERMINATION POLICY SUMMARY In practice, the facts surrounding any termination do not always fit neatly into defined categories for good or bad leavers.
Therefore, it is appropriate for the Remuneration Committee to consider the suitable treatment on a termination having regard toall of the relevant facts and circumstances available at that time.
This policy applies both to any negotiations linked to notice periods on a termination and any treatment which the Remuneration Committee may choose to apply under the discretions available to it under the terms of the AIP, DBSS and LTIP plans.
The potential treatments on termination under these plans aresummarised below.
1 Incentives Good Leaver Bad Leaver Exceptional Events A participant is considered a Good Leaver A participant would typically be For example change in control ifleaving through redundancy, serious ill considered a Bad Leaver following orwinding-up of the Company health or death or otherwise at the discretion avoluntary resignation or leaving of the Remuneration Committee fordisciplinary reasons AIP Pro-rated annual incentive.
Pro-rating No awards made Either the AIP will continue for the toreflect only the period worked.
yearor there will be a pro-rated Performance metrics determined by annualincentive.
Performance theRemuneration Committee metricsdetermined by the Remuneration Committee DBSS Deferred awards vest at the end of the Deferred awards normally lapse Deferred awards vest original vesting period LTIP Will receive a pro-rated award subject All awards will normally lapse Will receive a pro-rated award subject totheapplication of the performance to the application of the performance conditions at the normal measurement conditions at the date of the event.
dateand, generally, any holding period Remuneration Committee discretion willcontinue toapply todisapply pro-rating Remuneration Committee discretion to disapply pro-rating or to accelerate vesting to the date of leaving subject to pro-rating and performance conditions and or the release of any holding period 1 W here the reason for leaving is retirement, the individual will be required to provide confirmation of their continued retirement before any payments are released to them after the end of the vesting period.
The Company has power to enter into settlement agreements with executives and to pay compensation to settle potential legal claims.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, in the event of termination of an Executive Director, the Company may pay a contribution towards the individuals legal fees and fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
Any such fees would be disclosed as part of the detail of termination arrangements.
For the avoidance of doubt, the policy doesnot include an explicit cap on the cost of termination payments.
In the event of cessation of a Non-Executive Directors appointment excluding the Chairman they would be entitled to a one months notice period.
The Chairman, as detailed in his letter of appointment, would be entitled to a six months notice period.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP As explained in the notes to the Remuneration Policy table, the Remuneration Committee takes into account Group-wide pay and employment conditions.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the average Group-wide base salary increase and annual incentive costs and is responsible for all discretionary and all-employee share arrangements.
Consistent with previous practice, the Remuneration Committee did not consult with employees in preparing the 2017 Remuneration Policy although will be establishing further employee engagement in 2019 in accordance with the requirement under the Corporate Governance Code.
Further details are shown on page 101.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDERS VIEWS Each year the Remuneration Committee takes into account the approval levels of remuneration-related matters at our AGM indetermining that the current Remuneration Policy remains appropriate for the Company.
The Remuneration Committee also seeks to build an active and productive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
The Remuneration Committee consulted extensively with shareholders prior to the approval of the prior policy which was approved with 99.7% support in 2017.
As this new policy is largely a rollover of the previous shareholder approved policy subject tothe amendments described on page 79, it was not considered necessary to re-consult.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 87 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SECTION B: THIS SECTION CONTAINS THE ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION WHICH FORMS PART OF THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT TO BE PROPOSED FOR APPROVAL BY THE COMPANYS SHAREHOLDERS AT THE COMPANYS 2019 AGM ON2 MAY 2019 As explained on page 79 Phoenix Group Holdings plc became the ultimate parent company of the Group and was listed on theLondon Stock Exchange on 13 December 2018.
For ease of comparison to 2017, 2018 full year data is shown below.
Details ofremuneration paid by each of the two entities Phoenix Group Holdings and Phoenix Group Holdings plc is shown intheAppendix to this report on page 104.
IMPLEMENTATION REPORT AUDITED INFORMATION SINGLE FIGURE TABLE Long-term 6 Salary fees Benefits Annual Incentive incentives Pension Total 5 5 2017 2017 4 000 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 restated 2018 2017 2018 restated Clive Bannister 700 700 16 16 898 902 745 1,147 123 123 2,482 2,888 James McConville 440 440 16 16 581 567 468 724 77 77 1,582 1,824 1 The Executive Directors are entitled to adjust their salary benefit combination under flexible benefits arrangements and the figures shown are before individual elections.
2 B enefits for Clive Bannister comprise car allowance and private medical insurance totalling 16,290.
Benefits for James McConville comprise car allowance and private medical insurance totalling 16,032.
3 A nnual incentive amounts are presented inclusive of any amounts which must be deferred into shares for three years ie 40% of the AIP award for 2018.
In 2018 and 2017, 359,100 and 360,835 respectively of Clive Bannisters incentive payment is subject to three-year deferral delivered in shares, and 232,320 and 226,810 of James McConvilles incentive payment is subject to a similar deferral.
Deferred amounts are subject to continued employment.
4 I n accordance with the requirements of the DRR regulations, the 2018 value for long-term incentives is an estimate of the vesting outcomes for LTIP awards granted in 2016 and which are due to vest on 2 June 2019 for Clive Bannister and James McConville.
These vesting levels are at 49.5% reflecting outcomes against the Cumulative cash generation and TSR performance measures to 31 December 2018 see page 91 and assumptions regarding dividends for the period until vesting.
This vesting outcome is then applied to the average share price between 1 October 2018 and 31 December 2018 600.04p to produce the estimated long-term incentives figures shown for 2018 in the above table.
These assumptions will be trued up for actual share prices and dividends on vesting in the report for 2019.
The disclosed LTIP figure of745,255 for Clive Bannister reflects the proportion of the original award which ultimately vested 619,744 plus the value of dividend roll-up on those shares 125,511.
For James McConville the equivalent values are 468,433 as the disclosed LTIP figure, comprising 389,547 for the value of the proportion of the original LTIP award which ultimately vested plus the value of dividend roll-up on those shares 78,886.
All values are calculated using the three month average share price to 31 December 2018 600.04p.
5 F or 2015s LTIP awards which are reflected in the 2017 long-term incentives column above, the performance conditions were met as to 64.28% of maximum.
The 2017 long-term incentives values in the above table reflect the value of the Companys shares on the date of vesting which was 28 September 2018 676p per share multiplied by the number ofshares vesting whereas the equivalent figure within the published 2017 Single Figure Table was an estimate which reflected the average share price between 1 October 2017 and 31 December 2017 759.8462p per share and certain assumptions regarding the cumulative value of dividends on the number of shares vesting.
6 C live Bannister and James McConville are entitled to each receive a Company pension contribution of 17.6% which is paid in cash.
Pension contributions paid as cash supplements are reduced for the effect of employers National Insurance contributions.
Both Clive Bannister and James McConville received the pension contributions as cash supplements.
No Director participated in a defined benefit pension arrangement in the year and none have any prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension arrangement.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AND PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS There were no payments made to former Directors and no payments for loss of office in the year.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 88 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION AIP OUTCOMES FOR 2018 AUDITED INFORMATION As explained in the Committee Chairmans statement, the business of the Group is to engage in corporate activity and the Remuneration Committee may adjust targets during the year to include such activity and ensure the targets continue to reflect performance as originally intended.
2018 was a transformational year for the Group in terms of corporate activity with respect tothe acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses.
In light of this acquisition, the Committee approved the following adjustments to the AIP targets: Solvency II Management Actions: Threshold, target and maximum levels increased by 260 million to reflect the equity hedging action announced to the market.
The range therefore increased from 100 million threshold, 140 million target, 200 million maximum to360 million threshold, 400 million target, 460 million as shown in the table below.
Solvency II Management Actions are disclosed on page 32 and 33 of the Business Review and includes capital synergies associated with the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses.
Adjusted Shareholder Solvency II Own Funds: Threshold, target and maximum levels increased by 1,837 million to reflect equity raised as part of the acquisition, net of any dividends paid or payable in the first 12 months arising from the additional equity.
The range therefore increased from 2,863 million threshold, 2,913 million target, 3,013 million maximum to 4,700 million threshold, 4,750 million target, 4,850 millionas shown below.
Adjusted Shareholder Solvency II Own Funds represents the Group's Own Funds adjusted to remove the impacts of unsupported with-profit funds, the unsupported pension scheme PGL Pension Scheme, restricted Tier 1 notes and Tier 2 or Tier 3 subordinated liabilities.
Against the specific Corporate measures, outturns were as follows: Threshold Target Maximum Performance % of incentive performance performance performance level attained potential based level for level for level for for on Performance Performance measure 2018AIP 2018 AIP 2018 AIP 2018 AIP Measure % achieved Operating companies cashgeneration 550m 640m 690m 664m 30.0% 22.2% Solvency II Management Actions 360m 400m 460m 1,080m 15.0% 15.0% Adjusted Shareholder SolvencyIIOwnFunds 4,700m 4,750m 4,850m 5,603m 30.0% 30.0% Customer experience 1 Customer satisfaction 90% 91% 93% 93.1% 7.5% 7.5% 2 Origo timescales 12 days 11 days 9.5 days 10.73 days 7.5% 4.4% 3 CAT B incident closures 70% 72.5% 75% 73.4% 5.0% 3.4% 4 Servicing complaint closure 60% 65% 70% 50.0% 2.5% 0.0% 5 FOS overturn rate 20% 19% 18% 17.0% 2.5% 2.5% Total 100.0% 85.0% 1 T he rating is a customer satisfaction score based on the results of a satisfaction survey managed by Ipsos MORI an external research firm.
Customers surveyed were asked togive a satisfaction rating of between 1 and 5 to a number of questions with a rating of 4 or 5 regarded as satisfied.
93.1% of all questions asked scored a rating of 4 or above.
2 T he Origo Options service is a recognised industry-wide initiative for processing Pension Transfers to ensure payments are made in a timely fashion.
The service has set a benchmark standard of a 12 calendar day average elapsed time for processing transfers.
3 T his measure looks at the resolution of incidents for which there could be customer detriment financial or non-financial.
It measures the timeliness of actions when things go wrong.
The metrics in the table represent the percentage of cases closed within nine months.
4 This measure looks at servicing ie not product or advice complaints which are closed within three days.
5 T his measure looks at the proportion of cases where the Financial Ombudsman Service disagrees with our decision making in dealings with customers or an aspect of it.
For theAIP the FOS overturn rate is calculated based on an average of the H1 current year and H2 prior year rates.
This is due to the timing of when the FOS rates are published.
The figures exclude cases from past Abbey Life businesses that are subject to the FCAs past business review as such cases must follow an approach prescribed by the FCA andare therefore not an indicator of Phoenix customer treatment.
Before confirming these outcomes for the 2018 AIP, the Committee undertook a review which confirmed that the Company hadoperated within its stated risk appetite during the year and that there were no other risk-related concerns that required themoderation of 2018 AIP outcomes.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 89 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Personal objectives were agreed by the Group Board and shared with the Remuneration Committee at the start of the year.
The Board regards a number of the personal objectives set as commercially sensitive and, accordingly, it is not appropriate forsuch objectives to be disclosed.
However a number of achievements for the Executive Directors are shown below: Clive Bannister, Group Chief Executive Officer Group CEO Objectives Achievements Identify acquisition opportunities The Group CEO played the critical role in securing and delivering the transformational acquisition of capable of individually and collectively, theStandard Life Assurance businesses leading the negotiation, transaction, andpricing of the deal materially enhancing shareholder andwelcoming Standard Life Aberdeen plc asa strategic partner.
Subsequent to the closure of the value, and execute as appropriate above acquisition, repositioned theGroup to leverage Edinburgh asan operational headquarters alongside sites in London and Wythall, with a joint leadership teamappropriately representative oftheenlarged entity.
Deliver the financial results The Group CEO has sponsored the achievement of all the financial targets including above target at or ahead of plan cashflow, reduced expense, reduced leverage.
Maintain or improve solvency In conjunction with the Group FD, has helped deliver raising 1 billion of equity, 0.9 billion of subordinated debt, retaining a stable outlook from Fitch, delivering the highest Solvency II surplus andthe lowest leverage ratio in the Groups history.
Deliver management actions Actively sponsored the Groups evolving strategic asset allocation andthe sourcing of 1.4 billion and deliver on the strategic ofalternative illiquid assets and the establishment of the Groups Bulk Purchase Annuity capabilities.
asset allocation strategy Drove 570 million of SII management actions and a further 510 million of capital synergies to the Standard Life Assurance businesses.
Maintain strong effective Championed another solid year of maintaining a wholly effective andtransparent relationship with relationshipswith regulators ourregulators.
Complete on-shoring of Re-domiciled Phoenix Group Holdings to the UK and established Phoenix Group Holdings plc as the Phoenix Group Holdings new parent company of the Group.
Finalise outstanding integration Completed the outstanding matters related to the AXA and Abbey Lifeintegrations with total cost issuesrelated to AXA and savings of 27 million per annum, 10 million above target.
1 billion of cash generation delivered Abbey Life fromthese businesses to date, 75% of total consideration.
Deliver on Diversity targets Diversity targets were not met as they were largely impacted by changes in senior management through acquisition, structural changes, resignation and retirement.
However improved metrics, governance, and accountability have re-enforced the importance ofPhoenixs broader diversity agenda.
James McConville, Group Finance Director and Group Director, Scotland Group FD Objectives Achievements Complete at least 1 acquisition The Group FD has played a critical role in supporting the Groups transformational acquisition enhancing of shareholder value of the Standard Life Assurance businesses both as a transaction, with its associated successful rights issue, and in its strategic on-boarding in Q4 2018.
The Group FD has taken in Q3 2018 further responsibility as Group Director Scotland, and Head of Transformation for the acquisition.
Deliver the financial results All financial targets have been exceeded with reference to our Corporate targets: generating at or ahead of plan 664million of cash, a reduced expense base excluding acquisition costs, a reduced Fitch leverage ratio 22% and an operating profit of 708 million.
Maintain or improve solvency The Group FD has delivered the raising 1 billion of equity, 0.9 billion of subordinated debt, retaining a stable outlook from Fitch, delivering the highest Solvency II surplus and the lowest leverage ratio in the Groups history.
Deliver management actions and deliver Management actions have been delivered materially ahead of target, including securing of over on the strategic asset allocation strategy 1.4 billion of alternative assets.
Complete on-shoring of Re-domiciled Phoenix Group Holdings plc to the UK and established Phoenix Group Holdings plc Phoenix Group Holdings as the new parent company of the group.
Finalise outstanding integration Completed the outstanding matters related to the AXA and Abbey Life integrations with total issues related to AXA and costsavings of 27 million per annum, 10 million above target.
1 billion of cash generation delivered Abbey Life from thesebusinesses to date, 75% of total consideration.
Deliver on Diversity targets The Group FD chairs the Diversity Committee.
Improved metrics, governance, andaccountability have re-enforced the importance of Phoenixs broader diversity agenda.
Diversity targets were not met as they werelargely impacted by changes in senior management through acquisition, structural changes, resignation and retirement.
Manage investor relations and the The Group FD ran a comprehensive Investor engagement programme across debt and equity with 33 external communications function investor roadshows and met 414 debt and equity investors, plus a capital markets event attended by 120 investors and analysts.
These activities supported the successful rights issue and debt issues undertaken as part of the financing for the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 90 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Taking account of the attainment of personal objectives, the Group Chief Executive Officer received an 87.5% payout 183,750 for this element and the Group Finance Director received a 100%payout 132,000 for this element, consistent with their ratings for 2018.
These Personal individual objectives measures applied to 20% of incentive opportunity and Corporate financial and strategic measures applied to 80% of incentive opportunity.
Overall outturns as a percentage of maximum opportunity are 85.5% for the Group Chief Executive Officer and 88.0% for the Group Finance Director.
The table below shows the actual outturn against the annual incentive maximum.
Corporate Personal Total Maximum Total As a % of As a % of maximum maximum As a % corporate As a % personal As a % As a % As a % of maximum Name element of salary element of salary of salary of salary opportunity Clive Bannister 85.00 102.00 87.50 26.25 128.25 150.00 85.50 James McConville 85.00 102.00 100.00 30.00 132.00 150.00 88.00 As described in the Remuneration Policy, 40% of 2018 AIP outcomes will be delivered as an award of deferred shares under the Deferred Bonus Share Scheme which will vest after a three-year deferral period.
In addition, whilst the performance measures for the AIP for 2019 have been disclosed see Implementation of Remuneration Policy for 2019 on page 97, the performance targets for these measures are regarded as commercially sensitive at the current time and accordingly are not disclosed.
However, the Company intends to disclose the performance targets for 2019s AIP retrospectively in next years Remuneration Report on a similar basis to the disclosures made above in respect of 2018s AIP.
LTIP OUTCOMES FOR 2016 AWARDS AUDITED INFORMATION Performance measure Target Performance Vesting % and weighting range achieved outcome achieved Cumulative cash Target range between Cumulative cash generation of 1.311 billion and generation 50% Cumulative cash generation of 1.511 billion.
1.507bn 99% 49.5% TSR 50% Target range between median performance against the constituents of the 46th 0% 0.0% FTSE250 excluding Investment Trusts rising on a pro rata basis until full vestingfor upper quintile performance.
In addition, the Committee must considerwhether the TSR performance is reflective of the underlying financialperformance of the Company.
Total 49.5% The above targets were all measured over the period of three financial years 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018.
In addition to the above targets, the Committee confirmed that the underpin performance condition relating to debt levels and associated interest costs, and management of debt, capital restructuring and Risk Management within the Group, customer satisfaction and, in exceptional cases, personal performance as described more fully on page 94, had been achieved in the performance period.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 91 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE FEES AUDITED INFORMATION The emoluments of the Non-Executive Directors for 2018 based on the current disclosure requirements were as follows: Directors Directors 1 1 salaries fees salaries fees Benefits Benefits Total Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-Executive Chairman 2 Henry Staunton 271 325 271 325 3 Nicholas Lyons 55 2 57 Non-Executive Directors Alastair Barbour 143 150 12 3 155 153 4 Ian Cormack 39 116 39 116 5 Campbell Fleming 6 Karen Green 105 52 3 108 52 7 Isabel Hudson 39 39 Wendy Mayall 107 118 2 109 118 5 Barry ODwyer John Pollock 127 136 127 136 8 Belinda Richards 105 26 1 106 26 Nicholas Shott 105 105 2 107 105 Kory Sorenson 125 116 125 116 9 David Woods 53 2 55 Total 1,182 1,236 22 5 1,204 1,241 1 T he amounts within the benefits columns reflect the fact that the reimbursement of expenses to Non-Executive Directors for travel and accommodation costs incurred in attending Phoenix Group Holdings and Phoenix Group Holdings plc Board and associated meetings represent a taxable benefit.
This position has been clarified with HMRC andthe amounts shown are for reimbursed travel and accommodation expenses and the related tax liability which is settled by the Group.
2 H enry Staunton retired from the Board of Phoenix Group Holdings on 31 October 2018.
3 N icholas Lyons became Chairman designate of Phoenix Group Holdings from 1 September 2018 and was confirmed in this appointment on 31 October 2018.
Figure above reflects fee paid from 31 October 2018.
4 Ian Cormack retired from the Board of Phoenix Group Holdings on 2 May 2018.
5 C ampbell Fleming and Barry ODwyer joined the Board of Phoenix Group Holdings on 31 August 2018 and waived all current and future emoluments with regard to their Directors fees.
6 Karen Green joined the Board of Phoenix Group Holdings on 1 July 2017.
7 Isabel Hudson retired from the Board of Phoenix Group Holdings on 11 May 2017.
8 Belinda Richards joined the Board of Phoenix Group Holdings on 1 October 2017.
9 David Woods retired from the Board of Phoenix Group Holdings on 11 May 2017.
The aggregate remuneration of all Executive and Non-Executive Directors under salary, fees, benefits, cash supplements in lieu of pensions and annual incentive was 4.055 million 2017: 4.082million.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 92 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION SHARE-BASED AWARDS AUDITED INFORMATION As at 31 December 2018, Directors interests under long-term share-based arrangements were as follows: LTIP No.
of shares as at shares in shares shares No.
The number of shares for outstanding LTIP awards granted between 2017 and 2018 were increased to take into account the impact of the rights issues which took place on 27 July 2018.
All adjustments were based on the Theoretical Ex-Rights Price TERP and approved by the Remuneration Committee.
The share price on grant shown has also been adjusted to reflect the impact of the rights issue on all share prices.
1 I n addition to the shares awarded under the LTIP presented above, participants receive an additional number of shares based on the number of LTIP awards which actually vest to reflect the dividends paid during the vesting period and which for awards made from 2015, will include dividends paid during any applicable holding period.
2 G ains of Directors from share options exercised and vesting shares under the LTIP in 2018 were nil 2017: 2,533,277.
3 T he 2016 LTIP award vested at 49.5% of maximum.
4 A ll LTIP awards are now subject to a holding period so that any LTIP awards for which the performance vesting requirements are satisfied will not be released for a further two years from the third anniversary of the original award date.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 93 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LTIP Targets Following the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses, the Committee reviewed the business targets within thevariable pay plans and made the necessary adjustments to ensure that the plans continue to operate as originally intended, properly reflect the aim to reward long-term value generation and are aligned to the market announcements directly in connection with the acquisition.
This review resulted in an adjustment to the 2018 targets as follows: Cumulative Cash Generation: target range increased from 1.474 billion threshold to 1.674 billion maximum to 1.824 billion threshold to 2.024 billion maximum as shown below reflecting the additional net cash generation expected by the end of 2020.
Return on Adjusted Solvency II Shareholders Own Funds: rebasing of the opening position to reflect the equity issued and any synergy benefits expected by the end of 2020.
The Committee were satisfied these adjustments ensured the LTIP continued to operate as originally intended with the targets no easier to satisfy as a result of the acquisition.
No changes were made to the targets for the 2016 and 2017 awards.
The performance conditions for the 2016, 2017 and 2018 awards are set out below and include these adjustments to the 2018 targets.
2018 award 40% Cumulative cash 2016 award 2017 award generation, 35% Return on 50% Cumulative cash 50% Cumulative cash Adjusted Shareholder Solvency II Performance measure generation and 50% TSR generation and 50% TSR Own Funds and 25% TSR Return on Adjusted Not applicable.
Between 4% CAGR Shareholder Solvency II and6%CAGR.
OwnFunds 25% of this part vests at threshold performance rising on apro rata basis until 100% vests.
Measured over three financial years commencing with the yearof award.
Cumulative cash generation Target range of 1.311bn Target range of 1.372bn Target range of 1.824bn to 1.511bn.
25% of this part vests at threshold performance rising on apro rata basis until 100% vests.
TSR Target range between median Target range as for 2016.
Target range as for 2016. performance against the 25% of this part vests at constituents of the FTSE 250 threshold performance rising on excluding Investment Trusts apro rata basis until 100% vests.
rising on a pro rata basis until In addition, the Committee fullvesting for upper quintile mustconsider whether the TSR performance.
performance is reflective of the underlying financial performance of the Company.
Underpin: Notwithstanding the Return on Adjusted Shareholder Solvency II Own Funds, Cumulative cash generation and TSR performance targets, if the Committee determines that the Groups debt levels and associated interest costs have not remained within parameters acceptable to the Committee over the performance period, and that the Group has not made progress considered to be reasonable by it in executing any strategy agreed by the Board on debt management, capital structuring and Risk Management, the level of awards vesting will either be reduced or lapse in full.
The underpin also includes consideration of customer satisfaction and, to meet Solvency II requirements, in exceptional cases, personal performance.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 94 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION DBSS Increase No.
of shares shares shares following shares No.
The number of shares for outstanding DBSS awards granted between 2017 and 2018 were increased to take into account the impact of the rights issues which took place on 27 July 2018.
The share price ongrant shown has also been adjusted to reflect the impact of the rights issue on all share prices.
1 I n addition to the shares awarded under the DBSS presented above, participants receive an additional number of shares based on the number of DBSS awards which actually vest to reflect the dividends paid during the vesting period.
2 G ains of Directors from share options exercised and vesting shares under the DBSS in 2018 were 525,707 2017: 595,978.
Clive Bannisters gain was 316,099 arising from anaward exercised on 20 March 2018 at a share price of 7.825.
James McConvilles gain was 209,608 arising from an award exercised on 20 March 2018 at a share price of 7.825.
The DBSS is the share scheme used for the deferral of AIP.
No performance conditions apply therefore, other than being subject to continued employment.
SCHEME INTERESTS AWARDED IN THE YEAR AUDITED INFORMATION Percentage vesting at Basis on which Face value of threshold Performance 1 Recipient Date of award Type of award award made award performance Vesting date measures Clive Bannister 21 March 2018 LTIP Nil cost option 1,399,854 25% 21 March 2021 See page 94 1 Clive Bannister 21 March 2018 DBSS Nil cost option 360,785 - 15 March 2021 None James McConville 21 March 2018 LTIP Nil cost option 879,908 25% 21 March 2021 See page 94 1 James McConville 21 March 2018 DBSS Nil cost option 226,784 - 15 March 2021 None 1 T he DBSS awards have no threshold performance level.
The face value represents the maximum vesting of awards granted but before any credit for dividends over the period to vesting and is calculated using a share price of the average of the closing middle market prices of Phoenix shares for the three dealing days preceding the award date.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 95 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SHARESAVE AUDITED INFORMATION Increase in As at shares As at 1 Jan following Shares Shares 31 Dec Exercise Exercisable Date of 2018 rights issue exercised lapsed 2018 price from expiry Clive Bannister James McConville 2,852 319 3,171 5.674 1 Jun 2020 1 Dec 2020 The number of options were increased to take into account the impact of the rights issues which took place on 27 June 2018.
This adjustment was based on the Theoretical Ex-Rights Price TERP and approved by the Remuneration Committee and HMRC.
The share price on grant shown has also been adjusted to reflect the impact of the rights issue on the share price.
Gains of Directors from share options exercised under Sharesave during 2018 were nil 2017: nil.
Sharesave options are granted with an option price that is a 20% discount to the three-day average share price when invitations are made.
This is permitted by HMRC regulations for such options.
Aggregate gains of Directors from share options exercised and vesting shares under all share plans in 2018 were 525,707 2017: 3,129,255.
During the year ended 31 December 2018, the highest mid-market price of the Companys shares was 733p and the lowest mid-market price was 544p.
At 31 December 2018, the Companys share price was 563.4p.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS AUDITED INFORMATION The number of shares and share plan interests held by each Director and their connected persons are shown below: Total share plan Total share plan Total share plan As at interests as at interests as at interests as at 1 January 2018 As at 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 or date of 31 December 2018 Subject to Not subject to Vested but appointment or retirement performance performance unexercised Name if later if earlier measures measures scheme interest Clive Bannister 727,329 827,178 605,136 135,598 169,669 James McConville 187,493 253,227 380,369 89,634 106,646 Alastair Barbour 6,625 9,716 Ian Cormack 5,779 5,779 Campbell Fleming Karen Green Nicholas Lyons 20,000 20,000 Wendy Mayall 25,000 30,000 Barry ODwyer John Pollock 10,000 14,666 Belinda Richards Nicholas Shott 5,000 7,333 Kory Sorenson 2,185 15,704 Henry Staunton 70,000 102,666 There have been no changes in the Directors share interests between 31 December 2018 and 22 February 2019 being one month prior to the date of the notice of the AGM.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 96 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENTS AUDITED INFORMATION As explained in the Remuneration Policy under the Shareholding Guidelines section, the Executive Directors are subject to shareholding requirements.
The extent to which Executive Directors have achieved the requirements by 31 December 2018 using the share price of 563.4p as at 31 December 2018 can be summarised as follows: Shareholding Value of Guideline shares held at minimum % of 31 December 2018 Position salary % of salary Clive Bannister 200% 740% James McConville 200% 399% The Executive Directors are required to sign a declaration that they have not and will not at any time during their employment with Phoenix, enter into any hedging contract in respect of their participation in the AIP, LTIP, Sharesave, SIP or any other incentive plan of the Company, or pledge awards in such plans as collateral, and additionally that they will neither enter into a hedging contract in respect of, nor pledge as collateral, any shares which are required to be held for the purposes of the Companys Shareholding requirements or any vested LTIP award shares subject to a LTIP holding period.
IMPLEMENTATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY IN 2019 NON-AUDITABLE Element of Remuneration Policy Detail of Implementation of Policy for 2019 Base Salary Base salaries are set by reference to appropriate market comparables.
Salaries in 2019 will remain unchanged at 700,000 for the Group Chief Executive Officer unchanged from 2011 and 440,000 for the Group Finance Director unchanged from 2014.
This means that their salaries will not have increased for eight and five years respectively.
Benefits There are no proposed changes to the benefits offered to Executive Directors in 2019.
Pension There are no proposed changes to the pension benefits offered to current Executive Directors in 2019.
Pension benefits for newly appointed Executive Directors will be aligned to that of the wider workforce.
Annual Incentive Plan AIP The AIP for 2019 will operate on a basis that is consistent with how the AIP operated in 2018.
The AIP maximum potential and on-target levels remain unchanged at 150% of base salary and at 50% of maximum levels 75% of base salary respectively.
The overall weightings between Corporate and Personal performance measures for AIP in 2019 are: Corporate financial and strategic performance measures 80% 2018: 80%.
The weightings of the AIP performance measures for 2019 remain unchanged from 2018 and are summarised below: Performance measure % of incentive potential Corporate measure Operating Companies Cash Generation 30% of Corporate component 24% Adjusted Shareholder Solvency II Own Funds 30% of Corporate component 24% Solvency II Management Actions 15% of Corporate component 12% Customer Experience 25% of Corporate component 20% Personal Individual Objectives 20% Total 100% Outcomes from performance measures for 2019s AIP may be moderated by the Committee in line with the approved Remuneration Policy.
This will include a review by the Committee that the Company has operated within its stated risk appetite and that there are no other risk-related concerns before any 2019 AIP outcomes are confirmed.
The targets for the specific performance measures for AIP in 2019 are regarded as commercially sensitive by the Company but will be disclosed retrospectively in the Remuneration Report for 2019.
40% of AIP outcomes for 2019 will be delivered as an award of deferred shares under the Deferred Bonus Share Scheme which will vest after a three-year deferral period.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 97 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Element of Remuneration Policy Detail of Implementation of Policy for 2019 Deferred Bonus Share DBSS awards made in 2019 in respect of 2018s AIP outcome will be made automatically on the fourth Scheme DBSS dealing day following the announcement of the Companys 2018 annual results in accordance with the Remuneration Policy.
The number of shares for DBSS awards will be calculated using the average share price for the three dealing days before the grant of the DBSS awards.
The three-year deferral period will run to the three-year anniversary of the making of the DBSS awards.
Dividend entitlements for the shares subject to DBSS awards will accrue over the three-year deferral period.
Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Awards under the LTIP will be made automatically on the fourth dealing day following the announcement of the Companys 2018 annual results under a procedure similar to that described above for awards under the DBSS.
The number of shares for LTIP awards will be calculated using the average share price for the three dealing days before the grant of the LTIP awards.
The initial three-year vesting period will run to the three-year anniversary of the making of the LTIP awards.
At this time, the performance conditions will be determined.
All annual LTIP awards made to Executive Directors are subject to a holding period so that any LTIP awards for which the performance conditions are satisfied will not be released for a further two years from the third anniversary of the original award date.
Dividend accrual for LTIP awards will continue until the end of the holding period.
Award levels for Executive Directors for 2019 are unchanged at 200% of base salary.
The weightings of the LTIP performance measures for 2019 remain unchanged from 2018 and are summarised below: Performance measure Weighting of performance measure Cumulative cash generation 40% Return on Adjusted Shareholder Solvency II Own Funds 35% TSR 25% Total 100% The performance measures are measured over a period of three financial years, commencing with financial year 2019.
All 2019 LTIP awards are subject to a further underpin measure relating to debt and risk management within the Group, consideration of customer satisfaction and, to meet Solvency II requirements, in exceptional cases, personal performance.
These measures and the relative weightings are considered to be appropriate for 2019s LTIP awards.
The relative TSR measure is calculated against the constituents of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts, with vesting commencing at median where 25% of this part of the award vests and full vesting at upper quintile levels, subject to an underpin regarding underlying financial performance.
The performance targets for the Cumulative cash generation measure are 2,097 million where 25% of this part of the award vests and 2,397 million full vesting of this part of the award.
The performance targets for the return on Adjusted Shareholder Solvency II Own Funds measure are 4.5% in excess of the risk-free rate where 25% of this part of the award vests and 6.5% in excess of the risk-free rate full vesting of this part of the award.
The rules of the Companys LTIP reserves discretion for the Committee to adjust the outturn for any LTIP performance measures from zero to any cap should it consider that to be appropriate.
The Committee may operate this discretion having regard to such factors as it considers relevant, including the performance of the Company, any individual or business.
All-Employee Share Plans Executive Directors have the opportunity to participate in HMRC tax advantaged Sharesave and Share Incentive Plans on the same basis as all other UK employees.
Shareholding requirements Requirement levels are 200% of base salary for the Executive Directors.
Where any performance vested LTIP awards are subject to a holding period requirement, the relevant LTIP award shares discounted for anticipated tax liabilities will count towards the shareholding requirements.
Unvested awards under the LTIP and DBSS are not included in this assessment.
Details of current shareholding levels are shown on page 97.
Post cessation of employment, Executive Directors are expected to retain their full shareholding requirement in Year 1 and 50% of the requirement in Year 2.
Chairman and Non-Executive The fee levels for 2019 remain the same as for 2018 and are 325,000 for the Chairman, 105,000 for the Directors fees role of Non-Executive Director with additional fees of: i 10,000 payable for the role of SID: and or ii 20,000 payable where an individual also chairs the Audit, Remuneration or Risk Committee: and or iii 20,000 payable where a Non-Executive Director also serves on the board of a subsidiary company: and or iv 10,000 payable for service on the Solvency II Model Governance Committee.
Note: All incentive plans are subject to malus clawback.
See page 85 Notes to the Remuneration Policy for details.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 98 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT Profit distributed by way of dividend has been taken as the dividend paid and proposed in respect of the relevant financial The DRR regulations require each quoted company to provide year.
For 2018 this is the interim dividend paid 163 million and a comparison between profits distributed by way of dividend the recommended final dividend of 23.4p per share multiplied and overall expenditure on pay.
bythe total share capital issued at the date of the Annual Report as set out in note D1 in the notes to the consolidated financial RELATIVE IMPORTANCE m statements.
No share buy-backs weremade in either year.
profits distributed by way of Overall expenditure on dividend % change 67% pay % change 47% Overall expenditure on pay has been taken as the employee 332 188 costs as set out in note C2 Administrative expenses in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Expenditure on pay has 128 increased by 47%, and decreased by 5% on a like for like basis 198 excluding the impact of the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses.
SLA The decrease was primarily driven by the reduction in the businesses number of AXA Wealth employees during the year, a significant 2017 2018 2017 2018 portion of whom transferred to the Groups outsource provider.
This was partly offset by small increases in share-based payment costs see note I2 and AIP costs, increased salaries for new activities such as Bulk Purchase Annuities and also the impact ofthe salary increase for staffduring the year.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The graph below shows the value to 31 December 2018 on a TSR basis, of 100 invested in Phoenix Group Holdings on 5 July 2010 the date of the Companys Premium Listing compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a broad equity index of which the Company is a constituent.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN Value of a 100 unit investment made on 5 July 2010 300 250 200 150 100 50 Jul Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2010 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Phoenix Group Holdings Phoenix Group Holdings plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream The DRR regulations also require that a performance graph is supported by a table summarising aspects of the Group ChiefExecutive Officers remuneration for the period covered by the above graph which will in due course be for a periodoften years.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 99 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER REMUNERATION Annual variable Long-term element award incentive vesting Single figure rates against rates against of total maximum maximum remuneration opportunity opportunity 000 AIP LTIP 2018 Clive Bannister 2,482 86% 49.5% 1 2017 Clive Bannister 2,888 86% 64% 2016 Clive Bannister 2,878 84% 55% 2015 Clive Bannister 2,867 82% 57% 2 2014 Clive Bannister 3,104 68% 57% 2 2013 Clive Bannister 2,737 69% 67% 3 2012 Clive Bannister 1,583 69% n a 4 3 2011 Clive Bannister 1,333 73% n a 4,5 Jonathan Moss 704 n a n a 1 T he single figure of total remuneration for 2017 has been restated and now reflects the actual price of shares on the day the 2015 LTIP vested 28 September 2018: 676p pershare rather than the three-month average share price to 31 December 2017 759.8642p per share which was required to be used last year for the single figure of total remuneration.
2 T he long-term incentive vesting rate for 2013 is shown at 67% and for 2014 is shown as 57%.
In both years the Group Chief Executive Officer decided to waive voluntarily anyentitlement in excess of two-thirds of the shares which would otherwise have vested.
3 Long-term incentive vesting rates against maximum opportunity values are not applicable for 2011 and 2012 due to no awards vesting in those financial years.
4 J onathan Moss left the role of Group Chief Executive Officer on 7 February 2011 and left Phoenix Group on 29 March 2011.
Clive Bannister joined Phoenix Group on7 February2011 and was appointed to the Board as a Director on 28 March 2011.
5 Jonathan Moss 2011 single figure of total remuneration does not include compensation for loss of office.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN PAY OF THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 2017 TO 2018 In accordance with the DRR regulations, the table below provides a comparison of the percentage change in the prescribed pay elements of the Group Chief Executive Officer salary, taxable benefits and annual incentive outcomes between financial years 2017 and 2018 and the equivalent percentage changes in the average of all staff representing all permanent staff during 2017 and 2018 on a matched basis.
This group was selected as being representative of the wider workforce using the same process as was used for this comparison in last years annual report and accounts.
Year-on-year % change Salary Taxable Benefits Annual incentive Total Group Chief Executive Officer 0.00% 0.82% -0.48% -0.26% Staff 3.97% 7.80% 1.20% 3.56% There has been minimal movement overall in the level of remuneration for the Group Chief Executive Officer: the small increase in taxable benefits is due to a rise in the cost of funding for Private Medical Insurance.
There was a slight reduction in AIP which was a result of a lower outcome under the Corporate element of the 2018 AIP.
Staff more generally have seen a slight overall increase, the primary reason for this is due to an increase in taxable benefits as aresult of the implementation of Private Medical Insurance to all employees, extending the benefit to c. 150 employees within the Company.
The median salary increase for staff was 2.5%: this is lower than the figures above which are based on averages.
There has been a small increase in average AIP for employees, which is linked in part to increases in employee salary levels.
VOTING OUTCOMES ON REMUNERATION MATTERS The table below shows the votes cast to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 at the 2018 AGM held on 2 May 2018 and to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2017 AGM held on 11 May 2017.
For Against % of % of Abstain Number votes cast Number votes cast Number To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2017 2018 AGM 294,152,705 99.15 2,528,520 0.85 1,291,938 To approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 AGM 296,336,785 99.67 976,191 0.33 2,243 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 100 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION DILUTION The Company monitors the number of shares issued under the Phoenix Group employee share plans and their impact on dilutionlimits.
The Companys practice is for all the executive share plans to use market purchase shares on exercise of any awards.
For the Companys all-employee Sharesave scheme only, new shares are issued.
Therefore the usage of shares compared to the 10% dilution limits in any rolling 10-year period set by the Investment Association in respect of all share plansas at 31 December 2018 is 0.23%, and no shares count towards the dilution limit for executive plans only 5% in any rollingten-year period.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYEE PAY As explained in the Notes to the Remuneration Policy table: when determining Executive Directors remuneration, the Committee takes into account pay throughout the Group to ensure that the arrangements in place remain appropriate, and the Group has one consistent reward policy for all levels of employees, and therefore the same reward principles guide reward decisions for all Group employees, including Executive Directors, although remuneration packages differ to take into account appropriate factors in different areas of the business.
The Remuneration Committee intends to publish the ratios comparing CEO to employee pay as prescribed by the DRR regulations for financial year 2019.
Following the acquisition of the Standard Life Assurance businesses on 31 August 2018, wehave been integrating our employee pay systems and are not in the position to adopt this disclosure requirement early.
Accordingly, Phoenix has come to the conclusion that it would not be appropriate to publish on a voluntary basis a CEO to employee pay ratio disclosure for 2018.
GENDER PAY GAP The reporting entity for Gender Pay Gap reporting remains as Pearl Group Management Services: details of the 2018 Gender PayGap are shown on page 27 of the Annual Report and Accounts within the People Section.
Employees who transferred fromStandard Life Aberdeen are included in the Gender Pay Gap reporting for Standard Life Aberdeen as they were employees of that entity on the relevant date.
ADDITIONAL UNAUDITED INFORMATION The information provided below relates to the Directors' membership of both the Phoenix Group Holdings and Phoenix Group Holdings plc boards and committees throughout 2018.
DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS The dates of contracts and letters of appointment and the respective notice periods for Directors are as follows: Executive Directors contracts Notice period from either party Name Date of appointment Date of contract months Clive Bannister 28 March 2011 7 February 2011 12 James McConville 28 June 2012 28 May 2012 12 Subject to Board approval, Executive Directors are permitted to accept outside appointments on external boards as long as these are not deemed to interfere with the business of the Group.
The Executive Directors are entitled to retain any external fees.
During 2018, Clive Bannister received 45,000 from Punter Southall Group and CHF 50,000 from UniGestion in respect of two external directorships.
He is also Chairman of the Museum of London for which he receives no payment.
James McConville received 112,000 from Tesco Personal Finance plc.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 101 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Non-Executive Directors contracts Date of Date of letter of joining the Phoenix Appointment Unexpired term 1 Name appointment Group Holdings Board end date months Alastair Barbour 1 November 2018 1 October 2013 2 May 2019 2 Campbell Fleming 1 November 2018 31 August 2018 31 August 2021 30 Karen Green 1 November 2018 1 July 2017 1 July 2020 16 Nicholas Lyons 1 November 2018 31 October 2018 31 October 2021 32 Wendy Mayall 1 November 2018 1 September 2016 1 September 2019 6 Barry ODwyer 1 November 2018 31 August 2018 31 August 2021 30 John Pollock 1 November 2018 1 September 2016 1 September 2019 6 Nicholas Shott 1 November 2018 1 September 2016 1 September 2019 6 Belinda Richards 1 November 2018 1 October 2017 1 October 2020 19 Kory Sorenson 1 November 2018 1 July 2014 2 May 2019 2 1 A ll Directors above joined the Phoenix Group Holdings plc Board on 15 October 2018 and services are considered to have commenced with effect from 13 December 2018.
The above tables have been included to comply with UKLA Listing Rule 9.8.
In the event of cessation of a Non-Executive Directors appointment excluding the Chairman they would be entitled to a one month notice period.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE The Group originally established a Remuneration Committee in 2010.
On 13 December 2018 the Phoenix Group Holdings plc Remuneration Committee was formally constituted following admission of the new entity to the London Stock Exchange.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available at www.
The main determinations of the Committee in 2018 in respect of the application of the Remuneration Policy are summarised in the Committee Chairmans letter to shareholders at the start of the Remuneration Report.
The table below shows the independent Non-Executive Directors who served on the Committee during 2018 and their date ofappointment: Member From To Kory Sorenson Committee Chair from 11 May 2017 3 July 2014 To date Karen Green 1 July 2017 To date Nicholas Shott 20 October 2016 To date Under the Committees Terms of Reference, the Committee meets at least twice a year but more frequently if required.
During 2018, seven Committee meetings were held and details of attendance at meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 67.
Consistent with the requirements of Solvency II, the Committee is responsible for establishing, implementing, overseeing and reviewing the firm-wide remuneration policy in the context of business strategy and changing risk conditions.
The firm-wide remuneration policy focuses on ensuring sound and effective risk management so as not to encourage risk-taking outside of the Companys risk appetite.
None of the Committee members has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board.
No Director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 102 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION ADVICE During the year, the Committee received independent remuneration advice from its appointed advisers, FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT and PwC who were appointed by the Committee as their adviser from May 2018 following a competitive tender.
Both firms are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group the professional body for remuneration consultants and adhere to its code of conduct.
The Committee was satisfied that the advice provided by both firms was objective and independent.
FITs fees in respect of 2018 were 45,250, all of which were attributed to work relating to the Committee and were charged on the basis of the firms standard terms of business for advice provided.
PwCs fees in respect of 2018 were 160,850 all of which were attributed to work relating to the Committee and were charged on the basis of the firms standard terms of business for advice provided.
PwC have not provided any other services to Phoenix Group Holdings plc in relation to remuneration.
FIT have provided some technical specialist advice to management since stepping down as the Committees adviser.
PwC also provided general consultancy services to management during the year.
Separate teams within PwC provided unrelated services in respect of tax, assurance, risk consulting and transaction support during the year.
The Committee is satisfied that these activities do not compromise the independence or objectivity of the advice it has received from PwC.
The Committee assesses the performance of its advisers annually, the associated level of fees and reviews the quality of advice provided to ensure that it is independent of any support provided to management.
The Committee consulted with the Group Chief Executive Officer, Group HR Director and Deputy Group Finance Director who attended, by invitation, various Committee meetings during the year although no executive is ever permitted to participate in discussions or decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
Input is also sought from the Chief Risk Officer without management present and from representatives from finance, as appropriate.
The Chief Risk Officer is asked to confirm each year that the Company has operated within its stated risk appetite during the year and also to confirm whether there were otherwise any risk-related concerns that required the Committee to consider using its judgement to moderate incentive plan outcomes.
There were no such concerns in 2018.
PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 103 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED APPENDIX STATUTORY SINGLE FIGURE TABLES AUDITED INFORMATION Following the completion of a Scheme of Arrangement on 12 December 2018, Phoenix Group Holdings plc was inserted into the Group as the new ultimate parent company of the Group in place of Phoenix Group Holdings further details are included in note A1 to the consolidated financial statements.
The appointment of the Directors of Phoenix Group Holdings plc, as shown on page 102, became effective from the date of admission of Phoenix Group Holdings plc to the London Stock Exchange on 13 December 2018.
The tables shown on pages 88 and 92 show the total remuneration received by Directors over the full year to 31 December 2018.
The DRR regulations require the disclosure of the remuneration paid to the Directors of the Company in respect of services provided to Phoenix Group Holdings plc or its subsidiaries.
Services are considered to have been provided effective from 13 December 2018.
As there was no change to the remuneration arrangements this simply reflects the annual data pro-rated from 13 December 2018 to 31 December 2018 and therefore the separate footnotes shown under the Single Figure Table on page 88 have not been repeated.
For comparison purposes, the remuneration paid for the period up to 13 December in respect of services to Phoenix Group Holdings has also been included.
Phoenix Group Holdings plc NED fees from 13 December 2018 to 31 December 2018 Directors Directors salaries fees salaries fees Benefits Benefits Total Total 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-Executive Chairman Henry Staunton Nicholas Lyons 17 17 Non-Executive Directors Alastair Barbour 7 7 Ian Cormack Campbell Fleming Karen Green 5 5 Isabel Hudson Wendy Mayall 5 5 Barry ODwyer John Pollock 6 6 Belinda Richards 5 5 Nicholas Shott 5 5 Kory Sorenson 6 6 David Woods Total 56 56 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC 104 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 STRATEGIC CORPORATE ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS INFORMATION Phoenix Group Holdings NED fees from 1 January 2018 to 12 December 2018 Directors Directors salaries fees salaries fees Benefits Benefits Total Total 1 1 1 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Name 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-Executive Chairman Henry Staunton 271 325 271 325 Nicholas Lyons 38 2 40 Non-Executive Directors Alastair Barbour 136 150 12 3 148 153 Ian Cormack 39 116 39 116 Campbell Fleming Karen Green 100 52 3 103 52 Isabel Hudson 39 39 Wendy Mayall 102 118 2 104 118 Barry ODwyer John Pollock 121 136 121 136 Belinda Richards 100 26 1 101 26 Nicholas Shott 100 105 2 102 105 Kory Sorenson 119 116 119 116 David Woods 53 2 55 Total 1,126 1,236 22 5 1,148 1,241 1 The comparative 2017 data represents a full year.
APPROVAL This report in its entirety has been approved by the Remuneration Committee and the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: KORY SORENSON REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CHAIR 4 March 2019 PHOENIX GROUP HOLDINGS PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 105
