98 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 STATEMENT BY THE COMMITTEE CHAIRMAN cont.
REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT Annual bonus Any vesting will further be At the 2018 AGM a majority of If approved by shareholders, the Enable the Company to Malus and clawback provisions Performance and pay New remuneration dependent on the Committee The annual bonus opportunity shareholders voted against the revised policy will take effect attract and retain international have been broadened to outcome for 2018 policy for the three years ensuring that the level of TSR advisory vote to approve the immediately after the AGM on executives of the required include reputational damage will remain unchanged at 200% 2019-2021 The financial performance of performance achieved is and 150% of salary for the CEO Annual Report on Remuneration.
15 May 2019. calibre, particularly in potential and corporate failure the business fell below the We believe that our current policy, consistent with the underlying Although Playtech is not a new markets and CFO respectively.
Financial We have added a two-year minimum threshold for EBITDA approved by shareholders in The Committee believes that the financial performance of Playtech performance will drive 70% of UK-incorporated company, we Be simple and understandable post vest holding period to performance.
Therefore, from 2017, remains well aligned to the individual contributions made by over the performance period.
seek to follow UK practice and, the bonus but, rather than being vested LTIP awards a bonus perspective, no bonus business strategy.
In presenting Executive Directors and senior Provide good lock-in of key based solely on EBITDA, it will be accordingly, this means that will be payable under the 70% a revised policy, we are also The Committee believes that management are fundamental to employees through deferred We have added a requirement Playtech must seek shareholder split 50% EBITDA and 20% cash of the bonus attributed to confident that, with a few modest these measures remain aligned the successful performance of the elements for shares to be held for flow.
We will again set stretching approval for a new remuneration financial performance.
changes, the policy will also be with Playtechs long-term growth Company.
The policy therefore two years after cessation of Avoid reward for failure policy at the 2019 AGM.
The remaining in line with investor guidelines strategy.
TSR is a fundamental has the following objectives.
It employment at the lower of In relation to the 30% of the 30% of the bonus will be based last approved our policy at a and the new UK Corporate The proposed changes to the reflection of our ability to seeks to: the executives shareholding bonus given over to the general meeting held immediately on key strategic targets.
policy are as follows: generate attractive returns for at the time of departure and achievement of strategic targets will have a graduated after the 2017 AGM, this means Pay executives competitively, shareholders which are better the shareholding guideline of objectives, the Committee that we are seeking shareholder The changes are highlighted approach to differentiating We reflect the Remuneration recognising that they have than our peers and the wider 200% of base salary believes that there has continued in the policy section of this report between good and excellent approval for a new remuneration Committees new approach of highly marketable skills to market.
We also believe that to be strong delivery against the policy a year earlier than we on pages 99 to 104 and include performance, with full disclosure applying basic salary changes companies already in and the targets we have chosen business strategy.
During the the following: in next years Annual Report.
We have those considering entry to effective from January rather are challenging but achievable, year the Executive Directors have conducted a thorough review of than June, to coincide with the the online gambling industry, and that meeting the maximum 25% of any bonus earned For new Directors, pension delivered the sale of Playtechs the remuneration policy and we Companys financial year but acknowledge local targets will justify vesting of the provision will be in line with the will continue to be payable remaining stakes in both GVC are satisfied that the remuneration market levels, and where For new Directors, pension full award.
workforce in the jurisdiction in and Plus500 with good timing framework remains effective appropriate, practices provision will be in line with the which they are located and excellent returns, launched in supporting the Companys LTIP award In line with the new remuneration workforce in the jurisdiction in Incentivise and reward Malus and clawback provisions a successful bond issue, made strategic objectives.
Accordingly, policy, any shares which vest In view of the current share which they are located behaviours that will contribute to the balance sheet more efficient, have been broadened to the changes proposed primarily after the end of the three-year price level and significant market superior Company performance include reputational damage concluded the challenging bring the policy in line with best performance period must be held uncertainty we have made some acquisition of Snaitech and and corporate failure practice and ensure compliance for a further two years subject changes to how we will operate started its integration into the with the new UK Corporate to any sales required to meet tax We have added a two year the LTIP in 2019.
The Committee believes Governance Code.
post vest holding period to Following the Committees that managements performance vested PSP awards decision that there should be no has again been very good in Concluding remarks We have added a requirement award in 2018, awards in 2019 will difficult market conditions.
On this I hope you will agree that we for shares to be held for Remuneration policy for Executive Directors be made at the normal level of basis the Committee determined have made significant progress two years after cessation of 200% and 150% of base salary for that 25% out of the maximum The following table sets out the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors: since the AGM vote in 2018 and employment at the lower of the CEO and CFO respectively.
of 30% of the bonus given over that our remuneration policy the executives shareholding Taking into account the lack of an to strategic measures should be and structure for 2019 puts us at the time of departure and Purpose and link Framework to award in 2018, in practice this is paid.
In all, the bonus payable in a better place to meet the the shareholding guideline Element to strategy Operation Maximum assess performance equivalent to a 50% scale back is 25% of the maximum which expectations of our shareholders.
of 200% of base salary of awards over the two years.
compares to 93% of the maximum Salary To attract, retain and Normally reviewed annually Other than when an N A for 2017.
Of the bonuses The Remuneration Committee On this basis we believe that the The most recent LTIP award executive changes roles motivate high calibre by the Remuneration paid, 25% will be payable in encourages dialogue with the policy complies in all respects made in 2017 was granted with individuals for the role and Committee, typically or responsibilities, or when deferred shares in line with the Companys shareholders and with the new Code.
performance conditions based there are changes to the duties required effective in January remuneration policy.
would welcome any comments or on EPS growth for 70% of the size and complexity of the questions from investors ahead How we will operate the To provide market Takes account of the award and relative TSR against business, annual increases The 2016-2018 LTIP award will of the 2019 AGM.
The Committee competitive salary relative external market and other policy in 2019 the FTSE 250 for the remaining will not exceed the general vest at a level of 21.82%.
This and I hope we can count on to the external market relevant factors including Base salary 30%.
For the 2019 award, we level of increases for the reflects partial vesting of the your support at the 2019 AGM internal relativities and To align with the Companys have decided to use relative TSR Groups employees, taking EPS element of the award.
The To reflect appropriate for a remuneration policy which individual performance as the performance metric for the into account the country minimum performance threshold financial year, we have changed skills, development and supports the business strategy the date of salary reviews whole of the award.
where the executive for TSR was not met and this experience over time In reviewing salary and will reward the long-term ordinarily works element of the award lapsed.
The levels, the Remuneration success of the business.
One half of the award will depend Committee reviewed the Committee may take into on performance relative to the If a particularly large The Committee is comfortable Executive Directors salaries account the effect of any FTSE 250 excluding investment adjustment is required, that the remuneration paid to with effect from 1 January 2019. exceptional exchange rate trusts.
The other half will involve this may be spread over Executive Directors for 2018 Ian Penrose fluctuations in the previous There will be no change to Mor measuring Playtechs TSR against a period of time is appropriate.
On behalf of the Remuneration year a bespoke comparator group Weizers salary for FY 2019.
The Committee salary for Andrew Smith, our Chief of 11 listed sector peers, as set Executive Directors decide 20 February 2019 out in the Annual Report on Financial Officer, will increase by the currency of payment 5% to 420,000 with effect from Remuneration.
In both cases, once every three years median performance will result 1 January 2019.
This represents which can be in Pound the final phased increase to attain in a vesting level of 25%, rising sterling, US dollars or Euros to full vesting for upper quartile the desired position for the role.
with the exchange rate performance, with straight-line being fixed at that time vesting between these points.
100 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT cont.
Purpose and link Framework to Purpose and link Framework to Element to strategy Operation Maximum assess performance Element to strategy Operation Maximum assess performance Bonus Clear and direct Paid in cash and shares 200% of salary for the CEO Performance measured over Share ownership The Company has a policy Executive Directors are N A N A incentive linked to annual and 150% of salary for other one year guidelines of encouraging Directors expected to accumulate Clawback and malus performance targets Executive Directors to build a shareholding a shareholding in the provisions apply whereby Based on a mixture of in the Company Companys shares to the Incentivise annual delivery bonus payments may be 25% of any payment is financial performance value of at least 200% of of financial measures and required to be repaid for normally deferred into and performance against their base salary personal performance financial misstatement, shares for two years strategic objectives misconduct, error, serious which is subject to Executive Directors are Corporate measures Normally no less than 70% of reputational damage and recovery provisions required to retain at least selected consistent with and the bonus will be dependent corporate failure 50% of the net of tax complement the budget and on financial performance out-turn from the vesting strategic plan of awards under deferred Bonus is paid on a sliding bonus plan and the LTIP scale of 0% for threshold until the minimum increasing to 100% for shareholding guideline maximum performance has been achieved Long Term Aligned to key strategic Grant of performance Maximum opportunity of Performance measured over Shares must be held for Incentive Plan objective of delivering shares, restricted shares 250% of salary with normal three years two years after cessation LTIP strong returns to or options grants of 200% and 150% Performance targets aligned of employment at lower shareholders and earnings of salary in performance of the 200% of salary Two-year holding period will with the Groups strategy of performance shares for the CEO and be applied to vested shares delivering strong returns to guideline level, or the actual CFO respectively shareholding on departure from 2019 awards, subject shareholders and earnings to any sales required to performance Non-executive To provide a competitive Fees are set in conjunction Other than when an N A satisfy tax obligations 25% of the awards vest for individual changes roles Directors fee for the performance with the duties undertaken on vesting threshold performance of NED duties, sufficient or where benchmarking Additional fees may be paid Clawback and malus indicates fees require to attract high calibre on a pro-rata basis if there provisions apply whereby individuals to the role realignment, annual is a material increase in time awards may be required increases will not exceed the commitment and the Board to be repaid for instances general level of increases for wishes to recognise this of financial misstatement, the Groups employees additional workload misconduct, error, serious reputational damage and Any reasonable business corporate failure related expenses including tax thereon which are Pension Provide retirement benefits Provision of cash allowance Up to 20% of salary N A determined to be a taxable benefit can be reimbursed Pension for new Executive Directors will be in line with The Chairman is entitled the pension plan operated to be provided with a fully for the majority of the expensed Company car workforce in the jurisdiction where the director is based Other benefits To help attract and retain Benefits may include N A N A high calibre individuals private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life insurance, rental and accommodation expenses on relocation and other benefits such as long service awards Other additional benefits may be offered that the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate based on the Executive Directors circumstances Non pensionable 102 Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Governance Governance Playtech plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT cont.
interests of the Company and its The LTIP rules provide that other On his appointment as Chairman In determining salary increases The Committee will consider 6,237k Explanation of chosen Policy on recruitment or Fixed pay shareholders to offer additional than in certain good leaver of the Board being announced, for Executive Directors, the the most appropriate way to Annual bonus performance measures and promotion of Executive cash and or make a grant of circumstances awards lapse on Alan Jackson entered into a new Committee considers the general engage with the wider workforce LTIP target setting Directors 5,237k shares in order to compensate cessation of employment.
Where letter of appointment effective level of salary increase across to explain the alignment of the LTIP value with Performance measures will Base salary levels will be set the individual for remuneration an individual is a good leaver from 9 October 2013 when Roger the Company.
Typically, salary Directors Remuneration Policy to 50% share price be selected to reflect the key to reflect the experience of the that would be forfeited from the the award would vest on the Withers announced his decision increases will be aligned with the wider Group.
We will report growth performance indicators which individual, appropriate market current employer.
Such awards normal vesting date or cessation to retire as Chairman of the Board those received elsewhere in the more fully in next years Annual are critical to the realisation data and internal relativities.
The would be structured to mirror of employment in the event of in August 2013.
Company unless the Remuneration Report on Remuneration.
3,337k of our business strategy and Remuneration Committee may the value, form and structure death following the application Committee considers that specific delivery of shareholder returns.
feel it is appropriate to appoint a The table below is a summary of the forfeited awards or to Consideration of of performance targets and a circumstances exist as mentioned new Director on a below market of the key terms of the letters provide alignment with pro-rata reduction to take account in the policy table which require shareholder views The performance targets are salary with a view to making of appointment for the Nonexisting shareholders.
reviewed each year to ensure that of the proportion of the vesting a different level of salary increase The Company is committed to above market and workforce executive Directors.
engagement with shareholders annual increases on a phased In the case of an internal When setting these targets the Committee has discretion to partly The letters of appointment of and has engaged extensively on basis to reach the desired salary promotion, any commitments As part of the Committees or completely dis-apply pro-rating Committee will take into account the Non-executive Directors are remuneration issues since the positioning, subject to individual entered into prior to the wider remit under the new UK a number of different reference or to permit awards to vest on Fixed On target Maximum available for inspection at the 2018 AGM.
promotion shall continue to apply.
Corporate Governance Code, cessation of employment.
points including, for financial Companys registered office and Any variable pay elements shall the Committee will continue to targets, the Companys business Normal policy will be for the new will be available before and after Legacy arrangements be entitled to pay out according Non-executive Directors monitor pay policies and practices CEO plan and consensus analyst Director to participate in the the forthcoming AGM.
In approving the Remuneration to its original terms on grant.
The Non-executive Directors within the wider group and to forecasts of the Companys remuneration structure detailed provide input and challenge in Policy, authority is given to each have specific letters of performance.
Full vesting will only above, including the maximum For the appointment of a new Consideration of the Company to honour any appointment, rather than service respect of current policies and occur for what the Remuneration incentive levels for the Chief Chairman or Non-executive Fixed pay 2,099k employment conditions practices as well as any proposed commitments previously contracts.
Their remuneration Committee considers to be Executive Officer and Chief Annual bonus Director, the fee arrangement elsewhere in the Company entered into with current or is determined by the Board future review and changes to excellent performance.
The pension would be set in accordance with LTIP when setting Directors pay 1,784k ensure that they are appropriate, former Directors that have within limits set by the articles of contribution will be aligned to LTIP value with the approved remuneration policy been disclosed previously association and is set taking into The Remuneration Committee fair, aligned to the Executive Remuneration scenarios the contribution received by the in force at that time.
50% share price when setting the policy for Directors Remuneration Policy to shareholders.
account market data as obtained for Executive Directors majority of the workforce in the growth from independent Non-executive Executive Directors takes into and support the culture and jurisdiction in which the Director at different levels of Service contracts consideration the pay and growth of the business.
Director fee surveys and their is based.
Depending on the 1,186k performance and exit payments responsibilities.
Non-executive employment conditions through timing of the appointment, the The Companys policy results Executive Directors the Company as a whole.
Directors are appointed for an Remuneration Committee may in a significant proportion of Set out in the table below are initial term of three years and, decide to set different annual remuneration received by the key terms of the Executive under normal circumstances, bonus performance conditions Executive Directors being Directors terms and conditions would be expected to serve for for the first performance year of 524k dependent on Company of employment.
additional three-year terms, up to appointment from those stated in performance.
The graph left a maximum of nine years, subject the policy above.
The Committee A bonus is not ordinarily payable illustrates how the total pay to satisfactory performance and may also provide relocation unless the individual is employed opportunities for the Executive re-election at the Annual General expenses arrangements, legal and not under notice on the Fixed On target Maximum Directors for 2019 vary under three Meeting as required.
However, the performance scenarios: minimum, Remuneration Committee may on-target and maximum.
The variable pay elements that exercise its discretion to award CFO may be offered will be subject to a bonus payment pro rata for the maximum limits stated in the the notice period served in policy table.
The Remuneration Footnotes: active employment and not Committee may consider it 1.
Assumptions when compiling on garden leave.
the charts are: necessary and in the best Threshold fixed pay only Name Date Term Termination base salary, benefits and pension.
Target fixed pay plus 50% of 1 Alan Jackson 29 August 2013 Until third AGM after appointment Six months notice on either side annual bonus payable and 55% unless not re-elected or if not re-elected, disqualification of LTIP vesting.
Provision Detail or commits gross misconduct Maximum fixed pay plus 100% of annual bonus payable and 100% Remuneration Salary, bonus, LTIP, benefits and pension entitlements in line with the 1 of LTIP vesting.
Andrew Thomas 19 June 2012 Until third AGM after appointment Six months notice on either side 2.
Share price appreciation has been above Directors Remuneration Policy Table unless not re-elected or if not re-elected, disqualification taken into account for the Maximum or commits gross misconduct column on the basis of a 50% Change of control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of a change of control increase in the share price across John Jackson 1 January 2016 Until third AGM after appointment the performance period.
Notice period 12 months notice from Company or employee for the CEO and six months unless not re-elected notice for the CFO Claire Milne 8 July 2016 Until third AGM after appointment CEO contract signed on 1 January 2013 90 days notice on either side unless not re-elected CFO contract signed on 10 January 2017 or if not re-elected, disqualification Susan Ball 1 August 2018 Until third AGM after appointment or commits gross misconduct Termination payment The Company may make a payment in lieu of notice equal to basic salary unless not re-elected plus benefits for the period of notice served subject to mitigation and Ian Penrose 1 September 2018 Until third AGM after appointment phase payments where appropriate unless not re-elected Restrictive covenants During employment and for 12 months thereafter 1.
The notice periods were incorrectly reported in prior years Annual Reports as being 120 days.
The correct notice period is six months in each case.
