ANNUAL STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Our Remuneration Policy is designed to encourage achievement of our strategic goals and priorities by rewarding in line with performance and encouraging appropriate leadership behaviour Moni Mannings Chair of the remuneration committee for the year ended 31 December 2018 DEAR SHAREHOLDER, This Directors Remuneration Report is PERFORMANCE IN 2018 compliant with Schedule 8 of The Large I am pleased to present the Directors The financial and operating performance and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Remuneration Report for the year ended of the Group in 2018 is set out on pages Accounts and Reports Regulations 2013, 31 December 2018.
The report is split into 114 to 156.
The Company has continued the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules and two sections in line with legislative reporting to deliver sustainable returns and growth the Companies Act 2006 and is consistent regulations: for its shareholders during 2018, achieving with the UK Corporate Governance Code underlying operating profit of 74.0m, up } Remuneration Policy contains 2016 the Code.
1.9% from 2017, and increasing underlying details of the various components of basic earnings per share from continuing ALIGNING REMUNERATION WITH the Remuneration Policy, which was operations by 4.4% to 28.4 pence per share.
COMPANY STRATEGY approved by shareholders at our 2018 The Remuneration Policy is designed to Annual General Meeting AGM and is Based on the Companys strong financial encourage achievement of our strategic included for information only.
performance during the year and goals and priorities, details of which are fulfilment of their individual objectives, the } The Annual Report on Remuneration set out on pages 18 to 21, by rewarding in Committee determined that, in respect contains details of remuneration line with underlying Company performance of 2018 performance, the Executive received by Directors in 2018 and also while encouraging leadership behaviour Directors each earned 48.9% of the contains full details of how we intend to which carries an appropriate level of maximum potential annual bonus, which implement the approved Remuneration risk.
This is achieved by an annual bonus in the case of Paul James, Chief Financial Policy during 2019.
The Annual Report arrangement which is linked to achieving Officer CFO, was prorated to reflect the on Remuneration will be subject to an profit targets, working capital targets amount of time served in his role during advisory vote at the 2019 AGM.
Further and personal objectives and a long-term the year.
In accordance with the approved details are set out on pages 95 to 103. incentive plan which only rewards for Remuneration Policy, 25% of this bonus will shareholder value creation and delivery of be deferred into shares.
The most substantial issues considered by the Remuneration Committee the Committee during the past year are set out below.
82 OUR REMUNERATION APPOINTMENT OF PAUL JAMES } Maximum bonus potential and LTIP I will be available to answer questions on award levels for Martin Payne in 2019 the Remuneration Policy and the Annual The Committee approved the pay will be the same as in previous years Report on Remuneration at the AGM on arrangements for Paul James, who joined 125% of salary for each element.
I hope you will find this report the Company as CFO on 5 March 2018.
Maximum bonus potential and LTIP to be clear and helpful in understanding our Full details of those arrangements were set award levels for the other Executive remuneration practices and that you will out on pages 65 to 66 of the 2017 Annual Directors will be 100% of salary for be supportive of the resolution relating to Report and Accounts.
each element unchanged from 2018. remuneration at the AGM.
LTIP AWARDS The Committee believes that these Moni Mannings levels of award are appropriate to In May 2018, the Committee approved Chair of the Remuneration Committee ensure that the Executive Directors the grant of LTIP awards to the Executive for the year ended 31 December 2018 interests are fully aligned with the Directors and other senior management.
19 March 2019 interests of other shareholders.
Award levels were 125% of salary for Martin Payne, and 100% of annual salary } No changes to the performance for Paul James and Glen Sabin.
These award measures to be used to assess levels are significantly below the maximum Company performance in 2019.
The of 200% of annual salary permitted under Group Underlying Operating Profit and the current Remuneration Policy.
Working Capital financial measures which determine 90% of the bonus The Committee considered a number and the Underlying diluted EPS and of possible performance measures and relative TSR measures which determine concluded that a combination of stretching 100% of the LTIP provide alignment Earnings per Share EPS growth targets and with the priorities outlined in the a relative Total Shareholder Return TSR Strategic Report and alignment with our measure continue to provide an appropriate shareholders interests.
The Committee basis for rewarding the successful delivery believes that this combination provides of longer-term strategic priorities, Company a fair and rounded assessment of growth and shareholder value.
short-term and longer-term Company performance.
KEY REMUNERATION DECISIONS FOR 2019 } The introduction of a post-vesting The proposed implementation of the holding period for LTIP awards granted Remuneration Policy for our Executive from 2019 onwards.
Directors for 2019 is outlined on pages } Cumulative EPS targets equivalent to 95 to 97.
Key decisions made by the 4% to 10% per annum growth have Committee in relation to 2019 include: been set for 2019 LTIP awards.
In the context of the challenging business } The award of a 4.4% salary increase environment discussed in the Chief for Martin Payne, which is consistent Executive Officers Review, these with the proposal of the Committee set targets are regarded by the Committee out in the 2017 remuneration report as being equivalently challenging to to increase Martin Paynes salary over targets applied to previous awards.
time to the same level as that of his predecessor, David Hall. }
The award of a 2.5% salary increase for Paul James and Glen Sabin, which is consistent with the average increase awarded to the Groups UK workforce for 2019.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2018 83 POLYPIPE GROUP PLC
