STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Dear shareholder, Jane Hinkley On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, Chairman of the I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Committee Remuneration Report the DRR for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The report summarises our Remuneration Policy, SCHEDULED AD-HOC explains how it has been implemented Meetings attended Meetings attended during the reporting period and Members eligible to attend eligible to attend demonstrates our continued focus on Jane Hinkley Committee Chairman 4 4 2 2 ensuring remuneration is aligned not Dave Blackwood 3 4 0 2 only to corporate strategy, but also shareholder experience and expectation.
Anne Marie Cannon 4 4 2 2 1 Mike Wheeler 0 1 1 1 2018 has been a strong year both operationally and financially and, as a 1 M ike Wheeler was appointed as a member of the Committee on 15 October 2018.
He was therefore only eligible result, we have been able to reduce our to attend two meetings during 2018. debt by US$393 million, a key target for the year.
There has been tight control of both operating costs and capital expenditure.
Role of the Committee How the Committee spent The Remuneration Committee has sought Develop and maintain a Remuneration its time during the year % to support these aims through the setting Policy to attract, retain and motivate of targets for the annual bonus.
In addition, employees to enable the Company to meet Incentive arrangements during its deliberations, the Committee has its objectives, taking into account the Senior executive remuneration considered the continuing challenges posed long-term interests of employees, Group remuneration policies by volatile oil prices and their impact on shareholders and other long-term Corporate governance our share price and sought to balance this stakeholders.
Consulting with shareholders with the need to ensure our staff remain Other Consider and approve the remuneration motivated.
We have not awarded salary arrangements for the Chairman, the increases to our Executive Directors for 10% Executive Directors and other senior the last five years with the exception of 10% executives as determined by the an increase in 2017 for Richard Rose, our Committee.
Finance Director and have significantly Exercise oversight of the pay and cut back the amounts granted under our 10% performance conditions across the Group.
LTIP schemes for the last four years.
This restraint continues for 2018 and 2019, with no salary increases for Executive Directors or members of senior management and 20% 35% reduced grants under our LTIP schemes.
In respect of the annual bonus, after two years of reduction from the formulaic 15% outcome, we paid the full outcome for 2016 and 2017 and have done so for 2018 also.
Payment for achievement against the targets set at the beginning of the year was considered appropriate by the Committee especially in the light of the restraint in other areas.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CONTINUED Implementation of Remuneration Policy Annual Bonus Implementation of our Remuneration in 2018 Details of the targets set for 2018 and their Policy in 2019 Long Term Incentive Plans achievement can be found on page 96.
A general 3.46 per cent pay adjustment, 2018 saw the final vesting of awards under subject to personal performance and pay In setting these targets, the Committee the legacy 2009 LTIP.
At grant in 2016, the position to market, inclusive of promotions, focused on areas critical for the Company: quantum of awards was significantly scaled was granted for our UK employee delivering against our refinancing and back: the Equity Pool Award was capped at population below senior management level balance sheet recovery plans, reducing debt, 50 per cent of salary, the Performance Share and corresponding inflationary pursuing future growth opportunities and Award was reduced by 50 per cent and the adjustments were granted to our overseas ensuring strong operational standards and Matching Share Award was removed.
However, it was agreed, given the cost control.
calculating the growth in equity value, the continued volatility in the market, that the metric for the Equity Pool, the shares The critical financial targets relating to debt Executive Directors and other members of resulting from the conversion of our levels and costs were met in full.
Whilst the senior mangement would not receive a convertible bonds in 2018, which otherwise threshold production target was met, the salary increase in 2019.
The Committee, would have inflated the Equity Pool, were phased ramp-up of Catcher production did consistent with this approach, also decided excluded.
The annualised increase in value not achieve the target set.
There were mixed to defer the pay review for the Chairman, of those shares in existence at 1 January results in respect of the HSES targets.
as did the Board with respect to the 2016 was 12.7 per cent, resulting in Equity Looking to the future, there was significant Non-Executive Directors.
Pool vesting outcomes of between 22.6 per progress on the three key strategic targets: The 2019 performance targets for the cent and 25.7 per cent of salary for the The Tolmount Main project in the UK was annual bonus are set out in general terms Executive Directors, significantly below the sanctioned in August with first gas on page 102.
However, for reasons of 50 per cent of salary cap.
Construction commercial sensitivity, detailed figures are Share Awards are based on Relative commenced in December.
Our intention is to publish these, Shareholder Return, where we ranked together with the bonus outcome, in the Further advances in putting contractor sixth out of our peer comparator group of 19.
Annual Report on Remuneration for 2019. and funding agreements in place for the This resulted in a vesting outcome of 75.1 Sea Lion project.
per cent of the shares under award.
The Due to the fall in oil price in the fourth Committee considered the underlying Zama Mexico - pre-unitisation quarter of 2018 and continued volatility in performance of the Company and agreement and appraisal programme the market, the Committee has again concluded that the vesting outcomes were approved, and the first well spudded.
decided to scale back the 2019 LTIP awards justified.
50 per cent of vested shares are and staff Premier Value Share Plan PVSP This performance resulted in a bonus deferred for a further three years.
awards across the Group, consistent with outcome of 51.8 per cent for the corporate the methodology applied in 2018.
For As noted above, awards made in 2018 under targets, which, together with the personal Executive Directors, Performance Share our 2017 LTIP were again scaled back.
The target outcomes resulted in bonus outcomes Awards were granted in full, however, we Restricted Share Award grant was scaled for the Executive Directors of between 63.8 have continued to apply a stretch target of back by 50 per cent, and the stretch target per cent and 66.5 per cent of salary out of a upper decile relative total shareholder for the Performance Share Award was maximum bonus opportunity of 120 per return.
The Restricted Share Awards have increased from upper quartile to upper cent of salary.
All awards above 50 per cent again been scaled back by 50 per cent.
They decile relative performance against our of base salary are deferred in shares for remain subject to a performance underpin peer group.
related to the leverage covenant agreed with our lenders.
Consistent with the Policy, vesting of the awards will be subject to performance measured over a three year period commencing on 1 January 2019 and a Holding Period will be applied ending on the fifth anniversary of the Award Date.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 80 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 81 UK Corporate Governance Code Committee changes Compliance statement The Terms of Reference of the Committee In order to widen the input to the This report has been prepared in have been updated to incorporate Committee, Mike Wheeler joined the accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large recommendations resulting from the 2018 Committee on 15 October 2018. and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Corporate Governance Code and the Accounts and Reports Amendment Having been a Non-Executive Director at Committees activities in relation to the Regulations 2013.
The Companies Act 2006 Premier Oil since September 2010 and Chair changes to the Code will be reported on in requires the Auditor to report to the of the Remuneration Committee since May next years report.
shareholders on certain parts of the 2011, I intend to stand down at the end of the Directors Remuneration Report and to The Committee will be undertaking a full year.
Subject to shareholder approval at the state whether, in the Auditor's opinion, review of our Remuneration Policy and 2019 AGM, Barbara Jeremiah will join the those parts of the report have been practice across the Group in 2019 and will Board as a Non-Executive Director and the properly prepared in accordance with the further consult with our shareholders later Directors intend that Barbara will succeed above regulations.
The Chairmans Annual in the year to help inform our 2020 me as Chair of the Remuneration Statement and the Policy Report are not Remuneration Policy.
This will ensure adequate time subject to audit.
The sections of the Annual for a comprehensive handover to Barbara Shareholder consultation Report on Remuneration that are subject to and preparation for the shareholder We introduced our existing Remuneration audit are indicated accordingly.
consultation to inform our Remuneration Policy in 2017 following extensive Policy in 2020. consultation with our major shareholders and their representative bodies.
Feedback It has been a privilege to serve as a Nonfrom that consultation was incorporated Executive Director at Premier Oil and help into our Policy, resulting in strong steer the Company and the Remuneration shareholder support 88.18 per cent.
Committee through such a challenging However, a significant number of votes time.
I know that Barbara brings a wealth 31.66 per cent at the 2018 AGM were of experience to the role and will ensure cast against the implementation of the our remuneration strategy and practice 2017 Policy.
going forward strongly serves the future growth of the Company, closely aligned Following the AGM, the Remuneration to the interests of our shareholders and Committee analysed the voting outcome other stakeholders.
and wrote to our largest shareholders inviting them to discuss their views on the Companys Remuneration Policy.
Responses Jane Hinkley were received from a small number of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee shareholders, which were considered by the Committee.
We very much appreciate those who did respond and discuss with us their concerns.
The Committee also noted that a significant number of institutional shareholders had chosen to follow guidance issued by the main proxy voting advisory firms which had highlighted the level of bonus payments in 2017.
As discussed, we seek to balance the interests of our shareholders and staff to ensure that our Remuneration Policy is aligned to Company strategy, is reflective of performance and motivates our staff.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Policy Report This section of the Remuneration Report sets out the Remuneration Policy which was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 17 May 2017 and has been effective since that date.
The 2017 Remuneration Policy the 'Policy' remains unchanged and will therefore not be put to a shareholder vote at the 2019 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Shareholder approval will next be sought no later than at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2020.
Details of the Policy have been included in the Directors' Remuneration Report to provide the context within which the Committee has conducted its work during the year.
The full Remuneration Policy Report, as approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, is contained on pages 96 to 105 of the Company's 2016 Annual Report and accounts, a copy of which can be found in the Investor Relations section of the Company's website www.
The Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 92 to 107 which sets out how the Policy has been applied during 2018 and how it will be applied throughout the remainder of 2019 will be put forward to shareholders for an advisory vote at the 2019 AGM.
Key principles of our Remuneration Policy The Committee regularly reviews remuneration policy to ensure it supports shareholder interests and reinforces the business strategy.
Overall, the Committee aims to ensure that pay rewards all employees fairly and responsibly for their contributions.
Remuneration packages are intended to be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required to achieve the Groups objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value.
In addition, the Committee aims to ensure that remuneration policy does not raise environmental, operational, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviours.
In reviewing remuneration arrangements, the Committee considers the following objectives: keep the design simple: gear remuneration towards performance-related pay: emphasise long-term performance: ensure annual incentives reward the achievement of short-term objectives key to delivering the long-term strategy: ensure that each element of the package is based on different performance criteria: incorporate significant deferral requirements: ensure incentive payments are commensurate with the Companys underlying performance: and take account of corporate governance guidance.
The graphic below indicates how the current incentive structure operates: Year-end 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Performance Period Deferral in shares for awards 50% of salary Annual Deferred Shares vest bonus Malus clawback provisions apply Performance Period Holding Period Performance Share Award PSAs vest 'PSA' Malus clawback provisions apply Performance Period Holding Period Restricted Share Award 1 third of RSAs vest 1 third of RSAs vest 1 third of RSAs vest 'RSA' Malus clawback provisions apply The current long-term incentive structure also reflects the long-term incentive arrangements introduced for employees below Executive Committee level, as summarised on page 86.
Awards to Directors under the Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan 2017 LTIP comprise three key elements Restricted Share Awards, Performance Share Awards and Deferred Bonus Awards.
The combination of these three elements places greater focus on outcomes that are controllable and that reward out-performance of the market rather than outcomes related to the commodity cycle.
The maximum opportunity under the 2017 LTIP has been significantly reduced to reflect the Restricted Share Award element.
Further details are included in the Policy Table on pages 85 to 86.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 82 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 83 Executive Director Policy A summary of the Policy for Executive Directors is set out below: Salary Purpose and link to strategy To provide an appropriate level of salary to support recruitment and retention, and with due regard to the role and the individuals responsibilities and experience Operation Typically reviewed annually with reference to Company and individual performance, each executives responsibilities and experience, the external market for talent, and salary increases across the Group Salaries are benchmarked against oil and gas sector companies and UK-listed companies of a similar size to Premier Adjustments are normally effective 1 January Opportunity Salary increases are awarded taking into account the outcome of the review and also broader circumstances including, but not limited to, a material increase in job complexity and inflation Salary increases will normally be in line with increases awarded to other employees.
The Committee may make additional adjustments in certain circumstances to reflect, for example, an increase in scope or responsibility, to address a gap in market positioning and or to reward performance of an individual, and where it does so the Committee will provide an explanation in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration The Executive Director salaries for the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Performance metrics Not applicable Pension Purpose and link to strategy To help provide a competitive pension provision Operation Executive Directors who join Premier on or after 20 August 2013 are eligible to participate in the Companys defined contribution personal pension plan and or receive an equivalent cash supplement For Executive Directors who joined prior to 20 August 2013, the Company provides a pension substantially as if they are contributing members of the Companys final salary Retirement and Death Benefits Plan the Scheme, which was closed to new members in 1997 The only pensionable element of pay is salary Opportunity Executive Directors who join Premier on or after 20 August 2013 receive pension contributions and or an equivalent cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of salary For Executive Directors who joined prior to 20 August 2013 the Scheme provides a payment on broadly a fiftieths accrual basis up to two-thirds of salary at age 60, with benefits actuarially reduced on early retirement and pensions in payment increased in line with the lower of inflation, or 5 per cent per annum.
The Scheme is subject to an internal earnings cap which is reviewed annually but for Executive Directors, the Company provides for pension benefits above the earnings cap through a pension promise, based on the cash equivalent transfer value of benefits accrued within the defined benefit scheme for earnings above the earnings cap.
The way this promise is currently administered is as follows: 1.
Executive Directors are given a pension allowance equal to 20 per cent of uncapped salary.
This may either be paid into a pension scheme and or as a salary supplement 2.
Executive Directors accrue notional defined benefits entitlement within the Scheme 3.
To the extent that payments made under 1 above are not paid into the Scheme, they are deemed to have been invested into a Life Fund 4.
At the point that a Director departs or retires, a comparison is undertaken between the value of the notional defined contribution pot outlined in 3 above and the cash equivalent transfer value of the notional defined benefits.
Subject to appropriate deductions, the differential is available either as a contribution into their pension plan or a cash payment 5.
Regular reviews are carried out to assess the extent to which the payments already made to each Director are projected to be sufficient to provide the accrued component of their target pension: where such reviews indicate a shortfall, the Company may provide an additional payment Performance metrics Not applicable Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide a benefits package competitive in the market for talent Operation Executive Directors receive a competitive benefits package, which may include medical and dental insurance, car allowance, life assurance, income protection cover, personal accident insurance, expatriate benefits, relocation allowance, health checks and a subsidised gym membership.
Other benefits may be introduced from time to time to ensure the benefits package is appropriately competitive and reflects the circumstances of the individual Director Opportunity Set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate for the role and individual circumstances The benefits payable to the Executive Directors during the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Performance metrics Not applicable All-employee share plans Purpose and link to strategy To encourage share ownership in Premier Operation Executive Directors may participate in all-employee share plans on the same terms as other employees In particular, UK-based employees including Executive Directors may be invited to participate in the following HMRC approved share plans: Share Incentive Plan SIP, under which employees may buy partnership shares using gross pay and the Company may then grant matching shares.
Under the SIP, free shares may also be granted.
Dividends may accrue on any shares and be automatically reinvested Save As You Earn SAYE scheme under which employees are invited to make regular monthly contributions over three or five years to purchase shares through options which may be granted at a discount Opportunity Under the SIP, participants may spend up to the HMRC permitted allowance to buy partnership shares, and matching shares may be granted up to the HMRC permitted limit Under the SAYE, employees may save up to the HMRC permitted allowance Performance metrics Not applicable Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy To reinforce the delivery of key short-term financial and operational objectives and, through the deferred share element, help ensure alignment with shareholders and support retention Operation Performance is measured on an annual basis for each financial year against stretching but achievable financial and non-financial targets, comprising Key Performance Indicators KPIs, other corporate objectives and personal performance Performance measures, weightings and targets are set at the beginning of the year and weighted to reflect business priorities Annual bonus awards up to 50 per cent of salary are normally paid in cash, with any award above this deferred inshares for three years Dividend equivalents may accrue on Deferred Bonus Awards and be paid on those shares which vest Annual bonus payouts and deferred shares are subject to malus and clawback in the event of material misstatement of the Companys financial results, gross misconduct, material error in the calculation of performance conditions, or in such other exceptional circumstances as the Committee sees fit The Committee may exercise malus and clawback until the later of: i one year from the payment of the bonus or the vesting of the shares, or ii the completion of the next audit after payment vesting Opportunity Up to 120 per cent of salary Target amount is 60 per cent of salary Performance metrics Performance is assessed against a corporate scorecard encompassing several performance categories, which may include some or all of: production: exploration: Health, Safety, Environment and Security: finance: business development: and personal and strategic objectives Normally, the Committee would not expect the weighting for any performance category in the corporate scorecard to be higher than 50 per cent.
However, it retains discretion to adjust weightings to align with the business plan for each year The Committee may adjust the bonus outcome to ensure alignment with underlying Company performance Further details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for the financial year under review are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 92 to 107 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 84 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 85 Long-term incentives The Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Share Awards Purpose and link to strategy To support alignment with shareholders by reinforcing the delivery of returns to shareholders, with a focus on relative stock market out-performance over the long term, and with due regard for the underlying financial and operational performance of the Company Operation The Committee may grant Performance Share Awards annually Awards may be in the form of nil or nominal priced options or conditional shares Performance Share Awards vest after three years subject to performance and continued employment Award levels and performance conditions are reviewed in advance of each grant to ensure they remain appropriate The net i. e. after tax shares received from any awards vesting are subject to a minimum two-year Holding Period such that the total time horizon is at least five years.
The Holding Period may be terminated early if the executive ceases employment due to death, ill-health, injury or disability.
If an executive is dismissed for gross misconduct, shares subject to the Holding Period will be forfeited for no payment Unvested awards for good leavers are normally pro-rated to the date of termination subject to performance review at the Normal Vesting Date.
Unvested awards for bad leavers are forfeited.
Vested awards for both good and bad leavers remain subject to the Holding Period except as described above Dividend equivalents may accrue on Performance Share Awards and be paid in shares or cash on those shares which vest All Performance Share Awards are subject to malus and clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys financial results, gross misconduct, material error in the calculation of performance conditions or in such other exceptional circumstances as the Committee sees fit The Committee may exercise malus and clawback until the later of: i one year from the vesting date or ii the completion of the next audit after vesting Opportunity Performance Share Awards may be granted up to 175 per cent of salary Performance metrics Performance Share Awards normally vest based on Premiers TSR performance relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers.
Up to 25 per cent vests for median performance, with full vesting for upper quartile performance and straight-line vesting in between Ahead of each performance cycle, the Committee may review and adjust the TSR comparator group for future cycles to ensure relevance to Premier.
The Committee may adjust the TSR comparator group for outstanding cycles in the event that a TSR comparator ceases to exist, fide-lists or is acquired or the Committee deems it to be no longer a suitable comparator Before finalising Performance Share Award payouts, the Committee assesses the underlying financial and operational performance of the Company, and, if appropriate, may reduce the level of vesting Further details of the measures, weightings and targets applicable for awards granted in 2017 and 2018 are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on pages 92 to 107 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long-term incentives continued The Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan Restricted Share Awards Purpose and link to strategy The Restricted Share Awards specifically align to our refinancing circumstances and requirement to deleverage the Company decoupled from other performance objectives Operation The Committee may grant Restricted Share Awards annually Awards may be in the form of nil or nominal priced options or conditional shares Award levels are reviewed in advance of each grant to ensure they remain appropriate Restricted Share Awards normally vest in one third increments in years three, four and five respectively subject to continued employment and the achievement of a financial underpin measured at the end of year three The net i. e. after tax shares received from any awards vesting are subject to a Holding Period such that the total time horizon is at least five years.
Vested awards for both good and bad leavers remain subject to the Holding Period except as described above Dividend equivalents may accrue on Restricted Share Awards and be paid in shares or cash on those shares which vest All Restricted Share Awards are subject to malus and clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys financial results, gross misconduct, material error in the calculation of performance conditions or in such other exceptional circumstances as the Committee sees fit The Committee may exercise malus and clawback until the later of: i one year from the vesting date, or ii the completion of the next audit after vesting Opportunity Restricted Share Awards may be granted up to 40 per cent of salary Performance metrics Restricted Share Awards vest subject to continued employment, a financial underpin based on the Companys capital structure and balance sheet strength, and Committee assessment of overall Company performance For awards granted in 2017, this performance underpin is specifically related to two metrics to assure balance sheet and business strength the reduction in absolute level of net debt and the reduction of the ratio of net debt to EBITDA.
For awards granted in 2018, the underpin comprises a net debt to EBITDA component.
These performance underpins are in line with the covenants agreed with our lenders in 2017.
Underpin metrics for subsequent grants will be selected to specifically reinforce changes to strategic focus in future years Further details on the Policy Remuneration Policy for other employees The Companys policy for all employees is to provide remuneration packages which reward them fairly and responsibly for their contributions.
Premiers approach to annual salary reviews is consistent across the Group.
All employees participate in the Companys incentive structures and, like the remuneration package for Executive Directors, remuneration is structured such that a proportion of total remuneration is delivered through long-term share-based incentives to ensure maximum alignment with shareholders.
The Executive Committee and other senior leaders all participate in the same annual bonus plan as for Executive Directors with the opportunity tailored to the role and level of seniority.
They also participate in the same long-term incentive plan and structure but for the most part at a lower quantum of opportunity.
The broader employee population participates in the Premier Value Share Plan PVSP.
Similar to the LTIP for senior executives, under the PVSP, annual awards of time-vesting restricted shares and three-year performance-vesting shares are made, with performancevesting shares subject to the achievement of Premiers delivery of long-term shareholder return.
Similarly, all employees are eligible to receive an annual bonus, with measures and targets tailored to individual business units and responsibilities as appropriate.
The specific bonus framework varies by job level and scope to ensure annual incentives support motivation and retention accordingly.
These schemes provide a clear link between pay and performance, ensuring that superior remuneration is paid only if superior performance is delivered.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 86 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 87 Share ownership requirements The Committee aims to ensure that our Remuneration Policy serves shareholder interests and closely reflects the Groups business strategy.
Further, the Company recognises the importance of aligning the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders through the building up of a significant shareholding in the Company.
Accordingly, the Company requires the Executive Directors to retain no less than 50 per cent of the net value of shares vesting under the Companys long-term incentive plans until such a time that they have reached a holding worth 250 per cent of salary.
Details of the current shareholdings of the Executive Directors are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 104.
Incentive plan discretions The Committee operates the Companys incentive plans according to their respective rules and Remuneration Policy, and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
The rules of the new long-term incentive plan the Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan were approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
In line with common market practice, the Committee retains discretion as to the operation and administration of these incentive plans, including with respect to: who participates: the timing of grant and or payment: the size of an award and or payment within the plan limits approved by shareholders : the manner in which awards are settled: the choice of and adjustment of performance measures and targets in accordance with the Remuneration Policy and the plan rules: in exceptional circumstances, amendment of any performance conditions applying to an award, provided the new performance conditions are considered fair and reasonable and are neither materially more nor materially less challenging than the original performance targets when set: discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a variation of share capital, change of control, special dividend, distribution or any other corporate event which may affect the current or future value of an award: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive-plan purposes, based on the plan rules and the appropriate treatment under the plan rules: and adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, share buybacks, special dividends, other corporate events, etc.. Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the relevant year.
As appropriate, it might also be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
Minor changes The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without requiring prior shareholder approval for that amendment.
Provisions of the 2014 Remuneration Policy that will continue to apply Any commitment made prior to, but due to be fulfilled after, the date of the 2017 AGM being the date on which the 2017 Policy became effective will be honoured.
Such commitments include the following: Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards under the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan.
As at 31 December 2018, Messrs Durrant, Allan and Rose had outstanding awards under the 2016 LTIP cycle 2016 LTIP.
In March 2019, the Committee determined that, based on the performance achieved to 31 December 2018, the Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards under the 2016 LTIP should vest.
Further details of the final vesting levels are outlined on page 98.
The value of vested Equity Pool Awards under the 2016 LTIP are subject to a cap of 50 per cent of salary.
The grant of Deferred Awards under the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan.
50 per cent of any shares vesting pursuant to the 2016 LTIP Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards will be deferred into shares in the form of a Deferred Award.
The Deferred Shares will be subject to a three-year deferral period ending on 31 December 2021.
The awards will not qualify for a Matching Award.
Good leaver and change of control provisions will continue to apply in accordance with the rules of the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan.
Deferred Bonus Awards granted in relation to bonuses for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Malus and clawback and change of control provisions will continue to apply to all outstanding awards under the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan and to bonus awards made to Directors for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Robin Allan was employed by the Company between September 1986 and November 1999 and is entitled to a deferred pension under the Scheme in respect of this period of employment.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Illustration of application of the Executive Director Remuneration Policy The 2017 Policy is geared towards  pay, with a particular emphasis on long-term performance.
For example, at on-target performance, approximately 54 per cent of the CEOs remuneration package is delivered through variable components: this is broadly unchanged from the 2014 Policy.
However, the Committee has significantly fide-leveraged and fide-risked remuneration arrangements, with the maximum potential opportunity reduced by around 40 per cent compared with arrangements under the 2014 Policy.
The performance scenario charts below show the estimated remuneration that could be received by the current Executive Directors for 2019, both in absolute terms and as a proportion of the total package under different performance scenarios.
The assumptions underlying each performance scenario are detailed in the table below: Remuneration receivable for different performance scenarios Fixed pay 2019 salary, as disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 102 2018 taxable benefits, as provided in the single figure table on page 94 Pension contribution of 20 per cent of salary for the Finance Director and 2018 pension benefits for other Executive Directors as provided in the single figure table on page 94 Minimum On-Target Maximum Annual bonus Nil payout Payout of 50 per cent of maximum Maximum payout 120 per cent of salary Long-term incentive plan Nil payout Performance Share Awards vest Performance Share Awards vest in full at 25 per cent of maximum 175 per cent of salary Restricted Share Awards vest in full Restricted Share Awards vest in full 40 per cent of salary The charts below illustrate the potential reward opportunities for each of the current Executive Directors for the three performance scenarios.
Tony Durrant, Chief Executive officer 000s % Maximum 698 683 228 Maximum 27 26 9 38 996 On-Target 698 341 228 249 On-Target 46 23 15 16 Fixed 698 100 Fixed 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 0 20 40 60 80 100 Fixed Annual bonus RSA PSA Richard Rose, Finance Director 000s % Maximum 27 9 38 Maximum 441 425 142 619 26 On-Target 441 212 142 155 On-Target 47 22 15 16 Fixed 441 Fixed 100 0 225 450 675 900 1,125 1,350 1,575 1,800 0 20 40 60 80 100 Fixed Annual bonus RSA PSA Robin Allan, Director, North Sea and Exploration 000s % Maximum 433 425 142 619 Maximum 27 26 9 38 On-Target 23 On-Target 433 212 142 155 46 15 16 Fixed 433 Fixed 100 0 225 450 675 900 1,125 1,350 1,575 1,800 0 20 40 60 80 100 Fixed Annual bonus Restricted Share Awards Performance Share Awards Notes: The valuation of Annual bonus, Performance Share Awards PSAs and Restricted Share Awards RSAs excludes share price appreciation, any dividend accrual and the impact of any scale back of awards.
RSAs vest in one third increments in years three, four and five respectively subject to continued employment and a performance underpin.
PSAs vest after three years subject to TSR performance and continued employment.
Both PSA and RSA awards are subject to a Holding Period ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant of the awards.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 88 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 89 Approach to remuneration of Executive Directors on recruitment In the cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director, the Committee may make use of all the existing components of remuneration.
The salaries of new appointees will be determined by reference to the experience and skills of the individual, relevant market data, internal relativities and their current salary.
New appointees will be eligible to receive a personal pension, benefits and to participate in the Companys HMRC approved all-employee share schemes, in line with the Policy.
The annual bonus structure described in the Policy Table will normally apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum being pro-rated to reflect the period served.
Objectives under the individual element will be tailored towards the executive.
New appointees are eligible for awards under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan which will normally be on the same terms as other Executive Directors, as described in the Policy Table.
When determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including quantum, nature of remuneration and the jurisdiction from which the candidate was recruited to ensure that the pay arrangements are in the best interests of both Premier and its shareholders.
The Committee may consider it appropriate to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will use the existing Policy where possible or, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee may exercise the discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
The value of any such award will not be higher than the expected value of the outstanding equity awards and, in determining the expected value, the Committee will use a Black-Scholes, or equivalent, valuation and, where applicable, discount for any performance conditions attached to these awards.
In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of internal promotion, the Committee will apply the Policy for external appointees detailed above.
Where an individual has contractual commitments that vary from our Policy for Executive Directors, but made prior to his or her promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will continue to honour these arrangements.
Service contracts and exit payments and change of control provisions Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee and are designed to recruit, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to manage the Company.
The service contract of each Executive Director may be terminated on 12 months notice in writing by either party.
Executive Directors contracts are available to view at the Companys registered office.
Details of the service contracts of the current Executive Directors are as follows: Director Contract date Unexpired term of contract Robin Allan 09.12.03 Rolling contract Tony Durrant 01.07.05 Rolling contract Richard Rose 25.07.14 Rolling contract The Company will consider termination payments in light of the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into account the relevant contractual terms, the circumstances of the termination and any applicable duty to mitigate.
In such an event, the remuneration commitments in respect of the Executive Director contracts could amount to one years remuneration based on salary, benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period, together with payment in lieu of any accrued but not taken holiday leave, if applicable.
There are provisions for termination with less than 12 months notice by the Company in certain circumstances.
If such circumstances were to arise, the Executive Director concerned would have no claim against the Company for damages or any other remedy in respect of the termination.
The Committee would apply general principles of mitigation to any payment made to a departing Executive Director and will honour previous commitments as appropriate, considering each case on an individual basis.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The table below summarises how Performance Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards under the Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan and Annual Bonus Awards are typically treated in different leaver scenarios and on a change of control.
Whilst the Committee retains overall discretion on determining good leaver status, it typically defines a good leaver in circumstances such as retirement with agreement of the Company, ill health, disability, death, redundancy, or part of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceasing to be a member of the Group.
Final treatment is subject to the Committees discretion.
Event Timing of vesting award Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Deferred Bonus Awards Good leaver Annual bonus is paid at the same time as to Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that any continuing employees performance conditions have been satisfied and is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year Unvested Deferred Bonus Awards vest on worked before cessation of employment cessation of employment Bad leaver Not applicable Individuals lose the right to their annual bonus and unvested Deferred Bonus Awards 1 Change of control Annual bonus is paid and unvested Deferred Annual bonus is paid only to the extent that any Bonus Awards vest on the date of change of event performance conditions have been satisfied and is pro-rated for the proportion of the financial year worked to the effective date of change of control Restricted Share Awards and Performance Share Awards Good leaver On normal vesting date subject to the Holding Unvested awards vest to the extent that any Period or earlier at the Committees discretion performance conditions have been satisfied over the full performance period or a shorter period at the Committees discretion The number of unvested awards is reduced pro-rata to take into account the proportion of the vesting period not served Bad leaver Unvested awards lapse N A Any vested shares subject to the Holding Period are forfeited by bad leavers who leave due to gross misconduct, but remain and are released at the end of the Holding Period for other bad leavers e. g. following resignation 1 Change of control On the date of the event Unvested awards vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro-rata reduction applies for the proportion of the vesting period not completed 1 In certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that unvested Deferred Bonus Awards, Restricted Share Awards and Performance Share Awards under the Premier Oil 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan will not vest on a change of control but will instead be replaced by an equivalent grant of a new award, as determined by the Committee, in the new company.
Upon exit or change of control, SAYE and SIP awards will be treated in line with the approved plan rules.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement under statute or otherwise to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle other amounts reasonably due to the Executive Director, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and, in which case, the individual is required to seek independent legal advice.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
External appointments Executive Directors are entitled to accept non-executive director appointments outside the Company and retain any fees received providing that the Boards prior approval is obtained.
Details of external directorships held by Executive Directors along with fees retained are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration on page 104.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 90 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 91 Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee does not specifically consult with employees over the effectiveness and appropriateness of the Policy.
However, the Committee does consider the pay and conditions elsewhere in the Company, including how Company-wide pay tracks against the market.
When awarding salary increases to Executive Directors, the Committee takes account of salary increases across the Group, particularly for those employees based in the UK.
Further, the Company seeks to promote and maintain good relationships with employee representative bodies including trade unions as part of its employee engagement strategy and consults on matters affecting employees and business performance as required in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee aims to ensure that the Policy serves shareholder interests and is aligned with the Groups business strategy, market practice and evolving best practice.
The Committee Chairman consults major shareholders and proxy advisers ahead of any major changes to the Remuneration Policy, and also from time-to-time to discuss the Remuneration Policy more generally.
The Committee considers all feedback received from such consultations, as well as guidance from shareholder representative bodies more generally, to help to ensure the Policy is aligned with shareholder views.
Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment effective for a period of three years, subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
All letters of appointment have a notice period of three months and provide for no arrangements under which any Non-Executive Director is entitled to receive remuneration upon the early termination of his or her appointment.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available to view at the Companys registered office.
Director Year appointed Director Date of current appointment letter Roy A Franklin 2017 10.08.2017 Dave Blackwood 2017 09.08.2017 Anne Marie Cannon 2014 24.01.2017 Jane Hinkley 2010 17.05.2017 Iain Macdonald 2016 13.04.2017 Mike Wheeler 2017 10.08.2017 The Companys Articles of Association provide that the remuneration paid to Non-Executive Directors is to be determined by the Board within limits set by the shareholders.
The Policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors is as follows: Fees Purpose and link to strategy To provide fees that allow Premier to attract and retain Non-Executive Directors of the highest calibre Operation Fees for Non-Executive Directors are normally reviewed at least every two years Fees are set with reference to oil and gas sector companies and UK-listed companies of a similar size to Premier Fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the Committee, while the fees of the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board Additional fees are payable for acting as Senior Independent Director, and as Chairman of any of the Boards Committees Adjustments are normally effective 1 January The Non-Executive Director fees for the financial year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Opportunity Non-Executive Director fees are set at a level that is considered appropriate in the light of relevant market practice and the size complexity of the role Aggregate fees are within the limit approved by shareholders in the Articles of Association Performance metrics Not applicable Approach to Non-Executive Director recruitment remuneration In the case of hiring or appointing a new Non-Executive Director, the Committee will follow the Policy as set out in the table above.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration Remuneration Committee membership and considerations during 2018 As at 31 December 2018, the Committee comprised four Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
Jane Hinkley served as Chair of the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Membership of the Committee during 2018 is summarised below: Committee Member Member throughout 2018 Appointed during 2018 Date Jane Hinkley Chair Yes Anne Marie Cannon Yes Dave Blackwood Yes Mike Wheeler No 15 October 2018 Members of the Committee met without reviewing pension arrangements, service approving the issue of an invitation any executives present for part of each agreements and termination payments under the Companys SAYE Scheme meeting.
The Chairman of the Board and for Executive Directors and senior to all qualifying employees: the Chief Executive Officer attended management: considering and subsequently approving meetings of the Committee by invitation approving the Directors Remuneration long-term incentive awards to be made to but absented themselves when the Report, ensuring compliance with related the broader employee population Committee discussed matters relating to governance provisions and legislation: excluding Directors and certain members their own remuneration.
The Group HR of senior management under the terms of reviewing the Gender Pay Gap Report: Director attended meetings as appropriate.
the Companys Premier Value Share Plan reviewing bonus outcomes for the Group, The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to PVSP : including Executive Directors: and the Committee and attends all meetings of considering and subsequently approving the Committee.
Members of the Board and considering the remuneration policies and long-term incentive awards to Executive any other employees attending Committee practices across the Group.
Directors and members of senior meetings leave the meeting when their own management under the terms of the 2017 During 2018, the Committee met six times.
LTIP, including setting performance Four meetings were scheduled in advance The Committee acts within written terms of conditions: with two ad-hoc meetings held.
reference, which are reviewed regularly and determining the 2017 bonus outcome and Key activities of the Committee during the published on the Companys website bonus targets for 2018: year included: www.
The main monitoring performance of outstanding responsibilities of the Committee include: determining the remuneration for awards under the Premier Oil 2009 Long Executive Directors, including determining the Remuneration Policy Term Incentive Plan 2009 LTIP and consideration of annual pay adjustments for Executive Directors and senior considering the treatment of share for the Executive Directors and senior management and engaging with the issuances during the year with respect to management alongside the broader Companys principal shareholders the performance conditions associated employee population and reviewing thereon: with the 2009 LTIP further details can be pension arrangements for Executive determining the individual remuneration found on page 98 : Directors andemployees: packages for each Executive Director and considering the gender pay gap reporting consulting with shareholders on the any changes thereto: requirements: 2017 remuneration outcomes and approving the remuneration package reviewing market trends in executive implementation of the Remuneration of the Chairman: remuneration: Policy and on the reasons for the considering the design of, and reviewing developments in best practice significant vote received against the determining targets for, the annual on executive remuneration: resolution to approve the Directors bonus plan: Remuneration Report at the 2018 Annual consideration of the independence of the reviewing and recommending to the General Meeting further details can be Committees remuneration advisers: Board the establishment of any new found on page 93 : reviewing the Committees terms of employee share plans and any material considering the outcome of the employeereference: amendments to the Companys existing wide compensation review: assessing the impact of the 2018 UK share plans: monitoring dilution limits across the Corporate Governance Code: and determining the quantum and Companys share schemes and ensuring reviewing the Committees performance.
performance conditions for long-term that share awards were made with due incentive awards: regard to limiting shareholder dilution: Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 92 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 93 Advisers Mercer | Kepler, a brand of Mercer Limited which is part of the MMC group of companies Kepler, is the independent adviser to the Committee.
Kepler was appointed by the Committee in 2011 through a competitive tender process and was retained during the year.
The Committee is of the view that Kepler provides independent remuneration advice to the Committee and does not have any connections with Premier that may impair its independence.
Kepler is a founding member and signatory to the UK Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct which governs standards in the areas of transparency, integrity, objectivity, confidentiality, competence and due care, details of which can be found at www.
In 2018, Kepler provided advice on remuneration for executives, market and best practice guidance, and on the shareholder consultation process with respect to the implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
They also assisted with the drafting of the Directors Remuneration Report and attended Committee meetings.
Kepler reports directly to the Committee and provides no other services to the Company.
Its total fee for the provision of remuneration services in 2018 was 97,690 on the basis of time and materials.
During the year, the Committee also took advice from PwC to provide performance updates on outstanding awards granted under the 2009 and 2017 LTIPs.
PwC also provided advice to the Committee regarding possible adjustments to the 2009 LTIP to reflect share issuances made by the Company during the year.
Total fees for PwC for the provision of remuneration services in 2018 were 36,000 The Committee evaluates the support provided by its advisers annually and is satisfied that the advice it received in 2018 was objective and independent.
Voting on remuneration matters Section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the Remuneration Policy to be submitted to shareholders for a binding vote every three years or where there is a change in the Remuneration Policy.
Accordingly, a new Remuneration Policy the 2017 Remuneration Policy was submitted to shareholders for approval at the Companys 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Policy is included on pages 82 to 91 of the Annual Report for reference and a copy can also be found on the Companys website www.
Votes received at the 2018 Annual General Meeting in respect of approval of the Annual Report on Remuneration along with the votes received at the 2017 Annual General Meeting on the Directors Remuneration Policy, are set out below.
Votes FOR Votes AGAINST Votes Resolution and % of votes cast and % of votes cast WITHHELD Directors Annual Report on Remuneration 258,516,183 68.34% 119,764,664 31.66% 6,260,141 Directors Remuneration Policy 2017 126,747,108 88.18% 16,991,271 11.82% 273,793 The Committee notes that the resolution to approve the Remuneration Report in 2018 received a significant number of votes cast against it 31.66% of the votes cast.
As part of its regular programme of engagement with shareholders, following the publication of the 2017 Annual Report, the Committee wrote to the institutional investors represented among the Company's top 20 shareholders offering to discuss the Remuneration Report and any other Remuneration matters of concern to them.
Following the 2018 AGM, the Committee analysed the voting outcome and wrote to the 30 out of the top 40 institutional shareholders representing 53% of the share register who had voted at the AGM either for or against the Remuneration Report, inviting them to discuss with the Company their views on the Remuneration Policy and its implementation.
The Committee considered it important to contact positive as well as negative voters in order to encourage further engagement on their part.
Only one shareholder representing just over 2 per cent of the shares in issue at the time took up this offer, and the Committee has considered this feedback when determining remuneration outcomes for 2018 and will continue to do so during its review of the Remuneration Policy during 2019 and 2020.
When considering shareholders responses, the Committee noted that a majority of the dissenting institutional shareholders had followed guidance issued by one or more of the main proxy voting advisory firms, which had highlighted the level of bonus pay-out for Executive Directors in a year of equity dilution and the alignment of pay with performance.
The Committee is also aware that some shareholders are not in favour of the use of Restricted Shares.
In taking the decision to award bonuses in respect of 2017, the Committee took account of the strong operational performance of the Company during the year, as reflected in the strong achievement of the scorecard used to assess the corporate element of the bonus, as well as the need to continue to motivate all employees, including the Executive Directors.
The Committee concluded that the most appropriate mechanism through which to reflect the shareholder experience during 2017 was through the continued scale-back of awards under the 2017 LTIP and more challenging LTIP performance targets.
Restricted Share Awards are part of the Remuneration Policy approved by 88 per cent of shareholders who voted in 2017: which included the introduction of a performance underpin.
In response to our shareholder consultation, shareholding requirements were increased to at least 250 per cent of salary for all Executive Directors.
In addition, the Committee has considered the views expressed by shareholders and believes that the use of Restricted Share Awards continues to be appropriate and, in particular, that the Restricted Share Awards are appropriately aligned to the circumstances of the Company's financial objectives.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Board would like to thank those shareholders and voting bodies who engaged with the Committee on Directors Remuneration.
The Committee is committed to continuing dialogue with shareholders to help shape the implementation of our Remuneration Policy and welcomes further engagement and feedback.
Single total figure of remuneration for Executive and Non-Executive Directors audited Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors The table below reports total remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2018 for each Executive Director who served as a Director at any time during the year.
The information contained in the table is as prescribed by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and contains a single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director.
2 Taxable benefits include medical and dental insurance, car allowance, life assurance, income protection, personal accident insurance and a subsidised gym membership.
In particular, in 2018, Robin Allan, Tony Durrant and Richard Rose each received a car allowance of 15,000 3 Robin Allan, Tony Durrant and Richard Rose received total annual bonus awards for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 63.79 per cent of salary, 65.09 per cent of salary and 66.48 per cent of salary respectively out of a maximum bonus opportunity of 120 per cent of salary.
Bonus amounts above 50 per cent of salary will be awarded in the form of deferred shares Deferred Bonus Awards.
The number of Deferred Bonus Awards will be calculated by reference to the five-day average price of Premier Oil shares over the period immediately preceding the date of grant.
The awards have been approved by the Committee and it is anticipated that they will be granted as soon as reasonably practicable following the release of the Companys 2018 Results.
The Deferred Bonus Awards vest at the end of a three-year period from the date of grant subject to continued employment.
Good leaver provisions apply such that awards may vest before the end of the three-year period if an Award holder leaves in exceptional circumstances such as death, redundancy, change of control and retirement.
Further details of the 2018 total annual bonus awards to each Executive Director, including performance criteria, achievement and resulting awards, are set out on pages 95 to 98.
4 Long-term incentives include awards granted under the Premier Oil 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan 2009 LTIP subject to a performance period ending in the relevant financial year.
In March 2019, the Committee determined that, based on the performance achieved to 31 December 2018, the Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards under the 2009 LTIP should vest.
Total vesting values shown in the table above are based on a share price of 88.96p the volume weighted average price from 1 October 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Further details of performance conditions for the 2009 LTIP are contained in the 2014 Remuneration Policy, a copy of which can be found on the Companys website www.
5 Richard Roses pension figure includes a combination of pension contributions to the defined contribution scheme and a salary supplement.
For other Executive Directors, pension figures are accrued pension entitlements under the Companys final salary scheme and exclude Director contributions.
See page 99 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on total pension entitlements for each Executive Director.
6 Other payments for Robin Allan, Tony Durrant and Richard Rose comprise Share Incentive Plan SIP awards only.
SIP awards are valued as the number of Matching Awards granted multiplied by the share price at date of award.
Other payments would normally include both SIP and Save As You Earn SAYE awards.
No SAYE awards were granted to the Executive Directors in 2018.
No discount was applied to SAYE awards granted in 2016 and therefore the embedded value of those options was nil.
Participation in the SIP and SAYE schemes is available to all qualifying employees.
Full details of Executive Director SAYE options and SIP awards are available on page 107 of the Annual Report onRemuneration.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 94 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 95 Single total figure of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors 1 Base fee Additional fees Expenses Total 000s 000s 000s 000s Director 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Roy A Franklin Chairman 169.6 56.5 5.9 3.0 175.5 59.5 Dave Blackwood 53.0 20.9 53.0 20.9 Anne Marie Cannon 53.0 53.0 53.0 53.0 Jane Hinkley 53.0 53.0 21.2 17.2 0.1 74.2 70.3 Iain Macdonald 53.0 53.0 10.6 6.6 0.2 63.6 59.8 Mike Wheeler 53.0 20.9 53.0 20.9 Notes to 2018 figures unless stated : 1 Amounts disclosed relate to taxable travel and accommodation expenses paid to Non-Executive Directors in respect of qualifying services during the year.
No fees were paid to Non-Executive Directors for membership of a Committee or for attending Committee meetings.
Additional fees were payable of 10,600 2017: 10,600 for acting as Senior Independent Director, as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee or as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Company Chairman waived the fee of 10,600 payable to him as Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Payments for loss of office audited There were no payments for loss of office during the year.
Payments to past Directors audited There were no payments to past Directors during the year 2018 Annual Bonus audited In line with the Companys 2017 Remuneration Policy, during 2018 Executive Directors participated in non-pensionable annual bonus arrangements.
The 2018 annual bonus provided for awards of between 0 per cent and 120 per cent of salary for Executive Directors.
Annual performance was assessed against a performance scorecard encompassing health, safety, environment and security HSES, production, development, exploration, finance, business development and organisation, as well as personal performance.
In assessing the 2018 bonus payout, the Committee reviewed performance against each measure in the performance scorecard and considered the overall Company performance and the oil sector environment.
In terms of personal performance, the Committee assessed the Executive Director performance against a series of specific individual performance targets focussed on the delivery of financial and operational objectives which were agreed at the start of 2018, further details are set out on page 97.
The Committee agreed that the formulaic outcome of the bonus payments was reflective of the strong underlying operations of the business and the delivery of results during the year.
In particular, the Committee noted the stretch delivery of the financial covenant objectives reflecting strong underlying cashflows and operational performance.
Also of particular note was the sanction of the Tolmount Main project and the progression of the Zama appraisal plan.
The table below details the financial and operational performance categories, their relative weightings and achievement against specific targets.
The table on page 97 provides further details on the Directors personal objectives.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2018 Corporate Targets Performance target ranges Formulaic Strategic Actual outcome for pillar Subcategory Measure Threshold Target Stretch Performance Weighting the year Focused on Production Portfolio in line 58.9 62.3 64.2 59.0 15% 3.86% high quality with budget excl.
assets with Catcher kboepd commercially advantaged Catcher in line 23.0 26.8 30.0 21.5 15% 0% positions with ramp-up kboepd Access to Finance On track to meet Meet covenant Meet covenant Net debt Net debt 10% 10% capital and year-end net 5% below covenant 5% financial debt covenant requirement below liquidity requirement On track to meet Meet covenant Meet covenant On track to On track to 10% 10% 2019 1Q EBITDA beat covenant beat covenant covenant by 5% by 5% Opex 17.9 16.9 15.9 16.9 5% 2.5% US$ bbl G&A US$m 163 158 153 155.7 5% 3.65% Operating HSES TRIR 1.47 1.17 0.81 2.65 4% 0% in a safe and injury rate responsible per million manner man hours LOPC 1 0 0 2 4% 0% Tier 1 and 2 process safety Spills kg year 1000 500 250 392 4% 2.86% Leadership visits 16 29 42 35 4% 2.92% Focused on Strategic Progress Sanction by Sanction Sanction Project 8% 5.6% high quality Projects Tolmount 31 Dec by 31 Dec by 30 June with sanctioned assets with to project with 2021 with 2020 2020 first gas in August commercially sanction first gas first gas advantaged Progress Stretch Threshold 8% 2.4% Threshold Target positions financing, fiscal performance performance performance performance and commercial relating to relating to achieved relating to initiatives for progress progress progress 1 Sea Lion Progress Zama Well trade Full appraisal Full appraisal Full appraisal 8% 8% project initiation agreement plan agreed plan approved plan approved with Pemex with Pemex by CNH by CNH Total 100% 51.8% Notes: 1 For reasons of commercial sensitivity, the specific project milestone and associated performance targets cannot be disclosed at this time.
Disclosure will be made in the 2019 Annual Report where this does not compromise the interests of the Company.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 96 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 97 2018 Personal objectives The achievement against personal objectives represented up to 20 per cent of Annual Bonus opportunity for the Executive Directors.
These are a blend of targets related to their individual responsibilities and behavioural attributes.
The outcome for the year is summarised below: Outcome for Director Overview of performance objectives Key achievements in the year the year Robin Allan A combination of personal involvement and Board sanction decision for the Tolmount Main 11.72 20 direction of UK and Exploration objectives gas development project.
Mexico appraisal programme, working closely with JV partners, Pemex and Mexican authorities.
Delivery of Exploration key performance indices, notably the conclusion of legacy UKCS exploration commitments and the capture of high potential new acreage in Mexico and Indonesia.
Work related to the disposal of the Pakistan BU, coordinating all aspects of the transaction.
Primary role in external stakeholder management, especially collaboration with the Oil and Gas Authority.
Tony Durrant A combination of personal strategic leadership Leadership of the Executive Committee and 12.80 20 and financial objectives and behavioural delivery of the Corporate key performance attributes indices.
Work with the Board on key management succession, organisational structure and expertise.
Above target delivery of financial covenant commitments both net debt reduction and leverage performance ahead of schedule.
Opex, Capex and G&A are all under budget.
Rebuild of equity base and institutional investment support - significantly enhanced with personal commitment to extensive roadshows to 170 institutions.
Delivery of key operational targets, noting Tolmount Main sanction in particular.
Richard Rose A combination of financial, investor relations, Successful delivery of year-end covenant net 13.96 20 business development and crude marketing debt and Q1 2019 leverage targets, including objectives disposal programme and induced conversion of outstanding convertible bonds.
Development of a forward plan for a future refinancing.
Management of all treasury commitments and compliance under the current financing arrangements.
Continue building the shareholder register and strengthening investor relations.
Ongoing strategic business development, concurrent with funding and refinancing initiatives.
Enhanced business and cash forecasting.
Delivery of crude marketing hedging differentials.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2018 Annual Bonus award audited Annual bonuses awarded to Executive Directors are summarised in the table below.
Amounts awarded exceeding 50 per cent of salary will be awarded in the form of shares, deferred for three years.
Amount to be awarded as Bonus as % Total value Cash amount deferred shares Director of salary Robin Allan 63.8 225,657 176,875 48,782 Tony Durrant 65.1 370,362 284,500 85,862 Richard Rose 66.5 235,173 176,875 58,298 Retrospective disclosure in respect of the 2017 Annual Bonus The Committee disclosed in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report that the bonus target in relation to a specific milestone for the Sea Lion project could not be disclosed for reasons of commercial sensitivity.
The target centred on securing financing for the project.
At the point of considering the 2017 bonus outcome, discussions were ongoing with senior debt providers and supply chain contractors to secure suitable funding and commercial terms.
In addition, Letters of Intent had been signed with contractors for the provision of a range of services, including vendor financing.
The Committee therefore resolved that the outcome for this objective represented 2 per cent out of a maximum of 8 per cent of the total outcome.
LTIP vesting outcomes in 2018 audited The 2016 Equity Pool and Performance Share Awards granted under the 2009 LTIP completed their three-year performance periods on 31 December 2018.
When granting the 2016 LTIP awards, the Committee determined that awards be scaled back to 50 per cent of the maximum and with no Matching Share Award opportunity.
The performance conditions of the Performance Share Awards and Equity Pool Awards are as follows: The funding of the Equity Pool is based on three-year annualised compound growth in the Companys equity value per share.
Threshold performance requires compound growth in the Companys equity value per share of at least 10 per cent per annum at which 1 per cent of the compound growth is credited to the Equity Pool.
A maximum of 2.5 per cent of the compound growth is credited to the Equity Pool when growth in equity value per share is 20 per cent per annum.
The funding rate is based on straight-line interpolation between these points.
Performance Share Awards vest on three-year TSR relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers see page 106 for the peer group.
25 per cent vests for median performance, with full vesting for upper quartile performance and straight-line vesting in between.
The vesting outcomes of these awards are as follows: 2016 Equity Pool Awards: The base valuation for the Equity Pool Awards was averaged over the three-month period from 1 October 2015 to 31 December 2015, with the terminal valuation averaged over the three-month period from 1 October 2018 to 31 December 2018.
The Committee resolved that shares issued to convertible bondholders during the performance period should be excluded from the calculation of the terminal valuation.
Taking these adjustments into account, the Companys market capitalisation increased from 349.7 million to 501.3 million during the performance period, equivalent to growth of 12.7 per cent per annum, generating an aggregate LTIP Equity Pool valued at 2.14 million.
2016 Performance Share Awards: Over the Performance Period, the Companys TSR was 35.2 per cent which, relative to its peers, was between the median and upper quartile, warranting a vesting of 75.1 per cent.
On 4 March 2019, the Committee satisfied itself that the vesting outcomes were reflective of the underlying performance of the Company and that the 2016 Equity Pool and Performance Share Awards should vest as soon as practicable after the Company enters an open period for dealing in shares.
2016 LTIP awards made to Executive Directors are summarised below.
The value of the Equity Pool Vesting to each Executive Director will be converted into shares by dividing the amount allocated to them by the average of the mid-market closing price of the first five days that the Company is in an open period for dealing in shares.
These shares will be added to the number of Performance Shares vesting for each Director, with 50 per cent of the total number of shares being released immediately on vesting and the remaining 50 per cent being deferred for three years.
1 Equity Pool Awards Performance Share Awards Percentage of Value of Equity Performance Vested Value of Total Long Term Equity Pool Pool Vesting Shares Performance Performance Shares Incentives Director allocated '000s Granted Shares '000s '000s Robin Allan 4.25 90.9 294,203 220,946 196.6 287.5 Tony Durrant 6.00 128.4 567,864 426,465 379.4 507.8 Richard Rose 4.25 90.9 249,500 187,374 166.7 257.6 1 Total vesting values shown in the table above are based on a share price of 88.96p the volume weighted average price from 1 October 2018 to 31 December 2018.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 98 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 99 LTIP awards granted in 2018 under the terms of the 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan audited In view of market conditions, the Committee determined that Restricted Share Awards should be scaled back by 50 per cent with Performance Share Awards granted in full.
The Performance Share Awards are subject to upper decile relative TSR performance, providing a greater stretch target than the upper quartile target stated in the Remuneration Policy.
The LTIP awards were granted to Executive Directors on 15 March 2018 and comprise: Performance Share Awards: conditional share awards vesting on three-year TSR relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers with 25 per cent vesting for median TSR performance and full vesting for upper decile performance and straight-line vesting inbetween.
Restricted Share Awards: conditional share awards vesting over three, four and five years subject to a financial underpin based on the reduction of the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, as agreed with the Companys lenders.
Further details of the 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan are set out in the 2017 Policy on pages 82 to 91.
Details of the awards are set out in the table below.
Performance for these awards will be measured between 1 January 2018 and 31December 2020.
The constituents of the comparator group are detailed on page 106.
Restricted Share 1 1 20182020 cycle Performance Share Awards Awards % salary to be % salary to be Number of awarded as Number of awarded as Performance Restricted Restricted Share Performance Share Awards Face value Shares after Awards Face value 2 3 2 4 Director Grant Date Shares granted 000s scale back granted 000s Robin Allan 15.03.2018 175% 865,458 619.1 20% 98,909 70.8 Tony Durrant 15.03.2018 175% 1,392,073 995.8 20% 159,094 113.8 Richard Rose 15.03.2018 175% 865,458 619.1 20% 98,909 70.8 Notes: 1 Any dividends paid accrue on Performance Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards and will be paid on vesting as shares, in proportion to those shares that vest.
2 The number of Performance Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards were determined by reference to the relevant percentage of salary divided by the average of the closing market prices of a Premier Oil share over the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date: 71.53p.
3 The face value of the Performance Share Awards is the maximum number of shares that would vest if the stretch performance target was achieved in full, multiplied by the average of the closing prices of a Premier Oil share over the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date: 71.53p.
4 The face value of the Restricted Share Awards is the maximum number of shares that would vest if the financial underpin was met, multiplied by the average of the closing market prices of a Premier Oil share over the five dealing days immediately preceding the award date: 71.53p.
Total pension entitlements audited In line with the Policy, as Executive Directors appointed prior to 20 August 2013, Robin Allan and Tony Durrant receive a pension substantially as if they were contributing members of the Companys final salary Retirement and Death Benefits Plan the Scheme and, in regard to service completed subsequent to their appointment as Directors, not subject to the Schemes cap on pensionable earnings 160,800 for the 2018 19 tax year.
As a Director who joined the Company after 20 August 2013, Richard Rose is entitled to receive a pension contribution and or cash supplement equal to 20 per cent of his salary.
The accrued pension entitlements of the Directors who were members or deemed members of the Scheme during 2018 are as follows: f Value of growth in accrued a b c d e pension above Accrued Accrued Accrued Value of growth Deduction for inflation less pension as at pension in a pension as at in accrued deemed deemed 31 December after allowing 31 December pension above contributions contributions by 1,3 3 1,3 2,3 3 3 2017 for inflation 2018 inflation by Director Director Director 000s pa 000s pa 000s pa 000s 000s 000s 4,5 Robin Allan 93.7 96.5 100.3 76.0 19.9 56.1 4 Tony Durrant 137.5 141.6 148.4 136.0 32.8 103.2 Notes: 1 The amounts of accrued pension under a and c represent the accrued pension entitlements of the Director as at the stated dates.
2 The values under d have been calculated by applying a capitalisation factor of 20 to the difference between amounts shown in c and b and are principally due to the additional pension accrued over the year.
3 The values stated above correspond with the target level of final salary pension provision: in practice, the pension benefits for these Directors are principally established through individual money purchase arrangements and salary supplements.
4 Members of the Scheme have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions: none of the Directors have elected to do so.
5 In addition to the current provision noted above, Robin Allan is entitled to a deferred pension under the Scheme in respect of service with the Company between September 1986 and November 1999.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Payments made by the Company in respect of pension benefits in relation to 2018 are summarised below: Total pension Pension plan Cash payments benefits contributions made during 2018 paid by Company Director 000s 000s 000s Robin Allan 0.0 62.2 62.2 Tony Durrant 0.0 300.0 300.0 Richard Rose 10.0 53.4 63.4 In respect of 2018, Tony Durrant and Robin Allan elected to receive the defined contribution element of their total pension entitlement in cash.
During 2017, a review was carried out for these Directors to assess the extent to which the payments already made were sufficient to provide the accrued component of their total target pension.
A payment was made in 2018 towards the shortfall for Tony Durrant.
Richard Rose receives a contribution to the defined contribution scheme and receives the remaining amount of his entitlement in cash.
Under the defined contribution scheme, Richard Rose's normal retirement age is 65.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration, comprising salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus, and comparable data for the average of all UK-based employees within the Company.
The Company has chosen UK-based employees as the comparator group for the Company as a whole, due to countries outside the UK having significantly different inflation rates.
2 Includes cash bonus and amount deferred into shares amounts above 50 per cent of salary are deferred into shares.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows the Companys actual expenditure on shareholder distributions and total employee pay expenditure for the financial years ending 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018.
Total shareholder distribution expenditure is composed of dividends and share buybacks.
The Company did not pay a dividend nor re-purchase shares for the financial years ending 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018.
2018 2017 US$ million US$ million % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees of the Group 113.6 110.5 2.81% Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend 0% Distributions to shareholders by way of share buyback 0% Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 100 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 101 Comparison of Company performance The chart below compares the value of 100 invested in Premier shares, including re-invested dividends, on 31 December 2008 compared to the equivalent investment in the FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index over the last ten financial years.
The FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index has been chosen as it comprises companies who are exposed to broadly similar risks and opportunities as Premier.
10-year TSR performance TO BE UPDATED Value of 100 invested on 31 December 2008 300 250 200 186 150 100 50 34 0 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 FTSE All-Share Oil & Gas Producers Index Premier Oil plc The table below shows the CEO single figure of remuneration for the past ten years and corresponding performance under the annual and long-term incentives, as a percentage of maximum.
The last award under the Asset Pool had a performance period of 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2010.
The introduction of the LTIP was disclosed in the Remuneration Report of the 2009 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
2 Figures shown for 2014 for Tony Durrant relate to the period during 2014 that he served as Chief Executive Officer: 25 June to 31 December 2014: and for Simon Lockett relate to the period during 2014 that he served as Chief Executive Officer: 1 January to 25 June 2014.
3 Maximum opportunity for the 2016 Equity Pool was 50 per cent of salary.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Implementation of Executive Director Remuneration Policy for 2019 For 2019, there will be a continued level of scale back of Long Term Incentive Restricted Share Awards and continued application of a stretch relative TSR target for the Performance Share Awards.
The Committee also determined that all decisions regarding Executive Director remuneration should also apply to members of the senior management team.
Salary The salaries of the Executive Directors are reviewed annually to ensure they remain appropriate.
No salary increases have been awarded to Executive Directors for 2019.
The average salary increase inclusive of promotions across the Groups UK operations is 3.46 per cent.
Salary from Salary from Percentage 1 January 2018 1 January 2019 increase Director Position Robin Allan Director, North Sea and Exploration 353,750 353,750 0% Tony Durrant Chief Executive Officer 569,000 569,000 0% Richard Rose Finance Director 353,750 353,750 0% Pension, benefits and all-employee share plans The Company will continue to offer Executive Directors pension, taxable benefits and tax-advantaged all-employee share plans for 2019 in line with the Policy on pages 82 to 91.
Annual bonus For 2019, the Executive Director annual bonus opportunity is up to 120 per cent of salary in line with the 2017 Remuneration Policy.
Annual performance will be assessed against a combination of corporate and personal targets with the maximum bonus opportunity for each set of targets being 80 per cent and 20 per cent of the maximum bonus respectively.
The Committee will consider carefully the oil market outlook, the Companys underlying performance and the outcome for 2019 in deciding whether and at what level to award bonuses for that year.
The specific 2019 corporate and personal objectives, along with threshold, target and stretch values, will be disclosed, to the extent that they are not commercially sensitive, in the 2019 Directors Remuneration Report.
Any bonus in excess of 50 per cent of salary will be deferred in shares for three years.
The table below summarises the criteria used to assess each target and the relative weighting of each: 2019 Corporate Targets Weighting % of maximum Strategic pillar KPIs Target corporate bonus opportunity Focus on high quality assets Working interest Daily average production excl.
Catcher 10% production Daily average production from Catcher 10% Maintaining Liquidity, net debt, Financial covenant targets financial strength operating cash flow Accounting net debt target 15% and operating costs Opex and G&A targets Operating safely HSES KPIs Lagging indicator targets 10% Leading indicator targets 10% Focus on high quality assets Reserves and Tolmount East gross resource addition 7% resources Other gross un-risked resource additions 7% Delivery of Group strategy Achievement of specified near-term strategic objective 15% Net asset value target in the existing portfolio 5% Zama appraisal programme target 5% Achievement of specified organisational objective 6% Total 100% 2019 Personal targets A combination of targets, including UK operational leadership and HSE improvements, Tolmount Main Robin Allan: project execution and delivery of the Group Exploration key performance indicators.
A combination of targets relating to execution of strategy, shareholder engagement, leadership, organisational and Tony Durrant: HSE improvements.
Richard Rose: A combination of targets supporting the corporate KPIs and strategic financial planning activities.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 102 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 103 2017 Long-term incentive plan The Committee has agreed to make awards to the Executive Directors under the terms of the 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan for 2019.
The awards will comprise Restricted Share Awards equivalent to 20 per cent of base salary representing 50 per cent of the maximum, and Performance Share Awards equivalent to 175 per cent of base salary.
In determining the level of awards, the Committee again took account of market conditions.
It is proposed that the awards will be made as soon as possible following the release of the Company's Full-Year Results for 2018.
Performance for these awards will be measured between 1 January 2019 and 31 December 2021.
Performance conditions will be asfollows: Performance Share Awards: subject to a Performance Target based on the Companys TSR performance relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas sector peers.
25 per cent of the awards will vest for median TSR performance vs. the comparator group, with full vesting for upper decile performance and straight-line vesting in between.
This represents an additional stretch to upper decile from upper quartile stated in the Remuneration Policy.
Restricted Share Awards: subject to a financial underpin based on the ratio of net debt to EBITDA, as agreed with the Companys lenders, over the course of the performance period.
If the performance underpin is achieved, Restricted Share Awards will vest in one third increments on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the award date subject to continued employment and the Committees assessment of underlying Company performance.
No awards will vest unless the performance underpin is achieved.
Awards will be subject to malus and clawback provisions, and any awards vesting will be subject to a Holding Period such that the total time horizon is five years.
Implementation of Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy for 2019 Non-Executive Director fees were last increased with effect from 1 January 2013.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the fees for the Chairman and the Board reviewed the fees for Non-Executive Directors.
No increases in fees were proposed.
Non-Executive Director fees for 2019 are asfollows: From From 1 January 2018 1 January 2019 Percentage Role Fee type increase Chairman Total fee 169,600 169,600 0% Other Non-Executive Directors Basic fee 53,000 53,000 0% Committee Chairmanship 10,600 10,600 0% Senior Independent Director 10,600 10,600 0% Exercise of Committee discretion The table below illustrates how the Committee has exercised discretion in relation to long-term incentives and the bonus plan over the four-year period ending 31 December 2018.
Year Annual bonus Long-term incentives 2015 Total bonus outcome for 2015 reduced to 10% N A formulaic outcome ranged from 55.8% to 58.1% 2016 None 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan: Performance Share Awards scaled back by 50% of maximum potential opportunity: Equity Pool Awards vesting capped at 50% of base salary: Matching Award removed.
2017 None 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan: Restricted Share Awards and Performance Share Awards scaled back by 50% of the maximum potential opportunity: 2018 None 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan: Restricted Share Awards scaled back by 50% of maximum potential opportunity.
Full vesting of the Performance Share Awards requires Premier Oil TSR to be upper decile relative to the TSR of comparators, as opposed to upper quartile TSR.
As outlined above the Committee also exercised discretion in relation to the 2019 share awards.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Statement of Directors shareholding and scheme interests audited The table below summarises the Directors interests in shares, including those held under outstanding LTIP, SAYE and SIP awards, as at 31 December 2018.
Further details of all outstanding awards are disclosed on pages 105 to 107.
Deferred shares subject Unvested shares to continued subject to Unvested SAYE Total share Owned outright at employment at performance at options at interests at 1 2 3 Director 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 Robin Allan 527,699 200,994 1,949,990 42,857 2,721,540 Dave Blackwood 10,000 10,000 Anne Marie Cannon 10,000 10,000 Tony Durrant 1,467,614 350,191 3,231,167 42,857 5,091,829 Roy A Franklin 60,000 60,000 Jane Hinkley 13,234 13,234 Iain Macdonald 23,076 23,076 Richard Rose 109,085 201,514 1,905,287 42,857 2,258,743 Mike Wheeler 30,000 30,000 Notes: 1 Owned outright includes shares held by the Director and or connected persons.
This figure also includes shares held in the tax-advantaged Share Incentive Plan SIP which may be subject to forfeiture on leaving the Company, dependent upon the time for which they have been held.
2 Deferred Shares subject to continued employment comprise Deferred Bonus Awards.
The awards are subject to malus and clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys financial results, gross misconduct or material error in the calculation of performance conditions.
The Committee may exercise clawback until the later of: i one year from vesting, or ii the completion of the next audit after vesting.
3 Unvested shares subject to performance include Performance Share Awards held under the 2009 LTIP 2016-2018 cycle and Performance Share Awards and Restricted Share Awards held under the 2017 LTIP 2017-2019 cycle and 2018-2020 cycle.
The performance period for the LTIP awards granted under the 2016-2018 cycle completed on 31December 2018, 75.1 per cent of awards vested.
See page 98 of the Annual Report on Remuneration for further details on performance criteria and achievement.
Formal shareholding guidelines exist which require the Executive Directors to retain no less than 50 per cent of the net value of shares vesting under the Companys long-term incentive arrangements until such time as they have achieved a holding worth 250 percent ofsalary.
The graph below shows the value of Executive Directors shareholding and scheme interests as a percentage of salary, in accordance with the shareholding guidelines, as at 31December 2018.
Director Shareholding Tony Durrant Richard Rose Robin Allan 0 50% 100% 150% 200% 250% 300% Shares owned outright Deferred Bonus Shares subject to continued employment Shareholding requirement Notes: 1 The valuation of shareholdings as at 31 December 2018 has been calculated using the volume weighted average price between 1 October 2018 and 31 December 2018 88.96p Share price movements during 2018 The mid-market closing price of the Companys shares on 31 December 2018 was 66.55p 31 December 2017: 76.25p.
The intra-day trading price of the Companys shares during 2018 was between 143.60p and 55.60p.
Executive Director external appointments Executive Directors are permitted to accept non-executive appointments outside the Company providing that the Boards approval is obtained.
During the year, Tony Durrant served as an Advisory Committee Member of FlowStream Commodities Ltd, stepping down from the position in December 2018.
He received an annual fee of US$10,000 2017: US$10,000 for his work as an Advisory Committee Member.
Robin Allan is Chairman of the Association of British Independent Oil Exploration Companies BRINDEX and received no fee for this role.
Robin Allan is also a Board member of Oil & Gas UK for which he receives no fee.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 104 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 105 Outstanding share awards Annual bonus scheme Deferred Bonus Awards As at 31 December 2018 the following Deferred Bonus Awards were held in respect of the deferred element of the annual bonus awarded for the years ending 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2017.
2009 Long Term Incentive Plan Equity Pool Awards As at 31 December 2018, one Equity Pool was outstanding, as follows: Outstanding Equity Pool allocation % of Pool Starting market Cycle Performance period capitalisation Tony Durrant Robin Allan Richard Rose 1 2016 01.01.16 31.12.18 350m 6.00% 4.25% 4.25% Notes: 1 The Committee determined on 4 March 2019 that the 2016 Equity Pool Award would vest.
For further details see page 98.
2009 Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Share Awards In 2015, the Executive Directors were granted LTIP Performance Share Awards over shares with a value of 150 per cent of salary for the CEO and 125 per cent of salary for the other Executive Directors.
The grant of Performance Share Awards in 2016 was approved by the Remuneration Committee in August 2016.
Due to prolonged trading restrictions as a result of the ongoing refinancing of the Groups debt, the grant of the awards could not take place in 2016 and the awards were granted following the release of the Companys 2016 results in March 2017.
During 2018, no awards were made under the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan.
2 The 2016 Performance Share Awards were approved by the Committee in August 2016.
The grant of the awards was postponed due to prolonged trading restrictions as a result of the Companys refinancing.
The grants were made on 12 April 2017 following the release of the Companys 2016 Final Results.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Share Awards The 2017 LTIP was approved by shareholders at the 2017 Annual General Meeting and replaces the 2009 LTIP.
Under the 2017 Policy, Performance Share Awards may be granted up to 175 per cent of salary.
This amount was scaled down to 87.5 per cent of salary for awards granted to Executive Directors in 2017, but granted in full in 2018.
TSR comparator group constituents, by Performance Share Award Company 2016 2017 2018 Company 2016 2017 2018 Aker BP Lundin Petroleum 1 Bankers Petroleum Marathon Oil Beach Energy Noble Energy Cairn Energy Ophir Energy 2 DNO ASA Origin Energy Energi Mega Persada Oryx Petroleum EnQuest Rockhopper Exploration Etab.
Maurel et Prom Santos Faroe Petroleum SOCO International Genel Energy Tullow Oil Gulf Keystone 1 Ithaca Energy Notes: 1 The following companies delisted during the performance period for the 2016 Awards and were removed from the 2016 comparator group by the Remuneration Committee during its final performance assessment: Bankers Petroleum delisted in October 2016 Ithaca Energy delisted in June 2017 2 In August 2018 the Remuneration Committee resolved to remove Origin Energy from the comparator group following the sale of Origins upstream oil and gas assets to BeachEnergy.
Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements 106 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 107 2017 Long Term Incentive Plan Restricted Share Awards Under the 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy, Restricted Share Awards may be granted up to 40 per cent of salary.
This amount was scaled down to 20 per cent of salary for awards granted to Executive Directors in 2017 and 2018.
Further details of the Awards are set out on page 99.
Vested awards are subject to a Holding Period ending on 1 September 2022.
2 Subject to the performance underpin and continued employment, one third of the total award vests on 15 March 2021, a further one third vests on 15 March 2022 and the balance of the awards vests on 15 March 2023.
Vested awards are subject to a Holding Period ending on 15 March 2023.
All-employee schemes The Executive Directors may also participate, on the same terms as all other eligible employees, in a Share Incentive Plan SIP and a Savings Related Share Option Scheme SAYE Scheme.
Executive Directors interests under the SAYE Scheme are shown below: Options Options Acquisition held at held at Date of Exercisable price 1 January 31 December Director grant dates per share 2018 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2018 Robin Allan 04.05.16 01.06.19 30.11.19 42.00p 42,857 42,857 Tony Durrant 04.05.16 01.06.19 30.11.19 42.00p 42,857 42,857 Richard Rose 04.05.16 01.06.19 30.11.19 42.00p 42,857 42,857 Share Incentive Plan Shares held beneficially in this plan by the Executive Directors during the financial year were as follows: Total Partnership Total Matching Partnership and Shares purchased Shares awarded Matching Shares in 2018 at prices in 2018 at prices acquired between Shares held on between between Shares held on 1 January and Director 1 January 2018 0.685 and 1.420 0.685 and 1.420 31 December 2018 6 March 2019 Robin Allan 32,768 1,569 1,569 35,906 1,088 Tony Durrant 22,313 1,570 1,570 25,453 1,088 Richard Rose 15,466 1,884 1,884 19,234 1,304 For and on behalf of the Remuneration Committee Jane Hinkley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 March 2019 Premier Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Financial Statements
