Strategic report Governance Financial statements Further information Remuneration Committee report The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that the Board should establish a remuneration committee of at least three, or in the case of smaller companies, two, independent non-executive directors.
In addition the company chairman may also be a member of, but not chair, the committee if he or she was considered independent on appointment as chairman.
Steven Owen was independent on his appointment as Chairman and remains so Members of the Remuneration and accordingly he is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Committee theCommittee Responsibilities of the Committee Number of meetings The principal responsibilities of the Committee are: Member and attendance setting the remuneration framework or policy for Directors: Geraldine Kennell Chairman 2 2 Nick Wiles 2 2 reviewing the continued appropriateness and relevance Steven Owen 2 2 ofthe Companys remuneration policy: Ian Rutter 1 1 within the terms of the approved policy determining the Dr Stephen Kell OBE 1 1 remuneration of the Chairman: Peter Cole 1 1 appointing and setting out the terms of reference for any Additional attendees invited to attend meetings as appropriate remuneration consultants to advise the committee: Harry Hyman Managing Director agreeing policy on the recovery by the directors of expenses incurred in performance of their duties: and Dear shareholder, drafting the Directors Remuneration Report and reporting This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee toshareholders on the implementation of the Companys and approved by the Board and includes our current Directors remuneration policy in accordance with relevant statutory remuneration policy and shows how it was implemented during and corporate governance requirements.
Attendance at meetings Our current policy was last approved at the 2017 Annual General Meeting 2017 AGM, when shareholders voted by a Alun Jones, Mark Creedy and Dr Ian Rutter attended the majority of over 99% of the votes cast to approve the directors meeting held while they were directors of the Company remuneration policy.
As there are no proposed changes to the andIanKrieger, Peter Cole and Dr Stephen Kell attended Directors remuneration policy, there is no requirement for a themeeting held after their appointment.
The Chair of the shareholder vote on this part of the Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee also invited Harry Hyman at the AGM to be held in April 2019.
All arrangements operated ManagingDirector to attend selected meetings.
by the Company during the year were in line with the policy.
The Remuneration Committees activities during year The Company has no employees and therefore pay and employment During 2018, the Committee met twice, in February and September.
considerations are not taken into account in determining Directors fees.
The Managing Director and Finance Director are employed At its meeting in February the Committee considered and by the Adviser and remunerated by them and so the Committee approved the Directors Remuneration Report set out in the does not determine executive directors pay.
Annual Report for 2017 and the remuneration of the Chairman.
The Committee engaged FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT to conduct a benchmarking review of the Chairmans remuneration based on a pan-sector group of the 20 companies immediately above and below PHPs market capitalisation and aselection of comparable REITs including direct competitors.
Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018 59 Remuneration Committee report continued The Remuneration Committees activities during year continued The review indicated that the fee paid to the Chairman remained below the median both on the basis of the pan-sector data and the REIT peer group.
After consideration of this report, it was agreed to increase the level of the Chairmans remuneration by3.5% or 2,500 to 74,500 with effect from 1 April 2018.
MrOwen, as the Chairman designate at the time, absented himself from the meeting for these discussions and took no part in the decision of the Remuneration Committee.
At the meeting in September, the Committee formally reviewed the expenses of the directors and approved these as being in line with the Companys policy.
Conclusion The report that follows consists of two sections: an At a glance summary of the approved remuneration policy on page 61: and an Annual Report on Remuneration, detailing how our Directors were paid during 2018 and how the remuneration policy will be applied in 2019, on pages 62 to 64.
The Committee takes its responsibilities seriously and hence has an active interest in your views and hopesto receive your support again at the AGM.
I will be standing down as Chairman of the Committee and will hand over to Helen Mahy on completion of the proposed MedicX merger.
Geraldine Kennell Chair of the Remuneration Committee 30 January 2019 60 Primary Health Properties PLC Annual Report 2018
