161 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy Introduction The Committee is responsible for the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
The remuneration and terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board as a whole.
The Committee also reviews and sets the remuneration of the senior management teams within the three divisions and the corporate office.
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on proposals relating How employees pay is taken into account to the remuneration of the other Executive Directors and the Pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group were considered senior management teams.
The Chairman is consulted on when finalising the policy for Executive Directors and the senior proposals relating to the Chief Executive Officers remuneration.
The same principles apply throughout the When appropriate, both are invited by the Committee to attend Group but are proportionate relative to an individuals influence meetings but are not present when their own remuneration atGroup level.
The base salary increases awarded to the Executive is considered.
Directors are consistent with the average percentage increases The Committee recognises and manages any conflict of interest awarded elsewhere in the Group and reflect the financial when consulting the Chief Executive Officer and Chairman about performance of the Group and each individual directors personal its proposals.
The Committee does not formally consult directly The current Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by withemployees on executive pay but does receive periodic updates shareholders at the 2017 AGM on 12 May 2017.
During 2018, the from the divisions on remuneration issues in general and specifically Committee carried out a detailed review of the current Directors in relation to remuneration structures throughout the Group.
Remuneration Policy, taking into account of the new circumstances facing the Company, the latest shareholder feedback and the How the Executive Directors remuneration policy 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.
Following the review, the relates to the senior management teams Committee decided to propose a number of amendments to the current DRP.
The proposed amendments will bring the DRP in line Remuneration for the level below Executive Director including share with best practice and ensure the overall remuneration of Executive incentives, bonus, benefits and pension entitlement is set primarily Directors is at a market competitive level.
by reference to market comparatives.
Long-term incentives are typically only provided to the most senior Considerations when setting policy executives and are reserved for those identified as having the greatest potential to influence Group level performance.
In setting the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors and senior management, the Committee takes into account the following: The need to maintain a clear link between the overall reward policy and the specific performance of the Group: The need to achieve alignment to the business strategy both in the shortand long-term: The requirement for remuneration to be competitive, with a significant proportion dependent on risk-assessed performance targets: The responsibilities of each individuals role and their individual experience and performance: The need to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and senior management when determining remuneration packages, including an appropriate proportion of fixed and variable pay: Pay and benefits practice and employment conditions both within the Group as a whole and within the sector in which it operates: and Periodic external comparisons to examine current market trends and practices and equivalent roles in companies of similar size, business complexity and geographical scope.
162 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued How shareholders views are taken into account Summary of proposed amendments to the DRP We remain committed to taking into account shareholder views on Reduction in the maximum pension allowance from 30% any proposed changes to our remuneration policy.
The Committee to15%for existing Executive Directors and the introduction chairman maintains contact, as required, with the Companys ofa10% maximum for new appointments.
principal shareholders about all relevant remuneration issues Removal of the deferred bonus matching from the Policy and the Company consulted with its principal shareholders, as forfuture awards.
well as the shareholder advisory bodies, in relation to the renewal Increase in the mandatory deferral from one third to 40% of its remuneration policy.
Ongoing and transparent dialogue ofanybonus payable.
with our shareholders on the topic of executive remuneration is Formalisation of a two-year post-vesting holding period on the very important to us and the feedback received on the proposed Long-term Incentive Scheme LTIS, creating a 3 2 structure in remuneration policy was carefully considered and discussed by line with the new UK Corporate Governance Code requirements.
Increase in the maximum annual bonus opportunity from 120% to 175%, recognising the removal of the deferred bonus matching plan, the reduction in pension allowance, and the market levels ofmaximum annual bonus in other financial services companies.
Strengthening of Malus and Clawback provisions.
The total target remuneration under the new policy is 8.6% less than under the current policy and at maximum it is 29% less than Executive Director remuneration policy under the current policy.
Element Purpose and link tostrategy Operation including maximum levels Performance targets and provisions for recovery of sums paid To reflect the responsibilities Reviewed annually and effective from 1 January.
Broad assessment of Group and individual performance as part Salary of the individual role.
Typically set following review of the budget for the To reflect the individuals skills forthcoming year, taking into account salary levels Malus and clawback provisions do not apply.
and experience and their in companies of a similar size and complexity.
Typically targeted at or around median.
Annual To provide an appropriate increases typically linked to those of the wider level of basic fixed income and workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to avoid excessive risk taking the wider workforce may be awarded in certain arising from over reliance on circumstances such as where there is a change variable income.
in responsibility, progression in the role, or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and or complexity of the Group.
Provision of market Provide either a cash allowance or a contribution Not applicable.
Retirement competitive pension benefits to the defined contribution plan or a combination benefits of the two.
Pension allowance of up to 15% of salary per annum is given to all existing Executive Directors.
For any future Executive Director appointments from the 2019 AGM onwards, pension allowance will be capped at 10% of salary, in line with the allowance available to the workforce.
Incentivises annual delivery Financial and operational goals set annually.
A minimum of 50% of any bonus opportunity will be subject to financial Annual of agreed financial and targets e. g. EPS with up to 20% linked to personal objectives.
bonus Maximum opportunity of 175% of salary.
A graduated scale operates from threshold performance through 40% of the bonus is subject to compulsory Rewards the achievement to the maximum performance level.
For financial targets, 25% of deferral in which case an award is made under of an agreed set of annual the maximum bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold the Deferred Bonus Plan formerly PSP.
60% of the maximum bonus becomes payable Remainder of bonus paid in cash.
100% of the maximum bonus becomes payable for achieving stretch performance.
A straight-line At the discretion of the Committee, participants payout is operated between threshold and on-target performance may also be entitled to receive dividend or andbetween on-target and stretch performance.
In relation dividend equivalent for the period between grant tonon-financial and personal objectives, it is not always practicable and vesting on vested deferred bonus shares.
toset a sliding scale for each objective.
Where it is, a similar proportion of the bonus becomes payable for exceeding the threshold performance level as for financial targets.
Malus and clawback provisions apply in accordance with the strengthened Group Malus and Clawback Policy.
The period of clawback is three years from the date of payment.
Details of the bonus measures operating each year will be included inthe relevant annual report on remuneration.
The Committee reserves the power to make changes over the life ofthepolicy to achieve alignment with the Groups annual strategy.
163 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report Element Purpose and link tostrategy Operation including maximum levels Performance targets and provisions for recovery of sums paid Alignment of managements Annual grant of share awards structured as Awards vest based on a three-year performance period against a Long Term long-term strategic interests conditional share awards or nil-cost options.
challenging range of EPS, relative TSR targets, and risk metrics set Incentive with long-term interests of and assessed by the Committee.
The relative TSR will be measured Scheme Executive directors are eligible for awards of shareholders.
20% of the award vests at LTIS up to 200% of salary which is the maximum the threshold performance level with full vesting taking place on a Rewards strong financial opportunity contained within the scheme rules.
graduated scale for achieving the maximum performance level.
The performance and sustained Executive Directors are required to retain vested performance conditions are reviewed annually by the Committee prior increase in shareholder value.
LTIS shares, net of tax, for a further period of two to grant in terms of the range of targets and the choice of metrics Encourages an increased years.
and may be refined to ensure that the targets remain aligned with the shareholding in the Group.
Any substantive reworking of the current Dividend equivalent provisions allow the performance metrics would be accompanied by appropriate dialogue Committee to pay dividends on vested shares with the Companys shareholders and or approval sought for a revised atthe time of vesting.
remuneration policy depending on the nature of the change.
Shareholders approved the renewal of the LTIS The Group Malus and Clawback Policy applies.
The period of clawback atthe 2015 AGM.
is three years from the date of vesting.
Provision of a range of insured Market competitive benefits, which may include: Not applicable.
Other and non-insured benefits benefits Life cover: commensurate with the role.
Permanent health insurance: Private medical insurance: Car benefits: Participation in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company on the same basis as other eligible employees: or Other benefits that the Committee may consider appropriate.
To ensure alignment of Executive Directors are required to build a Not applicable.
Share the long-term interests of holding of 200% of salary in the form of shares ownership executive directors and in the Company normally within a period of five shareholders.
years from the date of appointment.
Executive Directors are required to retain half of any shares vesting net of tax under the LTIS until the guideline is met.
Unvested shares held under the LTIS are not taken into account.
The Committee will operate the incentive schemes within the Remuneration Committee discretion policy detailed above and in accordance with their respective rules.
In addition to the performance metrics set by the Committee In relation to the discretions included within the scheme rules, these annually for the incentive plans, the Committee will also assess the include, but are not limited to: i who participates in the schemes: overall, or underlying, performance of the Company and its Divisions.
ii testing of the relevant performance targets: iii undertaking In light of this assessment, the Committee may make a downward an annual review of performance targets and weightings: iv the adjustment, including to zero, to the vesting outcome on all or any determination of the treatment of leavers in line with the scheme ofthe performance metrics.
rules: v adjustments to existing performance targets and or share awards under the incentive scheme if certain relevant events take The Committee will also assess the Companys and its Divisions place e. g. a capital restructuring, a material acquisition divestment performance against the risk metrics, and may make a downward etc.
with any such adjustments to result in the revised targets being adjustment, including to zero, to the vesting outcome on all or any no more or less challenging to achieve: and vi dealing with a change of the performance metrics, to take account of any material failures of control.
For the purposes of incentive pay, EPS is calculated of risk management or regulatory compliance in the Company and on an adjusted basis to show the EPS generated by the Groups its Divisions.
164 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued Post-employment shareholding Arrangements from prior years Under the Rules of the Deferred Bonus Plan formerly PSP and All variable remuneration arrangements previously disclosed in prior LTIS, deferred bonus shares and unvested LTIS shares, that are years directors remuneration reports will remain eligible to vest permitted to be retained by good leavers, will normally vest at the orbecome payable on their original terms and vesting dates, subject original vesting dates, normally subject to the original performance to any related clawback provisions.
conditions and time proration in the case of unvested LTIS shares.
Regulatory changes The post-vesting holding period for LTIS will also continue to apply post-employment.
The Committee is mindful that regulatory changes in the financial Taking account of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and the services sector may result in a need to rebalance the Executive latest guidance from the proxy agencies, the Committee will review Directors pay and, accordingly, the Committee retains discretion and establish a post-employment shareholding policy for Executive to adjust the current proportions of fixed and variable pay within Directors during the course of 2019.
The policy will be disclosed in the current total remuneration package if new legislation were to our 2019 Directors Remuneration Report.
impact the Executive Directors in due course.
Should this be the case, the Company would enter into appropriate dialogue with its Illustrations of application of the DRP major shareholders and, depending on the nature of any changes, may be required to seek shareholder approval for a revised Under the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy, a large remuneration policy.
proportion of the remuneration received by Executive Directors depends on performance.
The charts below show how total pay for Policy for new directors the CEO and CFO vary under three different performance scenarios: minimum, target and maximum.
Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the approved remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and 4,000 calibre of the individual.
Benefits will also be provided in line with 3,441 the approved DRP and relocation expenses arrangements may beprovided if necessary.
3,000 The maximum level of variable pay that may be offered on an ongoing basis and the structure of remuneration will be in accordance with the approved DRP.
This limit does not include 2,251 2,255 thevalue of any buyout arrangements.
41% 2,000 Any incentive offered above these limits would be contingent on 31% theCompany receiving shareholder approval for an amendment 1,503 40% tothe approved DRP at its next AGM.
30% Different performance measures may be set initially for the annual 1,000 816 33% 36% bonus, taking into account the responsibilities of the individual and 598 31% 34% the point in the financial year that they join the Company.
The above policy applies to both an internal promotion to the Board 100% 36% 23% 100% 39% 26% or an external hire.
0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary to buy out incentive Chief Executive Ocer Chief Financial Ocer pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving a previous employer, then the form cash or shares, timing and Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration or benefit being forfeited will be taken Minimum: this comprises the fixed elements of pay, being base into account.
The Company will not pay any more than necessary salary, benefits and pension allowance.
Base salary and pension are andwill not pay more than the expected value of the remuneration effective as at 1 January 2019 and the benefits value is an estimate or benefit being forfeited.
The approved DRP will apply to the value for the 2019 financial year.
balance of the remuneration package.
The Company will also not Target: this comprises fixed pay and the target value of 2019 annual make a golden hello payment.
bonus 87.5% of salary for the CEO and 75% of salary for the CFO and LTIS 100% of salary for CEO and 87.5% for CFO.
In the case of an internal promotion, any outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out Maximum: this comprises fixed pay and the maximum value of 2019 according to its terms of grant adjusted as relevant to take into annual bonus 175% of salary for the CEO and 150% of salary for the account the Board appointment, even if inconsistent with the policy CFO and LTIS 200% of salary for CEO and 175% for CFO.
prevailing when the Commitment is fulfilled.
The charts do not include the effect of any share price growth on On the appointment of a new chairman or non-executive director, the LTIS.
If 50% share price growth between grant and vesting is the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre assumed, the maximum total remuneration would be 4,172,000 of the individual.
Where specific cash or share arrangements are and 2,912,000 for the CEO and the CFO, respectively.
delivered to non-executive directors, these will not include share options or other performance-related elements.
165 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report Notice periods are limited to 12 months.
If the Company terminates Choice of performance metrics the employment of an Executive Director without giving the The performance metrics used for the annual bonus scheme and the period of notice required under the contract, then the Executive LTIS have been selected to reflect the key indicators of the Groups Director may be entitled to receive up to 12 months compensation.
Compensation is limited to: base salary due for any unexpired notice EPS continues to be considered by the Committee as one of the period: any amount assessed by the Committee as representing broadest and most well understood measures of the Groups the value of contractual benefits and pension which would have long-term financial performance and therefore it remains been received during the period: and any annual bonus which the appropriate to maintain the option to use it as a key metric in our Executive Director might otherwise have been eligible to receive on long-term incentive plans.
a pro rata basis, subject to the Committees assessment of financial and personal performance.
Furthermore, EPS is fully aligned with the Groups objective of continuing to deliver a high dividend yield and thus is aligned To the extent that an Executive Director seeks to bring a claim with the shareholder base which is weighted towards longer-term against the Company in relation to the termination of their income investors.
employment e. g. for breach of contract or unfair dismissal, the Committee retains the right to make an appropriate payment in In 2012, the link to RPI was removed from the performance targets settlement of such claims.
for the LTIS following consideration by the Committee of various factors prevailing at the time.
This approach has been retained in In the case of a termination by the Company of the contract of any relation to awards under the LTIS since 2012.
Performance targets new Executive Director who has been appointed where a payment will, however, be assessed annually when setting targets for future in lieu of notice is made, the Committee would normally seek to awards to take account of prevailing rates of inflation.
limit this to base salary, pension and benefits for up to 12 months.
An amount in respect of loss of annual bonus for the period of In addition, relative TSR in relation to a suitable comparator group notice served pro rata would only be included in exceptional is used to provide an appropriate external balance to the internal circumstances and would not apply in circumstances of poor EPS measure used under the LTIS and is consistent with delivering performance.
For the avoidance of doubt, in such exceptional superior returns to shareholders which remains the Groups key, circumstances, the director would be eligible to be considered in the over-arching, long-term objective.
normal way for an annual bonus for any period they have served Each year, a number of risk indicators may be used in the areas of asa director, subject to the normal assessment by the Committee risk management, regulatory performance compliance, risk profile offinancial and personal performance.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Executive Director No performance targets are set for options granted under the under the Companys share incentive schemes will be determined Companys Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE or for awards under byreference to the relevant scheme rules.
In the case of a bad leaver theCompanys Share Incentive Plan SIP as they form part of the e. g. resignation awards will typically lapse and in certain good all-employee arrangements which are designed to encourage leaver circumstances e. g. ill-health awards will remain eligible to employee share ownership across the Group.
vest subject to assessment of the relevant performance target and apro rata reduction unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Service contracts and exit policy Any buyout arrangements agreed between the Company and the The Committee ensures that the contractual terms for the Executive relevant directors would be treated in accordance with the terms Directors take due account of best practice.
agreed on finalisation of the buyout arrangement.
Service contracts normally continue until the directors agreed Policy on other appointments retirement date or such other date as the parties agree.
All service contracts contain provisions for early termination.
The contracts Executive Directors are permitted to hold non-executive of the Executive Directors are dated 1 February 2018 for the Chief directorships but may only hold one non-executive directorship Executive Officer and 3 December 2018 for the Chief Financial in aFTSE 100 company and may retain the fees from their Officer.
All contracts operate on a rolling basis with 12 months appointment provided that the Board considers that this will notice required to be served by either the Executive Director or notadversely affect their executive responsibilities.
Copies of directors service contracts and or letters of appointment An Executive Directors contract may be terminated without notice are available from the Company Secretary on request.
and without any further payment or compensation, except for sums accrued up to the date of termination, on the occurrence of certain events such as gross misconduct.
No director has a service contract providing liquidated damages on termination.
In the event of the termination of a service contract, it is the current policy to seek mitigation of loss by the Executive Director concerned and to aim to ensure that any payment made is the minimum which is commensurate with the Companys legal obligations.
Payments in lieu of notice are not pensionable.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, there is no enhancement to contractual terms.
166 Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration policy continued The table below shows details of the terms of appointment for the Non-executive directors non-executive directors.
All directors will seek reappointment at the Non-executive directors are not employed under service contracts forthcoming AGM with the exception of John Straw.
and do not receive compensation for loss of office.
They are appointed for fixed terms of three years, renewable for a further three-year term and, in exceptional circumstances, further extended if both parties agree.
Any such extension will be subject to annual reappointment by shareholders.
Non-executive director remuneration policy Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation including maximum levels To attract and retain a high-calibre Chairman and The Chairman and non-executive directors receive annual fees paid in monthly instalments.
The fee Fees non-executive directors by offering market competitive for the Chairman is set by the remuneration committee and the fees for the non-executive directors fees which reflect the individuals skills, experience and are approved by the Board.
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
The other non-executive directors receive a basic non-executive director fee, with supplementary fees payable for additional responsibilities, including a fee for chairing a committee and, from 2018, for membership of the risk, remuneration, audit, Customer, Culture and Ethics committees but not if performing a chairman role.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive arrangements.
Relevant expenses and or benefits may be provided to the non-executive directors.
The fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis and may be increased taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to go above the current fee levels and or to provide the fees in a form other than cash but not as share options or other performance-related incentives if necessary to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive director of an appropriate calibre.
Terms of Appointment of the Non-executive directors Date of most Expected & Actual Name Appointment recent term date of expiry Rob Anderson 2 March 2009 30 March 2018 11 December 2018 Stuart Sinclair 1 October 2012 31 October 2015 21 September 2018 Andrea Blance 1 March 2017 1 March 2017 1 March 2020 1 David Sear 1 January 2017 1 January 2017 26 January 2018 2 John Straw 1 January 2017 1 January 2017 20 May 2019 Patrick Snowball 21 September 2018 21 September 2018 20 May 2022 Paul Hewitt 31 July 2018 31 July 2018 31 July 2021 Angela Knight 31 July 2018 31 July 2018 31 July 2021 ElizabethChambers 31 July 2018 31 July 2018 31 July 2021 1 David Sears term was expected to expire on 31 December 2020, prior to him stepping down from the Board on 26 January 2018.
2 John Straw s term was expected to expire on 31 December 2020 prior to him announcing his intention to step down from the Board on 20 May 2019.
Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office will only be made if consistent with this approved remuneration policy or otherwise approved by an ordinary resolution of shareholders.
Andrea Blance Remuneration Committee Chairman 13 March 2019 167 Provident F inancial plc Annual Report and Fin ancial Statements 2018 Financial s tatements Our results The Group continues to operate  on  businesses thatofferattractive returns.
Consolidated income Statements of changes statement 168 inshareholders equity 170 Consolidated statement Statements of cash flows 172 ofcomprehensive income 168 Statement of Earnings loss per share 168 accounting policies 173 Dividends per share 168 Financial and capital riskmanagement 179 Balance sheets 169 Notes to the financial statements 184 Independent auditors report 225
