08 P Z Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 Governance Statement of the Chair of  However, in light of recent developments in corporate Introduction governance, the Committee has decided to refine the way On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our 2018 it operates the holding period that applies to shares, which Remuneration Report.
vest under the Performance Share Plan.
Awards that are to be granted in the current financial year will be subject to a The Remuneration Committee is responsible for the tougher holding requirement, which will result in all vested framework and policy for remuneration of the Executive shares other than any shares required to be sold to meet any Directors and Chair.
It is also responsible for the operation of tax liabilities being subject to a two year holding period as senior management incentive schemes throughout the Group.
opposed to only shares with a value in excess of 100% of salary at grant.
This change of approach will result in the Performance During the year ended 31 May 2018, the Committee Share Plan operating with a longer-term focus with all shares memberswere: subject to a three year vesting period and then a two year Mrs Owers Committee Chair holding period.
It will also bring the Company into early Mr Maiden compliance with the approach recommended for adoption Mr Kucz with effect from his appointment to the Board inthe 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code, which will apply on1May 2018 forfinancial years commencing from 1 January 2019.
Mr Nicolson until he stepped down from the Committee Remuneration earned in the year ended 31 May 2018 on1May 2018 Ms Edozien until she retired from the Board on Whilst the Group has delivered good profit growth in Asia anda 27September2017 creditable result in Europe, Africa profits have declined sharply as a result of a sustained lack of liquidity in the key market of The Company Secretary, Mr Plant, is Secretary to the Nigeria and a consequent significant contraction in the size of Committee.
The Chair, the Chief Executive Officer and the the market and lower volumes, prices and margins.
As a result, Global HR Director attend meetings by invitation where the Group performance as a whole wasdisappointing.
They do not participate in any discussion regarding their own remuneration.
The objectives put in place by the Committee have focused management on continuing to optimise the Groups overall The Report on Directors' Remuneration pages 17 to 25 sets product portfolio.
This has included driving the innovation out how we implemented our Remuneration Policy for the pipeline, introducing higher margin products, differentiating year ended 31 May 2018 and how we intend to implement our brands and substantially restructuring distribution it during the year ending 31 May 2019.
This will be put to an channels in Nigeria and Indonesia.
Good progress has also advisory shareholder vote at our Annual General Meeting on beenmade in the planned transformation of the global finance 26September 2018.
There are no changes to the Remuneration function and in continuing to drive down the Groups carbon Policy, which was approved by our shareholders at last years emissions and water consumption.
Whilst the progress made AGM.
A summary of our approved Policy is provided on pages in all of these areas is not apparent in this years financial 10 to 16 for reference.
results, we believe that the focus on these areas provides thefoundations for future growth.
Remuneration Policy Taking into account performance, the key aspects of Our Remuneration Policy is designed to encourage the remuneration earned during the year were: generation of long-term sustainable shareholder value by Salary reviews aligning the interests of our executives with those of our shareholders.
The creation of shareholder value is supported by As disclosed in last years Annual Report on Remuneration, an annual bonus, which is heavily weighted towards achieving the salary of Mr Kanellis, the Group Chief Executive profitable growth, and improved operational performance Officer, increased by 2.5% on 1 September 2017, and and a long-term incentive, which only rewards for delivering the salary of Mr Leigh, the Group Chief Financial Officer, long-term earnings growth.
The long-term focus of our policy increased by 2% on the same date.
This increase was is strengthened through the requirement to defer part of the within the range of salary increases provided to other annual bonus into shares until our share ownership guidelines employees elsewhere in the PZ CussonsGroup.
are met and the requirement to retain a portion of vested longAnnual bonus pay-out term incentive awards beyond the three year vesting period.
In last years Annual Report on Remuneration we reported that we would continue to focus executives on bonus The current Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders targets primarily relating to three key financial indicators: at the 2017 Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration profit before tax and exceptional items: net working Committee has considered its effectiveness, taking into account capital: and operating contribution margin.
The balance dialogue with shareholders during the year, and concluded that of the bonus would be subject to delivery against key the Policy remains appropriate and continues to effectively align strategic stretch objectives.
performance with reward over the long term.
As a result, we are not proposing any changes to our current Policy at the 2018 AGM.
PZ Cussons Plc Governance and Financial Statements 2018 09 The required threshold level of profitability was not Looking forward attained and, accordingly, no bonus payment was Looking ahead to the next 12 months, we will monitor the awarded in respect of any of the key financial indicators.
ongoing appropriateness of our remuneration structures in Whilst good progress was made against the key strategic light of the evolution of the Companys strategy and wider objectives, in light of the Groups overall financial developments in corporate governance.
In particular, the performance the Committee used its discretion to reduce Remuneration Committee is considering the changes to the the payout under these categories from 17% of the total UK Corporate Governance Code which will come into effect bonus opportunity to nil.
from 1 January 2019 and wider regulatory changes, with a Further details of the targets set for the year ended view to taking the necessary steps to ensure that we continue 31May 2018 are disclosed in this years Report on to take account of best practice expectations and regulatory Directors' Remuneration on page 19. requirements.
Long-term incentives I hope you will find the Report on Directors Remuneration The awards made to Executive Directors in 2015 are transparent and informative and that this statement has been subject to Earnings Per Share EPS performance over the helpful in setting out both how we have implemented our three year period ended 31 May 2018.
These performance Remuneration Policy this year and our approach for the year conditions were not achieved and, accordingly, these ending 31 May 2019.
We are committed to engaging with awards will also lapse in full as disclosed on page 20. shareholders in respect of remuneration issues and I therefore welcome your views on the matters set out within the report.
Our approach in the year ending 31 May 2019 The Remuneration Policy is being implemented in the year Helen Owers ending 31 May 2019 on broadly similar terms to the prior year.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee However, I would like to draw shareholders attention to the 24 July 2018 following matters: Salary increases with effect from 1 September 2018 the base salary of each of Mr Kanellis and Mr Leigh will increase by 2%.
These increases reflect individual performance and are within the range of salary increases being awarded totheGroups wider UK-based employee population.
Otherwise, no changes are being made to the quantum ofremuneration.
Incentives the Committee has reviewed both our shortandlong-term incentive plans in the year ended 31 May 2018and has concluded that they remain appropriate.
The annual bonus plan will continue to operate based on delivery against challenging financial targets profit before tax and exceptional items, net working capital and operating contribution margin and non-financial strategic targets.
Thechoice of metrics reflects the Boards focus on delivering improved profitability, operational efficiency and the strategic changes within the business, which are detailed in the Strategic Report.
The Performance Share Plan will remain subject to a challenging range of EPS targets.
The choice of EPS continues to reflect the Boards long-term objective of delivering profitable growth and sustaining a progressive dividend policy.
The awards to be granted in the 2018 19 financial year will be subject to a requirement that 100% of any vested shares after meeting any tax liability will beretained for a minimum period of two years from the date of vesting i. e. a minimum of five years from the date ofgrant.
The range of targets in both the annual bonus and Performance Share Plan are set with reference to both internal planning and external market expectations for theCompanys performance.
