Governance Remuneration report Annual statement from the Chair of the Board Remuneration Committee In preparation for Listing, the Committee developed a remuneration policy to alignexecutive reward withbusiness performance and the long-term, sustainable success of the Company, inthe best interests of all stakeholders.
Cathy Turner Chair of the Board Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder, The table below shows the members and attendees of the As Chair of the Board Remuneration Committee the Committee, Committee during2018: Iam pleased to present on behalf of the Board the remuneration Scheduled report in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018, the Companys Committee Ad hoc first financial year-end as a listed company.
Membership of the Committee meetings meetings Cathy Turner Chair 5 5 1 1 This statement and the accompanying report aims to ensure high Glyn Jones 5 5 1 1 levels of disclosure around pay policy and transparency around Jon Little 4 5 1 1 remuneration decision making which meet the standards of a Ruth Markland appointed 25 06 2018 2 2 1 1 listedcompany.
Ingrid Johnson resigned 19 04 2018 1 2 N A The CEO and other senior members of Quilters senior management team The Committee addressed a number oflegacy arrangements from may attend by invitation but will not be present when their own remuneration the period prior to Listing, to ensure that Quilter plc had a coherent is discussed.
The meetings are also attended by an independent Committee adviser.
and consistent policy from the point of Listing, in accordance with best practice.
The Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy presented is in line with the principles set outinthe IPO Prospectus, Committees time allocation and hasbeenfurther enhanced to reflect developments in good corporate governance.
Group Remuneration 21% Policy I set out below a summary of the objectives of the Policy, the Specic Remuneration 27% performance outcomes in respect of the 2018 financial year, Arrangements andhowwe intend to operate the Policy in 2019.
Remuneration Schemes 34% Shareholding Policy 3% Governance 4% Role of the Board Remuneration Committee Managed Separation 11% The Committees primary purpose is to exercise competent and Listing independent judgement on remuneration policies and practices forthe Executive Directors and certain other members ofseniormanagement.
The Committees full Terms of Reference may be viewed on quilter.
64 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Policy overview Remuneration outcomes The proposed Policy, subject tothe shareholders vote at the 2019 This robust business performance combined with the strong AGM, will become formally effective from the date of the AGM, and performance against personal objectives resulted in a short-term is intended to remain ineffect for three years.
incentive STI award of 92.5% of maximum potential for the Chief Underpinning the Policy, the Committees objective is to ensure Executive Officer, and 94.2% of maximum potential for the Chief remuneration encourages, reinforces and rewards the growth of Financial Officer.
50% ofthe awards will be deferred into an award shareholder value and promotes the long-term sustainable success of conditional shares under the Share Reward Plan SRP, and will of the Company.
vest annually in equal tranches over three years.
The Policy explains the purpose and principles underlying the Reward outcomes are aligned with overall Company performance.
structure of remuneration, and how the Policy links remuneration No discretion was exercised to override performance or variable tothe achievement of sustained, high performance.
Overall, remuneration is structured and set at levels to enable Quilter to recruit and retain high calibre colleagues, necessary Changes to the management team forbusiness success, whilst ensuring that: Mark Satchel, Quilters Corporate Finance Director, was an Executive our reward structure, performance measures and mix between Director for the period up to the 19 April 2018.
His 2018 fixed and variable elements support our business strategy: remuneration for the period served as a Director is included principles of best practice and good corporate governance intheSingle Figure Remuneration Table.
arereflected: As announced on 1 November 2018, Tim Tookey, Chief Financial reward structures do not incentivise excessive risk-taking: Officer, will step down from the Board with effect from 13 March rewards are aligned to strategic business aims and the long-term 2019.
The leaving arrangements for Tim are included in this report.
interests of our shareholders: and Tim will be succeeded by Mark Satchel from 13 March 2019.
Marks the approach is simple to communicate to participants remuneration package as Chief Financial Officer is also included and shareholders.
His pension allowance has been set at 10% of base salary, rather than the 30% of base salary which applied to Tim Key performance highlights Tookey, in line with our Policy to consistently align pension provision.
During 2018 we successfully completed Managed Separation from Old Mutual plc and Listed on the London and Johannesburg Stock Considerations for the year ahead Exchanges, on 25 June 2018.
Looking forward, we continue to monitor executive remuneration There was also good progress in strategic priorities, including developments within the industry and the regulatory landscape, thecompletion of the sale of the Single Strategy asset management andensure that remuneration supports the alignment of executive business to TA Associates on 29 June 2018, and build-out of Quilter with shareholder interests and is consistent with the prudent risk Investors, providing diversified long-term multi-asset investment management of the business.
Overall, and with specific reference to key remuneration drivers, The Committee considered the overall remuneration arrangements 2018 has been a year of very strong performance relative tokey for the Executive Directors for 2019 in accordance with the Policy.
annual financial and non-financial targets, including adjusted profit Keypoints are as follows: of 233 million, 11% higher than the prior year.
there will be no increase to the Executive Directors salaries During the year we have continued to put significant focus on the atthe1April 2019 review date: improvement of our customer outcomes, though the level of the structure, performance metrics and maximum award level customer maturity varies across the business and there is a need ofthe 2019 STI awards will remain unchanged.
STI for on-target todevelop further consistency in our approach to customer service.
performance is set at 50% of maximum: This reinforces the strategic importance of the Optimisation the structure, performance metrics and maximum award programme we have embarked on as detailed on page 9 in opportunity of the 2019 LTI, including the maximum level of awards, theChief Executive Officers statement, which will be a key area will also be unchanged: and offocus for management in 2019. there will be no increase in fees to the Board Chairman for 2019: Risk management has been further strengthened through the andthe Board has concluded that there will also be no increase embedding of our risk management framework in the lead up to toNon-executive Directors fees for 2019. and since Listing, contributing to the development of an effective risk management culture.
Governance | Remuneration report Quilter Annual Report 2018 65 Governance | Remuneration report continued Corporate Governance Code and updated Inclusion, diversity and the Gender Pay Gap  Diversity in the workforce and a commitment to building a more The Committee has considered the remuneration changes in the inclusive culture is central to our success and remains a key priority UKCorporate Governance Code, and recent changes to shareholder for the Company.
We are striving to improve diversity across all levels guidelines on remuneration.
A number of these new features are of our organisation and our Gender Pay Gap figures for 2018, as already incorporated into our Directors Remuneration Policy: summarised in our Responsible Business Report, demonstrate that a two-year post-vesting holding period, in addition to the three-year we are making progress against this commitment.
Our mean pay gap vesting period, applies to the long-term incentive: has reduced by 4 percentage points from 39% in 2017 to 35% in 2018, malus and clawback provisions apply to short and long-term and our median bonus gap has reduced by 2 percentage points from incentive plans, including a range of potential trigger events: 41% in 2017 to 39% in 2018.
The proportion of females in our top pay alignment of pension arrangements to the wider workforce, with quartile has also increased by 3 percentage points from 25% in 2017 pension provisions for new Executive Director appointments set to 28% in 2018.
We recognise that there is still much to do to address at10% of base salary.
Quilters intention is to standardise pension gender imbalance in the industry as a whole, and some of the actions provisions at this level for new hires across the wider UK workforce we are taking to tackle this can be seen in our Responsible Business and develop a transition plan for existing employees: and Report on pages 13 and 14.
Quilter already has some existing arrangements for postemployment shareholding, applicable to good leavers: any shares Employee Voice in the Boardroom that they are permitted to retain will normally continue to vest over Finally, I am personally delighted to assume Non-executive the three-year vesting period and remain subject to any applicable responsibility for conveying the views and opinions of our employees performance conditions, and will be subject to any post-vesting to the Board from 2019 onwards, which will be collected primarily via holding period.
The Committee will consider this post-employment our employee forums and culture surveys, both of which have been shareholding policy in further detail during 2019, andinclude more established within Quilter for some time.
This will provide powerful information on this in the Remuneration Report for 2019. insight into Board discussion and decision making, on a wide range ofissues.
The ratio of CEO total pay to the median, lower quartile and upper quartile of UK employees will be reported in the Remuneration Report for 2019, in accordance with the new regulations.
Consideration of shareholders views The Committee actively engages with shareholders and investor Cathy Turner bodies, and welcomes the opportunity to discuss their views on Chair of the Board Remuneration Committee relevant remuneration issues.
Institutional Shareholder Services feedback regarding the Quilter plc Performance Share Plan prior toListing was taken into account.
The plan rules were subsequently amended to include maximum award limits in accordance with thoseset in the Remuneration Policy.
The 2019 AGM will be the first occasion on which shareholders willvote on the Directors Remuneration Policy and Remuneration Report.
The Committee will ensure that it considers allthe feedback which it receives from its shareholders during thisprocess.
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended by The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 Directors Remuneration Reporting Regulations DRRR, the Companies Act 2006 CA2006 as amended by the Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Act 2013, FCA listing rules where applicable.
