Directors Remuneration Policy The key drivers of our Remuneration Policy: Alignment to culture Risk to align the interests of the Executive Directors, senior executives to provide a balanced package between fixed and variable pay, and employees with the long-term interests of shareholders and andlong and short-term elements, to align with the Companys strategic objectives of the Company: strategic goals and time horizons whilst encouraging prudent to incorporate incentives that are aligned with and support the riskmanagement: and Groups business strategy and align executives to the creation of to ensure reward processes are compliant with applicable long-term shareholder value, within a framework that is sufficiently regulations, legislation and market practice, and are operated flexible to adapt as our strategy evolves: withinthe bounds of the Boards risk appetite.
to reinforce a strong performance culture, across a wide range ofindividual performance measures, including behaviours, risk Predictability management, customer outcomes and the development of the to set robust and stretching performance targets which Companys culture in line with its values over the short and rewardexceptional performance: and long-term: and to set remuneration within the limits established under to align management and shareholder interests through building theRemuneration Policy.
material share ownership over time.
Proportionality Clarity to attract, retain and motivate the Executive Directors and senior to clearly communicate our Remuneration Policy and reward employees by providing total reward opportunities which, subject outcomes to all stakeholders.
toindividual and Group performance, are competitive within our defined markets both in terms of quantum and structure for the Simplicity responsibilities of the role: to ensure that our Remuneration Policy is transparent and easily to ensure that remuneration practices are consistent with and understood: and encourage the principles of equality, inclusion and diversity: and to operate simple and clear remuneration structures across to consider wider employee pay when determining that of our theCompany.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The table below summarises the key components of Executive Director remuneration arrangements, which will form part of the remuneration policy subject to formal approval by shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
It is intended that this policy will apply for three years from that date.
Remuneration element Base salary Purpose and link to strategy Essential to attract and retain Executive Directors with the calibre, personal skills and attributes to develop, lead and deliver the Groups strategy.
Operation Base salaries are paid in 12 equal monthly instalments during the year and normally are reviewed annually with increases effective 1 April.
In reviewing base salaries the Committee takes into account a number of factors, including: Group and individual performance: the skills, experience and level of responsibilities of the Executive Director and his her marketvalue: the scope, nature and size of the role: levels of increase across the wider employee population: and affordability, economic factors, external market data, business and personal performance.
The Committee considers the direct and indirect impacts of any base salary increases ontotalremuneration.
Maximum opportunity There are no prescribed maximum salary levels, but any salary increases will normally be in line with percentage increases across the wider employee population.
In specific circumstances, the Committee may award increases above this level, for example: where the base salary for a new recruit or promoted Executive Director has been set toallowthe individual to progress into the role over time: to reflect a material increase in the size or scope of an individuals role or responsibilities: where a change is deemed necessary to reflect changes in the regulatory environment: and where the size, value or complexity of the Group warrants a higher salary positioning.
Performance metrics Individual and Company performance will be taken into account in determining any salaryincreases.
Proposed changes for 2019 No change in approach.
Governance | Remuneration report | Directors Remuneration Policy Quilter Annual Report 2018 69 Governance | Remuneration report | Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration element Benefits Purpose and link to strategy Benefits are provided to Executive Directors to attract and retain the best talent for thebusinessand to ensure that the total package is competitive in the market.
Operation The Committees policy is to provide Executive Directors with a market competitive level ofbenefits taking into consideration benefits offered to other senior employees in the UK.
Benefits currently provided to Executive Directors include: private medical insurance: life assurance: income protection: and personal accident insurance.
Specific benefit provisions may be subject to change from time to time.
In line with other Quilter employees, Executive Directors can access discounted Company products and are eligible to participate in the Companys voluntary benefits which they fund themselves, sometimes through salary sacrifice.
Executive Directors are eligible for other benefitsthat are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
They are eligible to participate in the UK all-employee share plans on the same terms as other employees, including the Companys Share Incentive Plan and Sharesave Plan Where the Committee considers it appropriate, other benefits may be provided on recruitment or relocation for a defined period.
Any reasonable business-related expenses including tax thereon if determined to be a taxable benefit can be reimbursed.
Maximum opportunity In line with other UK employees, there is no maximum monetary level for benefits as this is dependent on the individuals circumstances, market practice and the cost to the Company.
Performance metrics There are no performance conditions.
The approach to benefit provisions for Executive Directors is the same as that operated for senior managers intherest of the UK organisation.
Remuneration element Pension Purpose and link to strategy To provide a market-competitive contribution towards retirement benefits that helps to attract and retain the best talent for the business.
Operation Executive Directors are eligible to receive employer contributions to the Companys pension plan which is a defined contribution plan or a cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits, oracombination.
Contributions and or cash alternative are paid monthly.
Maximum opportunity 10% of base salary per annum.
This takes account of the pension provision for the wider workforce.
Quilters intention is tostandardise provisions at this level for new hires across the wider UK workforce and develop atransition plan for existing employees.
Tim Tookey, who is leaving the business in 2019, is entitled to a pension contribution of 30% of basesalary per annum under exceptional arrangements agreed at the time of his appointment priortoListing.
70 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Remuneration element Short-Term Incentives STI Purpose and link to strategy The STI plan is designed to align remuneration with performance against financial and strategic business plan targets and personal predetermined goals, within the Groups risk appetite and taking into consideration the Companys culture and values, on an annual basis.
A portion of any award is deferred and delivered in shares to aid retention, encourage long-term shareholding, discourage excessive risk taking and align the executive and shareholder interests.
Operation Performance targets and weightings are reviewed and set annually by the Committee taking intoaccount business plans and the Companys risk appetite.
STI awards are funded from the overall Group bonus pool which is approved each year bytheCommittee.
STI payout for on-target performance is set at 50% of maximum.
For Tim Tookey, who is leaving the business in 2019, STI on-target performance is set at 60% of maximum under exceptional arrangements agreed at the time of his appointment prior to Listing.
Overall pool funding is also subject to risk adjustment after the Committees consideration ofacomprehensive report from the Chief Risk Officer and recommendations from the Board Risk Committee in relation to the nature and incidence of risk events and an overall assessment of risk management relative to the Boards risk appetite.
50% of any STI awarded to an Executive Director is normally deferred in the form of Conditional Awards under the Share Reward Plan SRP, which vest annually in equal annual instalments over a three-year period subject to the rules of the SRP.
Dividend equivalents may accrue on deferred awards during the deferral period and are paid inthe form of shares or, exceptionally, cash to the Executive Directors upon vesting.
Malus and clawback provisions apply to both cash and deferred portions of the STI awards asdescribed in further detail in Risk adjustments, malus and clawback on page 73.
Maximum opportunity The maximum STI opportunity for Executive Directors is set at 200% of base salary for stretch performance.
Performance metrics The STI plan uses a balanced scorecard of Group and individual performance measures, which are aligned with the key strategic priorities of the Group and designed to deliver sustainable shareholder value.
Performance is measured based on a mix of financial, strategic and personal targets.
The splits between the performance measures and relative weighting of the targets are reviewed by theCommittee at the start of each year and set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Themajority of any annual bonus is subject to challenging financial measures, with at least 50% ofthescorecard reflecting financial performance.
When determining the outcome of the performance measures, the Committee will seek the advice of the Chief Risk Officer and the Board Risk Committee to ensure all relevant risk factors are identified and the bonus pool and or individual awards adjusted accordingly.
Specific measures, targets and weightings will be set by the Committee annually and disclosed ona retrospective basis.
Governance | Remuneration report | Directors Remuneration Policy Quilter Annual Report 2018 71 Governance | Remuneration report | Directors Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration element Long-Term Incentives LTI Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise and reward Executive Directors for achieving superior long-term business performance that creates shareholder value and maximises sustainable shareholder returns.
Operation Long-Term Incentive awards are made under the Quilter plc Performance Share Plan PSP.
Awards are normally granted annually as nil cost options, which are subject to performance conditions.
Awards normally vest after three years subject to the achievement of performance conditions and continued employment.
Financial performance targets are set annually by the Committee prior to the beginning of the relevant performance period to provide alignment with the Companys strategic priority of delivering sustainable returns to shareholders over the long-term.
The targets may be subject toreview and possible amendment for future plan cycles.
Vested awards: are subject to a post-vesting holding period of two years during which the net-of-tax number ofshares may not normally be exercised or sold: and must be exercised within 10 years of the grant date.
Dividend equivalents accrue during the vesting period and are released on the vesting date, ordate of exercise of the vested option.
These will normally be delivered in the form of shares onan assumed reinvested basis.
LTI awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions as described in further detail in Riskadjustments, malus and clawback on page 73.
Maximum opportunity The maximum annual value of a PSP award for any Executive Director is an award over Company shares with a face value of 200% of base salary at the date of grant.
If the Committee deems that there are exceptional circumstances, such as the recruitment of akey individual or a significant strategic initiative, the maximum PSP award may be increased upto 400% of the Executives base salary.
Performance metrics Performance measures are selected by the Committee for the relevant plan cycle prior to the beginning of the relevant performance period.
Measures are designed to align with the Groups strategic priority of delivering sustainable returns to shareholders over the long-term.
Performance measures currently include an adjusted profit-based EPS CAGR adjusted profit pre-tax, pre-dividend excluding amortisation and goodwill and TSR Ranking relative to the FTSE250 excluding investment trusts.
The Committee may introduce or re-weight performance measures so that they are directly aligned with the Companys strategic objectives for the performance period.
For each performance metric, a threshold and stretch level of performance is set.
At threshold, 25% of the relevant element vests rising on a straight-line basis to 100% for attainment of levels ofperformance between threshold and maximum targets.
When determining the outcome of the performance measures, the Committee will seek the advice of the Chief Risk Officer and the Board Risk Committee to ensure all relevant risk factors are identified and the award outcomes adjusted accordingly.
The Committee also has discretion to reduce award outcomes to nil if required, via a risk management assessment based on a report of risk exposures: or to reflect financial underperformance not adequately reflected inthefinancial measures.
Proposed changes for 2019 It is not proposed to change the existing LTIP construct, however the Committee does propose to adopt an earnings growth performance condition for 2019 based on Adjusted EPS CAGR pre-dividend excluding amortisation and goodwill, compared to an Adjusted Profit-based EPS CAGR pre-tax, pre-dividend excluding amortisation and goodwill used in the 2018 LTIP.
72 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Remuneration element Shareholding requirement Purpose and link to strategy To align Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
Operation The Group operates a mandatory shareholding under which Executive Directors are required to build up and maintain a shareholding in the Company with a value at least equal to 300% of base salary.
Executive Directors are expected to meet the requirement within five years of Admission or, for newly appointed Executive Directors, within five years of appointment if later.
At least 50% of any shares vesting under Quiltershare plans on a net-of-tax basis are expected to be retained until the shareholding requirements are met.
In accordance with changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee is developing a post-employment shareholding policy taking into account emerging market practice and shareholder guidance.
In addition, for any good leaver, all unvested share awards that arepermitted to be retained continue to the original vesting date s and remain subject to post-vesting holding periods post-termination.
Committee scope for discretion Payment of statutory entitlements and settlement The Committee will operate the STI plan and the PSP according ofclaims totheir respective rules the terms of which were summarised for The Company may pay any statutory entitlements, to which a director Shareholders in the Companys IPO Prospectus and the policy set is entitled, or settle or compromise any claims made in connection out above.
The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains with the employment of a director where the Committee considers discretion in a number of areas relating to the operation and such claims to have a reasonable prospect of success and that it is administration of these plans.
These include but are not limited to inthe best interests of the Company to do so.
the following: who participates in the plans: Performance measures the timing of award grants and or payments: The performance measures selected for the STI plan and PSP have the size of an award and or a payment within the limits set out been chosen by the Committee to align with the Groups strategic inthe policy table above : priorities and are consistent with the key performance indicators in the choice and weighting of performance metrics in accordance relation to the operation of the business.
Targets are set annually with the statements made in the policy table above : taking into account a number of internal and external reference in exceptional circumstances, determining that any share-based points including: the level of performance that is achievable over a award or any dividend equivalent shall be settled in full or in part sustained period oftime: historic performance and internal forecasts in cash: of future performance: market expectations and any guidance discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event provided to the market, and the Companys agreed risk appetite.
of a change of control or restructuring: determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified Risk adjustments, malus and clawback categories for incentive plan purposes based on the rules of each All variable pay arrangements operated by the Group are subject to plan and the appropriate treatment in such circumstances: malus and clawback provisions.
The Committee may, in its absolute determining the extent of payment or vesting of an award based on discretion, determine to reduce the number of shares before they are the assessment of any performance conditions, including discretion released malus, impose further conditions on the vesting or exercise as to the basis on which performance is to be measured if an award of an award or, alternatively, at any time within five years of an award vests in advance of normal timetable on cessation of employment being made, the Committee may require the Executive Director as a good leaver or on the occurrence of a corporate event and totransfer to the Company a number of shares or a cash amount whether and to what extent pro-rating shall apply in such clawback.
circumstances: whether and to what extent malus and or clawback shall apply Malus may be applied where: toany award: the results or accounts or consolidated accounts of any company, adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, business or undertaking in which the Executive Director worked corporate restructuring, on a change of control and special orworks or for which he or she was or is directly or indirectly dividends : and responsible are found to have been materially incorrect or the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional misleading: events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose whilst being any material failure of risk management at a Group, or business no less stretching.
unitlevel: there is evidence of Executive Director gross misconduct or it is Legacy arrangements discovered that the Executive Directors employment could have Executive Directors may be eligible to receive any relevant payment been summarily terminated: from any award or other remuneration arrangements made prior the behaviour by the Executive Director resulted or is likely to result tothe approval of the Remuneration Policy such as the vesting in serious reputational damage to the Company or is likely to bring, ofshare awards made prior to IPO, or prior to appointment to the the Company into disrepute in any way: and Board.
Details of any such payments will be set out in the Annual any other circumstances similar in nature to those described above Report on Remuneration as they arise as required.
where the Committee consider adjustments should be made.
Governance | Remuneration report | Directors Remuneration Policy Quilter Annual Report 2018 73 Governance | Remuneration report | Directors Remuneration Policy continued Clawback may be applicable where: The structure of variable elements will be in accordance with the there is evidence of Executive Director misbehaviour or Companys approved Policy detailed above.
The maximum variable materialerror: pay opportunity will be set out in the remuneration table.
Different there is evidence of Executive Director gross misconduct or it is performance measures may be set initially during the year of joining discovered that the Executive Directors employment could have to take into account the responsibilities of the individual and the been summarily terminated: or pointwhen he or she joined the Board.
An LTI award can be made there is material failure of risk management at a Group, business shortly following an appointment assuming the Company is not in area, division or business unit level.
The Committee is supported in this by the Board Risk and Board The Committee may buy out incentive awards a new hire has forfeited Audit Committees and the Quilter Risk function.
on joining the Group, if it considers the cost can be justified and is inthe best interests of the Company.
Any buy-out award would take Remuneration policy for other employees intoaccount timing and expected value e. g. likelihood of meeting any The general principles of the Remuneration Policy are broadlyapplied performance criteria of the forfeited awards and be structured, to throughout the Group and are designed to support recruitment, the extent possible, to take into account other key terms e. g. vesting motivation and retention as well as to reward high performance schedules and performance conditions of the awards which are inaframework of approved risk management.
The Committee retains the discretion to rely on the exemption under LR 9.4.
2 of the Listing Rules to make such an award, The structure of total remuneration packages for the Executive or to utilise any other incentive plan operated by the Group.
The aim Directors and for the broader employee population is similar, of any such award would be to ensure that as far as possible, the comprising of salary, pension and benefits and eligibility for a expected value and the structure of the award will be no more discretionary STI award based on a combination of Company generous than the amount forfeited.
The level of STI opportunity is determined by role and responsibility.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from within the Group, anylegacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original All employees are subject to the Companys deferral policy, which terms and conditions as long as these do not cause a material conflict applies above a certain threshold of annual incentive award or such with the Remuneration Policy.
other amount as may be required in accordance with regulatory requirements.
Deferred bonuses are granted in the form of a For an overseas appointment, the Committee will have discretion to conditional award of shares in Quilter plc under the Share Reward offer cost effective benefits and pension provisions which reflect local Plan SRP, or for portfolio managers in Quilter Investors in their market practice and relevant legislation.
ownfunds and vest no faster than annually, over three years in equalparts.
Fees for a new Chair or Non-executive Director will be set in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Executive Directors and other selected senior executives participate in the PSP to aid retention and motivate the delivery of long-term Executive Directors service agreements growth in shareholder value and to align their interests with those All Executive Directors enter into service agreements with the ofshareholders.
The service agreements are of indefinite duration, subject to termination by either party on six months notice.
Where a longer Annual base pay increases for the Executive Directors are normally notice period is required to recruit an executive, a notice period of limited to the average base pay increase for the wider employee upto 12 months may be offered for an initial period.
The agreement population unless there are exceptional circumstances such as a contains terms typical for a senior executive, including entitlement to change in role or salary progression for a newly appointed director.
a salary, pension contribution, other core benefits including annual holiday entitlement, and eligibility for consideration of annual The provision of pension contributions for the Executive Directors short-term and LTI awards in accordance with the Remuneration isbroadly consistent with that operated for other senior managers Policy.
The Executive Director is also entitled to reimbursement across the business and the intention is to align the wider employee ofreasonable business expenses incurred by him her in the population to the same contribution level in the future.
performance of his her duties and will be eligible for cover under anydirector or officer insurance the Company has in place from Recruitment policy timeto time.
Service contracts are available for inspection at the The remuneration package for a new director will be established Companys registered office.
inaccordance with the Companys approved Policy subject to such modifications as set out below.
Salary and pension levels for Executive Directors will be set in accordance with the Remuneration Policy, considering the experience and calibre of the individual and his or her existing remuneration package.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be made over subsequent years subject to individual performance and development in the role.
Benefits will be limited to those outlined inthe Remuneration Policy, with relocation assistance provided where appropriate.
Where provided, relocation assistance will normally be for a capped amount and or limited time.
74 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Termination of office policy If the employment of an Executive Director is terminated, any compensation payable will be determined by reference to the terms of the service agreement in force at the time.
As variable pay awards are not contractual, treatment of these awards is determined by the relevant plan rules.
The Committee may structure any compensation payments beyond the contractual notice provisions in the contract in such a way as it deems appropriate as set out in the table below and taking into account the best interests of the Company.
Policy element Details Notice Normally six months notice In certain cases, Executive Directors will not be required to work their notice period and may be put on garden leave or granted payin lieu of all or part of their notice period PILON.
PILON may be paid monthly or in a lump sum depending on circumstances Holiday does not accrue when PILON is paid.
During a period of garden leave holiday that has accrued is deemed to have been taken during the garden leave Executive Directors will be subject to annual re-election at the AGM Treatment of annual incentive awards Annual incentive awards will be made to good leavers see below Delivered in line with normal Remuneration Policy and timeline, based on an overall assessment of corporate and personal including the application of deferral into shares performance and normally pro-rated for the period worked in the performance year of termination Treatment of unvested legacy LTI and deferred annual incentive share awards 1 All awards lapse except for good leavers LTI awards continue to the normal vesting date for good leavers unless exceptionally the Committee applies discretion to accelerate the vesting to the termination date.
In each case, thenumber of shares released shall be based on the achievement of performance conditions over the performance period or curtailed performance period, if applicable.
The number of shares that vest would typically be calculated on a pro rata basis, based ontime served during the vesting period 1 Deferred annual incentive share awards for good leavers continue to the normal vesting date unless the Committee applies discretion to accelerate the vesting to the termination date Compensation for loss of office Settlement agreements may provide for, as appropriate: Terms are subject to the signing of a settlement agreement Incidental costs related to the termination, such as legal fees foradvice on the settlement agreement Provision of outplacement services Payment in lieu of accrued, but untaken, holiday entitlements Exit payments in relation to any legal obligation or damages arising from such obligation Settlement of any claim arising from the termination Continuation or payment in lieu of other incidental benefits In the case of redundancy, in line with the Company operated enhanced redundancy policy 1 Subject to further adjustments which may be applied to discretionary good leavers.
An executive will be treated as good leaver under certain circumstances such as death, illness, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, their employing company ceasing to be a Group company or any other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
Prior arrangements All the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating to The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration a change of control.
In the event of a change of control, outstanding payments and payments for loss of office notwithstanding that they awards and options may be lapsed and replaced with equivalent are not in line with the terms of the Remuneration Policy where the awards over shares in the new company, subject to Committee terms of the payment were agreed: discretion.
Alternatively, outstanding awards and options may before the Policy set out above came into effect: or vestand become exercisable on a change of control, subject where at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of appropriate to the assessment of performance at that time and theCompany and the payment was not in consideration for pro-rating of awards.
theindividual becoming a director of the Company.
Change of control Policy STI awards may continue to be paid in respect of the full financial year pre and post change of control, or a pro-rated STI award may be paid in respect of the portion of the year that has elapsed at the point ofchange of control.
Exceptionally the Committee may exercise its discretion to waive pro-rating.
Governance | Remuneration report | Directors Remuneration Policy Quilter Annual Report 2018 75 Governance | Remuneration report | Directors Remuneration Policy continued External appointments Compliance with regulatory requirements Subject to prior clearance by the Board, an Executive Director is The Remuneration Policy is compliant with current regulatory permitted to hold one external non-executive directorship of a requirements, namely the PRA and FCA Remuneration Codes that listedcompany and is entitled to retain any fees paid for doing so.
Remuneration arrangements will operate in line with the PRA and FCA Remuneration Codes, as amended from time to time.
Illustrations of the application of the Remuneration Policy Our aim is to ensure that superior rewards are only paid for exceptional performance, with a substantial proportion of Executive Directors remuneration payable in the form of variable, performance-related pay.
The graphics below illustrate the Executive Directors fixed remuneration and how much they could earn for target and maximum performance for 2019.
Chief Executive Officer 000 Chief Financial Officer 000 Fixed remuneration 100% 748 Fixed remuneration 100% 499 On-target 33% 30% 37% 2,267 On-target 33% 30% 37% 1,512 Maximum 22% 39% 39% 3,448 Maximum 22% 39% 39% 2,299 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 Fixed remuneration Annual variable element Long-Term element In developing the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made: Fixed remuneration Consists of 2019 base salary plus the value of benefits in 2018 and a 10% pension contribution or allowance.
On-target Based on value of fixed remuneration plus the potential value that the Executive Director could earn for on-target performance: annual variable element paying out at 50% of maximum: and long-term incentive element under PSP paying out at 62.5% of maximum.
The assumptions noted for on-target performance are provided for illustration purposes only.
Maximum In addition to fixed remuneration, includes the potential value under the SRP and PSP thatthe Executive Director could earn for maximum performance.
Share price growth Assuming share price growth of 50% to the maximum long-term incentive award would result in: Chief Executive Officer: a long-term incentive vesting of 2,025,000 and a total remuneration of 4,123,000: and Chief Financial Officer: a long-term incentive vesting of 1,350,000 and a total remuneration of 2,749,000.
How the views of employees are taken into account In addition, as stated in the Chairs statement, from 2019 the Pay and employment conditions generally in the Group will be Committee Chair will take on responsibility as the designated considered when setting Executive Directors remuneration.
Non-executive Director for conveying the Employee Voice to Reflecting standard practice, the Company does not consult theBoardroom.
This role extends to a range of issues that matter withemployees specifically in determining the Executive Director toemployees and will include inputs from annual employee remuneration nor in drawing up the Companys Annual Report on engagement and culture surveys, meetings with Employee Forums Remuneration.
However, the Committee will receive regular updates representatives and a report to the Board.
on overall pay and conditions in the Group, including but not limited to changes in base pay and the incentive schemes in operation.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views TheCommittee also has oversight of the all-employee share plans In developing the Policy the Committee has considered the guidelines which Executive Directors and all other Group employees can from shareholder bodies and the views of major shareholders.
participate in on the same terms and conditions.
The Committee receives regular updates regarding wider employee pay.
76 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Non-executive Directors The following table sets out the key elements of remuneration and policy for Non-executive Directors: Approach andlink Fees for the Chairman and Non-executive Directors are set at an appropriate level to attract individuals of the highest to strategy calibre with relevant commercial and other experience to develop, monitor and oversee the Groups strategy.
Fee levels take into account: the time commitment required to fulfil the role: the duties and responsibilities associated with the role: and external fee reference points and typical practice from relevant FTSE and other comparable competitor organisations.
Operation The Chairman receives an all-inclusive annual fee which is reviewed periodically by theCommittee.
All Non-executive Directors receive a basic annual fee.
Additional fees may be payable to: the Senior Independent Director: 1 the Chairs of the Board Audit, Risk, Remuneration, IT and Corporate Governance and Nominations Committees : and other members of the Board Audit, Risk, Remuneration, IT and Corporate Governance andNominations Committees.
Additional fees to reflect the extra responsibilities and additional time commitment required from Non-executive Directors of chairmanship or membership of subsidiary boards may be introduced.
If there is a temporary yet material increase in the time commitments for Non-executive Directors, the Board may pay extra fees on a pro rata basis torecognise the additional workload.
Fee levels are reviewed annually by the Chairman and Executive Directors.
The Chairmans fee is reviewed annually bythe Committee.
No individual may participate in the approval of his or her own fees.
Neither the Chairman nor other Non-executive Directors are eligible for any performance-related remuneration or apension contribution.
They do not receive any benefits but they may be reimbursed or paid directly by the Company for the cost of any reasonable and properly documented business expenses incurred in carrying out their duties which are deemed taxable by the relevant tax authority including any personal tax due on such expenses.
Details of current fees are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
1 The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is currently chaired by the Chairman who receives an all-inclusive annual fee.
Letters of appointment for Non-executive Directors All Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years, subject to annual reappointment atthe AGM.
Appointments may be terminated with three months notice.
The appointment letters for the Chairman and Non-executive Directorsprovide that no compensation is payable on termination, other than accrued fees and expenses.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM each year.
Service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The service contract policy for a new appointment will be on similar terms as existing Executive Directors, with the facility to include a notice period of no more than three months.
Details of the Chairmans and Non-executive Directors terms of appointment are set out in the table: Non-executive Director Effective date of appointment Initial term Notice period by Company Glyn Jones 7 November 2016 3 years 3 months Rosie Harris 3 April 2017 3 years 3 months Moira Kilcoyne 31 December 2016 3 years 3 months Jon Little 5 May 2017 3 years 3 months George Reid 8 February 2017 3 years 3 months Cathy Turner 31 December 2016 3 years 3 months Ruth Markland 25 June 2018 3 years 3 months Suresh Kana 8 August 2018 3 years 3 months Paul Matthews 8 August 2018 3 years 3 months Termination of office policy Details Non-executive Directors Three months notice period Subject to annual re-election at the AGM Appointed for an initial three-year term Normally expected to serve two three-year terms, subject to annual re-election at the AGM A third term of up to three years, or longer in exceptional circumstances may be offered on ayear-by-year basis after completion of the first two terms Governance | Remuneration report | Directors Remuneration Policy Quilter Annual Report 2018 77 Governance Annual Report on Remuneration Audited Application of the Policy in 2019 Content within an Audited tab indicates that all the information Content within a tinted box indicates that the information isaudited.
The Annual Report sets out how the Directors Remuneration Policy of the Company has been applied since Admission and how the Committee intends to apply the policy going forward.
An advisory shareholder resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the AGM.
The table below sets out the single figure remuneration for full financial year 2018.
Only 2018 data has been included as the Company listed onthe Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 25 June 2018.
Audited 1 3 4 5 2 Base salary Benefits Pension STI LTI Other Total Executive Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Paul Feeney 618.8 5.2 84.4 1,250.0 788.8 31.7 2,778.9 Tim Tookey 600.0 8.4 180.0 1,130.0 1,918.4 Mark Satchel stepped down from the Board on 19 April 2018 121.8 1.2 12.2 233.8 14.1 383.1 1 Remuneration is for full calendar year 2018 and hence part of the remuneration relates to the period pre-Admission.
Mark Satchels remuneration ispro-rated for the period served as a Director.
2 Pension includes contributions made under the Group defined contribution pension scheme plus, where applicable, amounts received as a pension allowance.
3 STI includes the full amount awarded in respect of calendar year 2018 see further details pages 70 to 81 including amounts received in cash and deferred underthe Share Reward Plan.
4 LTI includes awards vested for qualifying services during the year under the Joint Share Ownership Plan see page 81.
5 Other includes Old Mutual plc Sharesave Plan early exercise bonus and dividends on Joint Share Ownership Plan for Paul Feeney and Mark Satchels grandfathered cash benefit allowance which ceased on the 1 April 2018.
Components of the single figure Salary Audited Total base salary Annual base salary paid in 2018 for Total base salary as at 1 April 2018 qualifying services effective 1 April 2019 Name 000 000 000 Paul Feeney 675 619 675 Tim Tookey 600 600 600 1 Mark Satchel stepped down from the Board on 19 April 2018 435 121.8 450 1 Mark Satchels salary was increased to 450,000 with effect from 1 November 2018.
Benefits Benefits include life assurance, private medical cover, income protection and personal accident insurance.
Audited Personal Income accident Life assurance Medical protection insurance Name 000 000 000 000 Paul Feeney 2.6 0.95 1.5 0.17 Tim Tookey 4.3 0.95 1.3 0.18 Mark Satchel stepped down from the Board on 19 April 2018 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.04 Benefits for 2019 Benefits for 2019 to be in line with Policy.
78 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Pension Pension includes contributions made under the Group defined contribution pension scheme and or amounts received as cash in lieu ofpension contributions due to the impact of HMRC limits.
The contribution rate for the Chief Executive Officer was set at 10% of base salary from 1 April 2018 in line with contribution rates for other senior employees.
Prior to this date the contribution rate for the Chief Executive Officer was 30% of base salary.
The Chief Financial Officer, Tim Tookey, was entitled to a pension contribution equal to 30% of salary per annum under arrangements entered into at the time of his appointment.
Audited Cash in lieu of Contribution to pension contribution pension scheme Total contribution Name 000 000 000 Paul Feeney 84.4 84.4 Tim Tookey 180 180 Mark Satchel stepped down from the Board on 19 April 2018 9.2 3 12.2 Pension for 2019 As described in the Policy report, Paul Feeney and Mark Satchel will each receive a pension contribution of 10% of salary.
2018 Short-Term Incentive STI Awards This reflects the total STI awards to be paid in 2019 based on performance for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The value includes both thecash element and the portion deferred into shares 50% of the award.
For the purpose of determining the 2018 STI outcome, the Committee assessed the performance of the business and the individuals by reference to a balanced scorecard of Financial 60%, Customer Risk 20% and strategic Personal performance objectives 20% in line with theDirectors Remuneration Policy.
Group financial achievement Audited Weighting as % of total STI Outcome as % Group financial performance measures opportunity Threshold Target Maximum Actual of max IFRS profit pre-tax, excluding amortisation of intangibles and goodwill 60% 80m 100m 120m 120m 100% Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration Quilter Annual Report 2018 79 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued Group Risk and Customer performance achievement Key Group non-financial objectives represented a maximum of 20% of the total STI opportunity.
The risk measure is the success of embedding the Enterprise Risk Management Framework at an overall corporate level.
For the Customer element of the scorecard, six main Customer Outcome KPIs culture, experience, value for money, communications, protection and meeting commitments were assessed over 2018 to inform a qualitative assessment of overall performance.
Performance commentary is given in the table below.
Audited Weighting as % Customer and Risk of total Outcome as % Performance measures STI opportunity Key achievements in the year of max Embedding the 10% Overall, against the context of significant corporate activity in 2018 there has been 75% Enterprise evidence of improving risk maturity with significant engagement, understanding and Risk Management use ofthe Risk Management Framework across the business and embedding of the Framework Framework Principles in all key business decisions and activities The Company had a strong solvency and liquidity position and was operating within risk appetite at the end of 2018 Risks to which the Company is exposed were understood and managed effectively through the Risk Management Framework, which also identifies changes to the risk profile, and adequate capital was held against these risks Regulatory relationships have strengthened and the Company met all commitments tothe PRA and FCA through the year Customer 10% There was a continued focus on customer outcomes in 2018 to ensure quality client 50% Outcomes experience and customer satisfaction.
Clear customer improvement actions were put inplace across all business units and there was evidence of a customer-focused culture developing across the Group The level of customer maturity, however, varies across Quilter and there is progress required to bring the overall Group to a consistent standard.
Overall, the Committee considered that customer performance was in line with expectations in 2018 Strategic personal performance achievement Personal objectives represented a maximum of 20% of total STI opportunity.
A performance commentary is given in the table below.
Audited Weighting as % Executive of total STI Outcome as Director opportunity Overview Key achievements in the year %of max Paul 20% For 2018, Pauls objectives Managed Separation was handled timely and securely, with 100% Feeney focused on a number of key dueconsideration of risk and meeting shareholder needs activities, including the The Listing process of Quilter plc and IPO was delivered Managed Separation of Quilter verysuccessfully plc from Old Mutual plc and the Positive engagement with regulators in all matters of the business smooth transition to a listed andregulatory industry agenda environment Completion of the disposal of the Single Strategy business, contributing to the strong financial performance of the Companyand payment of a special dividend to shareholders shortly after Listing Tim 20% Tims objectives focused on all Tim successfully constructed and delivered a sound and sustainable 100% Tookey financial activities relating to the Day 1 balance sheet for the IPO Listing and IPO of Quilter plc, He led the successful placement of the 200 million Tier 2 bond including delivery of a suitable andsubsequent capital raise at a very competitive coupon rate balance sheet and cost He has put in place and embedded significantly improved cost structure for a standalone listed control, cash and capital reporting business to meet the needs of He played a pivotal role in achieving a successful IPO, delivering high existing and future quality documentation including the Prospectus, business showcase shareholders and investor engagement Mark 20% Marks objectives focused on Mark demonstrated strong leadership and focus on delivery, which 90% Satchel strategic M&A activities relating resulted in the successful completion of these key projects and to the Managed Separation and contributed significantly to the successful IPO, debt issuance and the disposal of the Single commercial success of the business Strategy asset management His expertise was crucial in leading the successful sale of the Single business Strategy asset management business, contributing to the strong financial performance of the Company in 2018 80 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Risk consideration As part of the review, the Committee considered whether the overall STI outcomes were appropriate in the context of overall Group performance, business performance and individual strategic personal objectives, and whether any exceptional risk events occurred which, inthe Committees opinion, may have materially affected the STI outcome.
The Committee also considered an annual Risk Report and the recommendations of the Chief Risk Officer and Board Risk Committee in respect of the incidence and materiality of any risk issues arising during the year and an overall assessment of risk management relative to the Boards risk appetite and risk culture across the business.
TheCommittee decided that no discretionary risk-based adjustment was required at either an overall pool or individual level.
Deferral policy In line with our policy, 50% of the Executive Directors 2018 STI awards were deferred into a conditional award of Ordinary Shares under the Share Reward Plan SRP and will vest in equal annual instalments over a three-year period, subject to continued employment and malus and clawback provisions in accordance with the rules of the SRP.
As Mark Satchel was not an Executive Director for the majority of 2018 and at the time the policy came into effect, the deferred element of his bonus was calculated at a rate of 40% in accordance with the Company policy for all other employees.
Audited 1 Total Deferred bonus To be paid in cash Executive Director 000 % of salary 000 % of salary 000 % of salary Paul Feeney 1,250 185% 625 93% 625 93% Tim Tookey 1,130 188% 565 94% 565 94% Mark Satchel 234 192% 93.5 77% 140 115% 1 A grant of shares equal in value to the deferred bonus will be awarded to each of the Executive Directors.
The awards are expected to be granted in late March2019 on a date determined by the Company, with the number of shares awarded based on the preceding days closing share price.
Short-Term Incentive STI for 2019 In line with our policy for 2019, both Executive Directors are eligible to receive up to 200% of base salary.
Performance will be based on acombination of Group financial performance targets as well as strategic including customer and risk measures and personal measures.
Thepercentage weightings will be the same as in 2018.
Actual targets have not been disclosed due to commercial sensitivity.
Group financial targets will be disclosed in the 2018 Annual Report.
2018 Long-Term Incentive LTI Awards LTI awards vested during the year under the Joint Share Ownership Plan JSOP.
Audited 2015 2 & 2016 JSOP 2015 1 JSOP Vested and sold 2015 2 JSOP Vested at at admission Vested 2016 JSOP admission shares to cover December 2018 Outstanding 1 shares tax liability shares shares Paul Feeney 339,508 61,875 180,178 54,415 1 A tax charge on these awards was triggered on the Managed Separation and Listing of the Company.
Legacy arrangements As disclosed in the IPO Prospectus, the JSOP was implemented for certain key employees of Quilter in 2013, with the final grant of awards in 2016.
The plan was designed to reward participants for the achievement of strategic objectives, value creation and other profitability metrics over a three-year period.
It provided participants with an interest in the capital growth of the Company by granting joint ownership of shares inOld Mutual Wealth Management Limited now Quilter plc with an employee benefit trust EBT, whereby the trust owned the principal value of the shares and the participants owned any growth in value during the vesting period.
On the Managed Separation and Listing of Quilter plc, the trust exercised a call option to acquire the participants interest in the shares based on the growth in value of the Company between grant and Listing, in return for consideration shares in Quilter plc.
Some of the shares under the plan vested at this point, some vestedin December 2018 and the remaining shares will continue to the original vesting date of July 2019 subject to the rules of the JSOP.
The consideration shares for any awards that remain unvested are restricted until the normal vesting date, and attract dividends duringthat time.
Taking account of his critical role as Corporate Finance Director, in March 2017 Mark Satchel was granted a one-off conditional, deferred award of 1 million.
The vesting of this award was subject to the successful Managed Separation and Listing of Quilter plc, and his continued service, and was paid in July 2018.
This award was agreed prior to the Companys admission and was put in place as part of the planning for Listing.
Theaward was designed to reflect Marks extensive knowledge of the business and the criticality of his role in the transaction, and the Boards desire to retain him as a potential successor to the CFO a position he will assume on 13 March 2019.
Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration Quilter Annual Report 2018 81 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued Long-Term Incentive LTI Awards granted in 2018 Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Performance Share Plan PSP, the plan used to grant LTI awards.
The awards granted in 2018 are subject to the following performance conditions: Audited 1 1 Threshold Maximum Performance condition Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting 2 EPS CAGR 2017-20 70% 6% 10% 3 Relative TSR 30% Median Upper Quartile 1 Straight line interpolation between points.
2 Adjusted profit-based growth, pre-tax, pre-dividend and excludes amortisation and goodwill.
3 Ranking relative to the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
At the end of the three-year performance period, the Committee will critically assess whether the formulaic vesting outcome produced bythematrix is justified.
To do this, the Committee will look at a number of factors, including whether the result is reflective of underlying performance and has been achieved within the Companys agreed risk appetite.
If such considerations mean that the formulaic outcome ofthevesting schedule is not felt to be justified, then the Committee can exercise downward discretion.
Vested awards are subject to a further holding period of two years, such that the minimum period between the date of grant and release isfiveyears.
The following PSP awards were granted in respect of the 2018 performance year: Audited Basis of award Share price at Nil cost Face value % vesting at Performance 1 Executive Director Form of award Date of award % of salary the date of grant options awarded of award threshold period Paul Feeney NCOs 25 06 2018 200% 1.45 931,034 1,350,000 25% 20182020 1 The number of shares awarded was calculated based on the share price of the Company at Admission on 25 June 2018, being 145 pence per share.
The face value of the award figure is calculated by multiplying the number of shares awarded by the share price figure of 145 pence.
Notes When Tim Tookey commenced employment in 2017, prior to Admission, there was no LTIP in operation and he was granted an equity award at 500% of base salary covering each of the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 in lieu of any LTI expectation for those years.
To reflect this, he was not entitled to be considered for anynew LTI award under the PSP until 2020 at the earliest and will therefore not receive any LTI award prior to stepping down from the Board and leaving theCompany in 2019.
Performance Share Plan PSP 2019 The Committee intends to grant Executive awards over nil cost options with a face value of 200% of base salary.
For the 2019 award, the following performance measures will be used: 1 1 Threshold Maximum Financial metrics Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting 2 EPS CAGR 201821 70% 5% 11% 3 TSR Ranking 30% Median Upper Quartile 1 Straight line interpolation between points.
All-employee share plans The Company operates a UK tax advantaged all-employee Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP was used in 2018 to make an award of free shares to the value of 2,000 to all UK employees including Executive Directors shortly following Admission.
The number of shares awarded was calculated based on the mid-market closing price of Quilter plc shares on the day before the Award Date of 26 June 2018, this being 152pence.
82 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Non-executive Director total remuneration The total remuneration for the Non-executive Directors is set out in the table below.
For 2018, the regular fees were paid at the following rate: Annual fees Quilter plc Board Current fee 1 Chairman 375,000 1 Basic annual fee 65,000 Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 20,000 Chairs of Board Audit, Risk, Remuneration and IT Committee 25,000 Members of the above Committees 10,500 Members of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee 5,500 Fees Subsidiary Boards : 2 Chairman of Subsidiary Boards 100,000 Board Member of Intrinsic, Quilter Investors Limited QI, Quilter Cheviot Limited QC 45,000 3 Members of the Subsidiary Board Committees 5,000 1 With effect from Listing, the Chairmans fee increased by 50,000 to 375,000 and the basic annual fee for a Non-executive Director increased by 5,000 to 65,000.
2 Chairman of the Old Mutual Wealth Limited OMWL, Old Mutual Wealth Life & Pensions Limited OMWLP and Old Mutual Wealth Life Assurance Limited OMWLA and Chairman of QI 100,000 for the first year falling to 80,000 thereafter.
3 Governance, Audit and Risk Committee GARC fee applicable to OMWL, OMWLP, OMWLA and QC only.
Audited 1 Subsidiary Board Fees for 2018 Subsidiary Board fees Total for 2018 Non-executive Director Board & Committee membership & Committee membership 000 000 000 Glyn Jones Chairman, Chair CGN, R 399.0 399.0 Rosie Harris INED, Chair Ri, IT, A QC and GARC member 132.8 50.0 182.8 Moira Kilcoyne INED, Chair IT, Ri 122.3 122.3 2 Jon Little INED, R Chair QI 85.2 101.1 186.3 George Reid INED, Chair A, IT, Ri Chair OMWL, OMWLP, OMWLA, GARC member 132.8 97.8 230.6 3 Ruth Markland SID, CGN, A, R 57.6 57.6 Cathy Turner INED, Chair R, CGN QI 117.3 39.5 156.8 Suresh Kana INED, A, CGN 32.2 32.2 Paul Matthews INED, Ri Intrinsic and GARC member 30.0 17.9 47.9 Committee Key: INED Independent Non-executive Director SID Senior Independent Non-executive Director A Board Audit IT Board Information Technology R Board Remuneration CGN Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Ri Board Risk 1 To recognise the additional workload associated with preparation for Listing the Non-executive Directors received an additional fee in the lead-up to theManaged Separation and Listing of Quilter plc.
This additional fee was 100,000 per annum for the Chairman, 50,000 per annum for the Committee Chairs and 25,000 per annum for the other Non-executive Directors.
The additional fee ceased at Admission.
2 Jon Little was also a Board member of Old Mutual Global Investors UK Limited, resigned 9 February 2018.
Annual fees payable were the same as per the Subsidiary Board member fees disclosed in the table above.
3 Ruth Markland was appointed as a Board member of Old Mutual International Isle of Man Limited on 1 January 2019.
Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration Quilter Annual Report 2018 83 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration continued TSR performance graphic overthe period sinceAdmission 105 The graph on the left shows the Companys TSR performance versus theFTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts over the period since 100 Admission to 31 December 2018.
The FTSE 250 has been chosen asthe Company is a member of that index.
95 90 85 80 Jun 18 Jul 18 Aug 18 Sep 18 Oct 18 Nov 18 Dec 18 FTSE 250 ex Inv Trusts Quilter Group Chief Executive Officer pay As the Company listed during 2018, there is no disclosure of remuneration relating to prior years.
Annual bonus as Financial year Name Total remuneration 000 % of maximum 2018 Paul Feeney 2,779 92.5% Percentage change in CEO Remuneration compared to the average employee As this is the Companys first remuneration report, there is no year-on-year comparison.
A comparison of remuneration in 2018 and 2019 will be made in the Remuneration Report for 2019.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the profit, dividends and overall spend on pay in the year ending 31 December 2018: Operating profit before tax m 233 Dividends m 221 Employee remuneration costs m 311 Executive Directors shareholding and interests in Quilter Share Schemes The table below shows the Executive Directors interests in Group share schemes which will vest in future years subject to performance and or continued service at 31 December 2018 together with any additional interests in shares held beneficially by the Executive Directors outside ofGroup share schemes the share price at 31 December 2018 was 1.1832.
Between 31 December 2018 and 4 March 2019 there were no exercises or other dealings in the Companys share awards by the Directors.
Audited Scheme interests at 31 December 2018 Subject to Deferred performance Legally owned Subject to legacy Subject to SIP STI awards conditions under shares JSOP shares shares shares the LTIP shares Paul Feeney 618,356 54,415 1,428 752,774 931,034 Tim Tookey 65,500 1,428 1,603,694 Directors personal holding and beneficial share interests In line with the Remuneration Policy, each Executive Director is required to acquire and maintain a shareholding equivalent to 300% of base salary including shares beneficially held by the individual or his her spouse, and the net of tax value of unvested share interests within Company share plans which are not subject to performance conditions.
As of 31 December 2018, neither Executive Director had satisfied the minimum shareholding requirement but have five years from the date ofAdmission, or appointment if later, to achieve the minimum.
As Tim Tookey will step down from the Board in Q1 2019, less than one year from Admission, he will not be required to the meet the minimum in full.
Audited Name Value Multiple of base salary Paul Feeney 1,269,774 188% Tim Tookey 1,084,859 181% Includes the estimated net value of unvested share awards which are not subject to performance conditions.
Calculation based on the share price on 31 December 2018, being 118 pence per share.
84 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Shareholding guidelines Executive and Non-executive Directors As of the date of Admission and 31 December 2018, the Executive and Non-executive Directors held the following legal and beneficial interests in Ordinary Shares: Audited Name On Admission 31 12 18 Paul Feeney 1,425,545 1,426,973 Tim Tookey 2,314,530 1,670,622 Glyn Jones 537,872 800,000 Cathy Turner 68,965 68,965 Rosie Harris 17,241 17,241 Moira Kilcoyne 34,482 34,482 Jon Little 20,689 20,689 George Reid 20,689 20,689 Ruth Markland 20,689 20,689 Suresh Kana n a appointed 8 08 2018 Paul Matthews n a appointed 8 08 2018 30,000 Between 31 December 2018 and 4 March 2019 there were no changes to the interests in shares held by the Directors, as set out in the table above.
Payments within the year to past Directors There were no payments to past Directors during the year.
Leaving arrangements for Tim Tookey Although there were no payments for loss of office during the year, a good leaver arrangement for Tim Tookey, who will step down from the Boardin Q1 2019, was agreed.
Tims six-month notice period commenced on 31 October 2018.
He will continue to work during this notice period toprovide a smooth handover to his successor.
Under his service contract, Tim will be eligible for a pro-rated STI award in relation to the portion of 2019 that he works.
Any STI awarded will be subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions.
As a good leaver on termination, his outstanding deferred share awards will be retained, subject to pro-rating for time served in the case of his long-term incentive award.
The long-term incentive award was performance assessed at Listing and the Committee determined that the performance conditions had been met in full.
This award and Tims outstanding deferred STI awards will continue to vest on their normal vesting timetable.
Post vesting, the long-term incentive award shares are subject to an additional two-year holding period.
This represents a substantial level of ongoing post-employment shareholding.
In addition, Timand his immediate family will continue to receive staff terms for services provided by Quilter subsidiaries.
External directorships The table below sets out external directorships held by the Executive Directors.
Fees received and Name External directorships held retained Executive Directors Paul Feeney None Tim Tookey Non-executive Director, Nationwide Building Society 127,500 External advisers For the first 10 months of 2018, the Committee engaged the services of Deloitte as interim independent remuneration adviser to the Committee, principally to provide relevant guidance and advice covering the period up to the Managed Separation and Listing of the Company in London and Johannesburg.
During Q3 2018, the Committee conducted a formal tender process to identify and formally appoint a remuneration adviser.
Initially seven external advisers wereinvited to participate in the process, from which four companies were shortlisted to provide a formal presentation to the Committee.
Following the conclusion of that process, Aon was appointed asremuneration adviser to the Committee with effect from 1November 2018 and attended the November meeting of the Committeein that capacity.
From time to time, Aon may provide other services to Quilter plc such as remuneration benchmarking data and insurance broking.
However, these do not provide a conflict with theadvice received by the Committee, which is provided by Aons specialist Executive Remuneration practice.
This practice is not involved inthe marketing of other Aon services and is obliged to abide by the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct.
Apart from the above, neitherDeloitte nor Aon have any other connection with the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from both Deloitte and Aon is objective and independent, and both firms are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group, whose voluntary code of conduct is designed to ensure objective and independent advice is given to Committees.
The total fees paid in respect of remuneration advice during 2018 are as follows: Firm Key areas of advice received Total fees 2018 Deloitte LLP Remuneration policy, market practice, regulatory and corporate governance developments 21,050 Aon Annual remuneration report and policy disclosure, market practice, incentive design 20,000 Governance | Annual Report on Remuneration Quilter Annual Report 2018 85 Financial statements 86 Quilter Annual Report 2018 Financial statements Statement of Directors Responsibilities 88 Detailed financial information Independent Auditors Report 89 provided within our financial Primary financial statements 96 statements and notes.
Notes to the financial statements 102 Appendices 181 Parent company financial statements 188 Financial statements Quilter Annual Report 2018 87
