LTIP adjustment Directors Remuneration Policy In line with our historically embedded practice, LTIP award This section of the report sets out the Remuneration Policy sizes are expressed as a fixed number of shares and options forExecutive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, which to provide full alignment with investors.
The award size Shareholders will be asked to approve at the 2019 AGM on is determined by the Committee taking into account 9 May 2019.
Until this time, the Policy approved by Shareholders performance, the prevailing share price, market data and our on 5 May 2016 will continue to apply.
In the event of a material increase or decrease in the share price prior to grant, the Committee Key changes to the remuneration framework will consider whether the prevailing award size remains 1.
LTIP performance measures appropriate and adjust it appropriately.
Notwithstanding the The Committee considered a broad range of performance above, the number granted will at no point be greater than measures and concluded that for 2019 LTIP awards onwards, 300,000 options and 150,000 share awards reduced from there will be three measures used in order to strengthen 500,000 options and 275,000 share awards in the previous strategic alignment: EPS growth: Net Revenue growth: and Remuneration Policy.
This retains a focus on profitability, but with a 4.
Pension reduction proportion now based on top-line growth and how efficient profit generation has been, in line with RBs strategic priorities.
Taking into account the new UK Corporate Governance Code, the Committee is proposing to commit to reducing the pension EPS growth will be split, with half measured on a constant level for any new hires to the Board.
The pension contribution level for any new hire will be in line with the wider workforce currency basis and half measured on an actual currency basis.
This retains exposure to currency movements and the in the UK, 10% of pensionable salary, representing a significant decrease on current levels.
introduction of EPS growth measured on a constant currency basis balances this with incentivising management over 5.
Reinforcing significant Shareholder alignment performance under its direct control.
Introduction of annual bonus deferral one-third of the annual bonus will be deferred into awards over RB shares for Current three years.
100% EPS Extension of LTIP holding period a two-year holding period following the end of the three-year performance period will apply for LTIP awards going forward.
Proposed Shareholding requirements the current CEO shareholding 50% EPS 25% LFL NR growth 25% ROCE requirement has been in place since 2006.
The Committee has reviewed these requirements in light of the significant share price increase since then, and the subsequent reductions in LTIP 25% constant awards.
The Committee has determined that for new hires the currency shareholding requirements will be reduced to 200,000 shares for the CEO and 100,000 for the CFO.
These new requirements 25% actual remain the most demanding in the market.
currency In addition, for new hires to the Board we are introducing aformal post-employment shareholding requirement for 2.
Reduction in CEO award levels twoyears after departure.
Reflecting our market-leading No LTIP award is being made to Rakesh Kapoor in 2019.
Had shareholding requirements whilst in employment, the posthe not been retiring, the Committee had determined to reduce employment requirement will be the lower of 50% of the the LTIP awards for the CEO to 160,000 options and 80,000 shareholding requirement or actual shareholding on leaving.
This is a significant reduction when compared to the last Remuneration Policy levels of 400,000 6.
MJN adjustment options and 240,000 shares.
The graphic below shows the Adjustments were made in respect of the MJN acquisition to change in the LTIP awarded to the CEO since 2016. ensure that it is a like-for-like comparison for remuneration purposes, in line with previous commitments: Awards Year of award For the purpose of LTIP vesting the 2016 to 2017 EPS Value at time growth excludes MJN and related transactions.
of award 2016 400,000 240,000 In calculating EPS growth from 2017 to 2018, the 2017 EPS 17.7m figure has been adjusted on a pro-forma basis to include 2017 300,000 150,000 MJN results for the full year, adjusting for notional interest and tax, and related transactions.
2018 200,000 100,000 For LTIPs outstanding at the time of acquisition, the MJN Options Shares performance post-completion is reviewed at the time of vesting compared to the acquisition plan, and the Committee will use downwards discretion if the return on capital in respect of MJN Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 98 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 does not meet the expectations agreed by the Board.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Executive Director Remuneration Policy Table Fixed pay policy for Executive Directors Component purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, typically Salary increases for Executive Directors will To enable the total package to support with effect from 1 January.
normally be aligned with those of the recruitment and retention wider workforce, which take into account Salary levels increases take account of: performance.
salary increases awarded across the Group Increases may be made above this level to as a whole: and take account of individual circumstances, which may include: individual performance.
Increase in the size or scope of the role The Committee also reviews market data for or responsibilities.
the Companys remuneration peer group, comprising international companies of a Increase to reflect the individuals similar size and scope of operations.
development and performance in the role.
For example, where a new incumbent is appointed on a belowmarket salary.
Salaries in respect of the year under review and for the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
To avoid setting expectations of Executive Directors and other employees, no maximum salary is set under the Remuneration Policy.
Where increases are awarded in excess of the wider employee population, the Committee will provide the rationale in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Pension Executive Directors may receive contributions Current CEO: 30% of pensionable salary.
To provide appropriate levels of into the RB Executive Pension Scheme, a retirement benefit defined contribution scheme, a cash Current CFO: 25% of pensionable salary.
New hires to the Board: 10% of Base salary is the only element of pensionable salary.
Benefits Executive Directors receive benefits which Whilst there is no maximum level of To enable the total package to support consist primarily of the provision of a benefits prescribed, they are generally set recruitment and retention company car allowance and healthcare, at an appropriate market-competitive level although it can include other benefits that the determined by the Committee.
Committee deems appropriate, for example, but not limited to the cost of legal fees, Benefits in respect of the year under preparing tax returns or home leave.
This review, and participation in the allincludes the provision of a car and driver for employee Sharesave Scheme, are disclosed business use, including travel from home to in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
office, and any tax liability that may be due on this benefit.
Relocation allowances and international transfer-related benefits may also be paid, where required.
Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the all-employee Sharesave Scheme on the same basis as all employees.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 99 Directors Remuneration Report continued Variable pay policy for Executive Directors Component purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures Annual bonus Targets are set by the Committee Target opportunity: Performance measures may To drive strong performance at the start of the year.
At the bea mix of financial and CEO: 120% of salary.
with significant reward end of the year, the Committee non-financial measures.
For for overachievement of determines the extent to which 2019 the bonus is based on CFO: 100% of salary.
annual targets these have been achieved.
Maximum opportunity: Use of deferral for longer-term Performance is assessed on an Financial performance will be 3.57x target.
Shareholder alignment annual basis, using a combination assessed against the growth of the payouts for performance in one or more key metrics of CEO: 428% of salary.
against each of the targets.
the business determined on CFO: 357% of salary.
At least one-third of bonus Dividend equivalents accrue on payouts are deferred into share The weighting between deferred share awards during the awards in the form of options or different metrics will be deferral period.
conditional awards for a period determined each year 1 of three years.
The Committee has discretion toadjust the formulaic bonus For performance below outcomes both upwards and threshold, the bonus payout downwards including to zero will be nil.
toensure alignment of pay with performance, e. g. in the event Further details, including the performance is impacted by performance measures for unforeseen circumstances outside thecurrent financial year, are of management control.
disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Annual bonuses and deferred bonus awards are subject to malus and clawback provisions.
1 Due to Rakesh Kapoors upcoming retirement, his bonus to be paid in respect of 2019 will have no deferred element.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 100 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Variable pay policy for Executive Directors continued Component purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Performance measures LTIP share options and The LTIP comprises grants The Committee calibrates LTIP Vesting of the LTIP is subject performance share awards ofshare options and or share award and option grant to continued employment To incentivise and reward performance share awards based sizes as a fixed number, with and the achievement of long-term performance, and on a fixed number, which vest periodic adjustments to ensure stretching targets.
align the interests of Executive subject to the achievement of that the value of an Executive Directors with those of stretching performance targets.
Directors total remuneration Performance measures may Shareholders is appropriate.
bea mix of financial and The LTIP has a performance non-financial measures.
For Two-year holding period of at least three years.
In line with our historically 2019 the LTIP is based on period for longer-term Additionally, there is normally embedded practice, LTIP award 100% financial measures.
Shareholder alignment atwo-year holding period sizes are expressed as a fixed commencing following the end number of shares and or options Threshold performance will of the performance period.
to provide full alignment result in 20% of maximum with investors.
The vesting level will The performance condition is increase on a sliding scale reviewed before each award The award size is determined from this threshold to 100% cycle to ensure it remains bythe Committee taking into vesting for stretch levels appropriately stretching.
account performance, the of performance.
prevailing share price, market The Committee has discretion data and our pay positioning Further details, including to adjust the formulaic LTIP philosophy.
In the event of a the performance targets outcomes to improve the material increase or decrease attached to the LTIP in respect alignment of pay with value in the share price prior to grant, of each year, are disclosed creation for Shareholders to the Committee will consider in the Annual Report ensure the outcome is a fair whether the prevailing award on Remuneration.
reflection of the performance of size remains appropriate and the Company and the individual.
Awards granted under the LTIP Notwithstanding the above, the are also subject to malus and number of shares and options clawback provisions.
granted to an individual will at no point be greater than 300,000 options and 150,000 shares.
Details of the LTIP opportunity inrespect of each year will be disclosed in the Annual Report onRemuneration.
Neither dividends nor dividend equivalents accrue on unvested share awards or on shares underlying options before they are exercised.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 101 Directors Remuneration Report continued Notes to the Policy Table an erroneous calculation in assessing the number of shares Performance measure selection and approach to subject to an award or the extent to which an award has target setting vested: and or The measures used under the annual bonus are selected to corporate failure of the Company.
reflect the Groups main priorities for any given financial year.
With regard to the LTIP, the Committee regularly reviews the The clawback period applicable to LTIP awards ends on the performance measures to ensure that they align well with the earlier of i the second anniversary of the vesting date and Companys strategy and with our Shareholders interests.
A ii the fifth anniversary of the date of grant.
Deferred bonus combination of EPS growth, Net Revenue growth and ROCE awards are subject to malus and clawback until the third are considered the most appropriate 2019 LTIP performance anniversary of grant.
measures for a number of reasons: they are aligned to the Companys strategic priorities: Shareholder alignment The Committee recognises the importance of aligning they retain a focus on profitability, but with a proportion Executive Directors and Shareholders interests through based on top-line growth and how efficient profit executives building up significant shareholdings in the generation has been: Company.
Executive Directors are expected to acquire a significant number of shares over a period of eight years and they provide well-recognised and accepted measures of the retain these until retirement from the Board of Directors.
Companys underlying financial performance: and The shareholding requirement for the current CEO is 600,000 they are measures that the plan participants can directly shares and for the current CFO is 200,000 shares.
New hires to impact and are easily measurable from time to time.
the Board will have shareholding guidelines of 200,000 shares for a new CEO and 100,000 for other Executive Directors.
Targets applying to the bonus and LTIP are reviewed annually, Details of the Executive Directors personal shareholdings will based on a number of internal and external reference points.
be provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Bonus targets take into account prevailing growth rates in RBs peer group, and as appropriate across the healthcare and or For new hires to the Board, there will be a formal postFMCG industries more broadly.
LTIP targets reflect industry employment shareholding requirement.
They will be required context, expectations of what will constitute performance at to hold the lower of 50% of their shareholding requirement or the top of the peer group, and factors specific to the Company.
their actual shareholding at departure, for a period of two years.
For current incumbents, on departure in good leaver The rules of the LTIP allow the Committee, to waive or change circumstances any deferred bonus share awards and LTIP performance conditions including how performance is awards including the holding period continue on original measured in accordance withtheir terms or if anything timescales, ensuring that they maintain sufficient shareholdings happens which causes the Company reasonably to consider it post-departure.
appropriate including incontemplation of a corporate event, provided that any changed performance conditions will be no Remuneration Policy for other employees more difficult tosatisfy.
RBs approach to setting remuneration is consistent across the Group, with consideration given to the level of experience, Malus and clawback responsibility, individual performance and remuneration paid Annual bonuses in respect of 2019 and subsequent years will for comparable roles in comparable companies.
be subject to malus and clawback provisions, under which any actions or behaviours that are contrary to the Companys The principles that apply to Executive Directors are cascaded legitimate expectations may result in an adjustment to the to other employees.
Approximately 14,000 employees are amount of bonus payable and potentially clawback of annual eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme with similar bonus for up to three previous years.
metrics to those used for the Executive Directors.
Opportunities and specific performance conditions vary by organisational For awards granted under the LTIP or the Deferred Bonus level, with business area-specific metrics incorporated Plan in 2019 or subsequent years, the Committee has the where appropriate.
discretion to apply malus and or clawback in the event of the following circumstances: Senior managers who comprise c. 500 employees are a material misstatement of the Companys financial results: eligible to participate in the LTIP on broadly similar terms to the Executive Directors, although award sizes vary by gross misconduct by a participant or serious misconduct in organisational level.
In addition, the Group Leadership Team relation to malus : who comprise c. 30 employees are also required to build up significant shareholdings in RB.
The current level is between 24,000 and 50,000 shares averaging 8-9x base salary.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 102 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements All UK employees are eligible to participate in the Companys Non-Executive Director remuneration Sharesave plan on identical terms, with similar plans also Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements, operated for employees working outside of the UK.
butare engaged on the basis of a letter of appointment.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code July 2018 Changes to Policy guidelines, all Directors are subject to re-election annually This Policy is intended to apply with effect from 9 May 2019, at the AGM.
subject to Shareholder approval at the AGM.
It is the policy of the Board of Directors that Non-Executive Following consultation with our major Shareholders, the Policy Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys has been reviewed to reduce the maximum award that can be bonus, share option, long-term incentive or pension schemes.
made under the LTIP and to include an additional two-year An element of the basic fee is, however, paid in RB shares.
holding period in respect of share options and performance share awards for Executive Directors.
Furthermore, the Details of the policy on fees paid to our Non-Executive performance conditions of the LTIP have been altered to Directors are set out in the table below: include Net Revenue growth and ROCE.
Annual bonuses havealso been modified to introduce deferral.
Component and objective Approach of the Company The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration Fees cash and The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors payments and payments for loss of office including exercising shares are determined by the Board of any discretions available to it in connection with such To attract and retain Directors, with recommendations payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Non-Executive provided by the Chairman and CEO.
The Policy set out in this report where the terms of the payment Directors of the fees of the Chairman are determined by were agreed i before the Policy came into effect provided highest calibre with the Remuneration Committee.
broad commercial that the commitment to make the payment complied with any experience relevant Additional fees are payable for acting as applicable Remuneration Policy of the Company at the time it to the Company Senior Independent Non-Executive was agreed or ii at a time when the relevant individual was Director and as Chair of the Committees.
not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Members of the Committees are also Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the eligible to receive an additional fee, individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these which may also be payable for other Board-related services.
purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and an award over shares is agreed Fee levels may be reviewed annually, at the time the award is granted.
with any adjustments normally effective from 1 January.
Fees are reviewed by In the event of a variation of capital in the Company taking into account external advice on which impacts the value of a share, which may include, best practice and competitive levels, in but is not limited to, a capitalisation or rights issue, particular at FTSE 30 and FTSE 100 companies.
Time commitment and consolidation, subdivision or reduction of capital, stock-split responsibility are also taken into account or demerger, then: when reviewing fees.
the maximum number of share awards and options which Chairman and Non-Executive Director may be granted under the LTIP may be adjusted to ensure fees are delivered partly in cash and that the overall maximum value of awards would be the partly in RB shares or equivalent e. g. same immediately before and after any such event: and ADRs which must be held until retirement from the Company.
the maximum number of shares subject to an award granted under the LTIP or the Deferred Bonus Plan, the option price The fees paid to the Chairman and where applicable and the identity of the company whose Non-Executive Directors in respect of the year under review and for the following shares are subject to the award may be adjusted in year, including the split between cash accordance with the rules of the plan as the Committee and shares, are disclosed in the Annual considers appropriate.
The Committee can also, subject to Report on Remuneration.
the rules of the plan, require that awards are automatically exchanged for awards over shares in another company Aggregate fees are limited by the which are, in the opinion of the Committee, equivalent.
Travel and expenses for Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are incurred in the normal course of business, for example, in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings.
The costs associated with these are all met by the Company.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 103 Directors Remuneration Report continued Scenarios of total remuneration External appointments The charts below provide an estimate of the potential future With the approval of the Board of Directors in each case, total remuneration for the Executive Directors.
Four scenarios andsubject to the overriding requirements of the Company, of potential outcomes are provided based on underlying Executive Directors may accept external appointments as assumptions shown in the notes to the chart.
It should be aNon-Executive Director of another company and retain noted that the LTIP awards granted in a year do not normally anyfees received.
Details of external appointments and the vest until on or after the date of the AGM which follows the associated fees received are included in the Annual Report end of the performance period.
CEO Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Company Across RB, remuneration is reviewed regularly with the intention that all employees are paid appropriately in the Minimum 100% 1.3m context of their local market and given their role, experience Target 35% 31% 34% 3.7m and performance.
The Company seeks to promote and 1 maintain good relations with employee representative bodies Maximum 11% 36% 53% 11.7m including trade unions and works councils as part of its 2 Maximum 7% 23% 70% 18.5m employee engagement strategy, and consults on matters 0m 18.5m affecting employees and business performance as required Salary, pension and bene ts Annual bonus Long-term incentives in each case by law and regulation in the jurisdictions in 1 Excluding share price growth.
Although the Committee has 2 Including 50% share price growth.
not consulted employees on executive remuneration, the Committee is mindful of the salary increases applying across CFO the rest of the business in relevant markets when considering salaries for Executive Directors.
The Committee reviews the overall pay framework of the Group including internal Minimum 100% 0.9m relativities, gender pay and participation in all-employee Target 41% 31% 28% 2.2m share plans.
The Company encourages share ownership 1 amongst employees and those who hold shares will be able to Maximum 14% 38% 48% 6.4m participate in the vote on the Remuneration Policy at the AGM.
2 Maximum 9% 25% 66% 9.8m 0m 9.8m Consideration of Shareholder views Salary, pension and bene ts Annual bonus Long-term incentives The Committee considers Shareholder views received during the year and at the Annual General Meeting each year, as well 1 Excluding share price growth.
as guidance from Shareholder representative bodies more broadly, in shaping the Remuneration Policy.
The Committee Notes Chair speaks with a number of the Companys largest The scenarios in the chart above have been calculated on the following assumptions: Shareholders on the subject of executive remuneration at least The Minimum scenario reflects base salary, pension and benefits i. e. fixed on an annual basis and the Committee is grateful for all of the remuneration, being the only elements of the Executive Directors remuneration package not linked to performance.
This is based on the base salary and pension feedback which is provided.
The majority of Shareholders are allowance as at 1 January 2019 and an estimated value of the benefits, based on supportive of the Companys philosophy and policy on amounts paid in 2018. remuneration, and the Committee will continue to keep its The On-target scenario illustrates fixed remuneration as above, plus target payout Remuneration Policy under regular review, to ensure it of annual bonus and threshold vesting of the LTIP.
continues to reinforce the Companys long-term strategy and The Maximum excluding 50% share price growth scenario sets out fixed aligns closely with Shareholders interests.
The Committee will remuneration, plus full maximum payout of the annual bonus and full vesting of the continue to consult our major Shareholders before making any LTIP awards.
significant changes to our Remuneration Policy.
The Maximum including 50% share price growth scenario sets out fixed remuneration, plus full maximum payout of the annual bonus, full vesting of the LTIP awards and 50% share price growth.
As LTIP awards are set as a fixed number of shares and options, the LTIP value is based on the number of shares and share options to be granted to the Executive Directors, in 2019.
For the purposes of these scenarios, although no 2019 LTIP award was made to the CEO the charts assume an award of 160,000 share options and 80,000 shares.
The value has been calculated assuming a price at grant of 64.76.
Under the disclosure requirements the first three scenarios above exclude share price appreciation: share options have therefore been valued using a Black-Scholes option pricing model and assumptions aligned to the three-year performance period, at 10% of the assumed face value.
The final scenario includes a 50% share price growth assumption, over the performance period, in line with recent legislation.
It should be noted that if the share price appreciation over the performance period is greater than that assumed then the actual total remuneration may be more than that shown in the above charts.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 104 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Approach to recruitment remuneration individual has contractual commitments made prior to their External appointment promotion to Executive Director level, the Company will In cases of hiring or appointing a new Executive Director from continue to honour these arrangements even in instances outside the Company, the Remuneration Committee may make where they would not otherwise be consistent with the use of all existing components of remuneration, as follows: prevailing Directors Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment.
Component Approach Recruitment of a new Non-Executive Director Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will In recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the Remuneration be determined by reference to relevant Committee will use the policy as set out in the table on page market data, experience and skills of the 103.
A base fee in line with the prevailing fee schedule will individual, internal relativities and their bepayable for membership of the Board of Directors, with current basic salary.
Where new additional fees payable for acting as Senior Independent appointees have initial base salaries set below market, or the previous Non-Executive Director and as Chairman or member of a incumbents salary, the shortfall may be Committee.
Fees will be delivered partly in cash and partly managed with phased increases over a inRB shares to be held until retirement from the Company.
period of two or three years subject to their development in the role.
The fee for a new Non-Executive Chairman will be set with Pension New appointees will receive pension reference to the time commitment and other requirements contributions and or an equivalent cash ofthe role and the experience of the candidate.
To provide supplement at a maximum of 10% of context for this decision, appropriate market data would also pensionable salary.
Benefits New appointees will be eligible to receive benefits which may include but are not Service contracts and exit payment policy limited to the provision of a car Executive Director service contracts, including arrangements for allowance, car and driver, healthcare and early termination, are carefully considered by the Committee.
In any necessary relocation expenses in line with the ongoing Remuneration Policy.
accordance with general market practice, each of the Executive Directors has a rolling service contract which is terminable on Annual bonus The structure described in the Policy 12 months notice and this practice will also apply for any Table will apply to new appointees with the relevant maximum opportunity.
In such an event, the compensation commitments in respect of their contracts could amount to one LTIP New appointees will be granted awards years remuneration based on base salary and benefits in kind under the LTIP on the same terms as and pension rights during the notice period.
Termination other executives, as described in the Policy Table.
LTIP grants can take the payments may take the form of payments in lieu of notice.
form of performance share awards, share Copies of Executive Director service contracts are available options or a combination of the two.
toview at the Companys registered office.
The Committee may agree exit payments in connection with The overall limit of variable remuneration will be as set out in aDirectors cessation of office or employment where the the Policy Table taking into account the maximum value of the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing annual bonus and the maximum awards of options and share legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an awards under the LTIP.
obligation or in settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors office or employment.
The Committee may make an award in respect of a new Thismay include the provision of outplacement support.
appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on The Group may also pay reasonable fees for a departing leaving a previous employer, including by utilising Listing Rule Director to obtain independent legal advice in relation to their 9.4.
2, i. e. over and above the approach outlined in the table termination arrangements and nominal consideration for any above.
In doing so, the Committee will consider relevant agreement to any contractual terms protecting the Companys factors including any performance conditions attached to these rights following termination.
awards and the likelihood of those conditions being met with the intention that the value awarded would be no higher than The Companys policy on any termination payments is to the expected value of the forfeited arrangements and made on consider the circumstances on a case-by-case basis, taking into a like-for-like basis.
account the relevant contractual terms in the executives service contract and the circumstances of the termination.
The table Internal promotion overleaf summarises how awards under the annual bonus and In cases of appointing a new Executive Director by way of LTIP are typically treated in specific circumstances, with the internal promotion, the policy will be consistent with that for final treatment remaining subject to the Committees discretion external appointees, as detailed above: except that where an as provided under the rules of the plan.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 105 Directors Remuneration Report continued Reason for cessation Timing of vesting payment Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Voluntary resignation or termination Not applicable No bonus to be paid for the financial year withcause All other circumstances Following the end of financial year Bonuses will be paid only to the extent that objectives set at the beginning of the plan year have been met.
Any such bonus will be paid on a pro-rata basis up to the termination date and will be subject to deferral requirements where applicable.
Deferred bonus share awards Voluntary resignation or termination Not applicable Unvested awards lapse with cause All other circumstances Subject to the original time horizons, unless Shares vest in full the Committee, at its discretion, decides these will vest on cessation of employment LTIP Voluntary resignation or termination Not applicable Unvested awards lapse.
Share awards and withcause options in the holding period after the end of the performance period are retained, with the holding period continuing to apply unless the Committee decides that they will be released early, save that they will lapse if the holder is summarily dismissed.
Ill-health, injury, permanent disability, Awards will vest in line with the original The Committee determines whether and retirement with the agreement of the performance, vesting and holding periods.
to what extent outstanding awards vest Company, the participants employing based on the extent to which performance entity ceasing to be under the control of conditions have been achieved and the Company, transfer of the undertaking the proportion of the performance in which the participant works outside the period worked.
Group, redundancy or any other reason that the Committee determines in its In the event of an employee leaving the absolute discretion.
Group due to ceasing to be under the control of the Company, transfer of undertaking, or change of capital structure, such as demerger, IPO, etc.
the Committee will retain the discretion for awards to be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the new company, where appropriate and permitted by the rules of the LTIP.
Death As soon as practicable after date of death Performance conditions will be measured which could be at the end of the relevant early and awards may be reduced to financial year reflect the proportion of the performance period worked.
Change of control On change of control Awards will vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied unless the Committee determines that the performance conditions should not apply.
Awards will also be reduced pro-rata to take into account the proportion of the performance period not completed, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Awards may alternatively be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquirer or another company where appropriate.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 106 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Annual Report on Remuneration The rest of this report sets out how we have implemented in 2018 the Remuneration Policy previously approved byShareholders, as well as how we intend to implement in 2019 the new Remuneration Policy, if approved byShareholders.
2018 performance and remuneration outcomes Base salary The two individual multipliers are then multiplied together Base salaries are reviewed taking into account the salary to provide the total performance multiplier.
increases for the wider workforce and individual performance.
Adjusted Net Net Revenue Threshold 0x Income Performance Target 1.0x For additional context, the Remuneration Committee also multiplier X multiplier multiplier Max 3.57x up to 1.89x reviews market practice for similar roles in the Companys up to 1.89x remuneration peer group, comprising 21 international The performance multiplier can range from zero for companies and listed on page 96. performance at threshold or below, to 3.57 for truly exceptional performance on both metrics i. e. 1.89 x 1.89.
As disclosed in last years report, following the review of salary levels in late 2017, the Committee approved base salary This total performance multiplier is then applied to increases of 0% for the CEO and 8% for the CFO with effect the target bonus opportunity to calculate the overall from 1 January 2018. bonus outcome.
During 2018, the Remuneration Committee reviewed salaries and determined that the CEO and the CFO would have salary Performance Target Final bonus X multiplier bonus outcome increases of 3% for 2019.
The table below sets out base salaries with effect from The effect of the multiplicative approach means that a 1 January 2019: highperformance multiplier can only be achieved for Base salary Base salary outperformance on both top-line and bottom-line growth.
at from 1 January 1 January Percentage 2018 2019 increase Similarly, underperformance in one of the performance metrics will reduce the overall bonus payout including to Executive Director Rakesh Kapoor 945,209 973,565 3% zero, despite outperformance of the other.
Adrian Hennah 660,000 680,000 3% For example, if we grow Net Revenue above the stretching requirement for maximum performance but fail to convert The average salary increase for our UK employees was c. 3%, it into profit growth, the bonus payout will be zero effective 1 January 2019. i. e. 1.89 x 0.
Annual bonus in respect of 2018 performance 2018 bonus outcomes Prior to the start of the year, the Remuneration Committee set In 2018 RB made good progress in a transformational year, stretching performance targets for the Executive Directors in following the restructure of the Company into two business 2018.
As set out in last years report, these were based on Net units and with our first full year of MJN ownership.
Highlights Revenue growth and Adjusted Net Income growth, both of the 2018 performance include: measured in GBP at a constant exchange rate.
On a pro-forma and like-forIn line with the existing Remuneration Policy, the CEO and the like basis growth was 3%.
CFO had target bonus opportunities of 120% of salary and 90% of salary respectively.
Actual payments can range from Accelerated delivery of MJN synergies.
In the year synergies of 158million were delivered and we remain on track to zero to 3.57x target depending on performance against the stretching performance ranges as follows: achieve the increased synergy target.
For each performance measure a range is set.
Adjusted Net Income growth of 11%, on a constant A performance multiplier is calculated for each measure, currency basis.
calculated by the extent to which the performance for that measure is achieved.
These multipliers can be up Adjusted diluted EPS growth of 7% on continuing to 1.89 for outperformance of the stretching range set operations.
Strong free cash flow generation of 2,029million.
This performance has resulted in a dividend payment that is a 4% increase on 2017.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 107 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The chart below illustrates the 2018 performance compared to Vesting of awards under the 2016 LTIP, granted in December the performance ranges set by the Remuneration Committee.
2015, is dependent on Adjusted Diluted EPS growth over thethree-year period 2016-2018.
Threshold vesting of 20% Performance Threshold Maximum measure zero bonus 3.57x target Actual required EPS growth of 6% per annum, with full vesting Net Revenue requiring EPS growth of 10% per annum, i. e. equivalent to 11% 15% 15.5% 15% growth % 33% growth over the period.
Net Income 5% 11% 11% growth % At the time that the award was made, the peer group average Performance range Achieved EPS growth was 2% p. a. with an upper quartile of 9.5% p. a.
As illustrated above, the 2018 growth in Net Revenue NR The Remuneration Committee made previous commitments was towards the upper end of the targets set and the Net toShareholders to exclude the MJN acquisition and related Income NI growth was at maximum.
The NR and NI results transactions in calculating EPS growth to measure performance combined give an overall multiplier of 2.99x target this is to ensure that the LTIP targets remain as stretching as prior 84% of maximum.
This is to ensure that managements and Shareholders interests remain fully aligned.
This resulted in a 2018 bonus for the CEO and CFO as follows: Management should not be rewarded due to an increase inEPS derived simply from a material gearing of the balance sheet.
Performance Salary x Target bonus x multiplier 2018 bonus Earnings per share over the three-year period from 2016 to CEO 945,209 x 120% x 2.99 3,391,410 2018, measured on an adjusted, diluted basis, grew by 31%, equivalent to compound average annual growth of 9.5% per CFO 660,000 x 90% x 2.99 1,776,060 annum.
With the one-off effects of the MJN acquisition and associated transactions being totally removed, this reduces to Vesting of the 2016 LTIP performance versus targets 8.3% per annum.
This EPS growth performance results in In determining the LTIP vesting the Committee undertook a vesting of 65% being achieved when measured against the thorough review to ensure that the payout was appropriate vesting schedule approved by Shareholders.
inlight of the Company performance and in line with the Remuneration Policy.
Further, in line with previous commitments, the Committee assessed, and was satisfied, that the performance of MJN The RB LTIP is designed to align participants with Shareholders to date is in line with the expectations set at the time of through making awards with stretching performance the acquisition.
conditions denominated in both share options and performance share awards.
This performance is reflected in the value of the LTIP vesting as shown in the table below: Further details on LTIP vesting Audited Based on the performance assessment above, the 2016 LTIP awards to the CEO and the CFO may vest to the following extent on 9 May 2019 for performance over the completed three-year period: Interests Exercise Vesting Interests Share Estimated 1 held price % vesting price value CEO awards Share awards 240,000 n a 65% 156,000 64.76 10,102,560 Options 400,000 63.25 65% 260,000 64.76 392,600 Interests Exercise Vesting Interests Share Estimated 1 held price % vesting price value CFO awards Share awards 45,000 n a 65% 29,250 64.76 1,894,230 Options 90,000 63.25 65% 58,500 64.76 88,335 1 As the share price on the date of vesting is unknown at the time of reporting, the value is estimated using the average market value over the last quarter of 2018 of 64.76.
The actual value at vesting will be disclosed in the 2019 Annual Report.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 108 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Single total figure of remuneration for Executive Directors Audited The table below sets out a single figure for the total remuneration received by each Executive Director for the year ended 31 December 2018, based on the information set out in the previous sections.
During 2019 an error in reporting of benefits came to light.
The CEO and the CFO are provided with a car paid for by the Company for business travel, which also includes journeys from home to office.
The Company also pays for any associated tax liability arising.
This had not been included in benefits reported in prior years remuneration reports.
The 2017 benefits shown in the table above have therefore been restated to include the taxable value of this benefit.
The total cost of this benefit for the years 2014-2016 was 88,995 for the CEO and 34,916 for the CFO.
The Committee has limited the value of total benefits to 10% of salary in any year, with the employee required to pay the value above this.
2 Annual bonus paid at 84% of maximum as set out on page 108.
3 Reflects the estimated value of LTIP shares and options granted in December 2015, which are due to vest on 9 May 2019 at 65%.
Valued using an average share price over Q4 of 64.76.
See the relevant section on page 108 for more details.
4 These values have been restated from last year, which used an average share price of 66.67 over Q4 2017 to estimate the value of the vesting.
The actual values shown above are based on the share price on the date of vesting of 55.60 on 3 May 2018.
The year-on-year increase in the single figure total for the CEO is 22% when compared to the single figure total set out in the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
This reflects improved performance in 2018 which has been reflected in a bonus being paid in respect of 2018 where one was not paid in 2017.
The increase also reflects the Committees decision in 2017 to use discretion and reduce the LTIP vesting by 50%.
If this discretion had not been exercised in 2017, the single figure total would have shown a year-on-year decrease.
5 The Company paid the Executive Directors a cash allowance in respect of pension provision to the value shown in the table above.
These payments reflect the full pension provision outlined in the Policy Table.
Directors are only entitled to prospective pension on defined contribution basis, with no defined benefit accrual.
Executive Directors shareholding requirements Audited Executive Directors are expected to acquire significant numbers of shares over eight years and retain these until retirement from the Board.
The table below shows the shareholding of each Executive Director against their respective shareholding requirement as of 31 December 2018: Other interests in shares and options under the LTIP Performance shares Options held Shareholding requirement Shares Unvested, Unvested, number of owned To vest in May subject to Vested but not To vest in May subject to shares outright 2019 performance exercised 2019 performance Rakesh Kapoor 600,000 628,054 156,000 250,000 899,176 260,000 500,000 Adrian Hennah 200,000 104,190 29,250 76,500 211,556 58,500 153,000 Rakesh Kapoor has exceeded his requirement and Adrian Hennah has made good progress towards his requirement to the satisfaction of the Committee.
Further details of the scheme interests contained in the table above are provided in the table on page 116.
New hires to the Board will have different shareholding requirements of 200,000 for the CEO and 100,000 for other Executive Directors.
The Executive Directors also participate in the all-employee Sharesave Scheme.
Details of options held under this plan are set out on page 117.
Shareholding of Executive Directors vs requirement CEO CFO 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 600,000 700,000 800,000 1 Shareholding requirement Current shareholding 2018 vesting 1 2018 vesting shows the estimated number of performance shares which will vest in respect of performance to 2018, after tax.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 109 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Review of past performance The chart below shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR of the Company compared to the UK FTSE 100 Index over the sevenyear period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2018.
We have also shown how this translates into creation of value for our Shareholders.
This period represents the full financial years of the tenure of Rakesh Kapoor as CEO.
Relative Total Shareholder Return since 1 January 2012 Creation of Shareholder value since 1 January 2012 value of 100 invested at 1 January 2012 300 250 232 Market capitalisation at 1 January 2012 bn 200 23.6bn 150 Shareholder value at 31 December 2018 bn 158 54.1bn 100 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Market capitalisation 1 Jan 2012 Increase in market capitalisation RB FTSE 100 Dividends paid Indivior demerger Based on three-month average share price at start and end of period.
The table below sets out the single figure of total remuneration for Rakesh Kapoor in his tenure as Chief Executive.
It should be noted that the LTIP vesting included in the single figure for 2011 to 2013 are in respect of awards made to him prior to his appointment as CEO.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 110 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Implementation of Directors Remuneration Policy for 2019 Salary Net Revenue growth will be measured as like-for-like LFL As set out earlier in this report, the CEOs and the CFOs growth.
This excludes the impact of changes in exchange rates, salaries for 2019 have increased by 3% from 2018.
The CEOs acquisitions, disposals and discontinued operations.
25% of the salary is 973,565 and the CFOs is 680,000, with effect from LTIP measure will be based on LFL growth of Net Revenue.
ROCE is defined as Adjusted Operating Profit after tax divided Pension by monthly average capital employed.
This measure will be The CEO and the CFO are eligible to receive pension equivalent to that to be disclosed in our Annual Report from contributions, or equivalent cash allowances, of 30% and 25% 2018 onwards.
However, in view of the fact that the currency of pensionable salary, respectively.
For any new hires, this will profile of the Groups income statement differs from the be 10%.
currency profile of the Groups capital base in respect of several major currencies, and this has the potential to distort ROCE if Annual bonus in respect of 2019 performance rates move, we are proposing to measure ROCE for LTIP For 2019, there will be no change to the annual bonus purposes on a constant currency basis.
25% of the LTIP opportunity of the CEO: the CFOs target bonus opportunity measure will be based on ROCE, in the final year of the has increased from 90% of salary to 100% of salary.
change has been made taking into account the internal relativities at RB and the role expansion last year as part of The table below sets out the targets set by the Remuneration thereorganisation of RB.
Committee for the 2019 LTIP awards.
These awards will be made following the 2019 AGM, subject to Shareholder Bonuses for 2019 will be based on RBs Net Revenue growth approval of our Remuneration Policy.
Threshold Maximum and Adjusted Profit Before Income Tax growth, measured in 20% vesting 100% vesting GBP at a constant exchange rate, with the outcome under each EPS growth 3-year CAGR of the measures combined multiplicatively to give a maximum 50% weighting 25% actual FX: 25% bonus outcome of 3.57x the target bonus opportunity if both constant FX 4% 9% stretch targets are met, as described on page 107.
Net Revenue growth 3-year CAGR 25% weighting 2% 6% We have not disclosed the performance target ranges for 2019 ROCE final year as we consider them to be commercially sensitive.
However, we 25% weighting 10.8% 12.8% commit to retrospectively disclosing the performance ranges in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ending The Committee went through a robust process when setting 31 December 2019. these targets, taking into account a number of factors and different reference points.
These included the internal business 2019 LTIP awards plan, guidance we provide to the market on expected future The Remuneration Policy, to be approved by Shareholders at performance, consensus forecasts and current broker views, the AGM in May 2019, sets out the operation of the LTIP.
historic performance at companies in our peer group, and thegeneral prevailing economic environment and market The Remuneration Committee undertook a thorough review growth forecasts.
ofthe performance measures to be used in the LTIP and in order to strengthen the alignment between LTIP participants The Committee considers that these targets are very stretching.
and delivery of RBs strategic priorities has introduced new The performance required to achieve maximum vesting at performance measures.
Vesting of the LTIP awards will depend 6%per annum for Net Revenue growth and 9% per annum on the achievement of stretching targets relating to: growth in forEPSgrowth represents performance that is double the EPS, growth in Net Revenue and ROCE.
We have set out below average growth rates in our peer group over the last five years.
the definition of these measures.
However, the Committee is also mindful that the EPS growth targets have been reduced from those for previous awards.
EPS is measured on an adjusted diluted basis, as shown in the Asyou will have seen, our guidance is for LFL Net Revenue Groups Financial Statements, as this provides an independently growth of 3-4%, for 2019, with a focus on sustaining our verifiable measure of performance.
Adjusted Diluted Earnings best-in-class margins.
With this in mind, the Remuneration Per Share is defined as Adjusted Net Income attributable to Committee believes that the EPS performance range of 4% owners of the parent divided by the weighted average number perannum to 9% per annum is appropriately stretching.
of ordinary shares, on a diluted basis.
25% of the LTIP measure will be based on Adjusted Diluted EPS growth at constant exchange rates, and 25% of the LTIP measure will be based onAdjusted Diluted EPS growth at actual exchange rates.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 111 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The Remuneration Committee maintains the discretion to make There will be no payments in lieu of notice.
adjustments to the measures if this is considered to be Eligible for an annual bonus payment in respect of the 2019 appropriate.
Any adjustments will be disclosed in the Annual financial year, which will be subject to RB performance over Report on Remuneration.
2019 and payable at the time bonuses are paid to other RB employees.
There will be no deferral applied for RBs usual practice is that LTIP awards are made in December, Rakesh Kapoor.
prior to the start of the performance period.
However, due to the proposed changes being made to the LTIP under the new The 2017-2019 and 2018-2020 LTIP awards will remain Remuneration Policy, 2019 LTIP awards will be made as soon subject to performance against the original performance as practicable following the AGM in May 2019, subject to conditions over the respective three-year performance Shareholder approval.
Both of these awards will then be subject to a two-year holding period following the end of the respective No 2019 LTIP award will be made to Rakesh Kapoor.
to Adrian Hennah will be 80,000 share options and 40,000 performance shares.
The value of these will be disclosed in The 2018-2020 LTIP award will be reduced pro-rata to our 2019 Annual Report.
reflect the proportion of the performance period that Rakesh is employed for.
There is no time pro-rating Remuneration arrangements for the departing Chief applicable to the 2017-2019 LTIP award, Rakesh will be Executive Officer employed for the whole performance period.
The Board announced on 16 January 2019 that Rakesh Kapoor has indicated his intention to retire as CEO by 31 December There will be no 2019-2021 LTIP award made to Rakesh.
2019, after more than eight years as CEO and 32 years at Rakesh will retain an interest in 216,666 shares and 433,333 the Company.
share options which may vest subject to performance and then will be subject to a holding period for at least two Our approach for 2018 remuneration was unaffected and is years after departure.
For 2019, our approach is set out in detail below: For the avoidance of doubt, all payments will be made in line Salary, benefits and pension will be paid up to the with our Shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 112 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other required disclosures Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in CEO remuneration from the prior year compared to the average percentage change in remuneration for all UK employees who form part of the senior management team.
This group has been chosen as it represents the most appropriate comparator group for reward purposes for our UK-based Group Chief Executive.
The analysis excludes part-time employees and is based on a consistent set of employees, i. e. the same individuals or roles appear in the 2017 and 2018 populations.
Other CEO employees % change % change 2017-2018 2017-2018 Base salary 0% 4% Taxable benefits 0% 3% Annual bonus n a 412% The bonus for the CEO in 2017 was zero so it is not possible to provide a percentage change calculation.
The aggregate bonus for other employees in respect of 2018 compared to 2017 shows a large uplift reflecting that just under half of the population received a zero bonus in 2017.
The percentage change in annual bonus for other employees shown in last years report for 2016-17 was -81%.
The percentage change in taxable benefits for other employees excludes international transfer benefits as this is volatile from year to year based on each individuals circumstances.
Relative importance of spend on pay The table below shows Shareholder distributions i. e. dividends and total employee pay expenditure for 2017 and 2018, along with the percentage change in both.
2018 2017 % change m m 2017-2018 Total Shareholder distribution 1,187 1,134 5% Total employee expenditure 1,767 1,597 11% Exit payments made in the year Audited No exit payments were made to Executive Directors during the year.
Payments to past Directors Audited No payments were made to past Directors in the year.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 113 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Performance graph The graph below shows the TSR of the Company and the UK FTSE 100 Index over the period since 1 January 2000, representing the period of full financial years since the merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. and the listing on the London Stock Exchange of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
This shows the growth in the value of a hypothetical holding of 100 invested on 31 December 1999.
We have also shown the growth in the value of a holding of 100 invested on 31 December 2008, as required by disclosure regulations.
The FTSE 100 Index was selected on the basis of companies of a comparable size in the absence of an appropriate industry peer group in the UK.
Total Shareholder Return since 1 January 2000 Total Shareholder Return since 1 January 2009 value of 100 invested at 1 January 2000 value of 100 invested at 1 January 2009 2,000 400 350 1,765 1,500 300 317 1,000 250 221 200 500 150 189 0 100 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 RB FTSE 100 RB FTSE 100 The table below sets out the single figure of total remuneration received by the previous CEO Bart Becht between 2009 and 2011: Single Annual figure bonus LTIP Year 000 % of max vesting 2009 28,881 100% 100% 2010 17,150 76% 100% 2011 18,076 31% 100% Single total figure of 2018 remuneration for Non-Executive Directors and implementation for 2019 Audited The following Non-Executive Director fee policy was in place for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The table also sets out the fees that will apply from 1 January 2019, which are unchanged.
2 Directors who stepped down from the Board in May 2018 received the share-related portion of their fees in cash.
Travel and expenses for Non-Executive Directors are incurred in the normal course of business, for example, in relation to attendance at Board and Committee meetings.
Summary of Shareholder voting at the 2018 AGM The following table shows the results of the voting on the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report, at the 2018 AGM, and of the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2016 AGM: Votes for For % Votes against Against % Total Votes withheld Approve the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report 474,938,175 89% 58,492,636 11% 533,430,811 613,920 Approve the Directors Remuneration Policy 377,323,671 76% 117,846,630 24% 495,170,301 30,453,974 The Committee continues to have ongoing dialogue with Shareholders with a view to obtaining Shareholder support for our remuneration arrangements.
In particular, over recent years, following consultation with our major Shareholders, we made a number of changes to the Remuneration Policy, to further align Executive Directors with Shareholders.
This resulted in Shareholders supporting the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
The Committee has made further changes to the Remuneration Policy for 2019, which are set out in more detail earlier in this report.
We discussed our proposals with Shareholders and the Committee is grateful for the feedback provided by Shareholders throughout our engagement on these matters.
Directors service contracts Non-Executive Directors have letters of engagement which set out their duties and time commitment expected.
They are appointed for an initial three-year term, subject to election and annual re-election by Shareholders.
Appointments are renewable for subsequent three-year terms by mutual consent.
Details are set out below: Length of service as at 31 December 2018 Name Date of appointment Years Months Andrew Bonfield 1 July 2018 6 Nicandro Durante 1 December 2013 5 1 Mary Harris 10 February 2015 3 11 Mehmood Khan 1 July 2018 6 Pam Kirby 10 February 2015 3 11 Chris Sinclair 10 February 2015 appointed Chairman from 3 May 2018 3 11 Elane Stock 1 September 2018 4 Warren Tucker 24 February 2010 8 10 Executive Directors service contracts contain a 12-month notice period, as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy.
The date of appointment to the Board for Rakesh Kapoor was 1 September 2011 and for Adrian Hennah was 12 February 2013.
Directors service contracts and letters of engagement are available for inspection at the registered office.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 115 Annual Report on Remuneration continued External appointments Adrian Hennah was paid and is permitted to retain 118,990 in respect of his directorships of RELX plc and RELX NV.
He additionally received and is permitted to retain a notional tax benefit of 780 related to the preparation of a tax return filed inthe Netherlands, required as a result of his directorship of RELX NV.
Advisors Deloitte LLP Deloitte was appointed by the Remuneration Committee as independent advisor effective from 1 January 2014 following a review of the advisor in late 2013.
The Committee undertakes due diligence periodically to ensure that Deloitte remains independent of the Company and that the advice provided is impartial and objective.
Deloitte is a founding member andsignatory of the Code of Conduct for Remuneration Consultants, details of which can be found at www.
During 2018, Deloitte LLP also provided the Group with support and advice innumerous areas, including corporate and employment taxes, share schemes, RB 2.0 and the HS issue in South Korea.
Theseservices were provided under separate engagement terms and the Committee is satisfied that the provision of these services did not impair Deloittes ability to advise the Committee independently.
Its total fees for the provision of remuneration services to the Committee in 2018 were 400,600 on the basis of time and materials.
Directors interests in shares and options under the LTIP Audited Market Market price at Exercised price at date of Granted vested Lapsed Option date of exercise Grant At during during during At price award vesting Exercise vesting LTIP Notes date 1.1.
18 the year the year the year 31.12.18 period Adrian Hennah Options 13.2.
This vested following the AGM in 2018 and any unvested award lapsed.
2 Vesting of the LTIP is subject to the achievement of the following compound average annual growth CAGR in Adjusted EPS over the three financial years prior to the vesting date shown above.
EPS CAGR for awards granted in December 20142017 6% 6% Between 6% and 10% 10% Proportion of awards vesting % Nil 20% Straight-line vesting between 20% and 100% 100% Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 116 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Executive employees also participate in the all-employee Sharesave Scheme on the same basis as all other employees.
The table below details options held.
Market Granted Exercised Lapsed Option price at At during during during At price exercise Sharesave Scheme Grant date 1.1.
18 the year the year the year 31.12.18 Exercise period Rakesh Kapoor 02.09.16 509 509 58.86 Feb 22-Jul 22 Adrian Hennah 04.09.13 403 403 37.20 Feb 19-Jul 19 01.09.15 307 307 48.71 Feb 21-Jul 21 There have been no changes to the Directors interests as set out in the above tables between 31 December 2018 and 18 March 2019.
Directors interests in the share capital of the Company Audited The Directors in office at the end of the year and those in office at 18 March 2019 had the following beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company: 18 March 31 December 31 December 2019 2018 2017 Andrew Bonfield 80 0 Nicandro Durante 579 579 434 Mary Harris 2,114 2,114 1,902 Adrian Hennah 104,190 104,190 92,166 Rakesh Kapoor 628,054 628,054 628,054 Mehmood Khan 80 0 Pam Kirby 3,452 3,452 3,301 Andr Lacroix 2,931 2,786 Chris Sinclair 4,062 4,062 3,246 Elane Stock 1,910 0 Warren Tucker 2,471 2,471 2,318 Notes 1 No person who was a Director or a Directors connected person on 31 December 2018 and at 18 March 2019 had any notifiable share interests in any subsidiary.
2 The Companys Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 117
