Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Directors Remuneration Report Contents of Directors Remuneration Report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased 93 Letter from the Chair to present the Directors Remuneration 96 Remuneration Committee governance 97 RBs proposed Remuneration Policy at a glance Report for the financial year ended 98 Directors Remuneration Policy 107 Annual Report on Remuneration 31 December 2018.
107 2018 performance and remuneration outcomes 111 Implementation of Directors Remuneration Policy for 2019 In line with the three-year life cycle, a new Remuneration Policy 113 Other required disclosures is being put forward to a binding Shareholder vote at our AGM on 9 May 2019.
On the following pages, I have set out our new Remuneration Policy and our Annual Report on Remuneration, which explains how we have implemented the Remuneration Policy previously approved by Shareholders, as well as how we intend to implement the new Remuneration Policy if approved by Shareholders.
The Annual Report on Remuneration will be subject to an advisory Shareholder vote at our AGM.
Central to our remuneration philosophy are the principles Over the past year, I have met with a majority of our largest Shareholders to evaluate and discuss RBs remuneration of pay for performance and philosophy and the proposed changes to the Policy for 2019.
Shareholder and strategic Iwould like to thank Shareholders for the time taken and their feedback, which has provided valuable input and assisted the alignment.
Committee in developing the 2019 proposals.
This proposed Policy strengthens the link between remuneration and RBs Mary Harris strategic priorities through new performance measures in the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP and introduces a number of changes to strengthen alignment with Shareholders interests.
This Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with theprovisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Context for executive remuneration at RB Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended.
The Report meets the requirements of the FCA Listing Authoritys RB strives for leading global performance.
Our management Listing Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rules.
In this Report team is multinational and we compete for talent against a we describe how the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration, as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code July 2018 peergroup of global companies.
Central to our remuneration the Code, are applied in practice.
The Remuneration Committee confirms philosophy are the principles of pay for performance and that throughout the financial year the Company has complied with these governance rules and best practice provisions.
Combined with RBs values and business model, they define how decisions are made, how people act and how we assess and reward them.
Over the past few years, RB has been on a well-established journey, with a focused, strategic evolution to become a world leader in consumer health.
The recent acquisition of MJN has been a catalyst for RB 2.0.
The Groups key strategic priorities include accelerating organic growth on the top line and focusing on achieving more sustainability and predictability in earnings growth, while ensuring return on capital is enhanced as MJN continues to be integrated.
The proposed Remuneration Policy, set out in further detail on the following pages, strives to ensure that the management team is rewarded appropriately for delivering against these key strategic priorities, reflects the global nature of our business and delivers significant benefits for Shareholders.
To reinforce our philosophy, the majority of the Executive Directors remuneration packages are made up of variable at-risk pay, linked to stretching financial targets that align with our strategy and Shareholder value creation, and are largely delivered in RB shares.
In addition, we have market-leading shareholding requirements for executives.
This approach is cascaded throughout our senior management.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 93 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee is aware of the sensitivity around executive pay Reduction in pension levels for new hires to the Board and in undertaking our thorough review of the Remuneration any new hires to the Board will have a maximum pension Policy we have taken into account Shareholders views and contribution of 10% of salary, in line with the wider guidelines and the new UK Corporate Governance Code, whilst workforce in the UK, representing a significant reduction ensuring that the Policy incentivises delivery of the Companys oncurrent levels.
strategic priorities and creation of Shareholder value.
Shareholding requirement the shareholding requirement for any new hires will be 200,000 shares for Further information regarding the composition, role and work the CEO and 100,000 for the CFO.
These new requirements of the Committee during 2018 can be found on page 96. remain the most demanding in the market.
The shareholding requirements will remain at 600,000 and Key proposed changes to the Remuneration Policy and 200,000 shares for the current CEO and CFO respectively.
implementation of the Policy for 2019 As previously mentioned, RB is required to put a new In addition, for new hires to the Board, we are introducing a Remuneration Policy forward to a binding Shareholder vote formal post-employment shareholding requirement, for two atthe 2019 AGM, in line with the three-year life cycle.
For existing Executive Directors, on developing the Policy, the Committee was mindful of the new departure in good leaver circumstances any deferred bonus UK Corporate Governance Code and engaged extensively with share awards and LTIP awards including the holding period Shareholders and their representatives.
The key changes to the continue on original timescales, ensuring that they maintain Remuneration Policy and how we propose to implement the sufficient shareholdings post-departure.
Policy in 2019 are as follows: Malus and clawback expanded to include LTIP performance measures the Remuneration corporate failure.
Committee reviewed the performance measures in light of RBs strategic priorities and is proposing to introduce two Further detail and rationale for the changes can be found on new LTIP performance measures like-for-like Net Revenue page 98. growth and Return on Capital Employed ROCE to be used alongside earnings per share EPS growth.
2019 remuneration LTIP targets the LTIP targets are set out on page 111.
The The salaries for the CEO and the CFO have been increased by Committee went through a robust process when setting 3% for 2019, to 973,565 and 680,000 respectively.
The these targets, taking into account a number of factors and average salary increase for our UK employee base was 3%.
different reference points, and the Committee considers There is no proposed change to the bonus opportunity for the that the targets set are very stretching.
As you will have CEO 120% of salary at target.
The target bonus for the CFO seen, our guidance is for like-for-like LFL Net Revenue isbeing increased to 100% of salary from 90% of salary.
growth of 3-4%, for 2019, with a focus on sustaining our Theproposals for the CFO have taken into account internal best-in-class margins.
In this context, the Remuneration relativities at RB and the role expansion last year as part of Committee believes that the performance ranges are thereorganisation of RB, under RB 2.0. appropriately stretching and incentivise management to deliver outperformance.
Annual bonus in respect of 2018 performance RB operates an annual bonus plan that is strongly aligned to Reduction in CEO LTIP award levels had Rakesh performance, measured against stretching targets set by the Kapoor not announced his retirement, the Committee had Committee at the start of the year for Net Revenue growth agreed a further reduction in the CEO LTIP award level for andNet Income growth.
Rakesh Kapoor will not receive In 2018, RB made good progress in a transformational year, a 2019 LTIP award.
The 2019 LTIP award for the CFO is following the restructuring of the Company into two business 80,000 options and 40,000 shares 2018: 76,500 38,250. units and with our first full year of MJN ownership.
Net Revenue growth was 15% 3% pro-forma and like-for-like, LTIP adjustment mechanism the Committee will there was accelerated delivery of MJN synergies and Adjusted implement a robust LTIP adjustment mechanism with the Net Income growth of 11%.
number of shares and options granted reviewed annually, prior to each award, in light of share price changes.
Our Net Revenue growth was at the upper end of the bonus targets set, whilst our Net Income growth was at maximum.
Reinforcing Shareholder alignment a two-year holding period has been introduced for LTIP awards going forward.
As a result, the 2018 annual bonus for the CEO and CFO is In addition, with effect from 2019 bonus, one-third of any 84% of maximum, in line with all other employees on the bonus paid will be deferred into awards over RB shares for sameGroup-wide measures.
There was no annual bonus three years.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 94 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Vesting of the 2016-2018 LTIP FTSE 30 the median is 400% of salary, with an upper quartile All outstanding LTIP awards are subject to an EPS growth of 500% of salary.
performance measure over the three-year performance period of the awards.
In 2016, the EPS growth targets were set at 6% Shareholding of Executive Directors vs requirement per annum for threshold performance and 10% per annum for CEO maximum vesting.
The Remuneration Committee made previous commitments toShareholders to exclude the one-off impact of the MJN CFO acquisition and related transactions when calculating EPS growth for measuring performance in order to ensure that theLTIP targets remain as stretching as prior to any major acquisition disposal.
This is to ensure that managements and Shareholders interests remain fully aligned.
Management 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 600,000 700,000 800,000 should not be rewarded due to an increase in EPS derived 1 Shareholding requirement Current shareholding 2018 vesting simply from a material gearing of the balance sheet.
1 2018 vesting shows the estimated number of performance shares which will vest in respect of performance to 2018, after tax.
Further, as previously committed to Shareholders, the Committee assessed, and was satisfied, that the performance Committee changes of MJN to date is in line with the expectations set at the time Judy Sprieser the previous Committee Chair and Adrian of the acquisition.
Bellamy both stood down as members of the Committee and Board in May 2018 as they did not stand for re-election at the Earnings per share over the three-year period from 2016 to 2018 AGM.
I thank both for their contribution and in particular 2018, measured on an adjusted, diluted basis, grew by 31%, I would like to acknowledge Judy Sprieser, whom I succeeded equivalent to compound average annual growth of 9.5% per on 1 November 2017 as Committee Chair, for her valued annum.
With the one-off effects of the MJN acquisition, and leadership of the Committee.
associated transactions, being totally removed, this reduces to 8.3% per annum.
This EPS growth performance results in Elane Stock joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on vesting of 65% being achieved when measured against the 1 September 2018 and was appointed as a member of the vesting schedule approved by Shareholders.
The vesting in Remuneration Committee with effect from 8 November 2018. respect of 2017 was 50% for the CEO and the CFO.
2018 single figure Departure arrangements for the Chief Executive Officer The impact of this bonus payment and LTIP vesting is a total The Board announced on 16 January 2019 that Rakesh Kapoor single figure of 15.2m for the CEO and 4.6m for the CFO.
has indicated his intention to retire as CEO by 31 December The majority of this is variable pay, linked to stretching 2019, after more than eight years as CEO and 32 years at financial targets: the Company.
Our approach for 2018 remuneration was unaffected and is as CEO 15.2m set out in this report.
CFO 150,000 4.6m For 2019, our approach is set out in detail on page 112.
This Fixed remuneration Annual bonus LTIP vesting can broadly be summarised as the same approach for 2018, save that there will be no LTIP award made to Rakesh in 2019.
The year-on-year increase in the single figure total for the CEO Outstanding LTIP awards will be appropriately time pro-rated, is 22% when compared to the single figure total set out in the remaining subject to performance over the original 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
This reflects improved performance period, with a further two-year holding period.
performance in 2018 which has been reflected in a bonus being paid in respect of 2018 where one was not paid in For the avoidance of doubt, all payments will be made in line 2017.
The increase also reflects the Committees decision in with our Shareholder-approved Remuneration Policy.
2017 to use discretion and reduce the LTIP vesting by 50%.
Ifdiscretion had not been exercised in 2017, the single figure Conclusion total would have shown a year-on-year decrease.
When Our revised Remuneration Policy reflects Shareholders views determining 2018 variable pay outturns, the Committee and guidelines and the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
It evaluated performance in the round and determined that continues to drive the appropriate behaviours and performance no discretion would be applied.
to support the Companys business strategy and delivery of Shareholder value.
I trust that I can count on your support Share ownership requirements at the upcoming AGM.
For current incumbents, RBs share ownership requirements remain unchanged as a fixed number of shares and are I would also like to acknowledge and thank my fellow equivalent to just under 4,000% of salary for the CEO and Committee members for their diligence and service during the 2,000% of salary for the CFO.
I will be available to answer any questions Shareholders may have at the Companys AGM on 9 May 2019.
These are the most demanding in the market: the highest share ownership requirement in our peer group is 800% and the Mary Harris highest in the FTSE 100 is 700% of salary.
Amongst the Chair of the Remuneration Committee 18 March 2019 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 95 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Committee governance Whos on the Committee The Remuneration Committee is made up entirely Mary Harris Chair of Non-Executive Directors who are appointed by Nicandro Durante the Board on the recommendation of the Chris Sinclair 1 Nomination Committee.
Membership of the Adrian Bellamy 1 Remuneration Committee during the year was Judy Sprieser 2 as follows: Elane Stock 1 Stepped down from the Committee on 3 May 2018.
2 Appointed to the Committee on 8 November 2018.
Our role The Committees purpose is to assist the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibility by ensuring that the Remuneration Policy and practices reward fairly and responsibly: are linked to corporate and individual performance: and take account of the generally accepted principles of goodgovernance.
On behalf of, and subject to approval by, the Board of Directors, the Committee primarily: sets and regularly reviews the Companys overall remuneration strategy: determines the general Remuneration Policy for senior executives: and in respect of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and members of the Executive Committee, sets, reviews and approves: remuneration policies, including annual bonuses and long-term incentives: individual remuneration and compensation arrangements: individual benefits including pension and superannuation arrangements: terms and conditions of employment including the Executive Directors service agreements: participation in any of the Companys bonus and LTIPs: and the targets for any of the Companys performance-related bonuses and LTIPs.
The Executive Directors are responsible for evaluating and making recommendations to the Board of Directors on the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Meetings During the year the Committee held five scheduled meetings and one additional meeting.
The attendance of members at meetings is set out in the table on page 70.
The Chief Human Resources Officer was Secretary to the Committee throughout the year.
Meetings were also attended by the CEO, CFO, SVP General Counsel & Company Secretary and the Group Head of Reward by invitation.
Deloitte acted as advisor to the Committee throughout the year.
Members of the Remuneration Committee and any person attending its meetings do not participate in any discussion or decision on their own remuneration.
Peer group During the year the Committee reviewed the peer group to ensure the appropriateness of the selected peers.
The Remuneration Committee has determined a peer group of international companies, which is referred to within the report.
This peer group is used for benchmarking remuneration packages and as a reference point in ensuring that performance targets are appropriately stretching and when reviewing the Companys relative performance.
This peer group is the same group used to benchmark remuneration of senior managers across the Company.
The companies included are: 1 Abbott Laboratories Coca-Cola Johnson & Johnson Novartis 1 1 Bayer Colgate Kellogg PepsiCo 1 1 Campbell Soup Danone Kimberly-Clark Pfizer Church and Dwight GSK Kraft Heinz Procter & Gamble Clorox Henkel Nestl Sanofi Unilever 1 Companies used for remuneration benchmarking only and not for performance comparison.
Reckitt Benckiser Group plc RB 96 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
