Governance Directors remuneration report We are again reporting a very strong year with record revenue of 611.5m and record adjusted profit before tax of 145.1m, an increase of 33%.
On a statutory basis, profit before tax also rose by 33% to 155.2m.
Kath Durrant, Chair of the Remuneration Committee Statement from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee role Remuneration Committee andcomposition Introduction The Remuneration Committee is responsible for On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the deciding the Companys framework for executive Directors remuneration report for 2018. remuneration, determining the remuneration for each This report complies with the requirements for reporting on of the executive directors, reviewing and approving directors pay introduced in October 2013 and is split into remuneration for other direct reports to the Chief the following three sections: Executive, and overseeing remuneration policy across the Company.
A key aim of the Committee is to help 1. this introductory statement: attract, retain and motivate talented executives by 2. the remuneration policy pages 62 to 65 as approved by ensuring competitive remuneration and motivating shareholders at the 2017 AGM: and incentives.
The incentives are linked to the overall performance of the Group and, in turn, to the interests 3. the annual report on remuneration pages 66 to 71, of all shareholders.
setting out information on directors remuneration during the year ended 30th June 2018, and how our policy will The Committee reviews executive directors be implemented in the year ending 30th June 2019. remuneration annually in the context of the Groups This part of the report will be submitted to an advisory performance.
It also reviews the remuneration structure vote at the 2018 AGM.
and packages for the next level of senior leaders to ensure they are competitive and fair, and that there is This remuneration report has been prepared in accordance appropriate progression for those identified as potential with Part 3 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and successors to the Board and executive team.
Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, 9.8.
8R of the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate All members of the Committee are independent nonGovernance Code.
executive directors: Kath Durrant Committee Chair, SirDavid Grant, Carol Chesney and John Jeans.
Context for remuneration at Renishaw The terms of reference for the Committee are published The Committee welcomes the high level of shareholder on the Companys website.
Executive directors may support at the 2017 AGM for our revised remuneration attend meetings of the Committee by invitation for policy.
In addition to a number of minor changes, we parts of the agenda, as appropriate, and independent introduced a new deferred equity incentive plan, alongside advisers are used as required.
minimum shareholding requirements for all executive directors.
Both of these elements are designed to increase the level of alignment with shareholder interests.
The Committee has agreed with Sir David McMurtry and John Deer that they will not participate in this new plan.
The year ended 30th June 2018 was the first year during which this new policy applied and the Committee will continue to keep the remuneration policy and its implementation under review in the context of shareholder feedback, the evolving governance landscape, and our need to continue to attract, motivate and retain the talent required to underpin Renishaws continued growth and longterm shareholder value creation.
60 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information As set out earlier in this Annual report, Renishaw Key remuneration discussions during the year performance in FY2018 was very strong.
Adjusted profit Appointments before tax a KPI of our business performance and the As detailed elsewhere in this Annual report, during the measure used in our executive incentives grew by 33% year Renishaw announced the appointment of Will Lee as to 145.1m.
Renishaws total shareholder return TSR Chief Executive, with Sir David McMurtry focusing on his continued to outpace the FTSE 250.
Over the year to role as Executive Chairman with additional responsibilities 30thJune2018, TSR was 48% compared to a TSR of 11% for Group innovation and product strategy.
The Committee for the FTSE 250 : over the last five years, Renishaws TSR carefully considered the implications of these role changes of 277% outperformed the FTSE 250 by 17% per annum.
on remuneration, taking in to account market relativities, In this context, the Committee believes the payments under the specific nature of the roles at Renishaw and the way the annual cash bonus 100% of maximum, equating to in which value is created from both of these roles.
As a 100% of salary for executive directors and, for the first time consequence, it was determined that Will Lees new salary in FY2018, the deferred annual equity incentive plan 85.1% be initially set at 550,000 from 1st February 2018, to reflect of maximum, or 42.5% of salary appropriately reflects his promotion to Chief Executive.
This decision is in line with Renishaws performance over the year.
our policy of preferring the salary of new appointees to be brought gradually up to the market median level over time, Workforce considerations subject to the demonstrated performance of the individual The Committee reviews and discusses with the Chief in the role over that period.
It is the Committees intention Executive the remuneration arrangements and management therefore to consider future increases to Wills salary in line decisions regarding base pay and bonuses for all staff at with this policy and, if appropriate, to award increases to the next levels of management.
move his pay closer to a more market competitive position The Committee also considers the base pay and over time.
This may involve a salary increase above the bonus arrangements for all other staff in Renishaw.
average salary increase for the UK employee population as Shareholders will note that a base pay budget of 4.4% a whole.
In order to further strengthen the alignment of Wills was made available for application on a performance and interests with those of shareholders, the Committee also market-related basis across the workforce.
Those executive decided to increase his shareholding requirement to 200% directors in receipt of an annual base pay increase this year of salary.
The Committee expects this level of shareholding received 2.7%.
In addition, a modest change to Wills pension contribution was authorised to correct an Additionally, the Committee has provided active support anomaly and align him with the other non-founder executive and advice to the Chief Executive as he considers the directors.
All other aspects of Wills remuneration package remuneration policy and practice for the workforce globally.
Review of the Remuneration Committees The Committee also considered Sir Davids remuneration activities and decided that his remuneration should remain The Committee met seven times during the year.
This decision reflects the substantial value he activities included: contributes to the Group in terms of innovation and product implementing the deferred equity incentive plan: strategy, his extensive market knowledge and his executive chairmanship of the Board.
setting targets for the annual bonus and deferred equity incentive plan at the start of the year, with reference to the It was also determined that Sir Davids and Wills Companys budgets and forecasts as disclosed later in remuneration will next be reviewed in 2019. this report : Performance and reward reviewing remuneration arrangements across the Group: We believe that our remuneration arrangements, while reviewing director salaries and approving bonuses for different in certain respects from those adopted by other the year: listed companies, are effective, closely aligned with approving Sir David McMurtrys expenses: performance and appropriately reinforce the actions and reviewing the salaries of Will Lee and Sir David McMurtry behaviours needed to continue to create long-term value following the changes in their respective roles and for all our shareholders.
In setting targets the Committee responsibilities: and considers both the opportunities and risks associated with the Companys annual business plan and the Boards reviewing gender pay gap reporting.
discussions regarding long-term strategy and its ambitions On behalf of Renishaw and the Remuneration Committee, for the business.
Consequently, at the start of the year, I would like to thank you for your continued support and stretching targets were set that required: feedback.
The Committee looks forward to meeting as c. 10% profit growth to be achieved for threshold many of you as possible at the forthcoming AGM, and bonus payout: hope that we can count on your support for this years remuneration report.
c. 24% profit growth for an on-target cash bonus payout: and c. 28% profit growth to warrant the start of payment under the additional deferred annual equity incentive plan.
Kath Durrant Chair of the Remuneration Committee 26th July 2018 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 61 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy This section of the Directors remuneration report sets out the directors remuneration policy of the Company.
Executive directors policy table Set out below is a table describing each component of the remuneration package for executive directors.
This policy remains unchanged from that published in last years Directors remuneration report and approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, save for minor changes to aid clarity and improve transparency, including updated performance scenario charts, to reflect FY2019 remuneration and additional disclosure under the section titled Statement of consideration of shareholder views.
Total remuneration Purpose and policy relevance to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measures Total To attract, motivate and Executive director A cap on total Described below remuneration retain talented executive remuneration is designed remuneration at upper in relation to each directors to support to be simple, conservative, quartile of the relevant constituent element of delivery of Renishaws and aligned with market for the position in remuneration.
strategy and maximise shareholder interests.
Our total remuneration policy comprises the following constituent elements: Base salary To provide a competitive Renishaw aims to pay Salaries are set to deliver Continued good remuneration package base salaries between total remuneration in performance to motivate and retain median and upper quartile, accordance with the executive directors of reflecting that its variable policy defined above.
the required quality to pay opportunities remain Base salary increases help the Group meet its significantly below market.
will normally be capped objectives to deliver the Executive director salaries at the level of salary Groups strategy.
are benchmarked against increases for the broader equivalent positions for workforce, unless the relevant industrial sectors Committee in its absolute based on factors such as discretion determines sector, size and location.
that a higher increase Base salaries are reviewed is appropriate.
Example annually taking into circumstances include: account the average to reflect a significant increase across the Group, change in a directors and specifically the UK role or responsibilities, where executive directors or if in shareholders are located in the UK.
interests a director was intentionally appointed on a below-market total remuneration opportunity initially and their subsequent performance in the role warrants an aboveaverage salary increase.
The rationale for any above-average increase will be disclosed in the relevant Annual remuneration report.
62 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Element of Purpose and remuneration relevance to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measures Benefits To provide marketBenefits provided on an Excluding accommodation Not applicable.
competitive benefits ongoing basis include: and relocation costs, to motivate and retain a car or car allowance: benefits are capped executive directors and at 50,000 per annum.
private medical to support them to give insurance: maximum attention to their life assurance: role.
long-term disability cover: home telephone costs.
If, on the appointment of a new executive director, relocation is required to the directors place of work, the necessary relocation support may be provided.
Annual cash To incentivise and reward The Committee sets Group 100% of salary Based on Group bonus execution of the Groups performance targets, performance, primarily objectives.
including a threshold below measured by profit which no bonus is earned before tax the key increasing from zero on a measure of Group straight-line basis to a target performance used by at which 75% of salary would shareholders and by the be earned, and to a cap at Board.
The Committee which a maximum 100% of may introduce other salary could be earned.
metrics financial and Part or all of any bonus paid non-financial to reflect may be subject to repayment the Groups priorities, in the event of any material or make adjustments financial misstatement, error to appropriately reflect in calculation or misconduct.
underlying performance, provided that the bonus will always be subject to achievement of the threshold financial performance.
Targets will be set around the Groups internal strategic plan.
Any non-financial metrics shall not form more than 25% of the overall bonus opportunity.
Deferred To incentivise and If performance exceeds the 50% of salary As per the annual cash annual equity reward outperformance level at which a maximum bonus above.
incentive plan beyond the annual bonus annual short-term bonus is maximum, and encourage earned, incremental profit executive director share growth beyond this level ownership.
may be rewarded through a deferred annual equity incentive.
Any such award is deferred in shares for a period of three years.
Dividends may accrue on deferred shares over the Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 63 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Element of Purpose and remuneration relevance to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measures deferral period and, if so, will be paid as additional shares or a cash equivalent on vesting.
Part or all of any deferred annual equity award may be subject to repayment in the event of any material financial misstatement, error in calculation or misconduct.
Pension To provide a competitive Each of Allen Roberts and The maximum Not applicable pension as appropriate Geoff McFarland receives a contribution to the to motivate and retain payment of 15% of salary, defined contribution executive directors of the being the amount that would scheme, or, where required quality to meet otherwise be contributed to applicable, additional the Groups objectives a pension scheme on their salary payment in lieu of behalf.
contributions is 15% of Will Lee is entitled to an base salary.
annual pension contribution of 15% of salary to the Companys defined contribution scheme, but, as agreed by the Committee, most of this is taken as a salary supplement, with the level of pension contribution dependent on the value of his pension pot from time to time and the annual allowance.
For any new executive director, annual contributions of 15% of salary would be made to the Companys defined contribution scheme or all or part as an allowance paid in lieu, as agreed by the Committee.
Will Lee and Geoff McFarland are deferred members of the Companys defined benefit scheme which closed for future accruals on 5th April 2007.
Sir David McMurtry andJohn Deer receive no pension contribution or allowance in lieu.
Minimum Supports the alignment Executive directors are Not applicable Not applicable shareholding of executive and expected to build up and guideline shareholder interests maintain a level of share ownership of at least 50% of base salary.
50% of any net vested share awards after sales to meet tax liabilities must be retained until the minimum shareholding guideline is met.
64 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Approach to recruitment remuneration Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office When agreeing the remuneration package for a new The executive directors service contracts require executive director, the Committee will apply the policy 12 months notice of termination by either party.
There are for the existing executive directors to ensure a consistent no obligations in any executive directors service contract approach, except as set out below.
or non-executive directors letter of appointment which For an external hire, base salary will be set in line with the would require the Company to pay a specific amount of factors set out in the policy table, taking into account the compensation for loss of office.
individuals experience and the amount required to attract The executive directors service contracts reflect the the individual to join the Company.
The Committee may also Companys policy regarding notice periods.
No payment will consider paying compensation to new hires who forfeit any be made for a termination by the Company for a breach by award under the variable remuneration arrangements with a the executive director of his or her service contract.
Any such buyout awards would have a cases, payment in lieu of notice will be considered up to the fair value no higher than that of the awards being replaced, 12 months notice period to cover base salary, benefits and and would be structured as far as possible to replicate the pension contributions.
awards being forfeited, in terms of vesting horizons and performance linkage.
If additional compensation is required to be considered, such as on a settlement agreement, the Committee will Where a new executive director is required to relocate from consider all relevant commercial factors affecting the their home location to take up their role, the Committee specific case.
may provide reasonable relocation assistance and other appropriate allowances if business needs require it.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group When an internal appointment is made, any pre-existing obligations will be honoured and payment will be permitted The Committee takes into account the pay and employment under the policy.
conditions of the Group in the country in which the executive director resides, and is satisfied that the approach Committee discretion in exceptional taken is fair and reasonable based on market conditions circumstances and practice and the best interests of shareholders.
The Committee retains discretion in exceptional When considering the annual salary review, the average circumstances to offer a long-term incentive to support base salary increase awarded to employees provides Renishaw in securing the best executive director candidate a guide when determining the salaries of the executive if the Committee considers it to be in shareholders best directors located in the same country.
Any use of this discretion would be limited The Company does not specifically consult with employees by our internal policy for the aggregate of all incentive on its executive director remuneration policy.
opportunities as a percentage of salary not to exceed market median, and for an individual executive directors Statement of consideration of shareholder views total remuneration not to exceed upper quartile.
Any use of The Committee has taken into account feedback provided this discretion would be accompanied by a full rationale in by external shareholders when drawing up the remuneration the relevant annual remuneration report policy.
At the AGM in 2017, the binding vote on the.
remuneration policy received proxy votes of 98.94% in favour and the advisory vote on the Directors remuneration report received proxy votes of 99.60% in favour.. Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 65 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Illustrations of application of remuneration policy The bar charts set out below for each executive director show: firstly, the minimum remuneration payable in respect of salary, benefits and pension: secondly, the remuneration payable if performance is in line with the Companys expectations: and thirdly, the remuneration payable if the maximum bonus and deferred annual equity incentive is payable for the financial year ending 30th June 2019.
Note that deferred equity incentive plan awards granted in a year will not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant, and the projected value excludes the impact of share price movement.
Sir David John Deer Will Lee Allen Roberts Geoff McFarland McMurtry Minimum remuneration Annual cash bonus Deferred annual equity incentive All figures 000 Non-executive directors policy table The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors and consists of a board fee only.
There is no entitlement to any additional fees nor any bonus, incentive plans or pension.
Set out below is a table showing the fees for the non-executive directors of the Company: Element Purpose and of remuneration relevance to strategy Operation Maximum Performance measures Board fees To provide a competitive All non-executive The maximum aggregate Not applicable fee to attract and retain directors are paid the non-executive director non-executive directors same fee, irrespective fees payable are set by of the required quality of membership of, or the Companys Articles to meet the Groups their chairing of, board of Association, currently objectives.
an aggregate of The fees are reviewed 300,000 per annum.
annually with reference to fees payable to nonexecutive directors of companies of a similar size and complexity.
Reasonable expenses that are incurred by directors in undertaking their duties as a director are reimbursed.
The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three-year period subject to annual performance review and reelection at AGMs, unless terminated earlier by either party on one months written notice.
Appointments will not normally continue beyond nine years in office.
66 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Min 702 702 Target 702 525 1,227 Max 702 700 1,402 Min 458 458 Target 458 328 786 Max 458 437 895 Min 652 652 Target 652 413 1,065 Max 652 550 275 1,477 Min 491 491 Target 491 307 798 Max 491 409 205 1,105 Min 489 489 Target 489 307 796 Max 489 409 205 1,103 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual remuneration report This section of the report sets out the remuneration of the directors in the year ended 30th June 2018 and also contains details of how we intend to implement the policy for the forthcoming financial year.
The information on pages 67 to 71 has been audited where required under the regulations and is indicated as audited where applicable.
His remuneration shown in the table above in relation to 2017 reflects the part-year from the date of his appointment to the Board to 30th June 2017.
His remuneration in relation to 2018 reflects the change to his remuneration on promotion to Chief Executive with effect from 1st February 2018, as set out in the Annual statement from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee at the start of this Directors remuneration report.
2 For 2018, the value of the bonus includes both the value of the annual cash bonus and the face value of shares to be awarded under the deferred annual equity incentive in respect of the year ended 30th June 2018.
Deferred shares will normally vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to continued employment.
Benefits Car Private medical cover applies to all executive directors andhome telephone costs, allowance insurance on personal cars and M4 bridge toll fees apply to some directors 000 000 Sir David McMurtry n a 2 John Deer 19 2 Will Lee 19 1 Allen Roberts 19 2 Geoff McFarland 19 1 Incentive outcomes for FY2018 Under the remuneration policy approved at the 2017 AGM, executive directors are eligible for an annual cash bonus of up to 100% of base salary in FY2018.
In addition, executive directors who are participants in the new deferred annual equity incentive plan are eligible for an award over shares with a face value of up to 50% of base salary if the annual cash bonus maximum performance level is exceeded.
For FY2018, the annual cash bonus and deferred annual equity incentive plan were based on a single financial measure, being the Groups adjusted profit before tax: no non-financial measures were included.
The Committee established targets for the annual cash bonus and deferred annual equity incentive plan taking into account the profit growth expectations for the business, other financial parameters and strategic objectives to be achieved.
The targets for the deferred annual equity incentive plan start at the maximum performance level for the annual cash bonus, as set out overleaf: Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 67 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual cash bonus and deferred annual equity incentive plan Maximum 150m 150% Deferred annual equity Shares incentive Stretch 140m 100% On-target 135m 75% Annual Cash cash bonus Threshold 120m 0% Threshold On-target Stretch Maximum Group adjusted profit before tax The outcome of the annual cash bonus and deferred annual equity incentive plan for FY2018 was determined by Renishaws adjusted profit before tax before the cost of the executive directors annual bonus.
For FY2018, adjusted profit before tax calculated on this basis was 148.5m.
This outcome was between the Stretch and Maximum levels of performance set for FY2018, and resulted in a payment level of 100% of salary for the annual cash bonus plan.
This level of performance also results in a grant of share awards over 42.5% of salary under the deferred annual equity incentive plan, which will be made later in 2018 and details of which will be disclosed in next years Annual report on remuneration.
Sir David McMurtry and John Deer participate in the annual cash bonus plan, but the Committee has agreed with both of them that they will not participate in the deferred annual equity incentive plan.
Total pension entitlements Will Lee and Geoff McFarland are members of the Companys closed defined benefit scheme.
The normal retirement age is 65.
On death, pension benefits would pass to that members dependants.
Since the closure of the defined benefit scheme, contributions have been made to a defined contribution scheme or paid in cash.
Value of defined benefit At 30th June 2018: pension entitlement Pension contributions Will Lee 8,942 per annum Paid in cash Geoff McFarland 29,819 per annum Paid in cash Payments to past directors No payments were made to past directors during the year.
Loss of office payments There were no loss of office payments during the year.
Performance graph The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance, compared with the FTSE 250 index, which the Committee believes is the most appropriate broad index for comparison, as Renishaw is a constituent of this index.
TSR performance has been rebased to 100 at 30th June 2009.
2,000 Renishaw FTSE 250 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 68 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Payout % of salary Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Chief Executive total remuneration The table below sets out information relating to the remuneration of the Chief Executive for each of the years in question: Year 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Will Lee from 1st February 2018 Single figure of total remuneration 000 594 Annual bonus payout 95% includes annual cash bonus and deferred equity incentive % of maximum Long-term incentive vesting n a % of maximum Sir David McMurtry until 31st January 2018 Single figure of total remuneration 000 818 1,207 668 1,298 632 663 969 1,066 472 Annual bonus payout 100% 77% 0% 100% 0% 10% 69% 100% 0% % of maximum Long-term incentive vesting n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a % of maximum Executive directors serving as non-executive directors of other companies During the year none of the executive directors served as a non-executive director of any other company in respect of which any remuneration was received other than Geoff McFarland, who was appointed to the board of Cambridge Mechatronics Limited with effect from 14th March 2018 and receives a fee of 25,000 per annum which he retains.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests During the year, none of the directors were required to own shares in the Company, although the remuneration policy approved by the shareholders at the AGM in 2017 includes a minimum shareholding guideline for executive directors.
As at 30th June 2018 the share interests including the interests of connected persons of the directors who have served on the Board at any time during the year are: Unvested and subject to continued Number of ordinary employment shares of 20p each awarded under Minimum Minimum beneficially owned the deferred equity shareholding Current shareholding 1 as at 30th June 2018 incentive plan guideline shareholding guideline met Sir David McMurtry 26,377,291 n a 0.5x salary 1,997x salary Yes John Deer 12,233,040 n a 0.5x salary 1,526x salary Yes Will Lee 1,000 - 2x salary 0.10x salary Building Allen Roberts 5,165 - 0.5x salary 0.69x salary Yes Geoff McFarland 2,000 - 0.5x salary 0.27x salary Building Carol Chesney 500 n a n a n a n a Kath Durrant 198 n a n a n a n a Sir David Grant - n a n a n a n a John Jeans 440 n a n a n a n a 1 Current shareholdings for comparison with the shareholding requirements for executive directors are calculated based on salary as at 30th June 2018 and by reference to the closing share price on that date 5,300p.
There were no share-based payments made during the year.
Executive directors, excluding Sir David McMurtry and John Deer, were eligible to receive an award under the deferred equity incentive plan for performance over the year under review.
The details of these awards which at the date of this Annual remuneration report have yet to be granted will be reflected in the above table in next years Annual remuneration report.
Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 69 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Percentage change in remuneration of the Chief Executive The following table sets out the percentage change in the Chief Executives remuneration compared to the percentage change in average remuneration of UK employees from 2017 to 2018: 2018 2017 Chief Executive UK employees average 000 000 % change % change 1 Salary 638 681 -6 5.0 2 Benefits 2 2 -23 2.4 Annual bonus 735 524 40 32.5 1 Represents the salary received by Sir David McMurtry in relation to this role 700,000 per annum for the period to 31st January 2018, and by Will Lee for the period from 1st February 2018 550,000 per annum.
2 Reflects differences in the benefits received by Will Lee and Sir David McMurtry, rather than changes in the cost of those benefits year-on-year.
The value shown for 2018 excludes the car allowance received by Will Lee Sir David McMurtry does not receive a car allowance.
UK employees have been chosen as a comparator group in order to avoid the impact of exchange rate movements over the year.
UK employees make up 62.4% of the total number of Group employees.
Relative importance of spend on pay The following table sets out the total amount spent in the current financial year and the previous year on remuneration to all Group employees and on dividends to shareholders: 2018 2017 change 000 000 % Employee remuneration 226,809 211,572 7.2 Shareholder dividends paid 38,942 34,939 11.5 Except as shown above, no other distributions have been made to shareholders or other payments or uses of profit or cash flow which impact on the understanding of the relative importance of spend on pay.
Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the next year Executive directors Base salary The Committee determined the salaries for Sir David McMurtry and Will Lee for the year ending 30th June 2019 would be unchanged.
Salaries for each of the other executive directors, John Deer, Allen Roberts and Geoff McFarland, will be increased by 2.7%.
This is at a rate that is less than the average for the UK workforce, being 4.4%.
The salaries will be as follows from 1st July 2018: 1st July 2018 30th June 2018 000 000 Sir David McMurtry 700 700 John Deer 437 425 Will Lee 550 550 Allen Roberts 409 398 Geoff McFarland 409 398 Annual cash bonus As set out in the remuneration policy, the maximum bonus opportunity for the year ending 30th June 2019 will continue to be 100% of salary for executive directors.
The bonus for the year ending 30th June 2019 will be based on financial targets.
The bonus scheme targets have been set based on the appropriate part of the policy as set out in the remuneration policy table, and will be disclosed in next years Annual remuneration report.
Deferred annual equity incentive For the 2019 financial year, non-founder executive directors will again be eligible for an award of up to 50% of salary under the deferred annual equity incentive, subject to stretching targets in excess of the level required for the annual cash bonus to pay out in full being achieved.
Any award under this plan will be delivered in Renishaw shares that normally vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to continued employment over that period.
The targets set in relation to the deferred annual equity incentive will be disclosed in next years Annual remuneration report.
70 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Non-executive directors The fee paid to each of the non-executive directors has been increased to 55,000 per annum for the year ending 30th June 2019 51,600 for the year ending 30th June 2018.
No additional fees are paid, for example, for chairing Board committees.
Consideration by directors of matters relating to directors remuneration During the year, the Remuneration Committee considered the amount of the executive directors salary and the framework for the annual bonus.
The members of the Committee for this purpose were: Kath Durrant Carol Chesney Sir David Grant John Jeans Mercer Kepler assisted the Committee in reviewing and benchmarking the executive director and senior management remuneration arrangements.
Mercer Kepler is a founder member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Total professional fees and expenses paid to Mercer Kepler for advice received in the year were 37,880.
Mercer Kepler was appointed by the Committee and have not advised the Company on any other matters.
During the year, the actuarial advisory division of Mercer Limited Mercer Keplers parent company provided advice to the trustees of the Companys UK defined benefit pension scheme and in relation to the defined contribution scheme.
This work is entirely separate from the work undertaken by Mercer Kepler for the Committee.
The Committee is of the opinion that the advice received from Mercer Kepler is objective and independent.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Executive directors may attend meetings of the Committee by invitation for parts of the agenda, as appropriate, and independent advisers are used as required.
Statement of voting at general meeting At the AGM held on 20th October 2017, votes cast in respect of the Directors remuneration policy were as follows: Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast Votes withheld Approval of remuneration policy 60,902,216 98.94% 654,533 1.06% 61,556,749 1,187,755 The votes cast in respect of the Directors remuneration report at the same meeting were as follows: Resolution Votes for % for Votes against % against Total votes cast Votes withheld Approval of remuneration report 61,697,021 99.60% 250,317 0.40% 61,947,338 797,166 This report was approved by the Board and has been signed on its behalf by: Kath Durrant Chair of the Remuneration Committee 26th July 2018 Renishaw plc Annual report and accounts 2018 71
