Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 81 Directors Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the Board I am pleased topresent the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31December 2018.
Remuneration review RICHARD BURROWS The Remuneration Committee undertook a review in 2017 and early Chair of the 2018 of the Companys executive remuneration framework and policy to ensure that the Company was providing remuneration arrangements Remuneration Committee to the Executive Directors that are: consistent with the delivery of strategic business priorities: aligned with the senior management and wider colleague population, and with the interests of shareholders: This report is structured as follows: as straightforward and easy to understand as practicable: appropriately reflective of current best practice: and Annual statement 81 market competitive, to attract and retain talent at an appropriate level An overview from the Chair of the Remuneration for the size and scale of our organisation.
Committee outlining key developments and decisions made during 2018.
Following extensive consultation with key shareholders and proxy agencies, the Remuneration Committee recommended a revised Remuneration at a glance 83 remuneration policy which saw changes to the annual bonus plan, Key headline details on performance and remuneration Performance Share Plan PSP, pension provision and shareholding in2018.
requirements, all of which are outlined below.
Directors Annual Remuneration Report Introduction 84 Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during 2018.
Changes to 2018 Directors Remuneration Policy Directors Annual Remuneration Report 2018 Annual bonus scheme 86 Details of Directors remuneration received during 2018.
Annual bonus opportunity increased to 150% of salary before the application of the individual performance modifier.
Directors Annual Remuneration Report 93 40% annual bonus deferral in shares for a minimum period Looking forward 2019 of three years.
Details of how the Directors Remuneration Policy will be implemented in 2019.
Performance Share Plan PSP PSP award for the Chief Executive increased to 250% of salary.
Summary of 2018 Directors Remuneration Policy 96 A two-year holding period to apply to any awards granted in or Summary of the Directors Remuneration Policy approved after 2018. at the Companys AGM on 9 May 2018.
Shareholding guidelines Shareholding guidelines increased to 300% and 200% of annual base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Committee members Officer respectively.
Richard Burrows Chair Pensions Angela Seymour-Jackson New Executive Directors will be eligible for a pension Linda Yueh contribution or cash equivalent of 15% of salary, reflecting Highlights of 2018 the pension arrangements for other senior managers.
Introduction of a new Directors Remuneration Policy, further increasing alignment of remuneration arrangements for The new policy was approved by 75.01% of shareholders at the executives with shareholder interests Companys AGM on 9 May 2018: it came into effect on the same day Re-tender, selection and appointment of the new advisers andis intended to apply for a period of three years.
to the Remuneration Committee Following the strongly supportive response we received during the Areas of focus for 2019 extensive consultation process which involved engagement with Succession for the Remuneration Committee Chair who will shareholders representing just under half of our share register as well step down at the May 2019 AGM as the three leading proxy agencies, we were surprised by the resulting Review of the Performance Share Plan performance measures level of voting support for the policy at the 2018 AGM.
The Remuneration for introduction in 2019 Committee has, at all times, sought to act in the best interests of shareholders.
We believe that we now have a policy that is fit for the future and will allow us to attract and retain the quality of leaders needed to maintain and build on the significant success and value creation for shareholders we have delivered in recent years.
Having reflected on the feedback and talked to a number of our shareholders, we believe that a strong majority are supportive of the approach we have taken to pay generally and consider that there is clear alignment between shareholder interests and pay outcomes for the performance achieved by our executive team.
The feedback we received did suggest that one of the proxy agencies would have preferred the Chief Executives increase in remuneration opportunity to have been staged over two years.
However, given the success of the Company and its rapid progression within the FTSE 100, Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018 82 Directors Remuneration Report we did not believe that would have been prudent.
On that basis we Measure Current weighting Proposed weighting have implemented the changes and do not believe any further action is necessary in response to last years vote.
We continue to be committed TSR 66.6% 50% to a strong, open and transparent relationship with our shareholders and, EPS 33.3% 25% as such, we have continued to engage on this and other remuneration Other Financial measures 10% matters during 2018 and early 2019.
Strategic measures 15% Following the 2018 AGM, we decided to retender the advisers to the Remuneration Committee and, following that process, appointed FIT The Remuneration Committee continues to feel that both TSR and Remuneration Consultants LLP as the Remuneration Committees EPS remain the most appropriate reflections of success and alignment new advisers.
As part of their induction to the Company FIT have to shareholders interests and therefore have maintained the current reviewed our remuneration policy and practices and have updated 2:1 ratio between these measures with 50% TSR and 25% EPS.
The the Remuneration Committee on their resulting insights.
remaining 25% of the 2019 PSP award will be subject to a range of measures over the three-year performance period which are clearly Key decisions in 2018 aligned with our KPIs and are set out below: The business had a successful year in 2018, seeing strong financial performance with good progress being made on revenue, profit and Performance measures Weighting cash flow delivery and a continued increase in shareholder value.
Wealso made excellent progress on our Employer of Choice initiatives, Additional financial measures which are described in more detail in the Strategic Report.
Organic Revenue growth 5% Average Free Cash Flow conversion 5% The 2018 annual bonus had two performance gateways based on Strategic measures profit and cash generation, both of which were surpassed.
The level of bonus achievement was determined by Ongoing Operating Profit Employee Retention based on our average sales and 5% and Ongoing Revenue performance, which was then overlaid with an service colleague retention individual performance modifier.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed Customer Satisfaction based on our average Customer 5% the financial performance in 2018 against the annual bonus targets and Voice Counts a net promoter score determined that the Chief Executive, Andy Ransom, and the Chief Financial Environment: improvements based on the average 5% Officer, Jeremy Townsend, should both receive a bonus of 76.13% of base reduction in our CO emissions index 2 salary.
In respect of the individual performance modifier, Andy Ransom was awarded a performance rating of 4 taking his overall bonus to 83.74% The two additional Financial measures will operate with straight-line of salary, and Jeremy Townsend was awarded a performance rating of 3, vesting between threshold and target and target and maximum resulting in his overall bonus remaining at 76.13% of salary see page 88. performance and are disclosed on page 94.
During 2018, the 2015 PSP award, based on performance measures of The Strategic measures will be based on straight-line vesting one third EPS measured over three financial years to 31 December 2017 between threshold and target and target and maximum performance and two thirds relative TSR measured over a three-year period ended and will be reported at vesting due to commercial sensitivity.
While 30 March 2018, was tested and resulted in 94.97% of the award vesting, the overall weighting of these measures 15% is modest, we think subject to an individual performance modifier.
The application of the that this rebalancing of the PSP sends an important message to over individual performance modifier had the effect of reducing the award 750 participants in the plan that the Board continues to consider that vested to 66.88% and 64.70%, of the maximum opportunity, for these KPIs as critical to the long term success of the business.
Andy Ransom and Jeremy Townsend respectively.
Consistent with the 2018 Code provisions, the Remuneration Committee Performance of the 2016 PSP will be measured one third using EPS has reserved an overriding discretion to adjust both the bonus and measured over three financial years to 31 December 2018 and two thirds PSP outturn for awards made in 2019, where it considers that to be relative TSR measured over a three-year period ending 10 March 2019. appropriate given all the circumstances.
Based on the Companys performance for the period in respect of the 2016 PSP award, vesting is anticipated to be at 91.25%.
The 2016 PSP The TSR comparator group we use is the FTSE 350, excluding companies award is based on the actual EPS result as at 31 December 2018 and an from financial services, property and primary resources sectors, and estimated TSR result based on average performance in the fourth quarter on review this was considered to still be an effective comparator group of 2018.
More detail is set out on page 88. and will be retained for the 2019 PSP.
The Remuneration Committee will consider the appropriateness of the TSR comparator group prior to The Remuneration Committee did not exercise any discretion on each subsequent award.
Finally, I will be standing down as Chair of the Remuneration Committee Key decisions in 2019 at the AGM in May 2019 and I will be succeeded by Angela SeymourWith effect from 1 January 2019, Andy Ransoms salary was increased Jackson, who joined the Remuneration Committee upon her appointment by 2% to 765,276 and Jeremy Townsends salary was increased by to the Board in March 2012 and will have spent seven years on the 2%to 491,964.
The increases received by the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee before taking over as Chair, in line with the werein line with the overall annual cost of labour increase, which was Investment Associations Principles of Remuneration and the 2018 Code.
I hope you will find the information in this report clearly explains the In reviewing the Performance Share Plan PSP with our new advisers, remuneration approach taken by the Company and enables you to we took the opportunity to consider the performance measures understand how it links to our strategic business priorities and the applicable to future awards and the TSR comparator group we use.
delivery of our business plan.
As always, I welcome any comments you may have and look forward to seeing shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
With the new UK Corporate Governance Code, which applies to financialperiods commencing on or after 1 January 2019 the 2018 Code, encouraging companies to ensure that their performance measures are suitably aligned with their key performance indicators KPIs the Remuneration Committee has determined, following RICHARD BURROWS discussion with key shareholders and proxy agencies, that the Chair of the Remuneration Committee following composition and weighting of measures for the 2019 PSP 27 February 2019 award creates stronger alignment.
Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2018
