Governance | Directors remuneration report Peter Williams Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Dear Shareholder The Groups performance over the last three financial years I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report reflects strong revenue growth and efficient capital for Rightmove the Company together with its subsidiary management.
The 2016 Performance Share Plan PSP companies the Group for the year ended 31 December 2018. awards, measuring performance from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018, are due to vest in March 2019.
67% of The report is divided into two sections, the Remuneration the PSP awards will vest as a result of delivering underlying Policy Report and the Annual Report on Remuneration, both 3 basic EPS growth of 51% versus a maximum target of 55% of which are summarised in Remuneration at a glance on over the three-year performance period.
TSR growth did not meet the threshold of TSR equal to the Performance and reward FTSE 350 Index over the same period.
The Committee The Committee is confident that the executive directors tested both performance conditions, which were set at remuneration fairly reflects the overall performance of the the beginning of the performance period, and believes Group.
Rightmoves 2018 results again show healthy growth the overall outturn against the performance conditions is 1 in revenue and underlying operating profit, demonstrating appropriate.
The PSP awards will vest in March 2019. the strength of the Rightmove business model and the Investor engagement and Remuneration Policy effective implementation of the business strategy by our The current Policy was approved by our shareholders in management team.
The Policy is designed In keeping with the Remuneration Policy, the Committee has to address the significant shortfall in executive directors reviewed performance against the bonus plan objectives for base salaries compared with the Committees assessment 2018 and recommended an annual bonus payment of 78%.
of an appropriate salary for each role and the performance The bonus achieved reflects the growth in revenue and of the CEO and Finance Director.
Rather than address this 1 underlying operating profit of 10%, audience growth that shortfall in a single significant increase the Committee has outstripped Rightmoves closest competitors by over implemented a plan, endorsed by investors in 2017, to phase 800%, growth in revenue of 11% from our Other businesses the increase over the three-year period 2017 to 2019. and continued strong employee engagement with 91% of The plan increases the executive directors salary by 3% in 2 Rightmovers thinking that Rightmove is a great place to excess of the average workforce rise each year over the work.
These performance targets are considered stretching period.
All employees, including executive directors, receive and vital to Rightmoves continued success.
Achievement the same inflationary pay rise, plus any market adjustment against each performance target is detailed on page 78 and which recognises the size and complexity of each role and reflected in the higher bonus payout for 2018, compared the present incumbents experience and capabilities and so with 2017.
The Committee considers that the performance this approach is consistent with that for other members of conditions set for 2018 were challenging and have the workforce.
supported the business objectives: the threshold for The Committees key objective is to agree a remuneration each target has been met or exceeded and the payout framework that rewards and incentivises our management is therefore appropriate.
team to deliver Rightmoves longer-term strategy.
1 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
2 Based on the number of employee respondents selecting Yes as a response to this question in the annual employee survey.
3 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives with no related adjustment for tax.
Prior year EPS has been adjusted for the 10:1 share subdivision effective on 31 August 2018.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Rightmoves culture is based on the belief that were all in it together and reflected in the alignment of pay rises and benefits available to all employees in recognition of their commitment to the business and strong performance.
The Remuneration Policy for executive directors seeks to deliver below market levels of fixed pay with above market levels of variable pay opportunity, subject to the achievement of challenging performance measures linked to the Groups KPIs.
Performance-related pay is geared towards long-term sustainable performance, with a high level of annual bonus deferred into shares, long-term incentive awards and suitable share ownership guidelines.
In 2018, we consulted with our major shareholders representing over 60% of the Companys share capital on the proposed executive base salary increases for 2019 and the three-year vesting period for PSP awards.
We received feedback from a number of investors that pay awards should be aligned to all employee rises and that a longer post-vesting holding period for LTIPs were considered to be the norm.
Both Peter Brooks-Johnson and Robyn Perriss have been key members of the senior leadership team for more than ten years and built up significant shareholdings, in excess of the shareholding guidelines of 200% of current salaries.
Since their appointment as directors in 2011 and 2013 respectively, Peter and Robyn have helped deliver consistently strong year on year revenue growth and generated significant returns for investors.
The Committee has given careful consideration to investor comments and believes that in the context of the final year of a cohesive Remuneration Policy, the 2019 pay and share awards remain appropriate for the present executive directors.
The Committee will review all elements of executive remuneration in 2019, cognisant of recommended best practice in the 2018 Corporate Governance Code and investor policies on executive remuneration.
A new Remuneration Policy will be proposed for shareholder approval at the 2020 AGM.
We continue to value the engagement and support of our shareholder base.
Peter Williams Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Rightmove plc annual report 2018 59 Governance | Remuneration at a glance 2018 Financial performance 1 Revenue Underlying operating profit Returns to shareholders % % 10 168.5m 10 Long-term incentive plan outcome against maximum targets: 67% 2 2 Underlying basic EPS Underlying basic EPS Total shareholder return Total shareholder return 18.3 18.3 20 20 200 200 Rightmove Rightmove 16.3 16.3 FTSE 250 FTSE 250 14.3 14.3 15 15 150 150 FTSE 350 FTSE 350 12.1 12.1 10 10 100 100 50 50 5 5 0 0 0 0 Dec 2015 Dec 2015 Dec 2016 Dec 2016 Dec 2017 Dec 2017 Dec 2018 Dec 2018 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2018, of 100 invested This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2018, of 100 invested 67% out of a maximum 75% of 2016 PSP awards vest 67% out of a maximum 75% of 2016 PSP awards vest in Rightmove on 31 December 2015, compared with the value of 100 in Rightmove on 31 December 2015, compared with the value of 100 on achievement of three-year EPS growth of 51%.
on achievement of three-year EPS growth of 51%.
invested in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Indices on the same date.
25% of the 2016 PSP did not vest as relative three-year TSR 25% of the 2016 PSP did not vest as relative three-year TSR performance did not meet the threshold of TSR equal to the performance did not meet the threshold of TSR equal to the FTSE 350 index.
Annual bonus plan outcome against maximum targets: 78% 1 3 Underlying operating profit Growth in absolute time on Growth in Other revenue Employee survey respondents site in minutes relative to who think Rightmove is a 4 our nearest competitors great place to work Threshold target: Threshold target: the same Threshold target: Threshold target: absolute growth in minutes % % Maximum target: 50% higher 194.4m 10 90 Actual: growth in time in minutes year on year over 800% larger Actual: Actual: Actual: than our nearest competitors % % 203.3m 11 91 Pay and performance for 2018 Shareholder alignment Chief Finance Shareholding guidelines: Executive Officer Director Salary 472,268 339,200 % 200 of salary for all executive directors Benefits 2,192 1,414 Cash Bonus 184,185 132,288 Proportion of variable awards received in shares: Deferred Share Bonus 276,277 198,432 of performance-related pay is % Long-term incentives 555,256 439,219 85 awarded in Rightmove shares Total remuneration 1,490,178 1,110,552 Remuneration Policy key elements Fixed pay below comparative market median and variable incentive opportunity above median Base salaries executive directors receive inflationary adjustments to salaries capped at 3% above wider workforce increases Pension contributions up to 6% of base salary in line with the wider workforce Annual bonus maximum 125% of salary, with 40% cash and 60% deferred into Company shares for two years Performance Share Plan awards granted at 200% of salary.
No post-vesting holding period for current executive directors Clawback applies to deferred annual bonus awards and PSP awards 1 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
3 Other revenue is all revenue excluding Agency and New Homes.
2 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives with no related 4 Time in minutes spent on Rightmove platforms, measured by comScore, relative to our nearest competitors.
co. uk Pence per ordinary share Pence per ordinary share Source: Rightmove Source: Rightmove Value rebased to 100 Value rebased to 100 Source: FactSet Source: FactSet Strategic report Governance Financial statements Remuneration Policy Report unaudited The key principles of the Committees policy are that executive remuneration should: Introduction allow the Group to attract and retain talented individuals This report sets out the Companys Policy on directors who are critical to the success of the business: remuneration for the forthcoming year as well as information be simple to explain, understand and administer: on remuneration paid to directors for the financial year be regarded as fair by both other employees and ended 31 December 2018.
The report has been prepared shareholders: in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Large be below market levels for base salary with minimal benefits and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and which are made available on the same basis to all Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 together the Act Rightmove employees and above market levels of variable and the 2016 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
pay potential: provide directors with the opportunity to receive a share This report comprises a Policy Report and an Annual Report in the future growth and development of the Group: on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Policy was approved align the interests of the executive directors with the by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The Annual Report on interests of shareholders and reflect the dynamic, Remuneration will be subject to an advisory vote at the 2019 performance-driven culture of the Group: AGM and a new Remuneration Policy will be proposed for principally reward individuals for the overall success of the shareholder approval at the 2020 AGM.
business, measuring and incentivising directors against key short-term and medium to long-term goals: The parts of the report which have been audited have been not enable executive directors to gain significantly from highlighted.
short-term successes, which subsequently prove not to be Remuneration Policy Report the Policy Report consistent with growing the overall value of the business, This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out through the deferral of 60% of annual bonuses for a further the Remuneration Policy for the Company and has been two years after the performance targets have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
achieved: and normally be reviewed against the market every three years, The Policy was developed in line with Rightmoves approach, with intervening pay reviews for executive directors directly that our executive directors should be rewarded with linked to the policies applied to all employees, specifically demonstrably lower than market base salaries and benefits with regard to cost of living rises in base salary and changes and higher than market equity rewards subject to the in benefits.
achievement of challenging performance targets.
This approach accords with the views of our major shareholders The following table provides an overview of the Committees and with best practice principles set out in the Code.
Remuneration Policy, which has been designed to reflect the principles described above: Rightmove plc annual report 2018 61 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy Element of Purpose and Maximum Performance remuneration link to strategy Operation opportunity criteria Salary To provide a Base salaries are normally reviewed Directors current salaries are The Committee considers both base salary annually.
The timing of any change set out on page 72. individual and Group performance which will attract is at the Committees discretion in a broad context when These salary levels will be and retain and will usually be effective from determining base salary increases.
eligible for increases during the high calibre 1 January.
period that the Remuneration executives to When considering the executives Policy operates from the execute the eligibility for a salary increase, the effective date.
Groups Committee considers the During this time, salaries business following points: may be increased each year strategy.
size and responsibilities of the in percentage of salary terms role: in line with those of the wider individual and Group performance: workforce and will be capped increases awarded to the wider at the average workforce workforce: and increase plus 3%, subject to broader economic and inflationary the Committees consideration conditions.
of the overall salary budget, Executive directors remuneration individual and Group is benchmarked against external performance and factors market data periodically generally in the wider economy every three years.
comparators are selected for Increases beyond those linked comparison, which include other to the workforce in percentage companies of a similar size and of salary terms will only be complexity.
The Committee awarded where there is a considers benchmark data, change of incumbent, in alongside a broad review of the responsibility, experience or individuals skills and experience, a significant increase in the performance and internal scale of the role and or size, relativities.
value and or complexity of the Group.
Benefits To provide The executive directors are The value of benefits may vary Not applicable simple, costenrolled in the Groups private from year to year depending on effective medical insurance scheme and the cost to the Company from employee receive life assurance cover equal third party providers.
benefits which to four times base salary.
Additionally, are the same as all executive directors are members those offered of the Groups medical cash plan.
to the wider Executive directors will be entitled workforce.
to receive new benefits on the same terms as those introduced for the whole workforce.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Element of Purpose and Maximum Performance remuneration link to strategy Operation opportunity criteria Pension To provide a The Group operates a stakeholder 6% of base salary Not applicable basic, costpension plan for employees under effective, longwhich the employer contributes term retirement 6% of base salary subject to the benefit.
employee contributing a minimum of 3% of base salary.
The Company does not contribute to any personal pension arrangements.
The Company may introduce a cash alternative to a pension contribution where this would be more tax efficient for the individual.
Whilst executives are not obliged to join, the Company operates a pension salary exchange arrangement whereby executives can exchange part of their salary for Company paid pension contributions.
Where executives exchange salary and this reduces the Companys National Insurance Contributions the Company credits the full saving to the executives pension.
Annual bonus To incentivise The annual bonus comprises a 125% of base salary The bonus is determined by and including and recognise cash award 40% of any bonus based on performance against Deferred execution of earned and a DSP award a range of key performance Share Bonus the business 60% of any bonus earned.
indicators which will be selected Plan DSP strategy on an A greater proportion of the and weighted to support delivery annual basis.
annual bonus may be deferred in of the business strategy.
future years at the Committees Rewards the The primary bonus metric will discretion.
achievement of be profit-based e. g. underlying annual financial Deferred shares will vest after two operating profit with targets set in and operational years and be potentially forfeitable relation to a carefully considered objectives.
business plan and requiring significant out-performance of that Payments under the annual bonus plan to trigger maximum payments.
plan may be subject to clawback in the event of a material A minority of bonus will also be misstatement of the Groups earned based on pre-set targets financial results or misconduct.
drawn from the Groups other key performance indicators relating to underlying drivers of long-term revenue growth.
Details of the performance measures used for the current year and the targets set for the year under review and performance against them is provided on pages 72 and 78.
25% of the awards vest for achieving the threshold performance target.
Bonus is earned on a linear basis from threshold to maximum performance levels.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 63 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Element of Purpose and Maximum Performance remuneration link to strategy Operation opportunity criteria Performance To incentivise The PSP was established in 2011 200% of base salary Awards vest based on three-year Share Plan and reward and permits annual awards of nil performance against challenging PSP executives cost options, contingent shares financial targets for EPS and for the and forfeitable shares which relative TSR performance.
achievement of vest after three years subject Financial targets will determine superior returns to continued service and the vesting in relation to at least half to shareholders achievement of challenging of an award.
25% of the awards vest for year period, The Committee has discretion to achieving the threshold to retain key introduce a two-year post-vesting performance target.
Awards vest individuals holding period for future executive on a linear basis from threshold to and align appointments to the Board.
interests with A dividend equivalent provision The performance period for shareholders.
operates enabling dividends to be financial targets and relative paid in cash or shares on shares TSR targets is three financial years, at the time of vesting.
starting with the year in which the PSP awards may be subject to award is granted.
clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups financial results or misconduct.
All-employee Provides all Executive directors are entitled to Participation limits are set by None Sharesave employees with participate on the same terms as HMRC from time to time.
Plan the opportunity all other employees in the Groups to own shares in Sharesave Plan, which has standard the Company on terms.
Share To provide all Executive directors are entitled to Participation in the SIP is based None Incentive Plan employees the participate in the SIP on the same on HMRC rules.
Share awards SIP opportunity to terms as all other employees.
are discretionary and made own shares in The SIP has standard terms and within the SIP rules.
the Company currently only free shares are on equal terms.
However, executive directors routinely forfeit their entitlement to any free share awards.
The Committee may award free shares to employees, subject to the continued strong Group performance.
Share awards will typically be made annually and will be modest in value, historically shares to the value of 2,000 per employee.
Share To provide Executive directors are required Shareholding guideline: Not applicable ownership alignment to retain at least half of any share 200% of base salary for guidelines between the awards vesting or exercised after all executive directors.
executive selling sufficient shares to meet directors and the exercise price and to pay any shareholders.
tax liabilities due until they have met the shareholding guideline.
The Committee will regularly monitor progress towards the guidelines.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Element of Purpose and Maximum Performance remuneration link to strategy Operation opportunity criteria NonTo provide a The fees for non-executive Fees for the Chairman and None executive competitive directors including the Company non-executive directors were directors fee which will Chairman are reviewed periodically reviewed in 2018 and are set attract and generally every three years.
out on page 73. retain high The Committee will consider Fee increases may take place calibre the Chairmans fee, whilst the if fee levels are considered individuals and non-executive directors fees are to have become out of line reflects their considered by the wider Board, with the responsibilities and relevant skills excluding the non-executives.
time commitments of and experience.
Fee levels for each role are individual roles.
determined after considering the Flexibility is retained to responsibility of the role, the skills increase the above fee levels and knowledge required and the in the event that it is necessary expected time commitments.
to recruit a new Chairman or Periodic benchmarking against non-executive director of relevant market comparators, an appropriate calibre in reflecting the size and complexity future years.
of the role, is used to provide context when setting fee levels.
In exceptional circumstances, where the normal time commitment has been substantially exceeded, an additional fee may be paid at the Boards discretion.
Business To reimburse Directors may claim reasonable Expenses vary from year to Not applicable expenses directors for business expenses within the year according to each reasonable terms of the Groups expenses directors responsibilities, business policy and be reimbursed on the business activity and location.
same basis as all employees.
The Group may reimburse business expenses which are in future classified as taxable benefits by HMRC.
Discretions maintained by the Committee in operating determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan the incentive plans purposes based on the rules of each plan and the The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, PSP, appropriate treatment chosen including the timing Sharesave Plan and SIP according to their respective rules of the delivery of shares: and in accordance with the Listing Rules and HMRC rules adjustments if any required in certain circumstances where relevant.
e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : and The Committee retains discretion, consistent with market the annual review of performance measures, targets practice, in a number of regards to the operation and and weightings for the annual bonus plan and PSP from administration of these plans.
These discretions include, year to year.
but are not limited to, the following: the selection of participants in the respective plan: The Committee also retains the ability to adjust the targets the timing of grant of an award if any and payments: and or set different measures for the annual bonus plan the size of an award and or a payment with limits as and PSP if events occur e. g. a material divestment or described in the table above : acquisition which cause it to determine that the conditions the extent of vesting based on the achievement of are no longer appropriate and an amendment is required so performance targets and applicable exercise periods that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are where relevant: not materially less difficult to satisfy.
how to deal with a change of control e. g. the timing of testing performance targets or restructuring of the Group: Rightmove plc annual report 2018 65 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, For the longer term PSP awards, a combination of underlying be detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration and if basic earnings per share EPS and relative TSR performance appropriate, the subject of prior communication with the conditions are used as performance measures.
EPS is Companys major shareholders.
considered the most appropriate financial metric for Rightmove at this stage in its development since it is the For the avoidance of doubt, all previous commitments or measure of profitability that is most closely aligned with entitlements agreed prior to the approval of this Policy or shareholders interests and monitored on an ongoing basis appointment to the Board will be permitted to pay out on within the business.
The Policy also recognises that relative their original terms or in line with the Policy in force at the TSR should also be a performance measure in order for time they were agreed.
there to be a clear alignment of executive directors and Selection of performance measures and how shareholder interests.
EPS targets are set based on sliding targets are set scales that take account of internal financial planning and The performance metrics used for the annual bonus and external analyst forecasts.
Only 25% of the EPS element will long-term incentive plans are derived from the Groups pay out for threshold performance levels, with the maximum key performance indicators.
Each performance measure award requiring substantial out-performance.
For TSR, the has a threshold target, with 25% payable, and a stretching range of targets measure how successful the Company is in maximum target with 100% payable and a sliding scale for out-performing the FTSE 350 Index with 25% of this part of intermediate performance.
the award vesting at the threshold performance level, through to full vesting for 25% out-performance of the Index Underlying operating profit is the primary performance metric over the three-year performance period.
For historic PSP for the annual bonus as it is a key financial performance awards, performance against the FTSE 250 Index was the indicator used within the business and aligned to the Groups selected measure, however, the Company has resided in the strategy of delivering profitable growth.
Operating profit is top quartile of the FTSE 250 for some time and is a current measured on an underlying basis for consistency and to FTSE 100 constituent and thus the wider index is now exclude any volatility in relation to the Companys share price considered more appropriate for comparison purposes.
in connection with the IFRS 2 valuation and National Insurance Performance targets do not apply to Sharesave or SIP charge on share-based incentives granted.
The underlying awards since these awards are structured to encourage operating profit target is based around meeting and employees to become shareholders and to maintain exceeding the business plan for the year.
tax-favoured status the awards must operate on a The annual bonus is also payable for performance against consistent basis for all employees.
other operational metrics, including a traffic market share target, growth in Other business revenue and an employee How the views of employees are taken into account engagement target, for a minority of the bonus, with a sliding The Committee has not felt it necessary to consult directly scale used to determine performance against each measure.
with employees on executive remuneration matters, however, it always seeks employee views via management when Market share, measured as the time consumers spend on considering remuneration proposals.
The Committee is Rightmove compared to our nearest competitors, is a key aware of employment conditions within the wider workforce indicator of the size and engagement of our audience and when setting executive directors Remuneration Policy.
the value which Rightmove brings to our customers.
The Committee therefore considers it important to set a Remuneration Policy for executive directors compared challenging target to increase Rightmoves share of this to other employees audience from an already very high starting point.
The Committee will consider the proposed salary budget for the whole Group when it is deciding on salary increases for The Other revenue target measures growth in revenue from executive directors specifically.
businesses other than Agency and New Homes.
As some of In line with the Groups strategy to keep remuneration simple these businesses are still at an early stage of development and consistent, benefits and pension arrangements provided compared to Rightmoves core Agency and New Homes to executive directors are identical to those offered to all businesses, growth in revenue rather than in operating Group employees.
profit is considered to be a more appropriate measure: this element of the bonus remains a small proportion of the total bonus opportunity.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements The extent to which annual bonuses are offered varies by shareholders representing over 60% of the Companys level of employee within the Group, with the quantum and share ownership on the application of the Policy in relation to performance metrics used determined by the nature of the 2019 executive director remuneration proposals.
The role and responsibilities and market rates at that level.
shareholders consulted were generally supportive of the proposals for 2019.
The Committee received constructive Long-term incentive awards such as the DSP, are only feedback in relation to the alignment of directors pay to all offered to senior management as those awards are more employee rises in basic salary and shareholders preference heavily weighted towards performance-related pay and for post-vesting holding periods for long-term incentives.
there is a stronger connection between the value created Shareholder feedback has been carefully considered by the for shareholders and the reward for participants.
Committee and will contribute to the development of the Shareholders views 2020 Remuneration Policy.
The Committee considers it vitally important to maintain open and transparent communication with the Companys shareholders.
In 2018, the Committee consulted major Reward scenarios The Companys Policy as previously outlined is illustrated below using three different performance scenarios: minimum, on-target and maximum: 2500 2,130 2000 47% 1,530 1,473 1500 47% 43% 1,058 1000 42% 29% 23% 503 29% 500 23% 361 100% 34% 24% 100% 34% 24% 0 Minimum Target Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Peter Brooks-Johnson Robyn Perriss Chief Executive Ocer Finance Director Fixed pay Bonus LTIP Assumptions: 1.
Minimum fixed pay only salary benefits pension.
On-target 55% payable of the 2019 annual bonus and 62.5% vesting of the 2019 PSP awards being the midpoint between threshold vesting of 25% and maximum vesting of 100%.
Maximum 100% payable of the 2019 annual bonus and 100% vesting of the 2019 PSP awards.
Base salary is as set at 1 January 2019.
The value of taxable benefits is based on the cost of supplying those benefits using the cost as disclosed on page 76 for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The executive directors have elected not to participate in the Companys pension arrangements.
The executive directors can participate in the Sharesave Plan and SIP on the same basis as other employees.
The value that may be received under these schemes is subject to tax approved limits.
For simplicity, the value that may be received from participating in these schemes has been excluded from the above charts.
The executive directors do not participate in the SIP and the value of any vested Sharesave options is included in the directors remuneration set out on page 77.
As required by the regulations no assumption is made as to future share price growth for reward elements deferred bonus and long-term incentives that are delivered in shares.
Amounts have been rounded to the nearest 1,000.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 67 000 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Recruitment and promotion policy The Committee proposes an executive directors remuneration package for new appointments in line with the principles outlined in the table below: Element of remuneration Policy Base salary Base salary levels will be set based on the roles and responsibilities of the individual together with their relevant skills and experience, taking into account the market rates for companies of comparable size and complexity and internal Company relativities.
In some circumstances e. g. to reflect an individuals limited experience at a Plc board level it may be considered appropriate to set initial salary levels below the perceived market competitive rate.
Phased increases, potentially above inflation, may then be offered to achieve the desired market positioning over time, subject to an individuals continued performance and development in the role.
Benefits Benefits as provided to current executive directors.
Where necessary the Committee may approve the payment of relocation expenses to facilitate recruitment, and flexibility is retained for the Company to pay legal fees and other costs incurred by the individual in relation to their appointment.
Pension Defined contributions or a cash alternative at the level provided to current executive directors.
Annual bonus An annual bonus would operate in the same manner as outlined for the current executive directors as described above and in the Annual Report on Remuneration, although it would be pro-rated to reflect the employment period during the bonus year.
Flexibility will be retained to set equivalent objectives for any new executive joining part way through a year.
The maximum bonus potential would not exceed 125% of base salary.
It would be expected that the bonus for a new appointment would be assessed on the same performance metrics as that for the current executive directors on an ongoing basis.
However, depending on the timing and nature of appointment it may be necessary to set tailored performance criteria for their first bonus plan.
Long-term incentives A new appointment will be eligible to receive PSP awards as outlined in the Policy table.
Share awards may be granted shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a closed period and would be measured against the same performance criteria as the current executives.
However, any award granted outside the normal award and performance cycle may be pro-rated at the Committees discretion.
The Committee may introduce post-vesting holding periods under the PSP for new executives if it considers this an appropriate commitment in conjunction with the shareholding guidelines.
The ongoing maximum award would not exceed 200% of base salary.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
The new appointment would be eligible to participate in the Sharesave Plan and the SIP under the same terms as all other employees.
Buy-out awards To facilitate an external appointment, it may be necessary to buy-out remuneration which would be forfeited on leaving their previous employer.
When determining the quantum and structure of any buy-out awards the Committee will, as a minimum, take into account the following factors: the form of remuneration cash or shares : timing of expected payment vesting: and expected value i. e. taking into account the likelihood of achieving the existing performance criteria.
Buy-out awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys existing share plans to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors service contracts and non-executive awards will remain subject to performance conditions, which directors terms of appointment will be measured over the performance period from grant to The Committees policy on service agreements for the original vesting date, unless the Committee determine executive directors is that they should provide for to assess performance from grant to the date of cessation, 12 months notice of termination by the Company and by and which will be reduced pro-rata to reflect the proportion the executive.
Any proposals for the early termination by of the performance period actually served.
The Committee the Company of the service agreements of directors are retains the discretion to disapply time pro-rating in considered by the Committee.
exceptional circumstances and to accelerate the vesting of awards for good leavers in the event of death.
The service agreements for the executive directors allow for lawful termination of employment by making a payment For awards granted under the DSP, good leaver status in lieu of notice or by making phased payments over any may be determined for reasons of death, injury, disability, remaining unexpired period of notice.
The phased payments redundancy, transfer or sale of the employing company or may be reduced if, and to the extent that, the executive finds other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
If an alternative remunerated position.
defined as a good leaver, awards will be retained and vest on the original vesting date, save as above in the event of death, In addition, any statutory entitlements or sums to settle when the Committee has the discretion to accelerate vesting.
or compromise claims in connection with the termination would be paid as necessary.
The Company may also Scott Forbes appointment may be terminated by either provide a contribution toward reasonable legal fees or party giving to the other not less than three months notice outplacement services.
The Company may also terminate by making a payment in lieu of notice.
Scott Forbes is not contractually Peter Brooks-Johnson and Robyn Perriss are entitled to entitled to any other benefits on termination of his contract.
a payment in lieu of notice, restricted to base salary and benefits.
In good leaver circumstances a bonus may be The Letters of Appointment for the non-executive directors paid at the normal time subject to achievement of the provide for a term of up to two three-year periods and a performance conditions and pro-rating for the period possible further three-year term subject to re-election worked in the year.
by shareholders and subject to the director remaining independent.
The appointments may be terminated For awards granted under the PSP good leaver status may with a notice period of three months on either side and be determined, in certain prescribed circumstances, such the Letters of Appointment set out the time commitments as death, ill health, disability, redundancy, transfer or sale required to meet the expectations of their roles.
of the employing company, or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee.
If defined as a good leaver, Copies are available for inspection on request to the Company Secretary.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 69 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Further details of all directors contracts and Letters of Appointment are summarised below: Date of contract Notice Length of service at Date of appointment Letter of Appointment months 28 February 2019 Executive directors 1 Peter Brooks-Johnson 10 January 2011 22 February 2011 12 8 years 1 month 2 Robyn Perriss 30 April 2013 1 May 2013 12 5 years 10 months Non-executive directors 3 Scott Forbes Chairman 13 July 2005 21 February 2006 3 13 years 7 months Peter Williams 3 February 2014 3 February 2014 3 5 years 1 month Rakhi Goss-Custard 28 July 2014 28 July 2014 3 4 years 7 months Jacqueline fide Rojas 30 December 2016 10 October 2016 3 2 years 2 months Andrew Findlay 1 June 2017 11 May 2017 3 1 year 9 months Lorna Tilbian 1 February 2018 19 January 2018 3 1 year 1 month 1 Peter Brooks-Johnson joined the Group on 9 January 2006 and was appointed to the Board on 10 January 2011.
His service with the Group at the date of this report is 13 years and 1 month.
2 Robyn Perriss joined the Group on 1 July 2007 and was appointed to the Board on 30 April 2013.
Her service to the Group at the date of this report is 11 years and 8 months.
3 The Chairmans letter of appointment was transferred from Rightmove Group Limited to Rightmove plc with effect from 28 January 2008 on completion of a Scheme of Arrangement.
External appointments With the approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept one external appointment as a non-executive director of another listed or similar company and retain any fees received.
In October 2018, Peter Brooks-Johnson was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Interim Board of MPI MarketPlaces International.
MPI is the preliminary business name of the international online classifieds operation owned by Schibsted ASA, which will be spun off and established as an independent, listed company.
Peter received a directors fee of 149,250 Norwegian Krone from MPI for the period of his appointment to 31 December 2018.
Robyn Perriss currently holds no outside directorships.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual Report on Remuneration External advisors Aon, which is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Remuneration Committee role and membership Group and has signed up to its Code of Conduct, has been Terms of reference retained as the Committees remuneration advisor since The primary role of the Committee is to make 2011.
The terms of engagement between the Company and recommendations to the Board as to the Companys overall Aon are available from the Company Secretary on request.
policy and framework for the remuneration of the executive The total fees paid to Aon in respect of services to the directors and the Chairman of the Board.
The remuneration Committee during the year were 27,000. and terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board as a whole.
During 2018 Aon also provided services to the Company in connection with the valuation of share-based incentives In accordance with the Code, the Committee also as required by IFRS 2 and confirmed that, in its view, these recommends the structure and monitors the level of services did not present a conflict of interest with the other remuneration for the first layer of management below Board services provided to the Committee.
The Committee is also aware of, and advises on, the reviews its relationship with external advisors on a regular employee benefit structures throughout the Group and basis and continues to believe that there are no conflicts ensures that it is kept aware of any potential business risks of interest.
arising from those remuneration arrangements.
What has the Committee done during the year?
The Committee has formal terms of reference which are The Committee met five times during the year to consider reviewed annually and updated as required.
These are and, where appropriate, approve key remuneration items available on the Companys website at plc.
co. uk including: or on request from the Company Secretary.
Pay and incentive plan reviews Membership annual review and approval of executive directors base The following independent non-executive directors salaries and benefits: were members of the Committee during 2018: review of 2018 business performance against relevant Peter Williams Chairman of the Committee performance targets to determine annual bonus payouts Rakhi Goss-Custard and vesting of long-term incentives: Jacqueline fide Rojas to 4 May 2018 review and approval of appropriate benchmarks and Lorna Tilbian from 4 May 2018 performance measures for the annual performancerelated bonus and 2018 PSP awards to ensure measures The Committee met five times during 2018 and attendance are aligned with strategy and that targets are appropriately at meetings is shown in the Corporate Governance Report stretching: on page 42. approval of share awards granted in March 2018 under The quorum for meetings of the Committee is two the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSP and the PSP: and members.
The Committee will meet as necessary, but ongoing monitoring of senior management remuneration.
normally at least five times a year.
The Company Secretary Governance and strategy acts as Secretary to the Committee.
review and approval of the Directors Remuneration Report: Only members of the Committee have the right to attend review of the 2018 AGM voting and feedback from Committee meetings.
The Chairman of the Committee institutional investors: has requested that the Chairman of the Board attend the approval of changes to the share plan rules for the new meetings except during discussions relating to his own Data Protection Act: remuneration.
The CEO may also be invited to meetings consultation with shareholders on the 2019 executive when the Committee is considering his recommendations remuneration proposals: on the remuneration of executive colleagues and adoption of a new Restricted Share Plan for use with market management below Board level.
No executive director purchase shares for senior managers: is involved in deciding their own remuneration.
evaluation of the Committees performance during the year: and review of the Committees terms of reference.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 71 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Application of Policy for the year ending The performance measures and weightings will be as follows: 31 December 2019 Measure As a % of maximum bonus opportunity Salaries Financial targets The executive directors salaries for the 2019 financial year 1 Underlying operating profit 65% are set out in the table below: Strategic targets Salary Salary Workforce 2 Traffic market share 15% 1 January 31 December increase 3 Other revenue 10% 2019 2018 plus Change 4 Tenant Services 5% Executive directors 5 Employee engagement 5% Peter Brooks-Johnson 500,605 472,268 3% 6% 1 Operating profit before share-based payments and NI on share-based Robyn Perriss 359,552 339,200 3% 6% incentives.
2 Measured on a time on site basis minutes spent relative to our nearest competitors by reference to comScore.
The 6% increase in base salaries for the executive directors 3 Revenue excluding Agency and New Homes.
represents an increase of 3% above the average workforce 4 Based on the number of Rightmove Tenant Passports delivered during 2019. rise of 3% for 2019, primarily to recognise the scale and 5 Based on the results of the annual employee survey.
complexity of those roles and to address the relatively In relation to the financial target a challenging sliding scale low pay of these executives compared with market norms.
will operate with 25% of the maximum bonus opportunity The salaries remain well below the market median for payable at the threshold underlying operating profit target executives in comparable companies.
All employee salaries relative to the 2019 business plan through to 100% are subject to annual review and market adjustments as becoming payable for significant outperformance relative appropriate: the Committee approves salaries for the to the plan.
A greater proportion of the award will be paid senior management team and other key roles.
Pension and other benefits The weighting of Other revenue as a percentage of The Group operates a stakeholder pension plan for all maximum bonus opportunity has been reduced from 15% employees under which the employer contributes 6% of in 2018 to 10% in 2019.
A new tenant services operational base salary, subject to the employee contributing a minimum business target has been introduced at 5%.
Peter Brooks-Johnson and Robyn measure reflects the business plan objective to grow the Perriss elected not to participate in the pension plan during number of Rightmove Tenant Passports completed by the year.
The Company does not contribute to any personal prospective tenants, measured as a percentage of leads pension arrangements.
received by customers via Rightmove that contain a The executive directors are enrolled on the same terms as all completed Passport.
All other performance measures employees in the Groups private medical insurance scheme and weightings remain unchanged from 2018. and receive life assurance cover equal to four times base salary.
Additionally, the executive directors are members of The targets themselves, as they relate to the 2019 financial the Groups medical cash plan.
year, are deemed to be commercially sensitive.
However, retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance Annual bonus against them will be provided in next years Annual Report The annual bonus for the 2019 financial year will be on Remuneration to the extent that they do not remain consistent with the policy detailed on page 63 of commercially sensitive at that time.
the Policy section of this report in terms of maximum Long-term incentives bonus opportunity, deferral and clawback provisions.
The award levels under the PSP, approved by the Committee The mechanism through which the clawback can be in 2018, remain at 200% of base salary for both executive implemented enabling both the recovery and withholding directors.
of incentive pay enables the Committee to i reduce the cash bonus earned in a subsequent year and or reduce Consistent with the current Policy and previous years, outstanding DSP PSP share awards i. e. withholding awards to the executive directors under the PSP in 2019 will provisions may be used to effect a recovery or ii for the be subject to a mixture of EPS 75% of awards and relative Committee to require that a net of tax balancing cash TSR 25% of the awards performance conditions.
The 2019 payment be made to the Company.
The performance targets are as follows: measures have been selected to reflect a range of financial and strategic targets that continue to support the key objectives of the Group.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements EPS performance condition Chairman and non-executive directors fees The Groups EPS growth will be measured over the period of In line with our Policy, the Chairman and non-executive three financial years 2019 to 2021.
The EPS figure used will directors fees were reviewed in a market context and in be equivalent to the Groups basic underlying EPS before light of directors time commitments during 2018 and share-based payments, National Insurance on share-based increased with effect from 1 January 2019.
The next review incentives and no related adjustment for tax.
With a view is scheduled for 2021 with any increase taking effect in 2022. to ensuring appropriately stretching but achievable targets The basic non-executive fee has been increased to are set in light of market expectations for the Group, the 55,000 with an additional 15,000 fee per annum paid for following range of targets will apply to the 2019 awards: the chairing of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Underlying basic EPS growth % of award vesting The extra fee of 5,000 for the Senior Independent 1 from 2019 to 2021 maximum 75% Director is unchanged: Less than 20% 0% Annual fee Annual fee 1 January 2019 31 December 2018 20% 18.75% Scott Forbes Chairman 185,000 170,000 50% 75% Peter Williams 75,000 65,000 Between 20% and 50% Straight-line vesting 1 Andrew Findlay 70,000 56,558 1 The benchmark underlying basic EPS for the financial year 2018 from which Rakhi Goss-Custard 55,000 50,000 these targets will be measured is 18.3p.
Jacqueline fide Rojas 55,000 50,000 As in prior years, the targets that are intended to operate 2 Lorna Tilbian 55,000 45,833 for the 2019 PSP awards were set to be appropriately demanding in light of the Groups internal planning, external 1 Fee for non-executive director to 4 May 2018 and for Audit Committee market expectations for future growth and the current Chairman from that date.
2 Fee for 11 months from appointment on 1 February 2018. trading environment.
The targets are considered to provide a realistic incentive at the lower end of the performance Statement of shareholder voting at AGM range but require exceptional performance to achieve full At the AGM on 4 May 2018, shareholders overwhelmingly vesting.
On this basis, the Committee is satisfied that the voted in favour of the Directors Remuneration Report.
range of targets are appropriately demanding, and no less The Committee believes this illustrates the strong level challenging than the range of targets set for prior year awards.
of shareholder support for the remuneration framework.
Relative TSR performance condition The table below shows full details of the voting outcomes The vesting schedule for the relative TSR element of for the Directors Remuneration Report: executive directors 2019 PSP awards is set out below.
Votes % Votes Votes % Votes Votes Relative TSR will be assessed against the FTSE 350 1 for for against against withheld Index, reflecting the Companys size in terms of market Directors capitalisation.
Performance will be measured over Remuneration three financial years.
Report 72,763,617 95.12 3,731,967 4.88 295,965 TSR performance of the Company % of award vesting 1 relative to the FTSE 350 Index maximum 25% 1 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes cast For and Against a resolution.
Less than the Index 0% Equal to the Index 6.25% In line with the Companys commitment to ongoing dialogue with its shareholders, the Committee corresponds with 25% higher than the Index 25% major shareholders and meetings are offered, where Intermediate performance Straight-line vesting appropriate, to understand the reasons for any potential or actual opposition to the Companys Remuneration Policy.
1 If the FTSE 350 Indexs TSR was 50% over the three-year performance period, Changes will be made to our Policy where it is considered then the Companys TSR would have to be at least 75% for all 25% of the PSP shares to vest.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 73 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Review of past performance years.
Specifically, it illustrates the value of 100 invested Share price performance in Rightmoves shares and in the FTSE 250 Index and the The Companys share price ended the year at 4.32, down FTSE 350 Index over that period.
4.0% year-on-year the FTSE 250 Index was down 15.6% and As required by the Act, the Companys TSR performance the FTSE 350 Index was down 13.0%.
On a three-year basis is required to be shown against a recognised broad-based the share price has increased by 4.6% and performance share index.
Since 2016, as Rightmove continues to be relative to FTSE 250 and FTSE 350 Indices over that period ranked towards the top of the FTSE 250 Index and more isshown in the graphs below.
recently in the FTSE 100 in terms of market capitalisation, T otal shareholder return TSR the FTSE 350 Index is felt to be more appropriate for the The first graph below compares the TSR of Rightmoves purpose of comparing TSR performance and therefore this shares against the FTSE 250 Index and the FTSE 350 will be used as the criteria applied to 25% of the PSP awards Index for the three-year period from 1 January 2016 to to be granted in March 2019.
TSR is the product of movements in The graphs below illustrate, for statutory purposes, the the share price plus dividends reinvested on the ex-dividend 150 TSR of Rightmoves shares against the FTSE 250 Index date.
TSR provides a useful, widely used benchmark to 140 and the FTSE 350 Index for the three and ten years to illustrate the Companys performance over the last three 31 December 2018.
130 19% 120 TSR Graph three years 9% 110 Total shareholder return 9% 100 150 90 140 80 130 19% 70 120 60 9% 110 9% 100 90 Source: Thomson Reuters Rightmove FTSE 250 FTSE 350 80 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2018, of 100 invested in Rightmove on 31 December 2015, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Indices on a daily basis.
70 60 Source: Thomson Reuters Rightmove FTSE 250 FTSE 350 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2018, of 100 invested in Rightmove on 31 December 2015, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Indices on a daily basis.
TSR Graph ten years Total shareholder return 4000 2741% 3500 3000 2500 2000 4000 1500 2741% 3500 1000 3000 262% 500 2500 136% 0 2000 1500 Source: Thomson Reuters Rightmove FTSE 250 FTSE 350 1000 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2018, of 100 invested in Rightmove on 31 December 2008, 262% compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Indices on a daily basis.
co. uk 0 Source: Thomson Reuters Rightmove FTSE 250 FTSE 350 This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2018, of 100 invested in Rightmove on 31 December 2008, compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Indices on a daily basis.
Value Value Value rebased Value rebased Dec 08 Dec 08 Dec 15 Dec 15 Dec 09 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 11 Dec 16 Dec 16 Dec 12 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 14 Dec 17 Dec 17 Dec 15 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 17 Dec 18 Dec 18 Dec 18 Dec 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Total remuneration for the Chief Executive Officer The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive Officer over a ten-year performance period.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus and long-term incentive awards that vested based on performance in those years.
Peter Brooks-Johnson was appointed Chief Executive Officer on 9 May 2017.
2 Ed Williams was Chief Executive Officer until his retirement on 30 April 2013.
Nick McKittrick was appointed Chief Executive Officer at this time.
3 The table above includes share-based incentive awards in the period that the associated performance conditions, excluding service conditions are satisfied.
Certain pre-float share option awards prior to 2006, which had only service conditions and no performance conditions would have been included in the single figure remuneration table in the year of grant in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Act.
The table above therefore excludes 4,151,532 and 2,026,674 of awards with no performance conditions, which vested in 2010 and 2009 respectively.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 75 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration audited The information included below up to and including page 84 is audited.
The remuneration of the directors of the Company during 2018 for time served as a director is as follows: Fixed pay Performance-related pay PerformanceTotal Fixed pay Annual Long-term related pay remuneration 1 2 3 Salary fee Benefits subtotal bonus incentives subtotal in 2018 Executive directors Peter Brooks-Johnson 472,268 2,192 474,460 460,462 555,256 1,015,718 1,490,178 4 Robyn Perriss 339,200 1,414 340,614 330,720 439,219 769,939 1,110,553 Non-executive directors Scott Forbes 170,000 170,000 170,000 5 Ashley Martin 20,870 20,870 20,870 Peter Williams 65,000 65,000 65,000 Rakhi Goss-Custard 50,000 50,000 50,000 Jacqueline fide Rojas 50,000 50,000 50,000 6 Andrew Findlay 56,558 56,558 56,558 7 Lorna Tilbian 45,833 45,833 45,833 1 Benefits in kind for the executive directors relate to private medical insurance and the medical cash plan.
2 The annual bonus amount relates to the accrued payment in respect of the full year results for the year ended 31 December 2018 including the deferred element 60% of annual bonus.
3 The value of the long-term incentives includes nil cost PSPs where vesting is calculated by taking the number of nil cost options expected to vest in March 2019 including dividend roll up, which are dependent on the three-year performance period ended 31 December 2018 and multiplying by the year-end closing share price of 4.32.
4 In cash terms, Robyn received 6,523 less in relation to her base salary as she exchanged salary for five additional days holiday benefit under the Groups flexible holiday policy.
5 Fee for the period to retirement on 4 May 2018.
6 Fee as a non-executive director to 4 May 2018 and as Audit Committee Chairman from that date.
7 Fee for 11 months from appointment on 1 February 2018.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements The remuneration of the directors of the Company during 2017 was: Fixed pay Performance-related pay PerformanceTotal Fixed pay Annual Long-term related pay remuneration 1 2 3 Salary fee Benefits subtotal bonus incentives subtotal in 2017 Executive directors 4 Peter Brooks-Johnson 420,103 1,852 421,955 315,077 1,155,196 1,470,273 1,892,228 Robyn Perriss 320,000 1,406 321,406 240,000 925,763 1,165,763 1,487,169 Non-executive directors Scott Forbes 170,000 170,000 170,000 5 Colin Kemp 18,102 18,102 18,102 Ashley Martin 60,000 60,000 60,000 Peter Williams 65,000 65,000 65,000 Rakhi Goss-Custard 50,000 50,000 50,000 Jacqueline fide Rojas 50,000 50,000 50,000 6 Andrew Findlay 29,166 29,166 29,166 1 Benefits in kind for the executive directors relate to private medical insurance and the medical cash plan.
2 The annual bonus amount relates to the accrued payment in respect of the full year results for the year ended 31 December 2017 including the deferred element 60% of annual bonus.
3 The value of the long-term incentives includes: nil cost PSPs where vesting is calculated by taking the number of nil cost options expected to vest in March 2018 including dividend roll up, which are dependent on the three-year performance period ended 31 December 2017 and multiplying by the 31 December 2017 closing share price of 4.50: and the notional capital gain on Sharesave options exercisable on 1 November 2017 which reflects the difference between the option grant price and the market value of shares on the date they vested.
4 Reflects base salary of 373,136 as Chief Operating Officer to 9 May 2017 and increased annual salary of 445,536 as Chief Executive Officer from 10 May 2017.
5 Fee for four months to 9 May 2017.
6 Fee for seven months from 1 June 2017 to 31 December 2017.
Defined contribution pension The Group operates a stakeholder pension plan for employees under which the employer contributes 6% of base salary, subject to the employee contributing a minimum of 3% of base salary.
None of the directors elected to participate in the pension plan either year.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 77 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued How was pay linked to performance in 2018?
Annual bonus plan The incentive for the financial year ended 31 December 2018 was in the form of a cash bonus of up to 50% of salary and a DSP bonus of up to 75% of salary i. e. 125% in total.
The bonus both cash and DSP elements was determined by a mixture of underlying operating profit performance 65% and key performance indicators 35% relating to underlying drivers of long-term revenue growth.
When comparing performance against the 2018 bonus targets set, the Committee determined that 78% of the maximum achievable cash and DSP bonus should be paid to the executive directors.
Accordingly, a cash bonus of 39% of base salary out of a maximum of 50% will be paid to the executives and 58.5% of base salary out of a maximum of 75% will be granted to the executive directors under the DSP, which will be deferred until March 2021.
More details are provided in the table below: As a % of maximum Resulting bonus bonus Measure Hurdle opportunity Actual performance achieved % achieved Financial targets Underlying Targets: 65% Underlying operating profit achieved: 54% 1 operating profit 194.4m: 25% payout 203.3m 205.9m: 100% payout The 2018 underlying operating profit represented growth of 10% on 2017 Strategic targets Traffic market Growth in time in minutes spent on 15% Growth in time in minutes spent on 15% share Rightmove platforms as measured by Rightmove platforms year-on-year comScore relative to nearest competitors was over 800% higher than our nearest Same absolute growth: 25% payout competitors 50% higher absolute growth: 100% payout 2 Other revenue Growth of 10%: 25% payout 15% Revenue increased by 11% from 7% Growth of 15%: 100% payout 18.6m to 20.6m Employee Percentage of respondents to the employee 5% 91% of respondents say Rightmove 2% 3 engagement survey who say Rightmove is a great place is a great place to work to work: 90%: 25% payout 95%: 100% payout Total 100% 78% 1 Operating profit before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
2 The targets relate to all revenue streams except Agency and New Homes.
3 Based on the results of the annual employee survey.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Long-term incentives vesting during the year The PSP awards granted in March 2016 were subject to EPS 75% of the awards and relative TSR 25% of the awards performance conditions that related to the three-year period ended 31 December 2018.
The vesting schedule for the relative TSR element of executive directors 2016 PSP awards is set out below: % of award vesting Relative TSR condition maximum 25% Less than the Index 0% Equal to the Index 6.25% 25% higher than the Index 25% Intermediate performance Straight-line vesting At the end of the performance period, Rightmoves TSR was 10.1% compared to 20.7% for the FTSE 350 Index.
This performance is below the Index and therefore this part of the award maximum 25% will not vest on 1 March 2019.
Rightmoves EPS growth is measured over a period of three financial years 2016 to 2018.
The EPS figure used is equivalent to Rightmoves reported underlying basic EPS before share-based payments, NI on share-based incentives and no related adjustment for tax and the vesting schedule is set out below: Underlying basic EPS growth % of award vesting from 2016 to 2018 maximum 75% Less than 25% 0% 25% 18.75% 55% 75% Between 25% and 55% Straight-line vesting At the end of the performance period, underlying basic EPS was 18.3p which from an underlying basic EPS-base of 12.1p restated for comparability to reflect the 10:1 share subdivision effective 31 August 2018 results in three-year EPS growth of 51%, just below the maximum 55% EPS growth target and will result in 67% vesting of this part of the award maximum of 75% on 1 March 2019.
Share awards granted during the year On 28 February 2018 Peter Brooks-Johnson and Robyn Perriss were awarded shares under the PSP, which vest in March 2020, and are subject to a mixture of EPS 75% of the awards and TSR relative to the FTSE 350 Index 25% of the awards performance with the greater weighting on EPS to reflect its particular relevance to the performance of the business.
1 Executive director Basis of grant Number of shares Face value of award 2 Peter Brooks-Johnson 200% of base salary 212,310 944,536 2 Robyn Perriss 200% of base salary 152,490 678,400 1 Based on the average mid-market share price for the three consecutive days prior to grant, taken from the Daily Official List, of 44.49 which is equivalent to 4.45 post the 10:1 share subdivision.
2 Adjusted for 10:1 share subdivision effective on 31 August 2018.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 79 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued The vesting schedule for the relative TSR element of The following vesting schedule will apply for executive executive directors 2018 PSP awards is set out below.
It is directors awards granted in 2018: consistent with the TSR condition used for previous grants Underlying basic EPS growth % of award vesting under the share option scheme.
Performance will be from 2018 to 2020 maximum 75% measured over three financial years.
Less than 20% 0% % of award vesting 20% 18.75% Relative TSR condition maximum 25% 50% 75% Less than the Index 0% Between 20% and 50% Straight-line vesting Equal to the Index 6.25% 25% higher than the Index 25% The benchmark underlying basic EPS for the financial year Intermediate performance Straight-line vesting 2017 from which these targets will be measured is 16.3p restated for comparability to reflect the 10:1 share subdivision effective 31 August 2018.
Rightmoves EPS growth will be measured over a period of three financial years 2018 to 2020.
The EPS figure used will be equivalent to the Groups underlying basic EPS before share-based payments, NI on share-based incentives and no related adjustments for tax.
The option prices and the number of shares under options granted before 31 August 2018 have been restated for the share subdivision.
Options exercised before the share subdivision have not been restated.
2 The unapproved option granted on 5 March 2009 was exercised by Peter Brooks-Johnson and net settled by the Company on 27 November 2018.
Peter subsequently sold 623,440 shares at a price of 4.37 per share to satisfy the resulting tax liability and retained the balance of 697,406 shares.
3 The nil cost performance shares awarded under the PSP to executive directors on 3 March 2014 vested in 2017 subject to EPS and relative TSR performance measures, which were met in full.
Peter Brooks-Johnson exercised the nil cost option over 260,210 shares which included a dividend roll-up of 8,810 shares on 27 November 2018 and sold 122,820 shares at an average market price of 4.37 per share to satisfy the resulting tax liability and retained the balance of 137,390 shares.
4 The nil cost deferred shares granted under the DSP on 1 March 2016 vested in March 2017.
Peter Brooks-Johnson exercised the nil cost option over 66,170 shares on 27 November 2018, sold 31,233 shares at an average market price of 4.37 per share to satisfy the resulting tax liability and retained the balance of 34,937 shares.
5 The nil cost performance shares awarded under the PSP to executive directors on 2 March 2015 vested in March 2018 subject to EPS and relative TSR performance measures, which were met in full.
Robyn Perriss exercised the nil cost option over 20,133 shares which included a dividend roll-up of 708 shares on 16 August 2018 and sold 14,798 shares at an average market price of 49.48 per share to satisfy the resulting tax liability and retained 5,335 shares, being half the balance available after tax.
6 The nil cost deferred shares granted under the DSP on 1 March 2016 vested in March 2018.
Robyn Perriss exercised the nil cost option over 5.234 shares on 16 August 2018 and sold all the shares at an average market price of 49.48 per share.
7 On 28 February 2018, the executive directors were awarded nil cost deferred shares under the DSP, which vest in March 2020.
The average mid-market share price for the three consecutive preceding days, used to calculate the number of shares awarded, was 44.49.
8 On 28 February 2018, the executive directors were awarded nil cost performance shares under the PSP, which vest in March 2021.
Further details are set out on pages 72 to 73.
9 On 1 October 2018, Peter Brooks-Johnson was granted a Sharesave option over 2,313 shares at an exercise price of 3.89.
The option will be exercisable from November 2021.
co. uk Date granted Share-based incentives held 1 January 2018 Granted in year dividend roll-up Exercise price Exercised prior to subdivision on 31 August 2018 Share-based incentives adjusted 1 for subdivision 10:1 Exercise price post subdivision Average share price at date of exercise Share-based incentives held at 31 December 2018 Vesting date Expiry date Strategic report Governance Financial statements Dilution All existing executive share-based incentives can be satisfied from shares held in the Rightmove Employees Share Trust EBT and shares held in treasury.
It is intended that the 2019 share-based incentive awards will also be settled from shares currently held in the EBT or from shares held in treasury without any requirement to issue further shares.
During 2018, treasury shares were used to satisfy vested DSP and PSP awards and unapproved options over 4,111,256 shares, representing 0.5% of issued share capital less treasury shares as at 31 December 2018.
Directors interests in shares The interests both beneficial and family interests of the directors in office at the date of this report in the share capital of the Company were as follows: Interests in Interests in ordinary shares of 0.1 pence share-based incentives At PSP & DSP 1 January 2018 PSP & DSP awards Options At restated 10:1 awards vested but Options vested but 31 December 2018 share subdivision unvested unexercised unvested unexercised Executive directors Peter Brooks-Johnson 1,771,493 907,160 721,200 254,510 5,043 528,570 Robyn Perriss 241,150 187,890 538,880 5,470 Non-executive directors Scott Forbes 2,193,000 2,193,000 Peter Williams 37,280 37,280 Rakhi Goss-Custard 5,440 5,440 Jacqueline fide Rojas 1,880 1,880 Andrew Findlay Lorna Tilbian Total 4,250,243 3,332,650 1,260,280 254,510 10,513 528,570 The Companys shares in issue including 14,813,304 shares held in treasury as at 31 December 2018 comprised 907,684,330 ordinary shares of 0.1p each, 2017: 93,266,207 ordinary shares of 1p each.
The closing share price of the Company was 4.32 as at 31 December 2018.
The lowest and highest share prices during the year, restated for the share subdivision, were 4.18 and 5.35 respectively.
The executive directors are regarded as being interested, for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, in 2,248,020 ordinary shares of 0.1p each 2017: 263,767 ordinary shares of 1p each in the Company currently held by the EBT at 31 December 2018 as they are, together with other employees, potential beneficiaries of theEBT.
The directors beneficial holdings represent 0.5% of the Companys shares in issue as at 31 December 2018 2017: 0.4% excluding shares held in treasury.
There have been no changes to the above interests between the year end and the date of this report.
Executive director share ownership guidelines are set out in the Remuneration Policy Report on page 64.
The interests of the executive directors in office at 31 December 2018 in the share capital of the Company as a percentage of base salary were as follows: Number of Value of Base salary shares held at Value of shares at shares as a % 1 1 January 2019 31 December 2018 31 December 2018 of base salary Executive directors Peter Brooks-Johnson 500,605 1,771,493 7,652,850 1,529% Robyn Perriss 359,552 241,150 1,041,768 290% 1 Based on 4.32 per share, being the closing share price on 31 December 2018.
Rightmove plc annual report 2018 83 Governance | Directors remuneration report continued Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer The table below shows the movement in the salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer CEO between the current and previous financial year compared to that of the total amounts for all employees of the Group for each of these elements of pay.
The CEOs base salary increased by 6%, in line with the approved Remuneration Policy of awarding 3% above the average workforce inflationary increase for 2018.
The annual bonus of the CEO increased relative to 2017 by 38% as a result of 78% of the maximum bonus being achieved in relation to the 2018 bonus targets, compared with a payout of 60% for 2017.
The average salary for all employees increased by 5% due to a 3% universal cost of living increase in January 2018, above cost of living increases for changing roles with greater responsibilities and market adjustments.
The bonus increase was due to 78% of the maximum senior management bonus being achieved, compared with a payout of 60% for 2017.
2018 2017 % change Chief Executive Officer Salary 472,268 445,536 6% Benefits 2,192 1,852 2% Annual bonus 460,461 334,152 38% 1 Average of all employees Salary 48,193 45,995 5% Benefits 854 770 11% Annual bonus 1,805 1,571 28% 2 Ratio of CEO to average employee pay 19x 16x 14% 1 Based on 493 employees, which excludes the executive directors.
2 The multiple of the CEO remuneration compared to the average employees remuneration.
Relative importance of the spend on pay The table below shows the total pay for all Rightmoves employees compared to other key financial indicators.
Additional information on the number of employees, total revenue and underlying operating profit has been provided for context.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 % change Employee costs refer Note 7 30,506,000 28,338,000 6% Dividends paid to shareholders refer Note 12 54,977,000 49,611,000 11% Purchase of own shares refer Note 23 113,528,000 90,809,000 25% Income tax refer Note 10 37,815,000 34,120,000 11% 1 Average number of employees refer Note 7 495 479 3% Revenue 267,821,000 243,273,000 10% 2 Underlying operating profit 203,329,000 184,365,000 10% 1 Average number of employees includes executive directors.
2 Before share-based payments and NI on share-based incentives.
