Governance Governance | Remuneration report Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman The Committees overarchingaimis to ensure our remuneration structure andpolicies reward fairly andresponsibly.
On behalf of the board, I am pleased to introduce my first Directors more flexible frameworks that better suit their particular circumstances.
remuneration report the Remuneration report since being appointed While no clearly preferred remuneration model has emerged, we will thechair of the Remuneration Committee Committee.
I want to begin continue to engage with shareholders on the merits of restricted stock.
byacknowledging that the Committee is mindful of its responsibilities indetermining executive pay.
We are committed to ongoing engagement 2019 decisions withour shareholders, and to hearing allperspectives.
In 2019, annual base salary increases for our executives will be based onConsumer Price Index forecasts for each executives country of This year, we have taken the opportunity to refresh the format of our employment.
This increase will be the same as or lower than the overall Remuneration report.
It is divided into three parts.
We have provided a country budget for our broader workforce.
The chairmans fee and the fees summary of key information and highlights through a new remuneration for our non-executive directors will be unchanged for 2019.
We have also provided relevant extracts from our Remuneration Policy Policy.
Our full Policy is available on the The maximum opportunity for executives under the Short Term Incentive companywebsite.
The Implementation report shows how the Policy was Plan STIP remains unchanged, and outcomes are aligned to business appliedin2018.
Throughout this Remuneration report, the members of the performance.
The 2019 safety measures, weightings and targets are fully executive committee, including our executive directors, are collectively disclosed on page 124.
Weexpect to disclose the 2019 financial and referred to as executives.
individual targets retrospectively in the 2019 Implementation report.
Remuneration Policy The overall level of PSA to be granted to executives in March 2019, as a The Committees overarching aim is to ensure our remuneration structure percentageof base salary, will be slightly lower than the PSA granted in and policies reward fairly and responsibly with a clear link to corporate and 2018.
Consistent with our practice since 1998, the awards will be made individual performance, and to the companys long-term strategy and using the average share price over the previous calendar year.
We make sure that such policies are both effective and competitive PSAgranted in 2019 will be calculated using the 2018 average share prices in the market place, and are appropriately stretching and rewarding the of 38.94 and A$78.17.
Our decision to use average prices, rather than spot right behaviours.
We also ensure that there is alignment between executive prices, is intended to mitigate the impact of share price volatility.
remuneration and wider company pay policies, and we closely scrutinise Theperformance conditions for the 2019 PSA are set out in the gender pay differential to ensure equality.
All resolutions relating to remuneration presented to the 2018 AGMs, 2018 performance and remuneration including the triennial policy review, were passed with majorities of some The 2018 single total figure of remuneration for the chief executive, 90% or above.
There was a consistent view that our Policy, and the new Jean-Sbastien Jacques, is higher than in 2017, mainly because the value umbrella Equity Incentive Plan EIP that governs our long-term shareofLong Term Incentive Plan LTIP awards vesting under the 2014 PSA were based remuneration including our Performance Share Awards PSA, are higher than those that vested under the 2013 PSA.
This higher value was aligned with market practice.
primarily due to the 2013 PSA vesting in two equal tranches in 2016 and 2017 under a transitional arrangement.
The impact was partly offset by During our consultation with shareholders, one of the proposals under the estimated lower overall vesting level for the 2014 PSA, as well as ourPolicy was to substitute restricted stock for the PSA granted under higher share prices at the time of vesting for the 2013 PSA.
theEIP, and significantly reduce the maximum quantum of the award.
This proposal received a mixed response and was therefore ultimately excluded For the former chief financial officer, Chris Lynch, the single total figure of from our Policy.
The board and management will continue to review the remuneration is lower than in 2017.
This is due mainly to 2018 representing appropriateness and effectiveness of our Policy.
We remain of the view that a part-year of remuneration up to 30 September 2018 when Chris retired.
restricted stock has considerable merits in a long-term cyclical industry This was partly offset by the value of LTIP awards vesting as explained such as mining.
above for the chief executive.
No comparison is made for Jakob Stausholm as he only joined the company in September 2018.
During 2018, we observed a number of ASX-listed companies review and replace their more traditional executive remuneration framework with Remuneration report | Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
com 101 Governance | Remuneration report Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman continued Short Term Incentive Plan Overall, the estimated vesting for the award when the TSR and EBIT In our At a glance section on page 104, and on pages 114 to 121, we margin portions are combined is 41.3% of maximum.
The Committee gave retrospectively disclose the financial and individual STIP targets set by the consideration to the Groups overall performance during the five-year board for 2018.
While most of the 2018 targets were achieved, the overall performance period and concluded that vesting of awards was justified.
2018 STIP awards for Jean-Sbastien Jacques and Chris Lynch, expressed Asa consequence, the portion of the award relating to TSR will vest on as a percentage of the maximum award, are lower than last year.
The Committee will make a final determination of the details are given below.
relative improvement in EBIT margin measure when the final EBIT margin performance of the comparator group companies becomes available in Short Term Incentive Plan Safety May2019.
If applicable, this portion of the award will vest on 31 May 2019.
Unfortunately, we did not achieve our goal of zero fatalities in 2018, with three colleagues not returning home from work.
In April, a maintenance Former directors contractor was fatally struck by a falling object while performing work on Chris Lynch retired in September 2018 after providing the company notice one of the furnaces at Energy & Minerals Sorel-Tracy operations: in July, of his intention to retire in September 2017.
Until his retirement, Chris asecurity contractor was fatally assaulted while on duty at Energy & continued to receive his contractual entitlements.
Minerals Richards Bay Minerals operations: and in August, a truck operatorwas fatally injured as a result of his truck colliding with a windrow As disclosed in the 2016 and 2017 Annual reports, a deed of deferral was atIron Ores Paraburdoo operations.
Performance against the fatality entered into with the former chief executive, Sam Walsh.
This was in measure was therefore zero for all executives.
connection to the investigations concerning the Simandou project.
Given that the regulatory investigations are still not complete, the Committee The combined performance against our safety measures meant that the hasdetermined that a further deferral of the amounts that were payable on Groups STIP safety result was below target at 22% of maximum, and the 31December 2018 is appropriate.
STIP safety results for all executives were below target.
This matter is still under discussion and the company will disclose the Short Term Incentive Plan Financial outcome when the process is complete.
The flexed earnings and unflexed cash flow results for the Group were close to target, the unflexed earnings was between target and outstanding UK Corporate Governance and the flexed cash flow result, adjusted for commodity prices, was below We welcome the introduction of the new Corporate Governance Code target.
These outcomes are reflected in the financial component of the STIP whichcame into effect on 1 January 2019.
We believe we are well placed awards for all executives.
Together, the outcomes resulted in a Group to comply with this code, and will continue to consider matters such as performance against the financial targets of 60% of maximum.
post-employment shareholding and pension arrangements.
In this years Remuneration report, we are voluntarily disclosing our chief executive pay The Committee made adjustments to the targets in 2018 to take account ratio.
The ratio of the total remuneration of the chief executive to the median of events outside managements control and to ensure a like-for-like total remuneration of all employees for 2018 was 45:1.
The Committee comparison with the targets.
continues to monitor the ratio between our executive pay and our broader workforce, which will besupported through regular and detailed reporting.
The most significant adjustments in 2018 related to the gain on disposal I was also delighted to have the opportunity to discuss a range of executive of surplus land at Kitimat in Canada, the impact of the disposal of our remuneration topics with our workforce at our inaugural employee AGM with remaining coal assets in Australia, and the impact of the strike at our iron the board in Brisbane in November 2018.
We will continue to engage with ore operations in Canada.
The net impact of all adjustments, both positive employees in a range of innovative ways.
and negative, decreased the Groups result against the financial targets from 63% to 60% of maximum 2017: increase from 56% to 67% of Fair pay maximum.
Further details are provided on page 115.
The Committee continues to monitor both equal pay and the gender pay gap across our workforce.
As at 31 December 2018, the Group-wide equal Long Term Incentive Plans pay gap was less than 2% and gender pay gap less than 1%.
While we have Our LTIP is designed to reflect alignment with shareholder returns and our made further progress in ensuring equal pay for equal work in 2018, we do relative performance.
PSA granted under the LTIP in 2014 had three equally need to continue our focus on the relatively low level of gender diversity in weighted performance metrics: Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to senior management roles in order to continue to close the gender pay gap the EMIX Global Mining Index formerly known as the Euromoney Index : in all locations.
Further details of both equal pay and the gender pay gap, TSR relative to the MSCI WorldIndex: and improvement in Earnings Before together with the steps we are taking to address this issue, are provided on Interest and Tax EBIT margin relative to global mining comparators.
Tinto outperformed against the Mining Index, but under performed against the MSCI World Index, resulting in a 33.3% vesting of the award under these Yours sincerely two components, out of a maximum of 66.7%.
This outcome reflects the design intention that executives should notunduly benefit from windfall gains when commodity prices are high, norbe unduly penalised when prices are low.
The estimated performance against the EBIT margin measure is that Rio Tinto ranked no.
5 against a comparator group of 11, which would result in Sam Laidlaw avesting of 24.0% for this measure representing 8.0% of the total award.
Remuneration Committee chairman We can only provide an estimate at this time as we do not have the reported 27 February 2019 data for all comparator companies.
com Governance As our shares are listed on both the Australian and London Stock Exchanges,  within our Remuneration report must comply with  of both countries.
About our reporting In the UK, we need to report remuneration for the board, including the Our regulatory responsibilities impact the volume ofinformation we executive directors.
The Australian legislation requires disclosures in provide, as well as the complexity.
InAustralia, we need to report on respect of key management personnel, being those persons having a wider group of executives, as described in the following paragraph.
authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the Inaddition, as set out in our visual below, the two reporting regimes activities of the Group.
The key management personnel are, in addition follow different methodologies .
tothe directors, all members of the Executive Committee.
Throughout this Remuneration report, the members of the Executive Committee are collectively referred to as executives.
They arelisted on page 124, with details of the positions held during the year anddates of appointment to those roles.
Structure of our Remuneration report The differing approaches explained This year, we have included an Ataglance section that summarises As well as the difference in methodology for measuring remuneration, key information in one place, resulting in our Remuneration report therearealso key differences in how remuneration is reported inthe being organised into the following parts: UK and Australia: UK Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman 101 For reporting purposes, remuneration is divided into fixed Remuneration At a glance 104 andvariableelements.
Remuneration is reported in the currency it is paid, eg, where a UK Remuneration Policy extracts 106 executive is paid in UK sterling, remuneration is reported in UK sterling.
Implementation report, which shows 113 How the Policy has been applied as required under the legislation Australia Tables 1a-3 incorporating additional disclosures required For reporting purposes, remuneration is divided into short and long under the Australian regulations termelements.
All remuneration is reported in US dollars, so using the previous example, the UK executives remuneration would be converted to Shareholder voting US dollars using the average exchange rate for the financial year As required under UK legislation, the full Remuneration Policy except STIP, which is converted at the year end exchange rate.
sectionofthe 2017 report was subject to a binding vote at our 2018 AGMs on 11 April 2018 in London, and 2 May 2018 in Melbourne.
The visual below summarises the elements of each component of Itpassed with votes for the Policy of 95.6%, and will apply for remuneration, as well as the significant differences in the approaches threeyears, when a new Policy will need to be presented at the tomeasurement.
An extract of our Policy is provided this year, and UK Australia the fullPolicy can be found at: riotinto.
Fixed Short-term The Implementation report, together with the Annual statement bytheRemuneration Committee chairman, is subject to an advisory Base salary Base salary voteeach year as required by UK legislation.
Under Australian Benefits STIP cash element legislation, the Remuneration report as a whole is subject to an advisory vote.
All remuneration-related resolutions will be voted on Pension Cash benefits atthe AGMs as Joint Decision Matters by Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto The value of the pension contribution and payment in lieu of pension paid Limited shareholders.
Non-monetary benefits during the year.
Variable Long-term STIP cash element STIP deferred share element Based on the amortised IFRS fair value ofdeferred shares at the time of grant.
STIP deferred share element LTIP LTIP Based on the amortised IFRS fair value Measured at point of vesting.
oftheLTI at time of grant.
Pension and superannuation Accounting basis.
Total remuneration Remuneration report | Annual statement by the Remuneration Committee chairman Annual report 2018 | riotinto.
