Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Directors remuneration report Dear shareholder, On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for 2017-18.
As mentioned elsewhere, this year has been one of significant change for the Group: we continued on our path of growing our parcels business in the UK and overseas and we reached a ground-breaking agreement with the CWU, which includes important operations changes to implement more ambitious transformational change over the coming years.
Since the year end, we have announced that Moya Greene will step down as Chief Executive in June and will leave the Group in September.
She has been an outstanding Chief Executive, whose impressive leadership skills and commitment to the Company have been apparent to any shareholder or stakeholder who has met her.
I am delighted that the new leadership team includes two of our longest serving and most trusted senior executives, who will strive to sustain her legacy and lead the organisation through its next successful chapters.
that has been reached with the CWU is core Remuneration Policy and was set out in last Performance in 2017-18 to the ongoing success of our business.
Stuart has already made an We had a good year, during which our intensity of the negotiations was, in part, excellent contribution to the Board and I look revenue exceeded 10 billion, and adjusted due to the fact that all sides are committed forward to continuing to work with him.
Group Operating Profit before transformation to providing good jobs for people in our costs was 685 million for bonus purposes.
As I have already mentioned, the Board communities, with a fair level of pay allowing It is testament to the dedication of our and Moya Greene have agreed that she will them to expect a reasonable standard of people right across the Group that they have retire from the Group in September, stepping living.
Our aim now is to implement the managed to keep the operations running down from the Board at the AGM in July.
agreement successfully delivering an smoothly during severe weather conditions, I have worked with Moya since she joined innovative approach to pension provision the threat of industrial action and a winter flu Royal Mail in 2010.
In my role as Chair of alongside new ways of working, in order to epidemic.
I am delighted that their success the Remuneration Committee, I have seen meet changing market demands.
has been recognised by investors, as we her firm commitment to always doing the returned to the FTSE 100 in March this year.
We remain committed to our policy of right thing for the people in this business, treating our people fairly, as is apparent whether that be on levels of pay, terms Many other factors have contributed to our from our Gender Pay Report published in and conditions, or the investment that is success this year.
We have continued to February 2018.
Under the new reporting needed to allow people to do their jobs to transform our network to handle parcels regulations we showed that, as in previous the best of their abilities.
Personally, I will more efficiently, which is increasingly years, the average salaries of men and miss her wise counsel and superb insight important as they become a greater women are broadly the same.
On a median into this complex organisation.
I would like proportion of our revenue.
The UK parcels hourly rate basis, men are paid 1.5 per to take this opportunity to thank Moya for business delivered four per cent revenue cent more than women.
This compares to her outstanding contribution to the Group growth in the year.
Investment in GLS has a median pay gap of 9.7 per cent among all over the last eight years, which has left us in enabled it to expand through acquisition companies that have reported.
the strong position we are in today.
Safety continues to of Moyas remuneration arrangements on be a fundamental part of how we operate Board changes departure are on pages 86-88. across the Group, shown by a continuing In last years report, we advised that reduction in the rate of road traffic collisions I am very much looking forward to working Matthew Lester, our Chief Finance Officer this year.
You will see later in this report that with our two new Executive Directors, CFO, had decided to leave the business in we are enhancing our assessment of safety Rico Back and Sue Whalley.
Stuart Simpson, who had been performance for the new financial year, to individuals are well known to the Board our Group Finance Director, stepped up into reflect its importance.
as they have been senior leaders in the the role and joined the Board following the Company for many years.
Rico Back, our Of course, our main focus is on the future.
Stuarts remuneration package new Group CEO, has been with the Group The Pensions, Pay and Pipeline agreement was determined in accordance with the for 18 years, latterly working closely with Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 75 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report our UK parcels team: and Sue Whalley, who Scorecard outturn of just below target: strong completed, with EPS achieving a better will run our UK business, has been with the performance in our financial metrics, safety than expected result.
The detailed results of Group for 11 years.
Sue worked closely with and employee engagement was offset by the performance known to date are shown Moya to conclude the operational aspects of misses in customer complaints, Quality of on pages 91-92.
The estimated vesting our agreement with the CWU.
She will now Service and productivity.
We were delighted outcome of 44.3 per cent is based on the be responsible for delivering the multitude of to achieve another increase in business TSR performance at the end of the Financial complex operational arrangements that were customer satisfaction, where we are often Year, and will be finalised once the three year agreed, which are necessary for this business rated as the number one delivery provider performance period has been completed in to continue to transform and grow.
As you would expect, the Committee took The Committee deemed that Moya Greene The impact of the great care in determining the remuneration had achieved the strategic objectives in full, Remuneration Policy on packages for these new Executive Directors.
resulting in a cash bonus of 71 per cent of We are keenly aware of the sensitivity salary.
Stuart Simpson almost achieved the delivering our strategic aims surrounding executive compensation and aim maximum against the strategic objectives The Policy that we introduced in 2016 to balance that against our wish to attract resulting in a bonus award of 69 per cent aims to provide balanced incentives which and retain highly talented and experienced of salary.
The difference in achievement complement each other in pursuit of our leaders so that we can do well in our between Moya and Stuart is due to Stuart strategic objectives.
This Company will only increasingly competitive marketplace.
We set joining the Board part way through the thrive in the long term if we successfully out details of Rico and Sues remuneration performance year.
As I mentioned, he has deliver at pace each year and the measures in their new roles in our announcement on made an excellent contribution so far.
in the Annual Bonus reflect that philosophy.
This information can also be Stuarts award is pro-rated to reflect the We have been able to use shares in our found on pages 83-84. portion of the performance period that he reward schemes for four years now, since was Group Finance Director and then CFO.
Our DSBP, introduced two years ago, Remuneration outcomes in Under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP, also provides better alignment between this same value will usually be awarded in strategy and reward.
2017-18 shares to each Director, to be granted in the This year has seen strong financial The use of relative TSR as the single metric summer and deferred for three years.
This performance across the Group, despite the for the LTIP provides 100 per cent alignment will be the case for Stuart Simpson.
For challenges of sustained severe weather with shareholder returns: our executives are Moya Greene, the Committee has decided conditions in many parts of the country and a rewarded only if shareholders are better off to grant this award in cash, as she will be complex industrial relations environment for as a result of investing in our company.
More on this particular much of the year.
These factors are reflected point is provided on page 86. in the results of both our Annual Bonus With the implementation of the revised UK and our Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Corporate Governance Code and working Further detail about our performance against Full detail on these outcomes is explained towards a new Remuneration Policy to the Annual Bonus measures is given on further in this report and a summary of our be voted on in 2019, we will continue our pages 90-91. performance is as follows: dialogue with our shareholders on director Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP pay arrangements.
Together with the rest Annual bonus The 2015 LTIP is due to vest in July of the Board, I look forward to hearing your The Corporate Balanced Scorecard accounted 2018, once the outcome under the Total views on our remuneration arrangements for 80 per cent of the potential Annual Bonus Shareholder Return TSR metric is and will be available to answer any questions for Executive Directors.
The performance periods for you may have at the AGM.
objectives, which were set by the Committee, the other two metrics, Earnings per Orna Ni-Chionna represented the remaining 20 per cent of Share EPS and Operating Profit Margin Chair, Remuneration Committee the potential bonus.
Our performance in before Transformation Costs, have been 16 May 2018 2017-18 resulted in a Corporate Balanced Our current Remuneration Policy What is our current Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors?
Our current Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at our AGM on 21 July 2016.
The improvements we made in this Policy were intended to reward delivery at pace on the objectives required to achieve sustainable success, while maintaining appropriate flexibility in target setting from year to year.
In summary, the objectives for our Remuneration Policy are to: Be more aligned with our fast-changing marketplace and with what our executives need to focus on year on year Incentivise sustained year on year improvements, with the aim of delivering long-term value for shareholders Increase the proportion of remuneration which is delivered in the form of deferred equity, from around 25 per cent prior to the current Policy to 40 per cent of the total, and encourage long-term shareholding supported by an increase in the shareholding requirement for our Executive Directors.
Under our Policy, a larger proportion of the overall package is linked to performance, more is delivered in shares and the potential payout is over a longer timeline than prior to its introduction.
76 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Executive Remuneration Principles Remuneration Principles Overall package The overall remuneration package should take account of the dynamics of the market in which we operate.
Our incentive targets need to be flexible enough to ensure that we can reward performance appropriately.
Incentive levels and structure Incentive payouts should be based primarily on the achievement of relevant operational, financial and strategic goals, as well as the creation of long-term shareholder value.
Alignment with shareholders Management interests should be aligned to the interests of shareholders, including through building a significant Royal Mail shareholding.
Policy table The following tables summarise the key elements of our remuneration, its purpose and link to strategy and the maximum opportunity.
The Policy is not subject to a shareholder vote this year.
The full Policy can be found at http: www.
Fixed remuneration At a Glance Operation Base Salary Purpose & Link To Strategy Reflects the scope and responsibility of the role, whilst taking account of the skills and experience of the individual.
Used to attract and retain talented executives to deliver the business strategy.
CEO Moya Greene : 547,800 effective 1 January 2015 Salary levels for the Executive Directors are normally reviewed annually.
The Committee takes into account factors such as the performance of the Company, the performance of the Executive Director, any changes in role CFO Stuart Simpson : 450,000 effective 20 July 2017 and responsibility, assessment against relevant comparator groups, internal relativities and the level of increase being offered to our frontline employees.
Increases will normally be in line with the broader employee population.
Increases may be made above this level to take account of changing circumstances such as a change in responsibility, progression in the role, individual performance or a significant increase in the scale or size of the role.
Benefits Purpose & Link To Strategy To support the attraction and retention of talented executives by providing a competitive offering.
The value of the benefits stated is the maximum cost to Benefits currently include the provision of a company car and health insurance, or the cash equivalent of these the Company of providing them benefits.
Life assurance and health screening are also provided.
Additional benefits may be offered, such as relocation allowances on recruitment.
Moya Greene is contractually entitled to financial advice, use of a driver for business-related travel and two return flights to Canada each year.
Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the SAYE scheme, with monthly deductions being taken for a period of three or five years.
The savings can be used to purchase shares at a discounted price set at the start of each plan.
Pension Allowance Purpose & Link To Strategy To provide a competitive post-retirement income.
CEO Moya Greene : 200,000 per annum Company contribution to a defined contribution pension scheme and or a cash supplement in lieu of pension.
cash allowance The Committee maintains historical rates of pension allowance for existing Executive Directors, in line with CFO Stuart Simpson : 17.5 per cent of salary their contracts.
However, it has adopted a lower pension allowance of 17.5 per cent for newly appointed cash allowance Executive Directors.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 77 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report Variable remuneration At a Glance maximum opportunity Operation Performance measures Annual bonus Purpose & Link To Strategy Designed to reward achievement of key strategic, financial and operational priorities for the year, to deliver strong performance in service of longer term strategic goals and creation of long-term shareholder value.
Part of the total annual incentive opportunity is a deferred share award encouraging a long-term view, providing alignment with shareholders interests.
Maximum total annual incentive opportunity of 200 per The total annual incentive opportunity is provided Aligned to the Corporate Balanced Scorecard for the cent of salary, split equally between two plans, an annual as follows: Executive Directors each year.
cash bonus award and a deferred share bonus award.
one half is payable in cash, paid at the end of the Annual performance measures and weightings will Two thirds earned for target performance.
annual performance period be selected at the start of each financial year to align with the key strategic, financial and operational one half is granted as a deferred share award, priorities of the business.
after the end of the performance period and subject to continued employment over the three The measures themselves may change on an annual year vesting period.
basis as financial and operational priorities of the business change.
Deferred share awards will be granted to Executive Directors in the form of a conditional share award.
For 2018-19 year, 80 per cent of the Annual Bonus The Committee will normally award dividend will be based on the scorecard targets, and 20 per equivalents on deferred shares to plan participants to cent will be based on the achievement against the extent that they vest.
Malus provisions will apply to the deferred share A minimum of 50 per cent of the scorecard targets award over the three year vesting period.
A clawback shall be financial, with the remainder including mechanism will apply to the cash bonus for a period robust operational, customer and people KPIs.
of three years following the bonus determination.
A minimum level of operating profit must be achieved before any bonus is payable to an Executive Director.
The Committee may use its discretion to: change the performance measures and targets and the weighting attached to the performance measures and targets part-way through a performance year if there is a significant and material event which causes the Committee to believe that the original measures, weightings and targets are no longer appropriate: make downward or upward movements to the amount of bonus earned resulting from the application of the performance measures, if the Committee believes that the bonus outcomes are not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Purpose & Link To Strategy Supports executive recruitment and retention, with an appropriate balance between short-term performance and the creation of long-term, sustainable shareholder value.
Maximum award level of 100 per cent of salary.
Awards are granted annually to Executive Directors Performance measures and or weightings reflect in the form of a conditional share award.
the business strategy at the time, and are measured over three years.
The Committee may change the These will vest at the end of a three year period balance of the measures, or use different measures subject to: for subsequent awards, as appropriate.
the Executive Directors continued employment at For the 2018 award, 100 per cent of the award will be the date of vesting: and dependent on TSR against the FTSE 100 excluding the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
If the Groups relative TSR performance is ranked at median, The Committee will normally award dividend 50 per cent of the award will vest, increasing to full equivalents on those shares to the extent that vesting if performance is in the top quartile of the they vest.
The underlying performance of the business Following the vesting, there is a holding period of will also be taken into account when determining two years when Executive Directors cannot sell the the vesting.
vested shares other than to pay tax.
Malus provisions apply over the performance period.
Clawback will apply over the holding period.
In exceptional circumstances the Committee retains the discretion to: vary or waive the performance conditions applying to LTIP awards if the Board considers it appropriate and the new performance conditions are deemed reasonable and are not materially more or less difficult to satisfy than the original conditions.
78 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Shareholding guideline At a Glance Operation Purpose & Link To Strategy To ensure alignment between remuneration and long-term shareholder value creation.
Shareholding guideline of 200 per cent of salary Directors are expected to keep any shares they already own and any shares released under the LTIP and the DSBP except for those sold to cover any tax and social security obligations until this is achieved.
The periods over which malus and clawback operate under our Policy Start of Performance Period 1 Years 2 Years 3 Years 4 Years 5 Years Performance period, Annual Cash Bonus Subject to clawback subject to malus Cash award paid Deferred Share Pre-grant performance Vesting Period, subject to malus Award period, subject to malus Deferred shares released Long-Term Performance period, subject to malus terms Holding period, subject to clawback Incentive Award Award vests subject Post-tax shares to performance released What is the Remuneration Policy for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors?
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Policy Purpose & Link To Strategy Provides a level of fees to support recruitment and retention of Non-Executive Directors and a Chairman with the necessary experience to fulfil the leadership role required of them.
Operation The Board is responsible for setting the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Chairmans fees.
Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee and additional fees for chairmanship of committees.
The Chairman does not receive any additional fees for membership of committees.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman are set at broadly the median of the comparator group.
Fees are reviewed annually based on equivalent roles in the comparator group used to review salaries paid to the Executive Directors.
In general, the level of fee increase for the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman will be set taking account of any change in responsibility and will take into account the general rise in salaries across the UK workforce.
The Company will pay reasonable expenses incurred by the Non-Executive Directors and Chairman and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman do not participate in any variable remuneration or benefits arrangements.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 79 n i s u b e l b a n i a t s u s g n i v e i h c a, e l p o e p e v i t c u d o r p & e f a s, d e g a g n e h g u o r h t Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report How do the KPIs for the annual bonus and LTIP link to the Group strategy?
Annual bonus 80 per cent of the performance in the Annual Bonus is measured through the Corporate Balanced Scorecard.
This Scorecard tracks a range of short-term measures that are critical to the creation of long-term, sustainable shareholder value and the delivery of our strategy.
There are no changes to the overall structure of the Scorecard which continues to be made up of ten equally weighted metrics.
The Committee has reviewed and made some adjustments to the Safety and Customer Complaints metrics, which will apply for the beginning of the 2018-19 performance period.
The Road Traffic Collisions measure will be replaced with a composite Safety Index metric to ensure a broader focus on safety and embedding a stronger safety culture across the Group.
The Customer Complaints metric will be replaced with a composite Premium Parcel Performance metric.
This will measure our quality of service across the suite of our premium tracked parcel products Special Delivery, Royal Mail Tracked 24 48 and Tracked Returns.
Employee customer focus First Class quality of service Employee engagement Composite parcels quality Sick absence rate 3% 3% 3% Mean business customer 3% First Class Employee 3% satisfaction Retail Quality engagement Accident rate 6% Total customer of Service % score 6% complaints UKPIL nonPeople Customer 3% Composite 15% people costs 15% Composite 3% Premium Parcel Safety Index Performance UKPIL people costs 6% Productivity Mean business efficiency for collections, customer 15% processing and Productivity for satisfaction 6% delivery % collections, score processing & delivery Strategy 40% In-year trading UKPIL Financial 6% cash ow m costs m 15% Free cashow Group 40% operating profit before Group 6% transformation Revenue m Group operating profit 3% costs m Total Group Revenue 20 per cent of performance in the plan will be assessed against a series of strategic objectives.
The following objectives have been agreed between the Chairman and the CEO.
They will be used in conjunction with the Corporate Scorecard to measure the performance of the Executive Directors at the end of the 2018-19 financial year: 1.
Accelerate the expansion of our international business while avoiding undue risk.
Embed the new UK Post and Parcels system, by driving value from letters, investing in network development, implementing the deal with the CWU and progressing the Collective Defined Contribution pension arrangement.
Focus the Head Office functions to support the delivery of our strategy and business results, by simplifying processes and implementing transformational programmes.
LTIP Our LTIP has a single metric directly reflecting shareholder value achieved, including dividends, relative to other large quoted companies.
The Committee believes relative TSR is an appropriate measure of strategy implementation over a three year period.
It rewards the creation of value for shareholders through the successful execution of our strategy.
TSR also reflects the importance of dividend yield to the Groups shareholders and the Companys commitment to a progressive dividend policy.
In the event that the underlying financial performance of the Group is not reflected in the TSR performance, the Committee would retain discretion to adjust the award.
80 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 e c i v r e s r e m o t s u c t a e r g g n i r e v i l e D s r e d l o h e k a t s l l a r o f s t l u s e r s s e Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information What is the remuneration opportunity under the Policy?
The following charts set out the remuneration scenarios under the Policy for the Executive Directors and the actual level of the single figure for the year being reported on.
We have included the single figure so that you can see where against our Policy scenarios the actual remuneration for the year sits.
For the CFO, the Actual 2017-18 data shows the full year equivalent earnings, in order to provide a reasonable comparison to the Policy charts.
Moya Greene has not taken all her benefits entitlement during the year.
On target: Bonus: For the cash bonus, on target is two-thirds of maximum and the same value is used for the deferred share award.
LTIP: The expected value is taken as 60 per cent of maximum.
Maximum: Bonus: For the cash bonus this is 100 per cent of salary and the same value is used for the deferred share award.
LTIP: For the LTIP this is 100 per cent of salary.
Actual 2017-18: No assumptions have been made in relation to future share price movements or dividend reinvestments.
The estimated impact of share price growth from the date of grant to the vesting for the 2015 LTIP, due to vest in July 2018, is 4 per cent of the total estimated value shown in the charts above.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 81 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report How will the Policy be implemented in 2018-19?
The following table sets out how the Committee proposes to operate the Policy next year.
Element Implementation of Policy in 2018-19 Base salary We review the salary of each Executive Director annually.
Any increases in salary will be less than or equal to the general increase provided to employees.
The salaries of our new Executive Directors have been set in accordance with the Remuneration Policy.
The salaries for the Executive Directors for 2018-19 are: Current Group CEO Moya Greene 547,800: New Group CEO Rico Back 640,000 : CFO Stuart Simpson 450,000: CEO of Post and Parcels, Royal Mail UK Sue Whalley 450,000.
The increase in the new Group CEOs salary reflects the Remuneration Committees desire that the fixed remuneration base salary, cash pension allowance and benefit entitlement is broadly the same as that of the current CEO.
The higher base salary reflects the lower cash pension allowance as part of our Remuneration Policy.
Benefits No change to benefit provision for 2018-19.
Pension Allowance No change to pension allowance provision for 2018-19.
The pension allowances for the Executive Directors for 2018-19 are: Current CEO Moya Greene 200,000: New CEO Rico Back 112,000 17.5% of salary : CFO Stuart Simpson 78,750 17.5% of salary : CEO of Post and Parcels, Royal Mail UK Sue Whalley 78,750 17.5% of salary.
Annual Bonus No change to the Annual Bonus structure for 2018-19.
The maximum total annual incentive opportunity for the Executive Directors will remain at 200 per cent of salary, as per agreed Policy, half delivered in cash and half in deferred shares.
For the 2018-19 Annual Bonus, 80 per cent of the award will be based on achievement against the Corporate Balanced Scorecard, in which at least 50 per cent of the measures will be financial, with the remainder focused on operational, customer and people-related targets.
20 per cent of the award will be based on achievement against strategic objectives.
The Committee is of the opinion that, given the commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial targets used for the Annual Bonus, the disclosure of precise targets for the Annual Bonus in advance would not be in shareholders interests.
Actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance periods so that shareholders can fully assess the basis for any payouts under the Plan.
LTIP No change to the LTIP for 2018-19.
The Executive Directors will be eligible for an award equivalent to 100 per cent of salary.
100 per cent of the award will be based on the Groups relative TSR performance against the FTSE 100 excluding mining and financial companies.
The vesting schedule will measure the Groups performance over three years as follows: 50 per cent of the award will vest if TSR performance is equal to the median TSR of the companies in the comparator group: Maximum vesting will occur if TSR is equal to, or greater than, the upper quartile TSR of the comparator group.
The award is subject to straight line vesting between these two points.
Shareholding guidelines 200 per cent of salary for Executive Directors.
Non-Executive & Chairman The Chairman and the Executive Directors reviewed the fees paid to Non-Executive Directors.
They agreed, given the increasing Fees governance requirements requiring increased time spent on Royal Mail business, that their fees should be increased accordingly the base fee reflects the level of commitment required by the Company for their individual Non-Executive Director profile : Annualised 2017-18 Fees Annualised 2018-19 Fees Base Fee Chair Fee Total Base Fee Chair Fee Total Rita Griffin 50,000 50,000 62,000 62,000 Paul Murray 50,000 15,000 65,000 64,000 15,000 79,000 1 Orna Ni-Chionna 50,000 25,000 75,000 60,000 25,000 85,000 Les Owen 50,000 10,000 60,000 62,000 10,000 72,000 Simon Thompson 50,000 50,000 56,000 56,000 Keith Williams 50,000 50,000 56,000 56,000 1 The Chairs fees shown above for Orna Ni-Chionna also include the fee for her role as Senior Independent Director.
82 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information What would the remuneration arrangements be for a new Executive Director?
Salaries for new Executive Directors appointed to the Board will be set in accordance with the terms of the approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment.
In particular, they will take account of the appointees skills and experience, as well as the scope and market rate for the role.
Benefits consistent with those offered to other Executive Directors under the approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment will be offered, including the discretion to offer additional benefits such as relocation allowance on recruitment.
Following the shareholder consultation we undertook in 2016-17, the pension allowance paid to any newly appointed Executive Director is 17.5 per cent of salary.
All existing arrangements will remain the same.
Incentive arrangements for new Executive Directors will be in accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment.
This means the maximum total annual incentive opportunity in any year would be 200 per cent of salary, split equally between cash and deferred shares, and the maximum LTIP award would be 100 per cent of salary with the ability to offer up to 200 per cent of salary for the year of recruitment.
For an externally appointed Executive Director, the Company may offer additional cash or share-based payments that it considers necessary to buy out current entitlements from the former employer that will be forfeited on recruitment.
Any such arrangements would reflect the type of award for example, cash or shares : time horizons: and levels of conditionality of the remuneration foregone.
In order to facilitate buy-out arrangements, existing incentive schemes will be used to the extent possible, and the Committee will retain discretion on the application of holding periods, performance conditions and performance periods.
For an internally appointed Executive Director, any outstanding variable pay element, such as an LTIP awarded in respect of the prior role, will continue on its original terms.
The fees for Non-Executive Directors appointed will be set in accordance with the terms of the approved Remuneration Policy in force at the time of appointment.
The Committee always seeks to ensure that any remuneration package is set such that the Company is able to attract the right calibre of individual required, whilst taking account of affordability, and therefore the Committee must be allowed to exercise its judgement.
What are the remuneration arrangements for our new Executive Directors?
Our two new Executive Directors, as detailed below, have been appointed in line with this Policy.
Rico Back Rico Back will assume the role of Group CEO and join the Board on 1 June 2018.
The Remuneration Committee has determined the following remuneration package for him in line with the shareholder approved Policy.
The table sets out the elements of the package and the Committees rationale: Element Detail Rationale Salary 640,000 The objective of the Committee was that the total fixed remuneration for the new CEO would be broadly in line with the former CEO, recognising the difference in package mix with a lower pension allowance provided to the new CEO but with a higher salary.
The base salary has appropriately been set within the lower quartile of the Companys comparators lower quartile salary in the FTSE 100 is 793,000.
Pension 17.5% of salary pension This is substantially lower than the pension allowance paid to the former CEO and is in line with the commitment allowance.
made in the Policy that the Committee would adopt a lower percentage for newly appointed Executive Directors, up to median FTSE100 levels.
The pension contribution level is in the lower quartile of the Companys comparators lower quartile pension contribution in the FTSE 100 is 24%.
Benefits In line with the Policy.
Note: Rico Back will continue to use appropriate scheduled commercial flights when travelling directly between Zurich and London.
He will personally bear the costs for these flights and his accommodation in London.
Total Fixed 790K The objective of the Committee was that the total fixed remuneration for the new CEO would be broadly in line Remuneration salary, with the former CEO, recognising the difference in package mix with a lower pension allowance provided to the pension and benefits new CEO but with a higher salary.
The position of the total fixed remuneration externally is appropriately within the lower quartile of the Companys comparators lower quartile total fixed remuneration in the FTSE 100 is 921,000.
Annual Bonus Maximum 200% of The Committee recognises that the absolute value of bonus potential for the new CEO has been increased due to salary see above for the increase in base salary.
The Committee wishes to highlight that: details of the operation This level of incentive is comparable to the appropriate comparator group within the FTSE 100, i. e. the lower of the Annual Bonus for quartile, and will be underpinned by the performance conditions, which have been set for 2018-19 to be 2018-19. suitably challenging.
50% of any bonus earned will be awarded in shares, continuing the build-up and retention of a shareholding to ensure a shared ownership experience between the CEO and shareholders.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 83 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report Element Detail Rationale LTIP 100% of salary As with the bonus, the Committee recognises that the potential value to the new CEO has been increased due to see above for details of the increase in the base salary, whilst remaining in the lower quartile of the FTSE 100 comparator group.
the operation of the LTIP The requirement for the corporate strategy to deliver sustainable shareholder returns in order for any LTIP for 2018-19. award to be earned is extremely important to ensure alignment with shareholders and other stakeholders in the Company.
Therefore the increased opportunity is seen by the Committee as further strengthening that alignment.
The total incentive opportunity is set by the shareholder approved Policy.
Opportunity Total Target 2,031,600 The Committee believes that the total remuneration i. e. all elements remains at an appropriate level for the Remuneration based Company, taking into account its position in society and ensuring fairness with all stakeholders.
on target performance The position of the total remuneration externally is appropriately within the lower quartile of the Companys for the bonus and LTIP comparators lower quartile total remuneration in the FTSE 100 is 2,787,000.
Shareholding 200% of salary The current shareholding of the new CEO as a percentage of his new salary is just over 60% which is a positive Requirement start to building up the required holding.
Legacy Arrangements relating to employment as CEO of GLS Holdings The new Group CEO is an internal candidate having headed up GLS Holdings and UK Parcels prior to his promotion.
He therefore has a number of existing awards under the incentive arrangements operated by GLS.
In line with the Policy set out above, these awards will continue to vest on their original terms and be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration when vested.
Bonus Rico Back will be entitled to a pro-rated bonus for the part of the 2018-19 financial year during which he is CEO of GLS Holdings.
For the balance of the financial year, he will have a pro-rated bonus potential based on his role as Group CEO.
Sue Whalley Sue Whalley will assume the new role of CEO of Post and Parcels, Royal Mail UK and join the Board on 1 June 2018.
The Remuneration Committee has determined the following remuneration package for her, in line with the shareholder approved Policy: Base Salary 450,000 Pension Allowance 17.5% Maximum Annual Bonus 200% Maximum LTIP 100% The external positioning of the remuneration package is consistent with the other Executive Directors and set appropriately within the lower quartile of the FTSE 100.
In line with Royal Mail Groups other Executive Directors, Sue Whalley will be expected to retain any share-based awards until she has a shareholding equivalent to 200 per cent of salary.
Legacy Arrangements In line with our Policy for an internally appointed Executive Director, the outstanding LTIP awards in relation to her prior service will continue on their original terms, and will be reported in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration when vested.
Bonus Sue Whalley will be entitled to a pro-rated bonus for the part of the 2018-19 financial year during which she carries out her current role.
For the balance of the financial year, she will have a pro-rated bonus potential based on her role as CEO of Post and Parcels, Royal Mail UK.
What are the Executive Directors terms of employment?
The Executive Directors are employed under service contracts.
The dates of these contracts are: Date of Contract Notice Period from RMG months Moya Greene 15 July 2010 12 Stuart Simpson 15 May 2017 12 Rico Back 20 April 2018 12 Sue Whalley 20 April 2018 12 The contracts have an indefinite term that may be terminated by the Executive Directors with six months written notice.
The Company can terminate contracts with twelve months notice.
Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
84 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information What are the terms of appointment for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors?
The Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are appointed by rolling letters of appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for up to three years, subject to annual review and re-election.
One months notice is required by either party four months notice in the case of the Chairman.
The dates of the Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are set out in the following table.
Unexpired Term at 25 March 2018 Date of Contract months Peter Long 18 June 2015 2 Rita Griffin 1 December 2016 20 Cath Keers 20 September 2016 Retired 28 February 2018 Paul Murray 20 September 2016 18 Orna Ni-Chionna 20 September 2016 18 Les Owen 20 September 2016 18 Simon Thompson 1 November 2017 31 Keith Williams 1 January 2018 33 The Company follows the UK Corporate Governance Codes recommendation that all directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual re-appointment by shareholders.
What happens when an Executive Director leaves?
Moya Greenes contract dates from her appointment to the Company in 2010, when it was in State ownership.
As disclosed in the Prospectus and as has been set out in every Directors Remuneration Report since Listing, her contract may be terminated immediately by the Company.
Unless the Company terminates the contract due to gross misconduct or a material breach of the obligations under the service contract, it would be required to make a payment equalling 12 months base salary and an annual cash bonus referable to the relevant 12 month period.
The assessment of the annual bonus award would be made in line with normal practice for determining bonuses.
We disclosed the detail of Moya Greenes contractual entitlement on 20 April 2018, when we announced her retirement.
For more information, please see pages 86-88.
The bonus provision is not replicated in any other contracts and would not be part of the terms of appointment of a new Executive Director.
Payment in lieu of accrued holiday, incidental expenses and outplacement services may be paid provided for as appropriate.
Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with a termination including, at the discretion of the Committee, reimbursement for legal advice would be paid as the Committee considers necessary.
The Company has an explicit Policy on mitigation.
Service contracts for Executive Directors do include express provisions for the use of monthly phased payments, a requirement for the departing executive to seek to mitigate any loss and a reduction in amounts paid if the executive obtains alternative paid employment.
Under Stuart Simpsons service contract and the Policy for future hires, the Company may terminate the contract by making a payment in lieu of any unexpired notice period.
The payment in lieu of notice is limited to a maximum of 12 months base salary.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 85 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report The following table sets out the position under the incentive plans on cessation of employment: 1 2 Good Leaver Reason Other Reasons Committee Discretion Annual Bonus: Performance conditions will No bonus payable for to determine that an executive is a good leaver and Cash Awards be measured at the bonus year of cessation.
to determine whether to pro-rate the bonus to time.
The normal Policy is that bonus measurement date.
Bonus will be pro-rated will normally be pro-rated.
provided that where any discretion is exercised there is an appropriate business case which will be explained to shareholders.
Annual Bonus: All subsisting deferred share Lapse of any unvested to determine that an executive is a good leaver Deferred awards will normally vest on deferred share awards.
to vest deferred shares at the date of cessation of employment Share Awards the normal vesting date.
to determine whether to pro-rate the award to time.
The normal Policy for existing awards is that they will not be pro-rated: provided that where any discretion is exercised there is an appropriate business case which will be explained in full to shareholders In respect of the year of cessation, discretion may be exercised to provide a pro-rated deferred share award based on achievement of performance conditions as measured at the bonus measurement date.
to determine that an executive is a good leaver LTIP Pro-rated to time and Lapse of any unvested performance in respect of LTIP awards.
to measure performance over the original performance period or at the date of each LTIP award.
Awards will cessation of employment vest on the normal vesting to vest the shares on date of cessation of employment date and the holding period to determine whether to pro-rate the award to time.
The normal Policy is that awards will apply, except in the case will be pro-rated: and of death when awards will vest on date of cessation of to disapply the holding period employment and no holding provided that where any discretion is exercised there is an appropriate business case period will apply.
which will be explained in full to shareholders.
1 A good leaver reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: death: injury, ill-health or disability, as established to the satisfaction of the Committee, redundancy with the agreement of the Committee, retirement with the agreement of the Committee, the company employing the executive ceasing to be a member of the group, the business or part of the business to which the executives office or employment relates being transferred to a person who is not a member of the group, or any other reason where the Committee in its discretion so permits.
2 Cessation of employment in circumstances other than those set out above is cessation for other reasons.
How did the Committee apply the Policy to Moya Greene?
In line with the Policy set out above, Moya Greenes cessation of employment qualifies for good leaver status due to her retirement with the consent of the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has, therefore, made the following determinations consistent with this status.
Ongoing remuneration Fixed Following Moya Greene stepping down as CEO from 1 June 2018, she will remain an employee of the Company until September 2018.
During this period she will continue to receive her current salary, benefits and pension contribution.
The annual rates for these fixed elements of the remuneration package are set out in the table below: Element Annual Rate Salary 547,800 Pension Allowance 200,000 Estimated Value of Benefits variable based on benefits taken up 43,000 Bonus 2017-18 Moya Greene will have been employed for the full financial year and therefore qualifies for a bonus based on the level of satisfaction of the performance conditions.
The Committee will apply its normal procedure in determining bonuses, with bonuses payable to all participants, including Moya, following the end of the financial year in June 2018.
The bonus payment to Moya will be payable solely in cash, with no element provided in deferred bonus shares.
The Committee determined to make the payment in cash to reflect the proximity of her departure to the bonus payment date and given the equity exposure already provided post her retirement from existing awards under the Companys share plans.
Bonus 2018-19 Moya Greene will be eligible to receive a bonus for the 2018-19 financial year in which she ceases employment with the Company.
The terms of her bonus participation are: She is eligible solely to receive the cash element of the Annual Bonus Plan which has a maximum value of 100 per cent of salary: The Committee has not exercised its discretion for her to qualify for the element of the Annual Bonus provided in deferred shares maximum value 100 per cent of salary.
This decision was made to reflect her contractual entitlement to an element of the bonus as part of her payment for loss of office see below.
This means that the total bonus opportunity in respect of 2018-19 is in line with the normal maximum of 200 per cent of salary: The bonus will be pro-rated to the period of time she works during the financial year: 86 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information The corporate scorecard performance conditions will be measured at the end of the financial year the element of the bonus 20 per cent which is based on individual objectives will be measured at the point of her cessation of employment : Any bonus payment will be made at the same time as to other Executives following the end of the financial year.
Long-Term Incentive Plan 2018-19 There will be no award to Moya Greene in respect of the 2018-19 financial year to reflect her retirement during the year.
Details of the treatment of existing share awards are set out below.
Existing Share Awards Moya Greene holds a number of existing awards under the following Company share plans: The Royal Mail plc Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
The Royal Mail plc Long-Term Incentive Plan pre and post 2016.
2017 Deferred Share Award The performance conditions for the Deferred Share Award were satisfied at the date of grant with the only ongoing condition being continued employment at the vesting date.
Dividend equivalents will be provided on vesting on the number of shares vested.
In line with Policy for good leavers, the 2017 Deferred Share Award will not lapse on Moyas cessation of employment but vest on the original vesting date.
The following table sets out details of the Award: Date of Grant Vesting Date Number of Shares 20 June 2017 21 June 2020 99,663 2015 LTIP Award The performance periods for the 2015 LTIP will have been completed prior to Moyas cessation of employment.
In addition, Moya will be employed at the vesting date and therefore the 2015 LTIP will automatically be eligible to vest in accordance with the rules of the LTIP.
Dividend equivalents will be provided on vested shares on the vesting date.
The following table sets out details of the Award: Date of Grant Vesting Date Number of Shares 23 July 2015 23 July 2018 105,057 See page 92 for the current estimate of the level of award vesting.
2016 & 2017 LTIP Awards In line with the Policy, the Committee has determined that the following treatment will apply to these awards: The maximum number of shares capable of vesting will be pro-rated to the amount of the performance period completed on the date of Moyas cessation of employment: The number of shares vesting will be calculated based on the level of satisfaction of the performance conditions at the end of the original performance period: A two year holding period will apply to shares following vesting, or a holding period of two years following cessation, whichever is earlier: Dividend equivalents will be provided on vested shares on the vesting date.
The following table sets out details of the LTIP Awards: Pro-rated Number of Shares Capable of Vesting subject to performance Date of Grant Vesting Date conditions 21 July 2016 21 July 2019 86,838 28 July 2017 28 July 2020 65,450 Payment for Loss of Office As disclosed in our announcement on 20 April 2018, the Company is legally required to make a payment to Moya as part of her employment contract, which was approved by Government in 2010 when Royal Mail was in State ownership.
This requirement was disclosed in our Prospectus and has been set out in every Directors Remuneration Report since Listing.
The payment comprises: 12 months base salary based on the annual rate applicable at the date of cessation of employment : 12 months cash bonus.
The Committee has determined that: the reference period to calculate the bonus is the 12 month period in which the cessation occurs 2018-19 : and the value of the bonus should be based on the target bonus for this period.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 87 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report The following table sets out the amount of this payment: Salary Target Bonus 67% of maximum Total Payment 547,800 367,000 914,800 How do the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors compare with arrangements for employees across the Company?
Although employees have not been directly consulted on the Remuneration Policy, or its application, the remuneration arrangements across the Group are taken into consideration by the Committee when making decisions about Executive remuneration.
For example, pay review budgets for senior managers and executives are capped at lower rates than agreed with our trade unions for employees whose pay is collectively bargained.
In addition, the different incentive and commission schemes in operation across the Group all support the delivery of the Company-wide annual bonus scorecard, through which the Executive Directors are incentivised.
Therefore although the broader workforce has not input into the Policy, its application is heavily influenced by remuneration arrangements for all employees.
How does the change in the Chief Executive's pay compare to that for Royal Mail employees?
The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executive's salary, benefits and annual bonus between 2017-18 and 2016-17, compared with the average for all employees across the Group.
The small reduction in the average salary shown for All Employees is not due to a reduction in the terms and conditions we offer our employees overall.
However, the data is impacted by employee turnover and a change in the mix of employees across our grades.
Over the last five years our frontline employees have received an increase of 15.4 per cent of salary, including an increase of five per cent effective from 1 October 2017.
There has been no change to the contractual benefit entitlement for the CEO but she has made no use of her flight benefit during the financial year, hence the decrease in value.
What is the Companys Policy on Directors holding external positions?
It is the Companys Policy to allow each Director to accept one Non-Executive Director position on the board of another company.
The fees for such appointments are retained by the Executive Directors and are disclosed below.
Did the Executive Directors receive fees from external positions?
The Executive Directors are entitled to receive fees from external appointments.
Moya Greene was appointed as a Non-Executive Director at easyJet plc on 19 July 2017 and received fees of 42,077 for the last reported financial year.
Moya Greene will be joining the Board of Rio Tinto Ltd on 17 September 2018.
Stuart Simpson held no external appointments for the last reported financial year.
Matthew Lester is a Non-Executive Director at Man Group plc and received fees of 33,494 for the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 July 2017, when his employment with Royal Mail ceased.
He joined the Board of Capita plc, effective 1 March 2017, and received fees of 22,308 for the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 July 2017.
88 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Annual Report on Directors Remuneration This part of the Directors' Remuneration Report sets out details of how the current Remuneration Policy has been applied for the Financial Year 2017-18.
This detailed information, set out below and on the following pages, has been audited by the Company's independent auditors, KPMG LLP.
Moya Greene is also entitled to two return flights to Canada.
However, she has not made use of that benefit during the financial year, hence the decrease in value.
2 Bonuses are determined based on the salary as at 1 January 2018 in line with the Companys Policy for all staff.
Bonus payments are made in cash.
3 The DSBP is a deferred share award, granted at the end of the annual performance period, the grant being of equal value to the Annual Bonus, and subject to continued employment over a three year vesting period.
The award for Moya Greene will be made in cash, as explained on page 86.
The DSBP award for Stuart Simpson reflects his period of service as an Executive Director.
His full year DSBP award including service prior to his appointment as CFO was 285,400.
As disclosed in the 2017 report, Matthew Lester did not receive a DSBP award in relation to the 2016-17 year.
4 The current year figure relates to an estimated vesting of the 2015 LTIP award as shown in the 2015 LTIP Outturn section below.
The 2015 LTIP is due to vest in July 2018, once the outcome under the TSR metric which has a performance period that runs from the July 2015 grant date for three calendar years is known.
The prior year figure relates to the 2014 LTIP award.
This amount has been updated since the 2017 report, as the 2014 LTIP vested after publication of the Report, which showed the estimated vesting.
The share price used to estimate the value on vesting was 4.20, the actual share price on vesting was 3.98.
The combination of the actual share price, and the application of dividend equivalents as set out in the Policy led to an increase in the value of the LTIP vesting for Moya Greene of 21,000 and for Matthew Lester of 19,000 from that set out in the 2016-17 Directors Remuneration Report.
5 For Moya Greene, 10,000 is paid into the Royal Mail Defined Contribution Plan and the remaining 190,000 is paid as an allowance.
The full amount for Matthew Lester was paid as an allowance.
7% of salary of a total pension allowance of 17.5% of salary for Stuart Simpson is paid into the Royal Mail Defined Contribution Plan.
6 Stuart Simpson joined the Board on 20 July 2017.
All amounts for 2017-18 above are pro-rated to reflect his service as an Executive Director, with the exception of the LTIP, where the full estimated vesting amount is shown.
7 Matthew Lester left RMG on 31 July 2017.
8 Nick Horler retired from the Board on 28 February 2017.
9 Cath Keers retired from the Board on 28 February 2018.
10 Simon Thompson joined the Board on 1 November 2017.
11 Keith Williams joined the Board on 1 January 2018.
The following sections outline how the data in the table above was determined, with regard to Base Salary and incentives.
Were Base Salaries reviewed in the year?
The Committee has reviewed the salaries of our Executive Directors and decided not to make an increase to Moya Greenes salary in 2017-18.
This has not changed since January 2015.
Stuart Simpsons salary was set on his appointment to the role of CFO.
The following table compares salary increases of Executive Directors with frontline staff over the last five years: % increase in salary 2017-18 2016-17 2015-16 2014-15 2013-14 1 Moya Greene 0% 0% 10% 0% 0% 2 Stuart Simpson 3 Average frontline employee 5% 1.6% 2.8% 3% 3% 1 Over the last five years, Moya Greene has received total salary increases of 10 per cent.
2 Stuart Simpsons salary was set at 450,000 on appointment as an Executive Director, in accordance with the current Remuneration Policy.
3 Over the last five years our frontline employees have received an increase of 15.4 per cent of salary, including an increase of five per cent effective from 1 October 2017.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 89 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report What was the outcome of the Annual Cash Bonus?
The performance period for the Annual Cash Bonus is the same as the financial year, with achievement being assessed against a range of financial and non-financial targets, as set out in the Corporate Balanced Scorecard, and against a set of strategic objectives.
The maximum cash bonus opportunity for the CEO and CFO was 100 per cent of salary.
Performance against the Corporate Scorecard makes up 80 per cent of the bonus for Executive Directors.
The table below contains a summary of the performance metrics and achievement against these for the 2017-18 year.
Corporate Balanced Scorecard Outcome as Measure Weighting Threshold Target Max Actual % of Target Road Traffic Collisions per 1,000 vehicles reduction % 10% 0.0 7.0 12.0 9.0 12.0% Employee Engagement 10% 57 58 59 59 15.0% First Class Retail Quality of Service % 10% 93 93.2 91.7 0.0% Mean Business Customer Satisfaction 10% 76.2 77 77.8 78 15.0% Total Customer Complaints 000 10% 548.8 532.8 516.8 564.8 0.0% Productivity for Delivery, Collections & Processing % 10% 2.0 2.5 3.0 1.0 0.0% Total UKPIL Costs m 10% 7,391 7,246 7,101 7,112 14.6% Total Group Revenue m 10% 9,706 10,006 10,306 10,051 10.8% Group Operating Profit Before Transformation Costs m 10% 545 645 745 685 12.0% In-year Trading Cashflow m 10% 338 388 438 444 15.0% Scorecard Achievement as % of target 100% 94.4% Financial targets and actuals are based on reported results subject to adjustments approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Group revenue and Group operating profit before transformation costs are adjusted for foreign exchange movements.
The achievement for In-Year Trading Cashflow has been adjusted to reflect the cash impact of the frontline pension and pay agreement for 2017-18.
The remaining 20 per cent of the bonus for Executive Directors is based on achievement against Strategic Objectives set by the Board.
Achievement against the Strategic Objectives for 2017-18 was assessed by the Chairman and ratified by the Remuneration Committee.
Performance was determined to be very strong due to the significant progress made against the following: 1.
Apply sufficient resource focused on global parcels to enable acceleration of our rate of expansion primarily via acquisition.
Two acquisitions were closed during the year, Postal Express in the United States and Redyser Transporte in Spain.
These two acquisitions have added 29 million revenue during the financial year.
GLS now provides a parcel service with full US West Coast coverage when the previous acquisition, GSO, is also considered.
Such expansion in the US has helped to create a strong overnight parcels delivery network with the capability to deliver along the West Coast.
This provides the ability to offer shorter delivery times than our competitors, which in turn is enabling us to win more business and benefit from growth in interstate deliveries.
Further acquisitions were considered but not pursued, following due diligence.
We continue to build and maintain a strong pipeline of future potential transactions.
Continue to drive profitable growth in GLS, our parcels business in Europe.
GLS has managed to sustain strong underlying revenue and profit progression in Europe.
This has been achieved despite growing cost pressures, including the increase in the minimum wage in Germany and subcontractor cost pressures in many key markets, which have compressed margins.
To drive revenue, GLS has expanded its premium business to consumer B2C service, FlexDeliveryService, which is now available in 20 countries.
Improvements have also been made in inner city logistics, trialling micro hubs in Germany and environmentally friendly delivery methods in Italy.
In February 2018, GLS acquired Redeyser Transporte.
Redeyser will further strengthen GLS position as Spains second biggest national express parcels network, following the acquisition of ASM Transporte Urgente in June 2016.
Deliver the next stage of the parcels strategy in the UK, including enhancement of the customer proposition at acceptable cost through technology deployment.
There has been significant progress in continuing to improve our technology for parcels customers.
Online business sales orders exceeded the previous years busiest day by 17 per cent.
In Parcelforce Worldwide PFW, My Parcel Live and the PFW App are live and fully deployed.
There have been over 45,000 downloads of the app to date.
E-order capability has been launched for both account and retail customers, and Interconnect international notifications have been launched for exports to 180 countries.
Implement the steps necessary to defend the sustainability of the core UK business in the face of continuing and substantial declines in letter volumes and revenues.
A Joint Industry Committee has been established to further promote the value of mail.
Alongside that there has been continued focus on protecting the value of mail with distinct strategies for marketing, publishing, social and transactional mail.
Around 90 per cent of in scope mail now has a Mailmark.
In other revenue streams, third party vehicle maintenance has grown, reaching the break-even point.
Over 28,000 vehicles have visited our workshops.
Following comprehensive negotiations with the CWU, the Royal Mail Pension Plan, our legacy defined benefit pension scheme, has now closed to future accrual.
An innovative cash balance pension arrangement was successfully launched in April 2018, and we have started the process of jointly lobbying Government to make the necessary legislative and regulatory changes to enable the introduction of a Collective Defined Contribution scheme.
90 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information The Chairman determined that the performance of Moya Greene against the Strategic Objectives was at maximum.
This was ratified by the Remuneration Committee.
When added to the outcome of the Corporate Balanced Scorecard, the total bonus as a percentage of salary was 71 per cent, giving an annual cash bonus of 386,800.
This amount will also be awarded to Moya Greene on her departure in cash, following the Committees decision to award cash rather than shares under the deferred share bonus plan, bearing in mind the proximity to her departure and the remaining value of LTIPs.
Target Max Achievement Outcome Bonus for Moya Greene CEO Weighting % of salary % of salary % of target % of salary Corporate Balanced Scorecard 80% 54% 80% 94.4% 51% Strategic Objectives 20% 13% 20% 150% 20% Total as % of salary 100% 67% 100% 71% The CEO determined that due to Stuart Simpson joining the Board part way through the year, the performance against the Strategic Objectives was at 18 per cent out of a maximum of 20 per cent.
When added to the outcome of the Corporate Balanced Scorecard, the total bonus as a percentage of salary was 69 per cent.
For the period from 20 July 2017 when he was appointed as an Executive Director, this gives an annual cash bonus of 216,100.
Target Max Achievement Outcome Bonus for Stuart Simpson CFO Weighting % of salary % of salary % of target % of salary Corporate Balanced Scorecard 80% 54% 80% 94.4% 51% Strategic Objectives 20% 13% 20% 134% 18% 100% 67% Total as % of salary 100% 69% In line with the Remuneration Policy and subject to Committee approval, this performance outturn determines the value of the deferred share award to be granted to the CFO, equal to the value of his bonus.
For this year, Stuart Simpsons total bonus was 285,400, including his award prior to joining the Board.
Therefore this amount will be granted, subject to approval, under the deferred share bonus plan.
This award will vest in three years.
What was the outturn of the 2015 LTIP?
The 2015 award was based on achievement against two performance conditions to be achieved by 25 March 2018 and a third condition, TSR, to be achieved by July 2018.
The tables below show the performance conditions and the estimated vesting of this plan.
The final outcome of the plan will depend upon the relative share price performance in the last three months of the performance period.
Performance targets for the 2015 LTIP were not previously published due to commercial sensitivity.
Performance conditions: Threshold Maximum Target Performance measurement Vesting Vesting conditions Weighting Definition period Target % of award Target % of award Earnings per share 50% Basic EPS excluding Financial year 40.8 pence 12.5% 44.7 pence 50% 1,2 EPS specific items as reported 2017-18 in the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company Adjusted operating 35% Adjusted operating Financial year 7.2% 8.75% 8.3% 35% 1,2 profit margin before profit margin before 2017-18 transformation costs transformation costs as reported in the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company Total Shareholder 15% The change in the 3 calendar years Median 7.5% Top Quartile 15% Return TSR Net Return Index from the date versus FTSE 100 as calculated by an of grant of the 3 comparator group independent financial award information provider for Royal Mail compared with the ranked Net Return Indices of the comparator group.
1 Results include an adjustment to remove the impact of weaker sterling on UKPIL.
2 Results are adjusted to reflect a constant foreign exchange rate of 1 1.42 in GLS.
TSR1 TSR1 is its average Net Return Index over each weekday excluding Saturdays during the three months period ending on the first day of the TSR Performance Period.
TSR2 is its average Net Return Index over each weekday excluding Saturdays during the three months period ending on the last day of the TSR Performance Period.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 91 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report Actual achievement: Estimated 2015 Vesting LTIP Vesting Performance conditions Threshold Maximum Outcome % of award % of award Earnings per share EPS 40.8 pence 44.7 pence 43.0 pence 33.8% Adjusted operating profit margin 7.2% 8.3% 6.92% 0% before transformation costs 44.3% Total Shareholder Return TSR Estimated 60th Median Top Quartile Estimated 10.5% versus FTSE 100 comparator group percentile The 2015 LTIP is due to vest in July 2018, once the outcome under the TSR metric which has a performance period that runs from the July 2015 grant date for three calendar years is known.
For the TSR metric, the average TSR for the three months period ending 31 March 2018 is used in order to calculate the estimated vesting above.
At the end of the TSR performance period, the outcome will be recalculated based on the average TSR over the three month period ending on the last day of the TSR performance period.
What previous LTIP awards remain outstanding at the year end?
audited The grants made for the 2016 LTIP and the 2017 LTIP remain outstanding.
The performance conditions for both LTIPs are: Threshold Maximum Vesting Vesting Measure Weighting Performance % of award Performance % of award TSR versus FTSE 100 100% Median 50% Top Quartile 100% excluding mining & financial companies The amount of the LTIP awards outstanding, for each of the Executive Directors, is shown in the following table, as at 25 March 2018: Maximum value of Maximum % vesting at award value of threshold Final year of Number of at grant award at performance performance shares at Executive Director Year Type % salary grant 000 % of salary period grant Moya Greene 2016 LTIP shares 100% 548 50% 2018-19 107,800 2017 LTIP shares 100% 548 50% 2019-20 138,602 2016 LTIP shares 100% 245 50% 2018-19 48,213 Stuart Simpson 2017 LTIP shares 100% 450 50% 2019-20 113,857 It should be noted that on Matthew Lesters cessation of employment, his 2015 and 2016 LTIP awards lapsed and he was not granted a 2017 LTIP award.
The pro-rated number of shares capable of vesting for Moya Greene under the 2016 and 2017 LTIPs can be found on page 87.
92 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Following these LTIP awards, what are the current shareholding levels of the Board?
audited The table below sets out details of the shareholdings of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors as at 25 March 2018.
There has been no change in the Directors interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company between 25 March 2018 and 16 May 2018 except as noted in 2 and 3 below.
Value of conditional Conditional share share awards Number Number Value of Number awards not subject to of shares of shares shares of options subject to performance owned owned owned granted performance conditions Shareholding outright on outright on outright on under SAYE conditions LTIP 2015, 1 2 3 Requirement 25 03 18 26 03 17 25 03 18 plan DSBP 2016, 2017 Chairman Peter Long 100,000 100,000 Executive Directors Moya Greene 200% 72,163 40,173 381,887 590 439,883 351,459 Stuart Simpson 200% 25,936 137,253 590 430,490 209,056 4 Matthew Lester 200% 59,468 30,591 314,705 590 Non-Executive Directors Rita Griffin Cath Keers 3,030 3,030 Paul Murray 15,943 15,617 Orna Ni-Chionna 13,953 3,313 Les Owen 3,030 3,030 Simon Thompson Keith Williams 1 Value based on closing share price on 23 03 18.
2 Includes the DSBP granted in respect of the 2016-17 Annual Bonus and to be granted to Stuart Simpson in respect of his full 2017-18 Annual Bonus.
3 Shares include those which are subsequently due to vest following the end of the performance period in July 2018.
4 The number of shares shown for Matthew Lester is as at his date of leaving the Company, 31 July 2017, rather than 25 March 2018.
Data is reported prior to the sale of shares required to cover tax obligations.
The impact of pre-IPO LTIP awards vesting in cash rather than shares means that it will take some time for the Executive Directors to achieve the minimum required level of shareholding guideline.
Were any payments made for loss of office during the financial year?
Our Chief Finance Officer CFO, Matthew Lester left the business in July 2017, after nearly seven years of service with the Company.
As reported in the 2017 report, his 2014 LTIP award vested, but his outstanding LTIP awards lapsed in accordance with the plan rules, and he was not eligible for the award of deferred shares that formed part of the 2016-17 bonus.
He did not receive any payment for loss of office.
Were any payments made to past Directors during the financial year?
No payments were made to past Directors during the year.
What has the pay for the CEO been over the last nine years?
The total remuneration figure for the CEO over the last nine years is shown in the table below.
The annual bonus payout and the LTIP vesting level as a percentage of the maximum opportunity are also shown.
44% % maximum Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 93 Royal Mail plc | Directors remuneration report 250 How does TSR compare to that of other similar companies?
Total Shareholder Return TSR is the measure 200 193 of the returns that a company has generated for 171 its shareholders, reflecting both movement in the 157 share price and dividends, which are assumed to be 145 140 150 reinvested, over a period of time.
The graph shows the TSR of the Company, since the date of the first 100 130 day of trading, relative to the FTSE 100 Index.
The 127 100 FTSE 100 Index has been chosen for comparison as 104 112 104 100 the Company has been a constituent of the Index for the majority of the period shown, and it provides a 50 benchmark of the performance of other large UK listed companies.
0 11 October 30 March 29 March 27 March 26 March 25 March 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Royal Mail FTSE 100 TSR over the Financial Year FY 2013-14 FY 2014-15 FY 2015-16 FY 2016-17 FY 2017-18 Royal Mail plc 71% -18% 12% -8% 33% FTSE 100 4% 7% -7% 25% -2% The chart and table show performance since the first day of conditional trading following the IPO 11 October 2013 : in accordance with the Code, they will show an increasing timeframe in the coming years.
12,000 How much does Royal Mail spend on pay?
The chart shows the Company's actual 10,000 spend on pay for all employees relative to dividends, revenue and operating profit.
8,000 Revenue has been included because this measure represents the amount of money the Company received during the year and 6,000 provides a clear illustration of the ratio of people costs to income.
4,000 2,000 0 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 2017-18 2016-17 Revenue Adjusted People Costs Adjusted Operating profit Declared Dividends Note: the data used for Revenue and Adjusted Operating profit in the chart are not adjusted for foreign exchange movement, which is included in the outturn for the Scorecard.
94 | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 m Total Shareholder Return rebased Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Other information Which of the Board members sit on the Remuneration Committee, and how frequently do they meet?
The members of the Committee are shown in the table below.
Number of meetings eligible to attend Number of meetings attended Chair Orna Ni-Chionna 5 5 Members 1 Rita Griffin 4 4 2 Peter Long 1 1 3 Paul Murray 5 4 Les Owen 5 5 1 Rita Griffin was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2017.
2 Peter Long stepped down from Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2017.
3 Paul Murray was travelling at the time of the Remuneration Committee on 6 July 2017 and was unable to attend the meeting.
Role of the Remuneration Committee to determine and recommend for the Boards approval the overall design of the remuneration of the senior executives of the Group: to determine the individual remuneration arrangements for the Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the members of the Chief Executives Committee: and to agree the targets for any performance-related incentive schemes applicable to senior executives.
The full Terms of Reference for the Committee can be found on our website: http: www.
Does the Remuneration Committee seek advice from internal and external advisors?
The Committee takes information and advice from inside and outside the Company.
Internal support was provided by Jon Millidge, the Group HR Director supported by other members of the HR department and senior leadership as appropriate and Kulbinder Dosanjh, the Company Secretary.
No individual was present when matters relating to his or her own remuneration were discussed.
The Committee seeks advice from independent external advisors as appropriate.
The appointed advisors, PwC, were selected through a competitive tendering process, led by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, and appointed in October 2014.
PwC provided information to the Committee regarding external market trends and advice on executive remuneration design.
The total fees paid for advice to the Committee were 84,400.
PwC has provided tax, technology, finance, operations, and other HR, commercial and strategic consulting services to the Group during the financial year.
PwC are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct and report directly to the Chair of the Committee.
The Chair of the Committee meets regularly with its advisers without Management present.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice it receives is objective and independent.
2017 Voting By Shareholders The table below shows the advisory vote on the 2016-17 Remuneration Report at the AGM on 20 July 2017, and the vote on the Remuneration Policy, which was effective from the date of the 2016 AGM for up to three years.
Votes Total Votes Votes withheld Votes For % For Against % Against Cast abstentions Approval of Remuneration Report 548,642,126 91.47% 51,145,932 8.53% 599,788,058 22,890,191 Approval of Remuneration Policy 523,665,626 83.46% 103,807,987 16.54% 627,473,613 7,731,040 The Remuneration Committee feels that the strong level of support for the implementation of the Remuneration Policy last year does not require the Committee to make any changes to its implementation for the next financial year.
Approved by the Board on 16 May 2018 and signed by Orna Ni-Chionna Chair, Remuneration Committee Annual Report and Financial Statements 2017-18 | 95
