Directors Remuneration Report Page We have also removed variable pay for a Performance and pay decisions Annual statement from the significant number of these employees and The latest results demonstrate the business is Committee Chairman 62 increased their fixed pay.
This provides more building on its return to profitability in 2017 Remuneration at a glance 63 certainty and allows employees to concentrate with a clear plan to deliver sustainable returns Directors Remuneration Policy 65 on customers needs.
As a result of these for shareholders.
Income has risen and our Annual Report on Remuneration 69 changes, 56% of employees across the Group core tier 1 capital ratio remains strong, Other Remuneration Disclosures 79 are rewarded through fixed pay only.
Letter from Robert Gillespie We are confident we pay our employees fairly Remuneration structures are designed to Chairman of the Group Performance and and our policies and processes are kept under support our strategic aims, one of which is Remuneration Committee review to ensure we continue to do so.
building a safe and sustainable business.
Capital strength has been one of the key Capital strength has been a key On pensions, action was taken during the performance measures for executive directors performance measure and I am delighted year to significantly address the deficit in the and I am delighted that progress in this area that progress in this area has enabled RBS main defined benefit pension scheme.
has enabled RBS to resume paying dividends to resume dividend payments.
Employees are provided with a range of to our ordinary shareholders.
flexible, market-leading benefits and wellbeing Dear Shareholder, support.
Over 23,000 employees have chosen Ross McEwan will be granted an LTI award in This is my second report as Chairman of the to participate in share plans, which provide early 2019, following an assessment of Group Performance and Remuneration direct alignment with the companys success performance over 2018.
The assessment Committee the Committee and it has proved and shareholders interests.
determined that overall performance had been to be another busy year.
We have established strong, particularly in relation to capital and additional remuneration committees for a Transparency Ahead of new reporting people measures, but the Committee applied number of RBS subsidiaries as part of our regulations coming into force next year, we a modest downwards adjustment of around governance arrangements for ring-fencing.
have included the Chief Executive to 6% to the maximum grant as customer This will provide additional oversight of employee pay ratios in this report along with performance was not at the desired level.
remuneration across our key legal entities broader disclosures on employee before proposals are considered by the remuneration.
Gender and ethnicity pay gap Performance has also been assessed for the Committee.
information can be found in the Strategic LTI award granted to the Chief Executive in Report section, as well as the steps we are 2016, following the end of the performance In addition, the Committee spent time taking to address the position.
The award will vest at 27.5% considering the latest updates to reporting reflecting improvements in capital strength regulations and the UK Corporate Executive director pay policy and employee engagement, but with no Governance Code the Code.
We remain Turning to executive pay, the Directors vesting in areas where performance did not strong supporters of reforms aimed at Remuneration Policy was approved by meet targets, such as total shareholder return.
improving the effectiveness, transparency and shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
No changes No discretion was exercised in determining fairness of pay structures.
are being made to the policy at this time.
Full details of the assessments Variable pay is delivered entirely in shares as against the objectives and the award levels Broader pay considerations long-term incentive LTI awards with no can be found in this report.
Colleague engagement In preparation for annual bonus.
The Chief Executives the new Code, we have taken steps to management team receive a similar In terms of pay decisions for our broader supplement our existing channels for remuneration construct.
employees, the bonus pool for 2018 is 335 colleagues to be heard at Board level.
We million, which is around 2% lower than 2017. have established a Colleague Advisory Panel The policy is based around a restrained pay The size of the bonus pool in recent years to provide direct engagement with Board position, with lower levels of LTI awards, reflects our transition to a smaller and simpler members.
Amongst other strategic topics, this reasonable performance expectations and bank, staffed by highly capable and engaged forum will be used to discuss executive significant shareholdings.
Immediate cash bonuses continue to remuneration and how it aligns with the wider retained for the long-term, both during and be limited to 2,000. company pay policy.
I believe this creates a simple way of aligning executive directors Looking ahead We believe that having an engaged and interests with shareholders.
One of the main priorities for the Committee inclusive workforce is a key element of a during 2019 will be preparing the executive successful business.
This is why it is one of Executive director changes during 2018 directors remuneration policy for its renewal the areas included in the performance Ewen Stevenson resigned as Chief Financial at the 2020 AGM.
The new Code assessment for executive directors.
The latest Officer CFO during the year.
In line with requirements and engagement with our opinion survey shows engagement is at its policy, he continued to receive fixed pay until stakeholders will be part of that process.
The highest level since we started measuring it his departure date and all outstanding LTI Committee will also look at how it can and inclusion is our highest scoring category.
No payment was made enhance its existing role in considering wider We are now above the Global Financial in lieu of notice.
Services GFS norms in all comparable survey categories.
After a successful period as interim CFO, I would like to thank my fellow Committee Katie Murray was appointed to the Board as members for their guidance and constructive Fairness and simplicity We continue to CFO from 1 January 2019.
Katies pay has challenge during the year and I look forward make good progress.
The number of been set at a competitive level within the to considering how we can continue to employees at RBS who believe they are paid approved remuneration policy.
The pension develop remuneration practices at RBS for the fairly rose during the year and is significantly rate is 10% of salary.
This is in line with the benefit of all our stakeholders.
In the UK, our rates of rate applicable to the wider RBS workforce pay continue to exceed the Living Wage.
Over and recognises emerging best practice.
Robert Gillespie the last four years we have made Chairman of the Group Performance and improvements to starting salaries and faster Remuneration Committee progression for those on lower levels of pay.
14 February 2019 62 Directors Remuneration Report at a glance The at a glance section summarises the key features of the executive directors remuneration policy and arrangements for 2018 and 2019.
Summary of the remuneration policy for executive directors approved at the 2017 AGM Alignment with strategy of building a strong, Alignment via shares between executives and Alignment with the growing external simple and fair bank shareholders consensus on executive pay Built around a restrained pay position for Aligns executives with shareholders Reduced complexity and quantum, in line with executives, with variable pay delivered predominantly through holding shares, both the Executive Remuneration Working Group entirely in LTI awards.
and Government announcements on executive pay.
Performance assessed on factors that The maximum value of LTI award is smaller executive directors would reasonably be and we have significantly increased the value Reflects emerging investor guidelines with expected to achieve, encouraging safe and of shares that executive directors need to hold.
their common themes of restraint, meaningful secure growth.
shareholdings and flexibility of pay design.
LTI awards will be adjusted for Quantum and structure of pay appropriate underperformance or risk failings and are Continues to provide transparency between for a smaller, safer bank.
released over eight years with malus and performance and reward, with performance clawback for a long-term view of performance.
measured against pre-set objectives and disclosed each year.
Summary of pay construct Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer from 2019 Base salary 1,000,000 750,000 Fixed pay Fixed Share Allowance 100% of salary 100% of salary Pension 35% of salary 10% of salary Maximum LTI award delivered in shares 175% of salary 200% of salary Pre-grant and pre-vest performance assessments along with risk and stakeholder underpins.
Vests in equal amounts between years three to seven after grant.
Vesting period and conditions 12 months retention period following each vesting.
Malus and clawback provisions apply.
No pro-rating of LTI awards will apply in agreed good leaver circumstances.
Expected average vesting 80% of maximum over time.
Shareholding requirement 400% of salary 250% of salary Summary of 2018 performance assessments for the Chief Executive Performance assessment for Performance assessment for 2018 highlights vesting of 2016 LTI award grant of 2019 LTI award Performance assessed against pre-set Performance assessed against pre-set objectives Operating profit before tax of 3,359 objectives for 2016 2018, covering: for 2018, covering core areas of: million and CET1 ratio remains strong at 16.2%, exceeding our long-term Economic Profit 0% vesting.
Finance & Business capital and RoTE target.
targets met, ring-fencing structure in place.
The major legacy issues have now Risk & Operations risk culture target met, Safe & Secure Bank 12.5% vesting.
been resolved and 2018 saw the control environment not met in full.
payment of the first dividend in 10 Customers Net Promoter Score was mixed, years.
some but not all segments on target.
The performance assessment resulted in a total Arrangements for ring-fencing have vesting percentage of 27.5% due to progress in People & Culture engagement, culture and been implemented on time.
capital strength, customer trust scores and diversity performance all meeting targets.
Employee engagement is at its highest employee engagement.
The other elements did level yet and there have been not meet the required performance levels for While overall performance was strong, the continued improvements in culture and vesting.
Full details can be found in the annual Committee concluded that a reduction of around inclusion scores.
6% to the maximum grant would be appropriate for the Chief Executive to recognise that some Customer service results, however, areas were not fully at the desired level.
A further are not consistently where they need assessment will take place prior to any vesting to be to achieve our long-term taking place.
Full details can be found in the ambition.
63 Directors Remuneration Report at a glance Executive directors who have left joined during the year Ewen Stevenson Ewen Stevenson stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2018 and left RBS on 30 November 2018.
He did not receive any payment in lieu of notice and all outstanding LTI awards were forfeited on his final date of employment.
Katie Murray Katie Murray was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 January 2019.
Benchmarking was undertaken for the role and the Committee agreed a remuneration package that was considered to be positioned appropriately compared to peers both in terms of fixed pay and projected total compensation.
Remuneration includes a base salary at 750,000 per annum and a fixed share allowance of 750,000 per annum.
Pension funding has been set at 10% of salary.
This rate of 10% is the same as the pension rate applicable to the vast majority of RBS employees and recognises emerging best practice under the UK Corporate Governance Code and investor guidelines.
Any variable pay awards for performance year 2019 onwards to be made in early 2020 will be delivered as LTI awards, with a maximum award of 200% of salary.
For performance year 2018, a period prior to appointment to the Board, variable pay will continue to be awarded in line with arrangements in place at that time.
Remuneration outcomes for executive directors in 2018 Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson as at 30 September 2018 1 Salary Pension & Benefits Fixed Share Allowance LTI award vesting value 1 Ewen Stevenson also received fixed pay of 317,708 in 2018 for the period after stepping down from the Board until he left RBS on 30 November 2018.
Shareholding requirements Ross McEwan Ewen Stevenson as at 30 September 2018 Shareholding Shareholding requirement requirement Timing of payments for 2019 awards to Ross McEwan 20% pre-grant 20% assessment LTI award further assessment Variable based on granted in made before any 20% vests over 2022 to 2026 with a pay performance 2019 vesting takes place 12 month retention period 20% over 2018 post vesting 20% 33% Fixed share 33% shares released allowance over three years 33% Pension & Fixed pay benefits Salary Year 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Variable pay awarded to Katie Murray in 2019 for performance year 2018, a period prior to appointment to the Board, will be subject to deferral over seven years and retention periods in line with regulatory requirements.
64 Directors Remuneration Policy Key features of the remuneration policy for executive directors The Directors Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 11 May 2017.
The policy will apply until the 2020 AGM unless changes are required which mandate a revised policy be submitted to shareholders for approval.
There are no changes requiring shareholder approval at this time.
The table below summarises the key features of the policy for executive directors.
In the event of any conflict the approved policy, which can be found under the Board and Governance section of rbs.
com, takes precedence over the information set out below.
Element of pay Operation Maximum potential value Salary To provide a competitive level of Paid monthly in cash and reviewed annually.
Future salary increases will not normally be fixed cash remuneration and aid greater than the average salary increase for recruitment and retention of high The rates for 2019 are: RBS employees over the period.
in exceptional circumstances, the salary will Chief Executive 1,000,000 not increase by more than 15% over the Chief Financial Officer 750,000 course of this policy.
Fixed share allowance To provide fixed pay that reflects the A fixed allowance paid entirely in shares.
The shares vest An award of shares with an annual value of skills and experience required and immediately subject to any deductions for tax and are up to 100% of salary at the time of award.
released in equal tranches over a three year retention period.
Benefits To provide a range of flexible and Executive directors can select from a range of standard Set level of funding for standard benefits market competitive benefits that are benefits including: company car: private medical cover: life currently 26,250 which is subject to valued and assist individuals in assurance: and critical illness insurance.
carrying out their duties effectively.
Executive directors are also entitled to travel assistance in The total value of benefits provided is connection with company business including the use of a car disclosed each year in the annual report on and driver.
RBS will meet the cost of any tax on the benefit.
Further benefits including relocation costs may be offered in line with market practice.
RBS may also put in place certain security arrangements for executive directors.
Pension To encourage planning for Provision of a monthly cash pension allowance based on a While the 2017 policy allows for pension retirement and long-term savings.
Opportunity to use the cash to funding of 35% of salary for existing participate in a defined contribution pension scheme.
executive directors and up to 25% of salary for new executive directors, a rate of 10% was agreed on the appointment of the new Chief Executive 35% of salary Chief Financial Officer to align with the UK Chief Financial Officer 10% of salary Corporate Governance Code.
The 10% rate is in line with the wider workforce.
Variable pay award long-term incentive LTI awards are subject to: The maximum award for current directors To support a culture where at the time of grant is capped at: a one year pre-grant performance period: individuals are rewarded for the Chief Executive - 175% of salary.
a pre-vest performance assessment at the end of a three delivery of sustained performance, year period, with vesting taking place from years three to Chief Financial Officer - 200% of salary.
taking into account RBSs strategic seven after grant: objectives.
Prior performance will be taken into malus prior to vesting and clawback which applies for account when determining the value of the seven and potentially up to ten years from the date of Delivery in shares with the ability to award at the time of grant.
award: and apply malus adjustments and clawback further supports longera 12 month post-vesting retention period.
The vesting level of the award can vary term alignment with shareholders between 0% and 100% of the original interests.
Performance will be assessed in the areas of Finance, Risk & number of shares granted, dependent on Operations, Customers and People & Culture to determine the delivery of sustained performance.
whether the executive has achieved what would reasonably have been expected in the circumstances.
Risk & Control and Stakeholder Perception underpins will also apply.
Shareholding requirements To ensure executive directors build Unvested shares from LTI awards will count on a net of tax Chief Executive - 400% of salary.
and continue to hold a significant basis towards meeting the shareholding requirement once the Chief Financial Officer - 250% of salary.
pre-vest performance assessment has taken place.
When the applicable retention period has passed, the executive directors can dispose of up to 25% of the net of tax shares received until the shareholding requirement is met.
65 Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration for the Chairman and non-executive directors Element of pay Operation Maximum potential value Fees Fees are paid monthly in cash and reviewed regularly.
Additional fees The rates for the year ahead are set out in the To reflect the may be paid for new Board Committees provided these are not greater annual report on remuneration.
required skills, than fees payable for the existing Board Committees.
experience and Other than in exceptional circumstances, fees will time No variable pay is provided so that the Chairman and non-executive not increase by more than 15% over the course of commitment.
directors can maintain appropriate independence.
Benefits Reimbursement of reasonable out-of-pocket expenses.
The Chairman The value of the private medical cover provided to To provide a and non-executive directors are entitled to travel assistance in the Chairman and any other benefits will be in line level of benefits connection with company business including the use of a car and driver.
with market rates and disclosed in the annual report in line with RBS will meet the cost of any tax due on the benefit.
Other benefits may on remuneration.
be offered in line with market practice.
The Chairman receives private medical cover.
Other policy elements Provision Operation Recruitment The policy on the recruitment of new directors aims to be competitive and to structure pay in line with the framework policy applicable to current directors, recognising that some adjustment to quantum within that framework may be necessary to secure the preferred candidate.
A buy-out policy exists to replace awards forfeited or payments foregone which is in line with regulatory requirements.
The Committee will minimise buy-outs wherever possible and ensure they are no more generous than, and on substantially similar terms to, the original awards or payments they are replacing.
Notice and Executive directors termination As set out in executive directors service contracts, RBS or the executive director is required to give 12 months notice to the provisions other party to terminate the employment.
There is discretion for RBS to make a payment in lieu of notice based on salary only which is released in monthly instalments.
The executive director must take all reasonable steps to find alternative work and any remaining instalments will be reduced as appropriate to offset income from any such work.
Chairman and non-executive directors The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have service contracts, they have letters of appointment.
They do not have notice periods and no compensation would be paid in the event of termination of appointment, other than standard payments payable for the period served up to the termination date.
On an annual basis, all directors stand for election or re-election by shareholders at the companys AGM.
Non-executive directors appointed prior to 2017 do not have a set term as the letter of appointment operates on a rolling basis.
From 2017 onwards, new non-executive directors have been appointed for an initial term of three years, commencing from the first election by shareholders.
At the end of this period, further terms may be agreed, subject to an overall maximum tenure of nine years.
The non-executive directors with terms of appointment that will currently expire unless otherwise renewed at the end of three years are: Mark Seligman 2020 AGM, Dr Lena Wilson 2021 AGM and Patrick Flynn 2022 AGM.
Legacy RBS can continue to honour any previous commitments or arrangements entered into with current or former directors that may arrangements have different terms, including terms agreed prior to appointment as an executive director.
Treatment of On termination, share awards will be treated in accordance with the relevant plan rules as approved by shareholders.
Under outstanding the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM, LTI awards made in 2018 onwards will not be subject to employee share pro rating for time in good leaver circumstances, for the reasons set out below.
plan awards on termination RBS is unusual in having no annual bonus, and bonus awards would typically not be subject to pro rating for time.
In addition, regulatory requirements can effectively prevent LTI awards being granted in the year of joining.
The combination of these factors means executives at RBS could potentially receive no variable pay award either for the year of joining or in the final year of employment.
This is not consistent with our aim of creating significant alignment with shareholders.
Removal of pro rating enables executive directors to receive an appropriate level of variable pay for the period that they work and helps to ensure executives are motivated up to the point of departure and beyond.
It creates higher levels of shareholding for up to eight years post departure meaning executives can be held accountable for, and are financially exposed to, the longterm consequences of their actions.
Individuals will only qualify for good leaver treatment if they leave due to ill-health, injury, disability, death, retirement as agreed with RBS, redundancy, the employing company ceasing to be a member of RBS, transfer of the employing business, or any other reason if, and to the extent, the Committee decides in any particular case.
If good leaver treatment does not apply then LTI awards will be forfeited on leaving.
66 Directors Remuneration Policy Approach to the new UK Corporate Governance Code the new Code Ahead of its formal application in 2019, detailed analysis of the new Code was undertaken in 2018 with findings presented to the Committee.
The majority of the changes are in line with existing practice at RBS.
A summary of the main provisions is set out below.
The Committee will continue to monitor and reflect on best practice for these new requirements.
Area Description of provision RBS position Workforce Remuneration Committee to The Committee already considers papers on the broader employee proposition, for remuneration review workforce remuneration example, the group-wide remuneration and deferral policy, annual pay outcomes and alignment and related policies, and the including diversity information, and the annual Sharesave offer for employees.
with culture alignment of incentives and rewards with culture, taking The Financial Reporting Councils FRC guidance asks Remuneration Committees to these into account when setting consider How do workforce incentives support our culture and encourage the desired the policy for executive director behaviours?
The removal of sales incentives for front-line employees in recent years remuneration.
is a good example where desired culture and remuneration proposals have been considered together at RBS.
The Committee will review relevant culture developments and consider the potential impact on remuneration policy.
The aim is to assist the Board in its responsibility to monitor how well culture is being embedded across the organisation and the role that remuneration plays in that.
PostRemuneration Committees Under the current policy, executive directors automatically retain a significant number employment should develop a formal policy of shares after they leave.
Shares from fixed share allowances continue to be held for shareholding for post-employment at least three years regardless of the reason for leaving and LTI awards held by good requirements shareholding requirements leavers will continue to be released up to eight years post departure.
encompassing both unvested and vested shares.
The Committee will consider whether a more formal post-employment shareholding requirement should be introduced when the new directors remuneration policy is due to be submitted to shareholders at the 2020 AGM.
Pension The pension contribution rates The FRC guidance recognises that it may not be appropriate to reduce the pension contribution for executive directors should be provision for existing directors.
However, good practice is for the rates to move over rates aligned with those available to time to be aligned with those of the wider workforce.
As noted earlier in this report, RBS has already taken steps in this area with the pension rate for the new Chief Financial Officer set at 10% of salary, rather than the 25% of salary allowed for under the policy for new executive directors.
The rate at 10% is the same as that applicable to the majority of the wider workforce.
The position for the Chief Executive will be reviewed as part of the renewal of the directors remuneration policy at the 2020 AGM.
Factors in Remuneration Committees The Committee already takes many of these factors into account when determining determining should address the following executive director policy.
The current policy was designed around themes of executive criteria when determining simplicity, alignment with company strategy and culture, and ensuring rewards are director policy executive director policy: clarity: supported by sustainable, risk-adjusted long-term performance.
simplicity: risk: predictability: proportionality: and alignment to In terms of predictability, it is worth noting that variable pay at RBS is already culture.
constrained by the 1:1 regulatory cap on grant.
The new long-term incentive construct is based around lower awards levels with more predictable outcomes.
In addition, there are discretionary underpins which provide scope to adjust outcomes for significant risk, stakeholder or reputational matters not already captured in the performance assessment.
Engagement Remuneration Committee to In 2018, we established a Colleague Advisory Panel, chaired by a designated nonwith colleagues report on its work including executive director.
The aim of the Panel is to provide direct engagement between engagement with colleagues on colleagues and Board members.
The Panel includes colleagues who volunteered to executive remuneration.
be involved, existing representatives from trade union bodies and works councils, our colleague-led networks and junior management teams.
Along with a broad range of strategic topics, the Panel will also be used to discuss executive remuneration and how it aligns with the wider company pay policy.
Further information on the Panel can be found in the Strategic Report and the Report of the directors.
Discretion and Remuneration schemes and There is broad discretion under RBS remuneration arrangements and the Committee use of malus policies should enable the use has used discretion in the past to apply downwards adjustment to the formulaic and clawback of discretion to override outcome of LTI vestings.
formulaic outcomes and include provisions to withhold or recover The remuneration policy and share plan rules contain malus and clawback provisions payments.
to adjust or recover awards where appropriate.
Details of the process and the circumstances in which RBS can apply malus and clawback are set out on page 80.
67 Directors Remuneration Report Wider workforce remuneration policy Fair Pay RBS continues to work closely with Consistent with our executive remuneration RBS is committed to providing a fair wage for the Chartered Banker Institute and principles, the aim is to deliver a simple and the role performed and also being very clear Chartered Banker Professional transparent pay policy which promotes the on how pay works.
Employees are provided Standards Board to improve long-term success of RBS.
The policy with flexibility in terms of how they wish to supports a culture where individuals are receive pay to suit their personal professional standards across the rewarded for delivering sustained circumstances.
performance in line with risk appetite and for demonstrating the right conduct and Fairness is built around a number of themes.
A full pay review is undertaken each year for RBS is continuing to develop great leaders all salary ranges.
Pay is compared against the and supporting the development of talent Employees are provided with salary and external market so that pay and benefits are across the Group.
Part of this commitment is pension funding and certain roles are eligible competitive.
RBS is a fully accredited Living delivering and embedding our flagship for benefit funding and variable pay awards.
Wage Employer in the UK and our rates of leadership programme Determined to lead Further details on the policy and remuneration pay continue to exceed the Living Wage Dtl.
It teaches the skills to lead, manage and levels for 2018 including pay ratios can be Foundation Benchmarks.
coach people so they make positive behaviour found later in this report.
changes and improve their performance.
By RBS has also implemented a more the end of 2018, around 11,000 leaders had Making RBS a great place to work transparent approach by moving more completed their Dtl training.
RBS is committed to providing four key things: employees to published salary ranges.
a fulfilling job: fair pay: excellent training and a Improvements have been made to starting Gender and ethnicity pay gaps good leader.
salaries with faster progression to the rate for The latest gender and ethnicity pay gap the job.
Investment in pay levels in recent reporting for RBS can be found in the Our Fulfilling job years has focused mostly on junior Colleagues section of the Strategic Report The aim is for every colleague to have a clear employees, while not increasing fixed pay for and on the Sustainable Banking pages at and fulfilling job that connects to our purpose.
Each colleague is set clear goals and objectives that reflect RBSs overall strategy.
RBS has also removed front-line incentives Listening to colleagues Progress is reviewed throughout the year.
and variable pay for large numbers of In 2018 a more frequent approach to listening employees, with an increase to fixed pay to our workforce was developed.
This Wellbeing is essential for people to bring the instead.
This provides greater certainty for provides more opportunities to improve by best of themselves to work.
A range of these employees and allows them to focus assessing colleague sentiment and feedback, measures are provided to support good fully on providing the best service for and checking progress in making RBS a great physical, mental, social and financial health.
There is also an Employee Assistance Programme where employees can access We are confident that we pay our employees Our colleague opinion survey provides confidential advice, support and short-term fairly and keep our HR policies and processes everyone with the opportunity to have a say counselling.
under review to ensure we do so.
on what it feels like to work at RBS.
Feedback in terms of engagement and leadership has a Flexible working is offered where this is Flexible benefits are provided allowing direct impact on executive pay.
A survey by possible and appropriate.
This allows employees to change pension contributions the Banking Standards Board, an independent colleagues to explore working patterns with and choose from a range of protection, body, is also used to help raise standards of their line manager and select a more flexible healthcare and lifestyle options.
Employees in behaviour and competence across the UK approach to work that meets their current the UK and Republic of Ireland can also banking sector.
participate in employee share plans and over 23,000 currently do so.
Regular engagement takes place with Inclusion and diversity is another key element colleagues and representative bodies of creating a great place to work and also The number of employees at RBS throughout the year.
Board members visit understanding the needs of our customers.
who believe they are paid fairly business areas to hear directly from RBS supports a variety of colleague-led colleagues and there are regular townhall increased during 2018 and is groups that help influence strategy and meetings and online forums to facilitate employees also undertake unconscious bias significantly above the Global question and answer sessions with senior training and mandatory annual inclusion Financial Services Norm.
Excellent training In 2018, a new Colleague Advisory The inclusion category in our colleague RBS offers a number of ways for colleagues opinion survey is the highest scoring category.
Panel was established to enhance to learn and develop.
This includes technical Targets are in place to improve the proportion training, continuing professional development the colleague voice at Board level of women and ethnic minority leaders across and further education qualifications on the job.
and a meet the Board event took all business areas and RBS is on track to Support is also provided for personal place for the first time following the meet these aspirations.
This helps employees serve also part of the measures that impact AGM.
customers well and also assists colleagues executive remuneration.
In June 2018, RBS was awarded the RBS remains committed to embedding a strong service mindset through Service Employer of the Year award at the Excellence training which sits at the heart of Women in Finance Awards.
achieving our ambition to be number 1 for customer service, trust and advocacy.
