STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Summary Of Directors Remuneration Policy 1.
RSAs remuneration principles The Directors Remuneration Policy was The remuneration philosophy and strategy approved by shareholders on 5 May 2017, and are directly informed by the business strategy.
was effective from that date.
No changes to The remuneration principles that the Group the Policy are proposed this year.
Remuneration Committee the Committee follows are: The Policy covers how decisions on Directors remuneration will be made at RSA, and the Remuneration is aligned to the long-term remuneration philosophy and strategy which term interests of the Company, its business underpin these decisions.
strategy and performance: The remuneration framework is designed For ease of reference, elements of the Policy to promote sound and effective risk referenced in Committee activity during 2018 management in line with the companys risk are re-presented on the following pages 85 to pro le: 91, including the policy tables and information on Directors contractual terms.
The full Each component of the total remuneration Policy Report is contained in the 2016 Annual package is simple and transparent, so as to Report and Accounts pages 80 to 87, which be effective and understood by executives, is available at www.
Pay is linked to performance, with variable remuneration fully contingent on the achievement of stretching shortand longterm objectives which directly support the achievement of strategic priorities and are aligned to shareholders interests: Executive Directors and other executives are required to hold a signi cant number of shares in the Company: they are encouraged to act in shareholders best interests by having a personal investment in RSA: Competitive remuneration packages are offered in order to attract, retain and reward the levels of high calibre talent which are essential to RSAs success in todays competitive global insurance market: and The remuneration framework is reviewed regularly to ensure that it continues to appropriately reward executives, while protecting shareholders interests and complying with principles of good risk management and reward governance and avoiding con icts of interest.
85 SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED 3.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The following table sets out the components of the Executive Directors remuneration package and how they operate.
Purpose and Strategic Link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Salaries are reviewed annually considering factors Other than exceptional Performance conditions do xed including: market positioning, internal pay relativities, circumstances such as a role not apply, but business and remuneration levels of pay for other RSA employees, in ation, change, salary increases individual performance may be affordability, job scale and content, individuals will not exceed the level of considered when conducting This element is experience and expertise.
increases applied to other the review process.
designed to attract RSA employees.
and retain high calibre Salaries are benchmarked referencing peer group executives, essential companies of comparable size and complexity.
for ensuring RSAs There is no automatic right for any Director to receive ongoing success.
Only annual base salary is pensionable.
An existing Executive Directors salary may be increased outside of the normal review cycle for material role changes.
Bene ts Bene ts typically cover the areas of: health and Bene ts are valued and None.
xed well-being, leave of absence, car and business travel, determined with reference to remuneration sickness bene t, insurances, professional subscriptions, the benchmarking peer groups external advice and employee discounts on certain and other surveys reviewed by This element forms insurance products.
Home to work travel may be the Committee.
part of a market covered where appropriate.
competitive package Bene ts are xed remuneration, and supports the Some bene ts are delivered as taxable cash-in-lieu however the cost to provide executive.
Tax changes are not compensated.
them can vary from year to year in line with market conditions, Assistance would be available under RSAs relocation which therefore determine the policy or global mobility policy should this be required.
Expenses can be claimed according to RSAs business and travel policies, including tax thereon where such expenses do not qualify for tax relief.
Executive Directors in participating countries can acquire shares in RSAs all-employee share plans Sharesave and Sharebuild, and those in the UK can participate in RSAs exible bene ts programme.
Bene ts are determined with reference to market practice within the same peer group companies referred to in respect of salaries.
The Committee can also source information from bespoke bene t surveys to aid decision-making.
The Committee can amend any bene t or introduce new ones to ensure the remuneration package remains market competitive or to respond to regulatory, legal or best practice changes.
Pension Pension bene ts take the form of employer contributions No Executive Director will None.
xed to a pension plan, or a full partial cash allowance in lieu.
receive a pension bene t in 1 remuneration The RSA UK fide ned bene t pension schemes are excess of 30% of salary.
closed to all new entrants and future accrual.
This element forms part of a market Pension cash allowances are paid monthly and are competitive package subject to statutory deductions.
and enables The Committee can adjust contribution or allowance executives to save for levels to ensure these remain appropriate and market retirement.
It can also agree changes to the terms of the Directors pension plan s, as appropriate.
Note: 1 This will be updated for the next Policy renewal in 2020.
86 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Purpose and Strategic Link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures The normal maximum bonus Performance measures and Annual Bonus Bonus awards are calculated against stretching annual opportunity is 160% of salary.
weightings are set each year Plan financial and nonfinancial targets, as well as the considering the Companys variable performance of the individual executive.
An additional bonus opportunity strategy and shareholder interests, remuneration 50% of the bonus is deferred into a share award for a of up to a further 40% of salary and will vary based on each This element period of three years, and 50% is awarded in cash.
may be available, at the Directors area of responsibility incentivises the Committees discretion, to Vested shares must be retained until the relevant where appropriate.
achievement of recognise highly exceptional shareholding level is reached, excluding any sold to short-term financial circumstances.
Full disclosure Measures typically cover pro t, satisfy statutory deductions.
The applicable and nonfinancial will be given if an increased underwriting performance, risk shareholding levels are detailed on page 76. goals in line with bonus opportunity is applied.
management, expenses, capital Awards are subject to the Malus and Clawback Policy, RSAs risk pro le.
and balance sheet strength, which is reviewed annually, and is noted on page 75.
Actual bonus awards are linked customer and business Deferral into shares to achievement as follows: Dividend equivalents accrue on the deferred shares, and sustainability, and objectives enhances are awarded at the end of the deferral period.
Below threshold no bonus personal to the executive.
The Committee can exercise discretion to change the A majority weighting is given maximum opportunity bonus measures, how they are weighted, calculated and to financial metrics.
It can adjust bonus outcomes provided this is Target 50% of maximum be assessed on a Scorecard basis.
appropriate and in shareholders interests, including opportunity Performance is measured adjustment downwards for current or future risk M aximum 100% of over one financial year.
exposure, and make such amendments as are maximum opportunity necessary to respond to regulatory, legal or accounting Targets are set with reference to requirements.
Shareholders will be noti ed if this has the Groups operational plan.
been carried out by disclosure in the relevant Directors The performance measures and Remuneration Report.
targets used to inform the 2018 bonus awards are on pages 71 to 73.
Long-term Conditional long-term incentive awards are granted The normal maximum LTIP Performance conditions are incentive Plan annually in the form of Performance Shares, and opportunity is 230% of salary.
reviewed for each new cycle and LTIP may vest wholly or partially subject to company set in line with the Companys For recruitment purposes, variable performance conditions.
operational plan, long-term strategy or in highly exceptional remuneration and considering shareholder A two-year retention period applies to vested circumstances, such as for interests.
This element Performance Shares, excluding any sold to satisfy retention, the Committee may supports RSAs statutory deductions.
This applies while the Director agree to a conditional Measures are typically linked to long-term strategy, remains in employment.
performance-related award value creation through performance and being made up to an additional performance of the Groups share Vested shares must be retained until the relevant priority to create 170% of salary.
This would be price, pro t, capital and balance shareholding level is reached, excluding any sold to shareholder value considered a one-off award.
sheet strength and underlying satisfy statutory deductions, as detailed on page 91. through sustained Where an exceptional award is performance.
Awards are subject to the Malus and Clawback Policy, earnings and share made, full disclosure will be The LTIP will include at least two which is reviewed annually, and is noted on page 75. price growth.
A majority weighting Dividend equivalents accrue during the performance The share-based Award vesting is linked is given to financial metrics.
period and are added to the shares that vest.
nature of the plan to achievement against the Metrics can be assessed through The Committee can act within the parameters of the enhances performance conditions a Scorecard.
Plans rules as approved by shareholders and its shareholder as follows: The performance period will performance conditions, enabling the LTIP to be alignment.
Below threshold 0% vesting normally be at least three years for appropriately administered under both normal and 1 all measures, with no re-testing.
The Committee can make Threshold 25% vesting such amendments as may be necessary to respond Target 62.5% of vesting Shareholders will be consulted if to legal, accounting or regulatory changes.
Awards material changes to the measures M aximum 100% vesting can be reduced or otherwise amended, provided the are proposed by the Committee.
action is fair and justi able, for example, to guard The measures and targets for the against a windfall award or the converse generated by 2019-21 cycle are on pages 81 an accounting treatment.
Vesting can be adjusted to 82. downwards for current or future risk exposure.
Notes: 1 The current LTIP, referred to as the Performance Share Plan 2014 PSP, was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
It is also used as a vehicle for granting deferred bonus shares, and restricted shares where these are awarded as part of an Executive Director buy-out as noted on page 88.
2 The overall remuneration principles in this Policy apply across the Group.
Employee remuneration packages are set with reference to the relevant competitive markets in which the Group operates, and remuneration levels therefore re ect differences in location and job role.
All permanent UK-based employees are eligible to receive a bonus award, but deferral is only operated for senior leaders and where required by Solvency II.
The LTIP policy provisions are the same for all other participants who receive performance-based awards, with exception to the two-year post-vesting retention period which only covers Executive Directors.
LTIP award opportunities vary for individuals below the Board.
Members of the Executive Team and selected senior leaders across the Group are also required to hold shares in RSA.
87 SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED 4.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee ensures a consistent and transparent approach is taken when appointing Executive Directors to the Board, as shown in the following table.
When a new Executive Director is recruited, the Committee will provide details of how the Policy has been implemented in respect of their appointment terms in the relevant Directors Remuneration Report.
Remuneration components Notes on approach Base salary Set using the same approach as for existing Directors salary reviews.
The Committee can exercise discretion on the timing and level of salary reviews for newly appointed Directors re ecting the individuals development and performance in the role.
Bene ts, pension Same as those offered to current Executive Directors, but the Committee may exercise judgement to ex the package to and contractual terms accommodate any speci c terms bespoke to the individual, e. g. related to health, annual leave, pension or insurance 1 bene ts.
Where the Director is an internal appointee to the Board, or appointed following a corporate transaction, he she may be permitted to retain any legacy bene ts or terms at the Committees discretion, or a buy-out may be made depending on the bene t type and circumstance.
Continuity of service with the Group will be maintained.
Incentive awards Under normal circumstances, a new Executive Director will be eligible for incentive awards in line with the usual policy as detailed on page 87.
However, in exceptional circumstances, a higher bonus opportunity of up to 200% of salary may be agreed and a performance-related LTIP award may be approved by the Committee in the Directors first year of service up to the limit of 400% of salary.
If the director is entered into an RSA LTIP and made an award of Performance Shares, these will be subject to the same performance conditions and vesting terms as applies to other plan participants.
Buy-outs Where the Director is an external appointment, the Committee may agree to a compensatory package re ecting the value and terms of incentives or bene ts forfeited upon resignation.
- This will only be permitted on receipt of reasonable evidence of loss.
- Typically, the form of award that is being forfeited e. g. cash or shares will be replaced by the same form of award at RSA.
- Performance-linked awards will normally only be compensated with Restricted Shares where a performance condition has been achieved or is nearing testing and there is a reasonable expectation of the vesting level.
- Cash bonuses may be bought out with Restricted Shares in order to give the Director an early stake in RSA.
- The Committee may agree to reduce the value of the compensatory award below the anticipated or actual loss value if the compensation is paid at an advanced date i. e. early settlement.
- Any compensatory award using cash or restricted shares will always carry a service condition and an appropriate repayment schedule to protect shareholders interests.
Note: 1 Weight will be given to new corporate governance guidelines in this area ahead of the 2020 Policy renewal.
88 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 5.
Service contracts and policy for payments on loss of of ce Each of the Executive Directors is employed under a service agreement, which contains a variety of contractual terms and conditions.
Contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered of ce.
Terms are designed to ensure fair treatment for departing executives while avoiding reward for failure.
Key terms Notes on approach Notice period No Director will be appointed on a notice period exceeding 12 months.
The current Executive Directors employment can be terminated by the Company or the individual, by the serving of 12 months notice.
In the case of summary dismissal, no notice will be served by the Company and no compensation will be paid in lieu of it.
Notice periods are approved by the Committee, and at its discretion, can be reduced in the event an Executive Director resigns and wishes to leave prior to the end of his or her contractual notice period.
The Company can require accrued annual leave related to the year of termination to be used during a notice period or garden leave, although payment of untaken days can alternatively be made in lieu.
Garden leave The Company has the contractual right to place the Executive Directors on garden leave for part, or all, of their notice period.
Salary, bene ts and pension contributions continue during garden leave, but this time will not count towards the calculation of any Annual Bonus award that may subsequently be due.
Payment in lieu of A Director may be paid in lieu of an unexpired portion of their notice period, covering base salary, pension and bene ts, notice PILON regardless of which party has served notice.
Generally, in the event of termination and in all cases of termination on performance grounds, PILON would be made on a phased basis subject to mitigation, and would be reduced or ceased if the Director starts to receive payment or remuneration from alternative employment.
Termination payment There are no pre-determined special provisions for Directors with regard to compensation for loss of of ce.
If a loss of of ce were to occur giving rise to a redundancy payment under prevailing employment legislation, the payment will be calculated taking account of the Directors length of service with the Group and his her annual gross basic salary as at their employment termination date.
In the normal course of events, reasonable professional fees may be paid in relation to a Directors employment termination.
No payment or compensation for loss of of ce made to any departing Director will be disclosed if it is less than 10,000 gross.
Executive Directors do not have terms which provide additional rights or payments to them in the event of a change of control, reconstruction or amalgamation of the Company.
Restrictive covenants Restrictive covenants are in place to help protect RSAs interests should the individual leave the Company for any reason.
External appointments Executive Directors may hold one external non-executive position of a FTSE 100 company provided this does not give rise to any con ict of interest, with the approval of the Group Nomination and Governance Committee.
If there is any remuneration arising from this role, the individual can retain it.
89 SUMMARY OF DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED The Committees approach to incentive treatment for Executive Director leavers is set out in the following table.
Based on the leaving circumstances and having regard of shareholders interests, the Committee can exercise discretion to reduce or lapse awards or enable a proportion of awards to be received but only in highly exceptional circumstances and where appropriate.
Shareholders will be informed if discretion is applied, and details will be provided wherever possible.
Leaving circumstances Approach to Annual Bonus Approach to Deferred Bonus Shares Approach to unvested LTIPs Resignation or dismissal for cause Not eligible if left or under notice Forfeited if dismissed for cause.
Normally vest in line with the normal timetable if resignation.
Good leavers Eligible for the proportion of Normally vest in line with the Performance is tested in line with the bonus year served.
At the Committees discretion, and normally including such Performance is tested in line In cases of death in service In cases of death in service and, circumstances as planned with the normal performance and, with Committee discretion, with Committee discretion, retirement, death, disability timetable.
medical severance, awards medical severance, performance medical severance, transfers can vest sooner than the conditions can be tested early In cases of death in service and, outside of the Group and scheduled date.
and awards vest sooner than the with Committee discretion, 1 redundancy scheduled date.
medical severance, performance can be tested and awards made Awards vest subject to sooner than the scheduled date.
The Committee has the discretion to make the final bonus award in cash and so waive deferral, subject to any regulatory requirements.
Change of control Normally good leaver treatment Awards can vest sooner than the P erformance conditions are applies as above.
tested early and awards can vest sooner than the scheduled date.
Where this is the case, The Committee can determine performance can be tested and whether a pro-ration for time is V esting level determined with awards made sooner than the applied to these awards.
regard to performance and time scheduled date.
Note: 1 The Committee will make reasonable judgement on determining whether a Director quali es for good leaver status by reason of retirement, by understanding the individuals intentions post employment termination and taking account of the context of his her departure from the Group.
Legacy incentive plans The Policy provides for any outstanding awards granted under legacy incentive plans to continue in place, although the current Executive Directors do not hold any such awards.
Existing incentive awards granted under the Remuneration Policy approved by shareholders in 2014 will continue in place.
90 RSA Annual Report and Accounts 2018 rsagroup.
com STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS 7.
Required shareholding RSA believes it is in shareholders interests for its executives to hold shares in the Company and build a stake in the business.
They are expected to retain vested shares arising from the Companys share plans to build and maintain a minimum shareholding level.
Shareholding provisions Executive Directors must build up a shareholding in RSA according to speci ed levels, expressed as a salary multiple.
The shareholding levels to be reached are - Group Chief Executive: 300% of salary - Other Executive Directors: 200% of salary Executives have a targeted five years in which to build up their holding, commencing from the first date an unconditional share award is made to them as a Director.
No shares are to be sold until the holding level is reached, except where required to cover statutory deductions.
The shares which count towards the holding level are those held either in the executives own right or that of immediate family members and any awarded by RSA which cease to be bound by any performance or service conditions.
Vested Performance Shares count towards the holding level during the two-year retention period.
The Committee can exercise discretion to temporarily waive or reduce the holding requirement or allow shares to be sold in exceptional business or personal circumstances e. g. ill health, divorce, financial hardship.
The shareholding levels were determined with reference to the practice across the Companys benchmark peer groups.
The Executive Directors shareholding levels as at 31 December 2018 are noted on page 76.
Policy for Non-Executive Directors The following table outlines the components of Non-Executive Directors remuneration: Purpose and Strategic Link Operation and maximum level of remuneration Fees Non-Executive Directors aside from the Chairman receive a base fee, further fees are then paid to re ect membership of a committee, and for chairing a committee.
A separate fee is paid to the Senior Independent Director.
This element ensures competitive remuneration is The Chairman receives a fee for his role and this is set by the Committee.
paid to attract high calibre Director Fees will not exceed the limit stated in the Companys Articles of Association, as approved by shareholders.
non-executives and recognise Fees are paid in cash, subject to any required statutory deductions.
their time commitment on Fees are reviewed annually but an annual increase may not always be applied.
When assessing fee levels, account is taken of the required time commitment and the degree of expertise necessary to ful l the particular role such as chairing a committee.
The fees are benchmarked using the same peer groups as for the Executive Directors remuneration, and will have regard to the market median.
The Company has the discretion to introduce new fees or change the Non-Executive Directors terms.
Details of the Chairmans fee and the Non-Executive Directors fees earned for 2018 are noted on pages 82 to 83.
Other key terms Non-Executive Directors may claim expenses in accordance with RSAs business and travel policies, including tax of of ce thereon where such expenses do not qualify for tax relief.
Re ects current good They receive no other bene ts, but they can have RSA insurance products at a discount.
As the Non-Executive Directors are not employed by the Company, they are not eligible to receive a bonus award or participate in any of RSAs share plans.
Non-Executive Directors may hold shares in RSA but this is a personal matter and is not mandatory.
Non-Executive Directors are not employed by RSA, but they are engaged on a contract for services basis.
They are issued with an appointment letter for an initial three-year term, which can be extended with the Boards agreement.
The term of of ce can end prior to its expiry with either the individual or the Company serving one months notice, or three months in respect of the Chairman.
No notice will be served by the Company in the event of gross misconduct.
Appointment letters are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered of ce.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to disclose any con icts of interest prior to, and during, the course of their tenure.
They will not participate in making a decision if any con ict is considered to impact their independence or limit their ability to discharge their duties to shareholders.
Since Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman receive only fees and expenses, no individual can have a loss of of ce payment, although payment in lieu of notice can be made.
