46 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT Rebecca Shelley Committee Chairman Directors Remuneration Report The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee was in Annual statement from the place throughout the financial year ended Remuneration Committee Chair 31 December 2018, was chaired by Rebecca On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to Shelley, and comprises the four Non-executive present to you the Remuneration Committees Directors of the Company, all of whom are COMMITTEE MEMBERS Report for the year ended 31 December 2018. considered to be free of any relationship that Against a backdrop of competitive market Committee Meeting would affect their impartiality in carrying out conditions, Sabres Management Team has members attendance their responsibilities and were independent as delivered on the Groups strategy, generating a Rebecca Shelley required under section B2.1 of the UK Corporate strong underwriting result and have built a solid 6 6 Committee Chairman Governance Code.
Six Committee meetings foundation for profitable growth in future years.
were held in the year ended 31 December 2018.
Catherine Barton 6 6 Introduction The Chief Executive Officer CEO may This Report has been prepared in accordance Ian Clark 5 6 also be invited to attend meetings, unless this with the Directors Remuneration Reporting Andy Pomfret presents a conflict of interest, for example when Regulations for UK incorporated companies appointed to the Committee 4 4 his own remuneration is discussed.
Members set out in Schedule 8 of the Large and with effect May 2018 of the Committee do not have any personal Medium Sized Companies and Groups interests in the topics discussed at the Patrick Snowball Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 resigned from the Committee 2 2 Committee, except as shareholders in the as amended in 2013.
The Committees in May 2018 Company.
No Director is involved in the role is to ensure that Senior Management is decisions setting his or her own remuneration.
appropriately incentivised to deliver sustainable During the year, the CEO either attended growth to shareholders over the long-term.
partially or fully all of the Committee meetings.
The Committee has supported this objective The Company Secretary and Head of Human by structuring and deploying remuneration in a Resources may be invited, but only as cost-effective manner, embedding a clear link appropriate and only if this does not present between pay and performance in the Groups a conflict of interest.
The Chairman of the remuneration framework.
Committee also meets separately with the Chief What is in this report?
Executive Officer and the Company Secretary.
The report is presented in three sections: The Chairman of the Committee reports to Remuneration Committee Report and subsequent meetings of the Board and the the Remuneration Committee Chairs Board receives a copy of the minutes of each Annual Statement meeting once these have been approved by the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts The Directors Remuneration Policy as the secretary to the Committee.
the Policy The Annual Report on Remuneration this The terms of reference of the Committee sets out the remuneration outcomes for 2018 can be found on the Companys website and how the Policy will be implemented www.
This report will be subject to an governance and are reviewed by the advisory shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
Committee on an annual basis.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 47 Statement of shareholder voting at the 2018 AGM The following tables show the results of shareholder voting relating to remuneration at the AGM held on 24 May 2018: Resolution Report to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy Total number of votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 150,130,716 99.20 Against 1,214,214 0.83 Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 151,344,930 100 Votes withheld 665,223 n a Total votes cast including withheld votes 152,010,153 n a Resolution Report to approve the Directors Remuneration Report Total number of votes % of votes cast For including discretionary 150,021,694 99.96 Against 58,822 0.04 Total votes cast excluding withheld votes 150,080,516 100 Votes withheld 1,929,636 n a Total votes cast including withheld votes 152,010,152 n a Role of the Committee Reviewed the Companys Save As You Earn consulting in the UK.
As such, the Committee The Committee meets a minimum of twice employee contribution levels, and increased is satisfied that the advice provided by Deloitte a year and as required.
The Committee has a to 500 per calendar month, with effect is independent and objective.
planned cycle of activities, managed through from 2019 The Remuneration Policy a schedule of matters, to ensure that it Reviewed the Companys Share Incentive Following the Companys admission to the addresses its responsibilities in the current Plan and opened up the Plan to employee premium listing segment of the official list financial year.
contributions, matched by the Company, on 11 December 2017 Admission the with every three shares purchased by The Committee is responsible for setting the Committee designed the Companys employees, the Company will match with Remuneration Policy for all Executive Directors, Remuneration Policy to embed the corporate one additional share senior employees, the Company Secretary and governance principles shareholders expected the Companys Chairman, including pension Reviewed and approved the Committees of a quoted company.
The Policy was rights and any compensation payments.
Terms of Reference approved by over 99% of shareholders at It is also responsible for reviewing all share last years Annual General Meeting AGM, Recommended to the Board the appointment incentive plans and setting and approving the and will remain in force for the financial year of Ian Clark as the Non-executive Director to achievement of their performance conditions.
ending 31 December 2019. engage with employees.
The fees of the Non-executive Directors are The Policys key features are: Committee Advisers approved by the Company Chairman and the Deloitte LLP Deloitte is the appointed Salaries, benefits and pensions at Executive Directors.
Committee remuneration adviser, and was a level to attract, incentivise and retain Activities during the year reappointed by the Committee during the year.
high-calibre employees During the financial year ending 31 December Advisers attend the Committee meetings as Annual Bonus Plan to incentivise and 2018, the Committee held six meetings.
appropriate, and provide advice on executive reward the delivery of annual corporate and During these meetings, the Committee: remuneration, best practice and market individual, financial and non-financial targets Approved the prior year Directors updates.
The Committee evaluates the Bonus Deferral to ensure the alignment of Remuneration Report, and reviewed support provided by its advisers annually and Executive Directors with shareholders shareholder comments and AGM on is comfortable that the advisers detailed did interests, a portion of the annual bonus is the Report not have any connection with the Company deferred into shares, which are released that may have impaired their independence.
Set the grant levels, and the financial and two years post their grant The total fees paid to Deloitte in relation to individual performance conditions for the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP the remuneration advice provided to the awards made under the 2018 Short Term to reward Executive Directors and Senior Committee during the year were 126,250, Incentive Plan Management for the creation of long-term excluding VAT 2017: 1,700.
Fees were Set the financial performance conditions and sustainable shareholder value charged on a time and materials basis.
and grant levels for the awards 2018 During the year the wider Deloitte firm also Shareholding requirements for Executive Long Term Incentive Plan provided corporate tax advisory services.
Directors to further align Executive Directors Reviewed the salaries of the Executive with shareholders interests Deloitte is a founder member of the Directors, with new salaries effective Malus and clawback provisions applied Remuneration Consultants Group and from 1 April 2019 to awards made under the Annual Bonus voluntarily operates under the Code of Plan and LTIP to further embed pay Conduct in relation to executive remuneration for performance.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 48 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Executive remuneration in 2018 Given Adam Westwoods progression in his Share Incentive Plan to allow for employee The Remuneration Committee discussed role as CFO the Committee determined that contributions and employer matched shares, and approved the remuneration outcomes his salary had ceased to appropriately reflect at a ratio of 3:1, where for every three shares in respect of 2018 shortly after the year end.
his experience and the growing complexity an employee purchases, the Company Whilst the Committee has the ability to use of the role.
As set out in last years report, matches with one free share.
These increases discretion to adjust awards made under both the CFOs salary is still significantly will come into effect during 2019.
Also during the Long Term and Short Term Incentive Plans, below the comparator market range.
the year and in line with best practice, the Committee considered the outcomes As such the Committee reserves the right the Committee appointed Ian Clark as under the Short Term Incentive Plan for to make increases above those granted the Non-executive Director to represent 2018 were aligned with the Companys to all employees as the CFO continues employees.
Further details and the to develop in the role.
of meetings and lunches with Ian for performance conditions for the awards employees will be held throughout 2019, Reflecting the Committees commitment made under the Companys LTIP and STIP with the intention of building a greater to a remuneration framework which aligns can be found on pages 55 to 61.
The Group communication channel for employees Executive Directors with long-term value has a well-defined strategy, whereby the to the Board.
creation, as in 2018 the grants under the profitability of business written is prioritised 2019 LTIP for the CEO will be 125% of salary, Whilst the Group currently has fewer than under all market conditions.
During 2018, the and for the CFO this will be 100% of salary.
250 employees, and so is not required to motor insurance market appeared to soften, The performance conditions for these awards submit a formal statement on its gender with premium increases being lower than can be found on page 61.
The Committee has pay gap, our intention is to be transparent.
Under these conditions, implemented a two year post-vesting holding As such, we will make a statement available Sabres strategy is to maintain pricing discipline period for the awards made to the Executive on our corporate website during 2019. in order to preserve margins and build a Directors under the LTIP, for awards made strong base to allow growth when market Shareholder engagement from 1 January 2019, aligning the Company prices start to increase.
In 2018, despite such Sabre and the Remuneration Committee with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
competitive conditions, Sabre achieved a are committed to maintaining an ongoing The Committee reviewed the bonus levels premium level broadly in line with 2017 while dialogue with shareholders on the issues for 2019 under the Companys Short Term keeping the combined operating ratio on of remuneration and welcome any feedback Incentive Plan and concluded that both the business written within our preferred range.
you may have, via the Company Secretary.
CEO and CFOs maximum bonus for 2019 Executive remuneration in 2019 should be increased, within policy limits, to We look forward to your support on the When determining the remuneration 125% of their salary.
Whilst the performance resolution relating to remuneration at the arrangements for the coming year, the conditions for these awards are deemed to Companys Annual General Meeting on Committee, whilst mindful that base salaries be commercially sensitive, the Committee 23 May 2019. should remain competitive, also took into is satisfied that they are appropriately On behalf of the Remuneration Committee consideration the strong individual performance stretching, and they will be disclosed of the Executive Directors over the year, the in the 2019 Annual Remuneration Report.
changes to their roles since listing and the Wider considerations growth and extension of their responsibilities The Committee regularly monitors as the Company continues to mature.
developments in corporate governance, Rebecca Shelley The Committee has reviewed the salary levels the evolution of best practice and updates Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the Executive Directors and concluded that to regulatory guidance to ensure that our an increase should be made to both the Chief approach remains appropriate.
The Committee 27 March 2019 Executive Officer CEO and Chief Financial believes in the engagement and motivation Officer CFO with effect 1 April 2019 by of the workforce.
As a result, during the 6.3% for the CEO and 11.1% for the CFO to year the Committee decided to increase the recognise the performance of both individuals maximum employee monthly contribution to as executive directors of a listed company the Companys Save As You Earn Plan from in our first full year following our IPO.
250 to 500 and expanded the Companys Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
