Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 49 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section of the Directors Remuneration Report contains the Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy Our approach The Executive Directors remuneration has five main components: a base salary, benefits, employer pension contributions, a performance-related annual bonus Short Term Incentive Plan and awards made under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan.
Directors are also entitled to participate in both of the all-employee share plans on the same basis as other Group employees.
Detail in relation to each of these elements is set out in the following policy table.
COST EFFECTIVENESS In proposing the structure of the Executive Sabre intends to pay no more than is necessary to attract, Directors remuneration, the Committee has retain and incentivise high-calibre Management, whilst been guided by the three following principles: also aligning the interests of employees with those of shareholders and, where appropriate, other key stakeholders.
1 PAY FOR PERFORMANCE Performance-related pay will, potentially, make up a significant proportion of the Executive Directors remuneration packages and will be assessed based on stretching targets.
2 LONG-TERM ALIGNMENT There will be an appropriate balance of remuneration to the delivery of longer-term performance targets.
In determining the Companys Remuneration Policy, the Committee has taken into account the relevant regulatory and governance principles.
3 Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 50 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED The Policy governing each element of the Executive Directors pay is outlined below: Policy table Element and Performance link to strategy Operation Opportunity measures Salary To attract, incentivise Base salaries will be reviewed at least The Committee has decided not to set an None.
and retain Executive annually taking into account the scope and overall maximum monetary opportunity or Directors of a requirements of the role, the performance increase.
However, the Committee intends high-calibre.
and experience of the incumbent Executive that Executive Directors salary increases Director and the individuals total will normally be in line with salary increases remuneration package.
offered to the wider employee population.
Account will also be taken of remuneration There are however specific circumstances in arrangements at Sabres peer companies which the Committee could award increases and other companies of an equivalent outside this range which may include: size and complexity and for other A change in the Executive Directors role Group employees.
and or responsibilities Performance and or development in role of the Executive Director A significant change in the Groups size, composition and or complexity.
Where an Executive Director has been appointed to the Board at a below-market starting salary, larger increases may be awarded as their experience develops, if the Committee considers such increases to be appropriate.
Current salaries for the Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Benefits To provide a benefits The Committees policy is to provide As the costs of benefits are dependent on the None.
package to recruit Executive Directors with competitive levels Executive Directors individual circumstances, and retain Executive of benefits, taking into consideration the the Committee has not set a maximum Directors of a benefits provided to Sabres all employees monetary value.
However, in approving the high-calibre.
benefits paid, the Committee will ensure that they do not exceed a level which is, in the Benefits currently include but are not Committees opinion, appropriate given the limited to life insurance and private Executive Directors particular circumstances.
If an Executive Director is required to relocate as a result of his her duties the Company may provide the Executive Director with additional benefits such as assistance with relocation, travel, accommodation or education allowances or professional tax advice, along with any associated tax liabilities.
Pension To support the The Group may make employer pension The amount of payments made by None.
Companys strategy contributions to a registered pension the Group will not exceed 17% of the of recruiting and plan or such other arrangement the individuals salary, less Employer retaining Executive Committee considers has the same National Insurance Contribution Directors of a economic effect set up for the benefit without shareholder approval.
high-calibre for of each of the Executive Directors.
Details of the current contribution the long term.
Alternatively, an Executive Director may levels are set out in the Annual Report be awarded some all of the contribution on Remuneration.
as an equivalent cash allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 51 Element and Performance link to strategy Operation Opportunity measures Short Term Incentive Plan STIP Annual bonus and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP To incentivise and The Committee will set the performance The maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Bonuses will be subject reward the delivery measures and targets as well as the Directors is 125% of base salary.
to a mixture of financial and of annual corporate weighting of the performance targets for non-financial performance Actual awards made each year to Executive and or individual each financial year of the Company.
Annual targets set by the Committee Directors will be set out in the Annual Report financial and bonus outcomes will be determined by the at the start of the financial on Remuneration in respect of that year.
Committee after the end of each financial year to incentivise delivery year.
In exceptional circumstances the of the Companys strategy.
To align the interests Committee may use its discretion to adjust of Executive Directors At least half of the annual the formulaic outcome of the performance with shareholders bonus will be based on targets to reflect corporate and individual through the deferral financial measures.
of a portion of the Performance measures bonus into shares.
The Committee may defer a proportion of may include strategic and or any bonus award no more than 50% into a personal objectives.
share award under the DBP.
DBP awards will No payments will be made normally vest on the second anniversary of under each performance grant or such other date as the Committee element of the bonus for less determines on grant.
than threshold performance, Malus and clawback provisions will apply at which 25% of bonus see section below for further details.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP To incentivise and The vesting of awards will be subject to The maximum award in respect of any financial The majority of performance reward delivery of the the satisfaction of performance conditions year will be 175% of salary.
measures used to assess Groups longer-term set by the Committee measured over a performance under the LTIP Actual awards made each year to Executive strategic objectives performance period of at least three years.
A portion will Directors will be set out in the Annual Report for the business.
be based on relative Total The Committee may determine that awards on Remuneration in respect of that year.
may be subject to a post-vesting holding period before any underlying shares may No payments will be made be sold.
under each performance condition of the LTIP for less Malus and clawback provisions will apply than threshold performance, to unvested and vested awards respectively at which 25% of the award see section below for further details.
vests, rising to 100% for For awards made under the LTIP, maximum performance.
with effect 1 January 2019, the Committee have implemented a two year post-vesting holding period for awards made to the Executive Directors.
All-employee share plans To align the Executive Executive Directors are eligible to Participation in the Groups all-employee None.
Directors with the participate in any all-employee share share plans will be subject to any applicable wider workforce.
plans in place, which are operated in line maximum limits as set by HMRC.
These are currently a share acquisition and free share plan, known as a UK Share Incentive Plan, SIP, and a savings-related share option plan, known as the Save As You Earn SAYE Plan.
Non-executive Directors Approach to fees Operation Opportunity Other items Fees paid to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors To attract Fee levels will normally be reviewed Details of the current fee of the Chairman Each Non-executive Non-executive though not necessarily increased annually.
and the fee levels for the Non-executive Director will be entitled to be Directors of an Fees will be set with reference to the time Directors are set out in the Annual Report reimbursed for all reasonable appropriate calibre commitment and responsibilities of on Remuneration.
costs incurred in the course and with sufficient the position.
of his her duties, including There is no prescribed maximum fee or annual experience to travel and accommodation The fee for the Chairman will be determined increase.
Total fees will not exceed the limit set ensure the effective expenditure, along with by the Committee.
Fees for Non-executive out in the Companys Articles of Association.
management any related tax liabilities.
Directors will be determined by the Chairman Further fees may be paid for additional of the Company.
responsibilities such as being a member of or chairing a Board Committee or acting as the Senior Independent Director or for an increased time commitment during the year.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 52 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Notes to the policy table The Committee has the discretion to invoke these provisions where Prior arrangements there has been: The Board reserves the right to make any remuneration payments A material misstatement of any Group members audited accounts and or payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions An error in assessing the relevant performance conditions or the available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that information or assumptions on which the award was granted or vested they are not in line with the Policy set out on the prior pages where the Misconduct on the part of the Executive Director terms of the payment were agreed i before the Policy came into effect: or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Serious reputational damage to, or a material failure of risk Group and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in management by, a member or business unit of the Group.
consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Group.
For Within the period beginning on: these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards In the case of LTIP awards, the start of the performance period of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the and ending on the fifth anniversary of the date of grant terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
In the case of STIP cash bonus and DBP awards, the start of the Selection of performance conditions financial year in respect of which the award is granted and ending For the Short Term Incentive Plan STIP, the Committee believes on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
that a mix of financial and non-financial targets is most appropriate.
The Board will retain the discretion to calculate the amount to be Strategic and personal objectives may be included where appropriate recovered, including whether or not to claw back such amount gross to ensure delivery of key business milestones.
Targets are set by the or net of any tax or social security contributions applicable to the award.
Committee taking into account internal and external forecasts.
Remuneration scenario charts For the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the Committee believes The charts below illustrate the amount the CEO could receive for that awards should be linked to the value created for shareholders over differing levels of performance, in the second year in which the Policy the period.
Therefore the majority of performance measures used to is in operation.
The charts are based on the following assumptions: assess performance under the LTIP will be financial, with a portion based on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR.
Pay scenario Basis of calculation Minimum Fixed pay only consisting of salary, benefits and pension Terms common to the DBP and LTIP On-target Fixed pay, plus the potential value of the annual bonus Awards under the DBP and LTIP may: at target 50% of the maximum for 2018, 60% of the maximum for 2019 and the LTIP award vesting at be granted as conditional share awards or nil-cost options or in threshold 25% of the maximum such other form that the Committee determines has the same Maximum Fixed pay, plus the maximum potential opportunity for economic effect the annual bonus 100% of the maximum and the LTIP award vesting 100% of the maximum have any performance conditions applicable to them amended or substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the Remuneration scenario graph for illustrative purposes, based on the Committee to determine an amended or substituted performance CEOs remuneration package: condition would be more appropriate and not materially less difficult to satisfy 2018 000 incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or additional shares equal to the value of dividends which would have been paid 468 on the shares under an award that vests up to the time of vesting Minimum or where the award is subject to a holding period, the end of that On-target 918 holding period.
This amount may be calculated assuming that the 1,368 dividends have been reinvested in the Companys shares on a Maximum cumulative basis 2019 000 be settled in cash at the Committees discretion be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share 490 capital or any demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event Minimum that may materially affect the current or future value of the On-target 1,120 Companys shares.
Maximum 1,537 Malus and clawback Malus and clawback applies to all awards granted under the STIP and FIXED SHORT TERM INCENTIVE PLANS LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLANS LTIP.
These provisions may be invoked at the Committees discretion All scenarios exclude share price growth and dividends.
at any time prior to the third anniversary of the grant of a cash bonus or DBP award, or to the fifth anniversary of the grant of an LTIP award.
These graphs are for illustrative purposes.
They include the LTIP grants, In these circumstances, the Committee may reduce or impose which were made in 2018 but will not vest until 2021. additional conditions on an award or require that the participant returns some or all of the value acquired under the award.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 53 Remuneration Policy for new Executive Directors In the event notice is given to terminate an Executive Directors The Committee intends to set any new Executive Directors contract, the Company may make a payment in lieu of notice equal to remuneration package in line with the Policy outlined earlier in this the value of the Executive Directors salary for the notice period.
In recognition of the changes in the corporate governance such payments may be made, at the Committees discretion, as a lump environment, the Committee will align the Companys pension sum or in instalments, subject to mitigation by the Executive Director.
contributions for any newly appointed Executive Director with that It is the Committees intention that the service contracts for any new of the average employee.
Executive Directors will contain equivalent provisions.
When determining the design of the total package in a recruitment The Chairman and each of the independent Non-executive Directors scenario, the Committee will consider the size and scope of the role, have a notice period of three months and may receive fees in respect the candidates skills and experience and the market rate for such of any notice period.
a candidate, in addition to the importance of securing the preferred In the event that an Executive Director leaves the Group, entitlement candidate.
In some circumstances, the Board may be required to take they have to any variable pay will be determined in accordance with into account common remuneration practices in another country and, the relevant incentive plan rules.
if applicable, may consider awarding payments in respect of relocation costs.
In line with the Policy, in relation to annual bonus and LTIP awards, Short Term Incentive Plan STIP maximum variable remuneration will not exceed 300% of salary.
Annual Bonus and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP Executive Directors will not have any automatic entitlement to a bonus In the event that Sabre wishes to hire a candidate with unvested for the financial year in which they leave the Group.
The Committee long-term incentives accrued at a previous employer which would be may however pay a bonus if it considers it appropriate, which will forfeited on the candidates leaving that company, the Committee normally be time pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the financial year retains the discretion to grant awards with vesting on a comparable served.
Any such bonus may be paid out in such proportions of cash basis to the likely vesting of the previous employers award.
The LTIP and share awards as the Committee considers appropriate.
Rules have been drafted to permit the grant of recruitment awards on this basis to an individual on one occasion which will not be counted Unvested DBP awards will normally lapse when an Executive Director towards the annual 175% LTIP limit and which will be subject to leaves the Group.
However, if an Executive Directors departure such vesting schedules and performance conditions if any as the is a result of their ill-health, injury, disability or redundancy or their Committee may determine.
If it is not possible or practical to grant employing company or business being sold out of the Group or in such recruitment awards under the LTIP, the Committee may rely on the other circumstances as the Committee may determine, excluding provisions of Listing Rule 9.4.
For internal gross misconduct known as Good Leaver Reasons their award will candidates, LTIP awards granted in respect of the prior role would normally vest on the original vesting date, although the Committee be allowed to vest according to their original terms, or adjusted if has the discretion to allow awards to vest earlier if the Committee appropriate to take into account the appointment.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP the fee would be set in accordance with the Policy.
The length of Unvested LTIP awards will also normally lapse when an Executive service and notice periods would be set at the discretion of the Director leaves the Group.
However, if the Executive Directors Committee, taking into account market practice, corporate governance departure is as a result of a Good Leaver Reason, their LTIP awards will considerations and the skills and experience of the particular candidate normally vest and be released from any applicable holding period on at that time.
the original timetable set, although the Committee has the discretion to accelerate the vesting and release of awards.
The extent to which Service agreements and exit payment policy unvested LTIP awards vest in these circumstances will be determined In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code Provision B.
7.1, all by the Committee, taking into account the extent to which the relevant directors are subject to re-election annually at the Companys Annual performance conditions have, in its opinion, been satisfied over the General Meeting.
original performance period, where the vesting of the award is not Date of Notice Unexpired being accelerated and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, Director appointment period term the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the time Geoff Carter 21 09 2017 12 months the Executive Director leaves.
Adam Westwood 21 09 2017 12 months If an Executive Director leaves the Group holding vested LTIP awards Patrick Snowball 21 09 2017 3 months 21 months which are subject to a holding period, these awards will normally be Andy Pomfret 28 02 2018 3 months 26 months released at the end of the original holding period, unless the Committee Catherine Barton 04 10 2017 3 months 21 months allows the holding period to be shortened.
However, if the Executive Ian Clark 21 09 2017 3 months 21 months Director is dismissed for gross misconduct, all his or her LTIP awards Rebecca Shelley 04 10 2017 3 months 21 months will lapse.
Shareholders may inspect the Executive Directors contracts or the If an Executive Director dies, their DBP and LTIP awards will normally Non-executive Directors terms of appointment at the Companys vest and be released from any holding periods as soon as reasonably registered offices.
The extent to which unvested LTIP awards vest in these circumstances will be determined by the Committee in Both Geoff Carter and Adam Westwood have written service contracts the same way as for other Good Leaver Reasons described above.
with the Company with no fixed end date but which are terminable by either the Company or the Executive Director on not less than 12 months notice.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 54 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED The Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in Consideration of employment conditions at Sabre connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment where In setting the Policy which would apply for Executive Directors, the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal the Committee was led by the same principles which determined obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by all employee remuneration: cost effectiveness, pay for performance way of settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation and long-term alignment.
of a Directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include These principles evidence themselves in all employee remuneration but are not limited to paying any fees for outplacement assistance and as follows: or the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
Cost effectiveness As with the Directors, in setting compensation across the Group, Sabre intends to pay no more than is necessary Change of control to attract, retain and incentivise high-calibre individuals, setting In the event of a change of control of the Company, LTIP and DBP remuneration competitively but not excessively.
awards will normally vest and be released early.
The proportion Pay for performance Many full time Group employees are eligible of any unvested LTIP awards which vest will be determined by the to participate in some form of share-based incentive.
Key individuals Committee, taking into account the extent to which it determines below Board level have been invited to participate in the LTIP, in that any performance conditions have been satisfied at the time, order for there to be alignment between senior management and and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the Executive Directors objectives.
the performance period that has elapsed.
DBP awards will normally vest in full.
Long-term alignment Following Admission, in line with our philosophy of encouraging our workforce to be investors in the Alternatively, the Board may permit an Executive Director to exchange Group, all eligible employees were offered an award of free shares their awards for equivalent awards of shares in a different company under the Share Incentive Plan.
The Company operated both a including the acquiring company.
If the change of control is an internal Save As You Earn SAYE Plan and a Share Incentive Plan SIP reorganisation of the Group or in other circumstances where the to further facilitate employee investment in the Group and their Committee considers it appropriate, Executive Directors may be long-term alignment.
required to exchange their awards.
The Committee has not formally consulted employees on the Policy.
If other corporate events occur such as a winding-up of the Company, However, as a result of the implementation of the all-employee share demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the plans referred to above, many of the Groups employees are Sabre opinion of the Committee, may materially affect the current or future shareholders and can express their views through the same means value of the Companys shares, the Committee may determine that as any other shareholder.
The Company also has appointed Ian Clark awards will vest and be released on the same basis as for a change as the Non-executive Director to represent employee opinions at of control.
Consideration of shareholder views The terms of the Policy are in line with those set out in the Companys Prospectus which was issued on 23 November 2017.
The Committee will consult with major shareholders prior to any significant changes to the Policy and will continue to value their views when deciding on future executive remuneration strategy.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 55 ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION This section of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration paid to Sabres Directors in respect of the year ending 31 December 2018 In line with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Share plan awards granted during the year ended Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 31 December 2018 the following parts of the Annual Report on Directors Remuneration Directors external appointments are audited: Payments to past Directors and payments for loss of office The single total figure of remuneration for each Directors, including Directors shareholdings and share interests.
pension entitlements, STIP and LTIP outcomes for the financial year All other parts of the Annual Report on Directors Remuneration ended 31 December 2018 are unaudited.
Single figure of remuneration audited The table below sets out the total remuneration received by Executive Directors and Non-executive Directors in respect of financial year ended 31 December 2018.
As the Company listed during 2017, the payments referenced under the 2017 columns relate from the period of 11 December 2017 to 31 December 2017.
2 Awards made under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP may be subject to recovery and withholding provisions in line with the Companys Remuneration Policy.
There were no awards under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP due to vest during the financial year ended 31 December 2018.
3 Total taxable benefits received by Executive Directors in the period 11 December to 31 December 2017 were 142 for the CEO and 93 for the CFO.
4 Awards made under the STIP are paid for performance over the relevant financial year.
Details of the performance targets and performance against the targets for the 2018 STIP awards are detailed on page 56.
Consistent with the terms of the 2018 Remuneration Policy, 50% of the bonus earned in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2018 is deferred into the Companys shares for two years, with the balance payable in cash.
These shares will be held in the Sabre Group Employees Share Trust.
5 The entire 2017 bonus was payable in cash.
6 Geoff Carter was employed by the Company with effect from 11 December 2017.
7 Taxable benefits include payment in lieu of holiday not taken.
8 Adam Westwood was employed by the Company with effect from 11 December 2017.
9 Patrick Snowball is the Chairman of the Company, who was independent on appointment.
Catherine Barton, Ian Clark and Rebecca Shelley are independent Non-executive Directors.
Their fees have been pro-rated for the period from 11 December to 31 December 2017.
10 Andy Pomfret was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 28 February 2018 and therefore his fees have been pro-rated for the period from 28 February to 31 December 2018.
11 Matthew Tooth resigned as a Non-executive Director with effect 18 June 2018 and therefore his fees have been pro-rated for the period from 1 January 2018 to 18 June 2018.
12 Matthew Tooth was a non-independent Non-executive Director.
His fees were paid to BC Partners LLP as part of a Relationship Agreement and were pro-rated for the period 11 December to 31 December 2017.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 56 ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED Base salary Weighting as a The Executive Directors salaries were reviewed at the time of the % of personal target bonus Actual Groups Admission and no change was made to their salaries during Geoff Carter opportunity performance the 2018 financial year.
Objective Base salary Salary Successfully manage the business into 75% 85% Geoff Carter 400,000 public ownership, including governance, Adam Westwood 225,000 reporting, investor and analyst relationships.
Performance will be assessed via an annual IR audit.
Details of the salaries that will apply in 2019 are provided on page 60.
Agree succession plan for senior 25% 85% 2018 Short Term Incentive Plan management and recruit new permanent roles required.
Framework and outcomes for the financial year ended Total % for personal objectives 100% 85% 31 December 2018 For the financial year ended 31 December 2018, the Executive Directors were eligible to participate in the Companys Short Term Weighting as a % of personal Incentive Plan STIP with performance conditions aligned with target bonus Actual Sabres strategic priorities.
Awards were made subject to the Adam Westwood opportunity performance maintenance of a satisfactory risk, compliance and internal control Objective environment during the performance period.
Successfully manage the enhanced 75% 85% reporting requirements of a publicly The maximum annual bonus opportunity was 100% of salary owned business, including timely for Geoff Carter and 100% for Adam Westwood.
production of the Annual Report and Accounts, and Half Year Report.
The STIP was based 60% on financial targets and 40% on Maintain appropriate processes and 25% 85% non-financial targets.
controls within the Groups Finance function to allow continued efficient In reviewing the payout under the personal element of the STIP, processing and accurate financial reporting.
the Committee took into account the successful launch of the business to the public market, the additional responsibilities for Total % for personal objectives 100% 85% the Executive Directors, and the continued focus on the business The objectives detailed above for both Geoff Carter and Adam Westwood to deliver strong results.
were 85% achieved, resulting in 85% of the personal element of the The range of personal targets set for Geoff Carter and Adam Westwood, STIP being payable.
Based on the Company and individual performance and the Committees assessment of their performance against them detailed above, the total bonus earned by Geoff Carter was 73% of the are detailed to the right.
maximum opportunity, and the total bonus earned by Adam Westwood was 73% of the maximum opportunity.
Awards under the STIP for 2019 will be based on a combination of financial and non-financial measures as described on page 60.
The range of financial targets set and actual performance against the targets is detailed below: Performance targets Weighting Actual bonus as a % of payable as a % total bonus Actual of total bonus Financial Measure opportunity Threshold Target Stretch performance opportunity Adjusted Profit After Tax 40% 47.7m 53m 58.3m 50.07m 16.7% 1 Return on tangible equity ROTE 20% 56% 62% 67% 66% 18.5% 1 Return on tangible equity as calculated here takes into account the average balance sheet position adjusted to reflect dividends declared in respect of the financial year for which the calculation is made.
The range of non-financial targets set and actual performance against the targets is detailed below: Performance targets Weighting Actual bonus as a % of payable as a % total bonus Actual of total bonus Non-financial Measure opportunity Threshold Target Stretch performance opportunity Customer 25 9 12 months 10 12 months 12 12 months 12 25% standards standards standards achieved achieved achieved Individual 15 See above See above See above 12.75% Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 57 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP IPO awards Vesting of awards under the LTIP in the financial year ended In recognition of their role in bringing the Company to IPO, both 31 December 2018 Geoff Carter and Adam Westwood were awarded IPO awards Shortly prior to Admission, shareholders approved the introduction on Admission to the London Stock Exchange in December 2017. of the Sabre 2017 LTIP.
No awards under the LTIP were due to vest The IPO awards were cash awards, funded by the sale of existing in 2018. ordinary shares by the Employee Benefit Trust on Admission.
The quantum of these awards is detailed below: Granting of awards under the LTIP in the financial year ended IPO awards 31 December 2018 In line with the Companys Directors Remuneration Policy, both Geoff Geoff Carter 217,450 Carter and Adam Westwood were granted awards 125% and 100% Adam Westwood 217,450 respectively under the Companys LTIP during the financial year ended As set out in the Prospectus, Patrick Snowball also received a 31 December 2018.
100,000 cash award in recognition of his significant contribution The performance conditions applicable to these awards are detailed to bringing the Company to IPO.
50% of the award is subject to a challenging cumulative No further IPO awards were made in 2018 or are expected to be underlying Earnings Per Share EPS target to be achieved in the going forward.
50% of the award is subject to a performance target comparing the Companys Total Shareholder External appointments audited Return TSR against the TSR of the companies of the FTSE 250, Neither of the Executive Directors currently holds a paid external excluding investment trusts and companies in the extractive industries appointment.
over the three years commencing 1 January 2018.
Payments to past Directors audited The performance targets for the 2018 LTIP are detailed below: There were no payments to past Directors in the year.
EPS Payments for loss of office audited There were no payments to Directors for loss of office in the year.
Vesting % Cumulative underlying EPS Threshold 25% 57.2 pence Sourcing of shares dilution limits Target 50% 60.2 pence The terms of the Groups share plans set limits on the number of newly Maximum 100% 66.2 pence issued shares that may be issued to satisfy awards.
In accordance with guidance from the Investment Association, these limits restrict overall Straight line basis Between Threshold and Maximum dilution under all plans the LTIP, the DBP, the Save As You Earn TSR SAYE Plan, the Share Incentive Plan and any other employee share Vesting % Sabre TSR vs TSR Comparators scheme adopted by the Group to under 10% of the Companys issued Threshold 25% Median share capital over a ten year period.
Furthermore, the LTIP and DBP set a further limitation that not more than 5% of the Companys issued Target 50% Straight line vesting share capital may be issued in any 10-year period on discretionary plans.
Maximum 100% Upper quartile As at 31 December 2018, Sabre was operating within these limits.
Straight line basis Between Threshold and Maximum Awards will be subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Details of the awards granted on 21 June 2018 are set out below: Shares over Threshold Executive Basis of Facewhich awards vesting Performance Performance 1 1,2 Director award value were granted % of award period measure Geoff Carter 125% of salary 500,000 186,289 25% 1 January 2018 to Cumulative underlying EPS 50% and 31 December 2020 relative TSR performance condition 50% Adam Westwood 100% of salary 225,000 83,830 25% 1 January 2018 to Cumulative underlying EPS 50% and 31 December 2020 relative TSR performance condition 50% 1 Calculated using the average share price of the five working days immediately preceding the date of grant of 2.684.
2 Awards granted as conditional awards Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 58 ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED Outstanding share awards audited Details of outstanding awards are as follows.
The performance targets for the LTIP can be found on page 57.
Save As You Earn SAYE Plan Market Share price at price on 1 Granted Option Exercised exercise 31 date of Gain on January during the Price during the date December Date of grant exercise Director 2018 year year Lapsed 2018 grant Exercisable period 000 Geoff 0 4,293 2.096 0 0 n a 4,293 24 May 2.650 24 May 2021 to n a Carter 2018 24 November 2021 Adam 0 4,293 2.096 0 0 n a 4,293 24 May 2.650 24 May 2021 to n a Westwood 2018 24 November 2021 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Market Share price at price on 1 Granted Option Exercised exercise 31 date of Gain on January during the Price during the date December Date of grant exercise Director 2018 year year Lapsed 2018 grant Vesting date 000 Geoff 0 186,289 n a 0 0 n a 186,289 21 June 2.67 After the release of the 0 Carter 2018 results for the year ended 31 December 2020 Adam 0 83,830 n a 0 0 n a 83,830 21 June 2.67 After the release of the 0 Westwood 2018 results for the year ended 31 December 2020 Directors shareholdings and share interests audited To further align Executive Directors with shareholders, the Committee has shareholding requirements for the Executive Directors.
Executive Directors will be expected to build and hold shareholding having a value of at least 200% of their base salary.
To support the implementation of this measure Executive Directors will be required to retain 50% of any share awards vesting after settling any tax liability until the 200% requirement is met.
Shareholding requirements and the number of shares held by Directors during the year and as at 31 December 2018 are set out in the table below: Number of unvested Number of Number of Shareholding Shareholding as a % shares subject to shares held as at shares held as at requirement as a of salary achieved at 1 Director performance 31 December 2018 31 December 2017 % of salary 31 December 2018 Current Directors Geoff Carter 186,289 1,965,372 1,965,372 200% 1341% Adam Westwood 83,830 842,303 842,303 200% 1022% Patrick Snowball n a 105,288 105,288 n a n a Andy Pomfret n a 43,478 n a n a n a Catherine Barton n a 0 0 n a n a Ian Clark n a 265,761 265,761 n a n a Rebecca Shelley n a 0 0 n a n a Past Directors Matthew Tooth n a n a 0 n a n a 1 Calculated using a share price of 2.73 as at 31 December 2018.
Company performance relative Total Shareholder Return The graph below shows Sabres relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance from Admission to 31 December 2018 against the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts and extractive industries.
This is a broad equity market index, which we considered to be the most appropriate comparator.
TSR PERFORMANCE VS FTSE 250 EXCLUDING INVESTMENT TRUSTS SINCE IPO 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 50 11 Dec 2017 31 Mar 2018 30 Jun 2018 30 Sept 2018 31 Dec 2018 Sabre Insurance FTSE 250 Excluding investment trusts Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 59 The following table shows the Chief Executive Officers CEO ratio remuneration for current and prior years: Although not required, the Committee considers it important, ahead of the new reporting requirements, to be transparent and is disclosing the 2018 2017 Companys CEO to employee pay ratios.
The ratio compares the total remuneration of Geoff Carter, the Chief Executive Officer, as set out Single figure of remuneration 760K 251K in the Directors Remuneration Report, against the remuneration Annual bonus payout 73.0% n a of the median employee, as well as employees in the lower and as a % of maximum opportunity upper quartiles.
We will build up our reporting of these figures over LTIP vesting n a n a as a % of maximum opportunity time to cover a ten year rolling basis.
The ratios were calculated using the Option A methodology, which Percentage change in Chief Executive Officers remuneration uses the pay and benefits of all UK employees.
The employee pay data The graph below shows the change in CEO annual cash, defined as used was based on the total remuneration of all of Sabres full time salary, taxable benefits, and annual bonus, compared to the average employees as at 31 December 2018.
The CEOs pay is as per the employee for 2017, 2018 on a 21-day basis for comparison and 2018 single total figure of remuneration for 2018, as disclosed on page 59. for completeness.
The Committee has considered the pay data and believes that the CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 000 pay of the CEO fairly reflects pay at the relevant quartiles among Sabres employees.
24 Pay Ratio CEOs Remuneration 25th 50th 75th 26 Year 000 percentile percentile percentile 29.4: 1.0 19.5: 1.0 13.2: 1.0 468 1,850% Remuneration Values EMPLOYEE 000 2018 760 25th 50th 75th percentile percentile percentile 25,849 39,107 57,667 2 Relative importance of spend on pay 2 The following table illustrates total remuneration for all employees 45 1,815% compared to distributions to shareholders in respect of the last two financial years.
2017 2018 21-DAY BASIS 2018 3 Measure 2018 2017 The figures for 2017 represent the cash paid to the CEO and employees 2 Shareholder distributions 50.1 31.7m for the 21 days which Sabre was listed for in 2017, where as the cash 1 Total employee remuneration 11.5m 13.2m paid in 2018 represents the entire year.
Average 2 Includes the interim, special and final dividends declared in respect for the financial year for other ended 31 December 2018.
2018 2017 % Change employees 3 2017 figures include pre-IPO distributions and personnel costs, under the Groups CEO Annual Cash 000 000 Annualised % change previous structure.
Salary and pension 453 24 9% 7% 2017 Taxable benefits 15 0 n a 0% Annual variable 292 9 87% 5% Total 760 33 33% 7% 13.2m 31.7m Arrangements for the wider workforce The Committee seeks to align the remuneration of the Executive 2018 Directors and Senior Management with consistency in reward practices throughout the Group.
This can be clearly seen in its attitude towards the IPO awards, where awards to the Executive Directors and Senior 11.5m Management were coupled with free share awards to all employees.
50.1m In 2018 the Committee increased the maximum monthly contribution under the SAYE Plan and expansion of the SIP to include employee SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTIONS TOTAL EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION contributions, which is matched by the Company at a 3:1 ratio.
All employees receive a salary at or above the National Living Wage, and all full time employees are eligible to receive a performancerelated bonus.
Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 60 ANNUAL REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED Implementation of the Policy in 2019 The Chairman and Non-executive Directors fees for the financial year Salaries ended 31 December 2019 are therefore: The Executive Directors salaries were reviewed during the year.
Total There was no increase to the salaries during 2018, however the annual fee Director Reason for fee Committee, after consulting external benchmarking data of similar sized organisations and the Groups comparators, decided to increase Patrick Snowball Company Chairman 150,000 the Executive Directors salaries in 2019 as detailed below.
These Andy Pomfret Non-executive Director 70,000 increases are intended to reflect the broadening of both the CEO and Senior Independent Director CFOs roles and responsibilities since listing, and will come into effect Catherine Barton Non-executive Director 70,000 1 April 2019.
When determining the remuneration arrangements for the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman coming year, the Committee, whilst mindful that base salaries should Ian Clark Non-executive Director 70,000 remain competitive, also took into consideration the strong individual Designated Employee Representative Non-executive performance of the Executive Directors over the year, the advancement Director of their roles since listing and the growth and extension of their Rebecca Shelley Non-executive Director 70,000 responsibilities.
Given Adam Westwoods progression in his role Remuneration Committee Chairman as CFO, the Committee determined that his salary had ceased to appropriately reflect his experience and the growing complexity of his Pension role.
As set out in last years report, the CFOs salary remains below The maximum employer contribution is 17% of salary.
For 2019, the the comparator market range.
As such the Committee reserves the Chief Executive Officer will receive cash in lieu of pension equal to right to make increases above those granted to all employees as the 17% of salary less Employer National Insurance Contributions, and the CFO grows in the role.
Chief Financial Officer will receive a contribution of 10% of salary as Salary as at a combination of plan contribution and cash in lieu.
The Committee Salary as at 31 December will keep under review the contribution levels to Executive Directors 1 April 2019 2018 Increase in comparison to the workforce.
Geoff Carter 425,000 400,000 6.3% Adam Westwood 250,000 225,000 11.1% Benefits These will be awarded in line with the Policy.
As per the Policy the Committee will continue to review salaries on an Annual bonus annual basis, and may make further increases in future years in line The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer will be entitled with the Policy.
to a maximum annual bonus equal to 125% of salary for 2019.
This is Chairman and Non-executive Director fees within the Companys Remuneration Policy, and reflects the increase During the year the Committee reviewed the Chairmans fee in light in size and scope of the roles post the Companys IPO.
The award of the time commitment required of the role, and agreed to no change for on-target performance will be 60% of maximum.
The Committee in 2019. considers it appropriate to increase the maximum and on-target awards for 2019 as the bonus targets are appropriately stretching.
Although During the year the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief performance conditions are deemed commercially sensitive, they Financial Officer reviewed the Non-executive Directors fees in light will be disclosed in the 2019 Annual Remuneration Report.
of the time commitment required of the role, and agreed to no change in 2019.
In recognition of the importance of the role in ensuring The performance measures approved by the Committee at the communications between employees and the Board and the additional beginning of the performance period will be as follows: responsibilities the role entails, it was decided that the Designated Element Measure Weighting Employee Representative Non-executive Director would receive an Financial Adjusted profit after tax 40% additional fee of 10,000.
Return on Tangible Equity 20% The fees which will apply in 2019 are as follows: Non-financial Customer 25% Personal strategic objectives 15% Fee Fee Role 2019 2018 Chairman fee all-inclusive fee 150,000 150,000 The details of the performance targets are commercially sensitive and will be disclosed retrospectively in the 2019 Directors Non-executive Director base fee 60,000 60,000 Remuneration Report.
Senior Independent Director fee 10,000 10,000 Committee Chairman fee 10,000 10,000 50% of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares under the Designated Employee Representative Deferred Bonus Plan, vesting on the second anniversary of the grant.
Non-executive Director 10,000 n a Committee member fee None None Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report | Corporate governance | Financial statements 61 Long Term Incentive Plan The maximum LTIP opportunity under the Policy is 175% of salary.
The Committee intends to award shares of 125% of salary to the Chief Executive Officer and 100% of salary to the Chief Financial Officer in 2019.
The vesting of the awards will be assessed against a combination of cumulative underlying EPS growth and relative TSR.
The conditions will operate independently.
Awards will vest after three years and will be further subject to a two-year holding period post-vesting to align with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The EPS condition will be measured based on total EPS for the three years ending 31 December 2021 with the TSR condition measuring Sabres relative performance versus the companies in the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and extractive industries.
The EPS condition 50% of the award approved by the Committee at the beginning of the performance period will be as follows: Vesting % of EPS element EPS at 31 December 2021 Threshold 25% 54.5 pence Target 60% 60.6 pence Maximum 100% 66.7 pence Straight line basis Between Threshold and Target And Target and Maximum The TSR condition 50% of the award approved by the Committee at the beginning of the performance period will be as follows: Three-year TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and extractive industries constituents Vesting % of TSR element at 31 December 2021 Threshold 25% Median Target 60% Straight line vesting Maximum 100% Upper quartile Straight line basis Between Threshold and Target And Target and Maximum With regards to the choice of metrics, EPS aligns the Executive Directors with delivering key long-term profitable growth, with TSR providing alignment with shareholders in that vesting will only take place for creating above median returns.
Rebecca Shelley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 March 2019 Sabre Insurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
