GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Dear fellow shareholder, It is my pleasure to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2018.
Remuneration This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the provisions of the UK Committee Corporate Governance Code April 2016 and the Listing Rules.
The report is in two sections: We are seeking shareholder The Directors remuneration policy the 2019 Policy approval for our new pages 108 to 115. remuneration policy at The Directors Annual Remuneration Report pages 116 our forthcoming AGM.
This section sets out details of how our existing remuneration policy was implemented for the year ended 30 September 2018 and how we intend the 2019 Policy to apply for the year ending 30 September 2019.
Objectives and responsibilities The Remuneration Committees main objective is to determine the framework, broad policy and levels of remuneration for the Drummond Hall Groups Chief Executive Ocer, the Groups Chief Financial Chairman of Ocer, the Groups President, the Chairman of the Company the Remuneration and other executives as deemed appropriate.
Committee This framework includes, but is not limited to, establishing stretching performance-related elements of reward and is intended to promote the long-term success of the Company.
We achieve this through: Remuneration Committee Membership Providing recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on Sages framework of executive remuneration: Drummond Hall Chairman Determining the contract terms, remuneration and other Attended 8 of 8 meetings benets for each of the Executive Directors, including performance share awards, performance-related bonus schemes, pension rights and compensation payments: Monitoring remuneration for senior executives below Neil Berkett Board level: Attended 6 of 8 meetings Approving share awards.
FY19 remuneration priorities As outlined in the Strategic Report, we are focused on Jonathan Howell continuing our evolution to a SaaS business driven by Sage Attended 8 of 8 meetings Business Cloud.
Increasing acceleration of our move to a cloud business puts even greater emphasis on the operational execution required to realise the significant opportunity available to us.
Cath Keers Attended 8 of 8 meetings To ensure that senior executive remuneration is aligned with this strategy, we are making a number of changes to FY19 remuneration arrangements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Supporting subscription-focused execution Ensuring tight financial discipline for acquisitions Given the criticality of driving behaviours to achieve a largely Following a number of recent acquisitions, particularly subscription-based business, we will focus incentives on Intacct, the Board is conscious that Executives are focused recurring revenue in FY19: on tight financial discipline and successful integration of those acquisitions.
Recurring revenue growth will replace organic revenue growth as the Group financial measure within the FY19 In order to align executive and shareholders interests on annual bonus plan.
Given the medium-term focus on this issue, a Return on Capital Employed ROCE target will driving underlying run rate, annualised recurring revenue be introduced as an underpin to the ARR element of FY19 ARR growth will be the specific measure used: and PSP awards.
Recurring revenue growth will have an enhanced weighting Directors Remuneration Policy of 70% for FY19 Performance Share Plan PSP awards At the AGM, shareholders will be asked to support our 50% for FY18 PSP awards.
Again, ARR growth will be the Directors Remuneration Policy the 2019 Policy when it is specific measure used.
subject to its triennial vote.
The 2019 Policy is set out on pages 108 to 115 with the key amendments from the existing Policy Rebalancing variable pay to match outlined on page 108.
As well as allowing the implementation strategic timeframes of the aforementioned FY19 remuneration priorities, the 2019 In recognition of the fact that we need to pick up the pace in Policy contains additional features, namely: the short term in order to drive future income as we accelerate to cloud-based products in our addressable market, we The minimum level of shareholding guideline for Executive propose to alter the balance between senior executives Directors will be increased to 250% of salary from 200% : and annual bonus and PSP incentive opportunity.
A reduced maximum pension provision cap of 15% of salary For the Executive Directors, this will involve increasing their previously 25% will apply to any Executive Director including incumbent Directors.
FY19 annual bonus potential by 50% of salary and reducing their FY19 PSP award by 50% of salary.
PSP awards will remain the largest element of the Executive Directors potential remuneration.
Our remuneration principles Our remuneration principles remain unchanged in our proposed Policy and are designed to drive the behaviours and results required to support our short and longer-term business strategy as outlined in the Strategic Report.
Attract and retain Motivate and reward We oer competitive rates of pay Remuneration at Sage is designed to and benets to attract and retain create a strong performance-oriented the best people in a competitive environment for the taking of international market.
appropriate risks and rewards achievement of our Company strategy and business objectives.
Remuneration principles Alignment with Alignment with thewider Group shareholders The interests of our senior Pay and employment conditions management team are aligned with elsewhere in the Group are those of shareholders by having a considered when determining significant proportion of remuneration executive base salary and performance-based and delivered bonusreviews.
through shares, together with a significant shareholding requirement.
104 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE Delivering our remuneration principles in FY19 The table below summarises the remuneration arrangements for our current Executive Directors in FY19 subject to shareholder approval of the 2019 Policy.
Element of Policy Purpose Proposed Implementation in FY19 Base salary Enables Sage to attract and Steve Hare 770,000 on appointment as CEO: around 5% retain Executive Directors of the less than predecessor calibre required to deliver the Blair Crump $700,000 0% increase Groups strategy Salary increases are effective 1 January 2019 Pension Provides a competitive postSteve Hare 15% of base salary retirement benefit, in a way that reduced from 25% of base salary manages the overall cost to Blair Crump up to 3.5% of base salary the Company Benefits Provide a competitive and costStandard benefits package plus costs of travel, effective benefits package to accommodation and subsistence for the Directors and their executives to assist them in carrying partners on Sage-related business if required.
Sage covers the out their duties effectively cost of Steve Hares travel and accommodation for days on which he attends to Sage matters in the London office.
Sage tax equalises that portion of Blair Crumps remuneration that is subject to UK tax for days on which he attends to Sage matters in the UK Annual Rewards and incentivises the Maximum 175% of base salary pending shareholder approval achievement of annual financial of the 2019 Policy bonus and strategic targets 80% subject to ARR growth with underlying operating profit margin underpin and 20% subject to strategic goals A minimum of one-third deferral into shares for three years is compulsory, with the remainder delivered in cash Performance Supports achievement of our strategy Face value of 200% of base salary pending shareholder Share by targeting performance under our approval of the 2019 Policy Plan PSP key financial performance indicators.
70% subject to ARR growth with ROCE underpin and 30% Vesting is after three years, and subject to relative Total Shareholder Return performance awards are subject on vesting to a pending shareholder approval of the 2019 Policy holding period for two years before being released All-employee Provides an opportunity for Directors Eligible to participate up to the tax-efficient limit of 500 per share plans to voluntarily invest in the Company month or US dollar equivalent Chairman and Provide an appropriate reward to See page 125 of this report for a list of Non-executive Non-executive attract and retain high-calibre Director fees Director fees individuals Shareholding The shareholding guideline for Shareholding at 30 September 2018 guideline Directors is 250% of base salary Steve Hare 309% of base salary 336% including deferred 1 subject to shareholder approval of shares net of tax the 2019 Policy and achievement of Blair Crump 17% of base salary 23% including deferred shares this is expected within a maximum of net of tax five years from the time the Director became subject to the guideline Note: 1 Calculated based on Steve Hares base salary for his substantive role at 30 September 2018, which was 522,000.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE CONTINUED FY18 single figure for total remuneration summary: 2018 2017 Total Total Director 000 000 Executive Directors S Hare 1,176 2,316 1 B Crump 582 2 S Kelly 1,563 3,547 Non-executive Directors D Brydon 407 397 N Berkett 60 60 D Hall 87 83 J Howell 77 77 S Jiandani 60 35 C Keers 60 15 Notes: 1 Blair Crump was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
His remuneration is reported from that date.
The single figure value for his remuneration is converted into GBP from US Dollars using the average exchange rate for the year, consistent with the basis of the presentation of financial performance in the accounts.
2 Stephen Kelly stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2018.
His remuneration for 2018 is shown on a proportionate basis to that date, consistent with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2008 as amended 2013.
Stephen Kellys termination arrangements are set out below on page 122.
Steve Hare was appointed Interim COO & CFO on 31 August Key remuneration outcomes for FY18 2018 and then appointed Group CEO on 2 November 2018.
2018 bonus: no bonus payable Steves remuneration on appointment to these roles is The 2018 bonus was based on organic revenue growth and disclosed on pages 123 and 124 of the Annual the satisfaction of underpins relating to underlying operating Remuneration Report.
margin and recurring revenue growth 80% of bonus and Details of financial terms agreed with Stephen Kelly in personal strategic measures 20% of bonus.
As discussed connection with his departure are set out on page 122. in the Chairman of the Boards Statement, there has been These terms are in line with the Policy which was inconsistent operational execution during the past year and approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
financial bonus targets were not met.
Consequently, no bonus Blair Crump was promoted to the Board in January 2018 on was payable in respect of the financial performance measures.
Steve Hare and Blair Crump were awarded 15% of salary and 6.25% of salary respectively under the personal strategic Revised Corporate Governance Code element of the bonus but both voluntarily waived these awards 2018 saw the publication of the Financial Reporting Councils in light of Group financial and share price performance during revised Corporate Governance Code and The Companies the year.
Stephen Kelly was awarded no bonus.
More details Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018, which comes on the bonus outcome are set out on pages 117 and 118. into effect for Sages financial year starting 1 October 2019.
Notwithstanding the applicability date, the Remuneration 2016 Performance Share Plan PSP : 28.5% of total shares Committee is undertaking in the coming year a review of the award vesting in March 2019 adoption of the Code and the Regulations and will consider PSP awards granted in 2016 were based on recurring revenue the appropriate timeframe for compliance.
growth, and relative TSR performance measured over the threeI hope you find this report to be clear in understanding our year period to 30 September 2018.
Overall, the Remuneration remuneration practices and that you will be supportive of Committee determined that 28.5% of the maximum number of the resolutions relating to remuneration at the AGM.
As ever, shares under award will vest in March 2019.
Further detail is set the Remuneration Committee welcomes any questions or out on pages 118 and 119. comments from shareholders.
Board changes in FY18 During the past year, the Remuneration Committee has considered remuneration issues arising from Board changes as follows: Drummond Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 106 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Remuneration Committee meetings held in FY18 No one other than a member of the Remuneration Committee is entitled to be present at its meetings.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Ocer may attend meetings as required, except where his own performance or remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is required, in accordance with its terms of reference, to meet at least four times per year.
During this financial year, the Remuneration Committee met eight times twice in each of November and August, where it discussed the following key matters: November February April FY17 year-end review Review of trends in executive remuneration Consideration of the views of our shareholders Reviewed the performance of Reviewed remuneration market Reviewed the feedback of our the Group for the year, and the trends and corporate governance shareholders in the run up to the AGM performance of the Executive developments and assessed the appropriateness of 2019 Remuneration Policy review Directors in order to determine our remuneration policy and Discussed scope of 2019 bonus outcomes implementation principles 2019 Remuneration Policy review Remuneration Policy review Reviewed the long-term performance Reviewed initial proposals for the 2019 of the Group over the last three years Remuneration Policy in order to determine vesting levels FY18 progress review for the PSP granted in 2015 Reviewed the Companys progress Reviewed Executive Directors salaries against incentive performance metrics for 2018 for FY18 plans Approved share awards for FY18 Approved the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report July August September FY19 planning Change in CEO FY19 planning Reviewed the Remuneration Determined the exit arrangements Approved the discretionary share plan Committees terms of reference for Stephen Kelly allocation policy for 2019 2019 Remuneration Policy review Discussed the application of the 2019 Determined remuneration for Approved the proposed changes to Remuneration Policy to the next level Steve Hare on appointment to the 2019 Remuneration Policy and of management below the Board role of Interim COO & CFO shareholder consultation letter Appointing executive talent outlining the 2019 policy Approved the remuneration package Appointing executive talent for the permanent appointment of Approved the remuneration package the Chief Marketing Officer for the permanent appointment of 2019 Remuneration Policy review the Chief People Officer Reviewed revised proposals for the 2019 Remuneration Policy Reviewed and approved increase to the Chairmans fees The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY Purpose of this section: Provides detail of the key elements of our remuneration policy The current policy report was approved by shareholders at the 2016 AGM and can be found on our website www.
As outlined in the Statement of the Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Remuneration Committee is proposing a number of changes to the current policy primarily to ensure consistency with our future strategic and operational implementation plans.
Shareholder approval will be sought at the 2019 AGM for the new remuneration policy set out below the 2019 policy.
Subject to shareholder approval, the new policy will take effect from the date of the AGM.
The key proposed changes from the current policy are as follows: There will be an increase in the maximum annual bonus potential to 175% of salary from a previous maximum of 125% of salary.
The minimum level of bonus to be determined by measures of Group financial performance will be set at 70%.
Minimum shareholding guideline for Executive Directors has been increased to 250% of salary previously 200%.
The revised policy provides flexibility for the Remuneration Committee to use different performance measures for different PSP award cycles in order to ensure that awards are aligned with strategic objectives.
There will be a reduction in the maximum level of pension provision for Executive Directors to 15% of salary previously 25%.
The revised policy clarifies payments that can be made in connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors office or employment.
If appropriate, Non-executive Directors may be paid an additional fee for membership of a Board Committee.
Remuneration policy table The table below sets out the remuneration policy that the Company intends to apply, subject to shareholder approval, from 27 February 2019.
Alignment with Operation Maximum opportunity Performance strategy purpose measures Ordinarily, salary increases will be in line with Base salary Normally reviewed annually, with any None, increases applied from January.
increases awarded to other employees in major although Supports the operating businesses of the Group.
However, overall recruitment and When determining base salary levels, performance retention of Executive consideration is given to the following: increases may be made above this level at the of the individual Directors of the calibre Remuneration Committees discretion to take Pay increases for other employees is considered required to deliver the account of individual circumstances such as: in major operating businesses of by the Groups strategy.
the Group: Increase in scope and responsibility: Remuneration Rewards executives The individuals skills and Increase to reflect the individuals Committee for the performance responsibilities: development and performance in role when setting of their role.
e. g. for a new appointment where base Pay at companies of a similar size and reviewing Set at a level that allows salary may be increased over time rather and international scope to Sage, in salaries fully flexible operation of than set directly at the level of the previous particular those within the FTSE 100 annually.
incumbent or market level : excluding the top 30 : Alignment to market level.
Accordingly, no monetary maximum has been set.
Pension Defined contribution plan with Maximum pension provision of 15% of salary.
Company contributions set as a Provides a competitive No element other than base salary percentage of base salary.
in a way that manages An individual may elect to receive some the overall cost to the or all of their pension contribution as a Company.
108 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Alignment with Operation Maximum opportunity Performance strategy purpose measures Benefits The Group provides a range of benefits which Set at a level which the Remuneration None.
may include a car benefit or cash equivalent, Committee considers: Provide a private medical insurance, permanent health competitive and Appropriately positioned against insurance, life assurance and financial advice.
cost-effective comparable roles in companies of a benefits package Additional benefits may also be provided in similar size and complexity in the to executives to certain circumstances which may include relevant market: assist them to relocation expenses, housing allowance and Provides a sufficient level of benefit carry out their school fees.
Other benefits may be offered if based on the role and individual duties effectively.
considered appropriate and reasonable by the circumstances, such as relocation.
As the costs of providing benefits will depend on the Directors individual circumstances, the Remuneration Committee has not set a monetary maximum.
Annual bonus Measures and targets are set annually 175% of salary At least 70% of and payout levels are determined by the the bonus will Rewards and Remuneration Committee after the year-end incentivises the be determined by based on performance against those targets.
achievement of measure s of Group annual financial The Remuneration Committee may, in financial performance: and strategic exceptional circumstances, amend the bonus No more than 30% targets.
payout should this not, in the view of the of the bonus will Remuneration Committee, reflect overall An element of be based on prebusiness performance or individual contribution.
compulsory determined financial, deferral provides A minimum of one-third of any annual bonus strategic or a link to the earned by Executive Directors is delivered in operational measures creation of deferred share awards with the remainder appropriate to the sustainable delivered in cash.
The deferral period will individual Director.
long-term usually be a minimum of three years.
The measures that will value creation.
apply for the financial year 2019 are described in the Directors Annual Remuneration Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Remuneration policy table continued Alignment with Operation Maximum opportunity Performance strategy purpose measures Performance Awards vest dependent upon the achievement Awards vest on the following basis: Vesting will be subject share plan PSP of performance conditions measured over a to performance Target performance: 20% of period of at least three years.
conditions as Motivates and the maximum shares awarded: determined by rewards the Following the end of the performance period, Stretch performance: 80% of the Remuneration achievement the performance conditions will be assessed the maximum shares awarded: Committee on an of long-term and the percentage of awards that will vest will Exceptional performance: 100% of annual basis.
the shares awarded with straightThe performance Supports the The Remuneration Committee may decide that line vesting between each level conditions will initially creation of the shares in respect of which an award vests of performance: be annualised recurring shareholder are delivered to participants at that point or that Current annual award levels revenue growth with value through awards will then be subject to an additional in respect of a financial year of a ROCE underpin and the delivery of holding period before participants are entitled the Company are 200% of salary relative TSR although strong market to receive their shares.
A holding period for the Executive Directors.
Overall the Remuneration performance will normally last for two years, unless the individual limit of 300% of base Committee will retain aligned with Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
salary under the rules of the plan.
discretion to include the long-term The Remuneration Committee has discretion additional or alternative business The Remuneration Committee retains to decide whether and to what extent the performance measures strategy.
the discretion to make awards up to performance conditions have been met, and if which are aligned to the the individual limit under the PSP and, Supports an event occurs that causes the Remuneration corporate strategy.
as stated in previous remuneration achievement Committee to consider that an amended or reports, would expect to consult with At its discretion, of our strategy substituted performance condition would be significant investors if awards were the Remuneration by targeting more appropriate and not materially less difficult to be made routinely above Committee may elect to performance to satisfy, the Remuneration Committee may current levels.
add additional underpin under our amend or substitute any performance condition.
Details of the targets that will apply for awards granted in 2019 are set out in the Directors Annual Remuneration Report.
All-employee UK-based Executive Directors are entitled to UK participation limits are those set None.
share plans participate in a UK tax approved all-employee by the UK tax authorities from time to plan, The Sage Group Savings-Related Share time.
Currently this is 500 per month Provide an Option Plan, under which they make monthly or US Dollar equivalent.
opportunity savings over a period of three or five years linked for Directors to Limits for participants in overseas to the grant of an option over Sage shares with voluntarily invest schemes are determined in line with an option price which can be at a discount of up in the Company.
to 20% of the market value of shares on grant.
Options may be adjusted to reflect the impact of any variation of share capital.
Overseas-based Executive Directors are entitled to participate in any similar all-employee scheme operated by Sage in their jurisdiction.
110 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Alignment with Operation Maximum opportunity Performance strategy purpose measures Chairman and Fees are reviewed periodically.
The fee Set at a level which: None.
Non-executive structure is as follows: Reflects the commitment and contribution Director fees The Chairman is paid a single, that is expected from the Chairman and Provide an consolidated fee: Non-executive Directors: appropriate reward The Non-executive Directors are paid Is appropriately positioned against to attract and retain a basic fee, plus additional fees for comparable roles in companies of a similar high-calibre chairmanship and, where appropriate, size and complexity in the relevant market, individuals.
membership of Board Committees and particularly companies of a similar size and Non-executive to the Senior Independent Director: international scope to Sage, in particular Directors do not Fees are currently paid in cash but the those within the FTSE 100 excluding the participate in any top 30.
Company may choose to provide some incentive scheme.
Overall fees paid to Directors will remain within the limit stated in our articles of association, The Chairman has the use of a car currently 1m.
Actual fee levels are disclosed and driver.
in the Directors Annual Remuneration Report Non-executive Directors may be eligible for the relevant financial year.
for benefits such as company car, use of secretarial support, healthcare or other benefits that may be appropriate including where travel to the Companys registered office is recognised as a taxable benefit in which case a Non-executive may receive the grossed-up costs of travel as a benefit.
Shareholding The shareholding guideline is expected The guideline for Executive Directors is a None.
guideline to be built up over five years from minimum shareholding worth 250% of salary.
the Directors becoming subject Aligns the interests to the guideline.
of Executive Directors and shareholders and The Remuneration Committee will review encourages a focus progress towards the guideline on an on long-term annual basis, and has the discretion to performance.
adjust the guideline in what it feels are appropriate circumstances.
Notes: Annual bonus and PSP performance measures and targets are selected each year so as to align with key financial and operational objectives.
Awards granted under the deferred bonus plan and the PSP may: a be made in the form of conditional awards or nil-cost options and may be settled in cash: b incorporate the right to receive an amount in cash or shares equal to the dividends which would have been paid or payable on the shares that vest in the period up to vesting or, where PSP awards are made subject to a holding period, the end of the holding period.
This amount may be calculated assuming the dividends were reinvested in the Companys shares on a cumulative basis: and c be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event which may, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, affect the current or future value of the Companys shares.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Provisions to withhold malus or recover clawback sums paid under the annual bonus and PSP in the event of material negative circumstances, such as a material misstatement in the Companys audited results, serious reputational damage or significant financial loss to the Company as a result of the participants conduct, an error in assessing the performance metrics relating to the award or the participants gross misconduct are incorporated into both the PSP and deferred bonus plan.
These provisions may apply up to three years from the release date of a PSP award or three years from the date a cash bonus is paid or a deferred share award is granted.
Details of the proposed implementation of those provisions in the forthcoming year are set out in the Directors Annual Remuneration Report.
All Directors submit themselves for re-election annually.
The Remuneration Committee intends to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors on their original terms, including outstanding incentive awards, which have been disclosed in previous remuneration reports and, where relevant, are consistent with a previous policy approved by shareholders.
Any such payments to former Directors will be set out in the Remuneration Report as and when they occur.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed: i before the date the Companys first remuneration policy approved by shareholders in accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act came into effect: ii before the policy set out above came into effect, provided that the terms of the payment were consistent with the shareholder-approved remuneration policy in force at the time they were agreed: or iii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Remuneration Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Remuneration Committee may make minor amendments to the policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Illustration of our remuneration policy for 2019 The charts below set out an illustration of the remuneration policy and include base salary, pension, benefits and incentives.
The charts provide an illustration of the proportion of total remuneration made up of each component of pay and the total potential value available to the Directors under the policy.
The charts do not take into account share price appreciation or dividends.
In these illustrative charts, salaries are those applying from 1 January 2019, pension provision is assumed to be 15% of salary for the CEO and 1.8% of salary for the President of Sage and benefits have been estimated using the figure included in the 2018 single figure of remuneration pro-rated for the President of Sage.
Where relevant, values are converted into GBP using the average exchange rate for 2018, consistent with the basis of the presentation of financial performance in the accounts.
For illustrating the potential value from incentives, three scenarios have been illustrated for each Executive Director: Below threshold performance No bonus payout.
No vesting of PSP awards 122.5% of salary payout in annual bonus 70% of maximum opportunity.
PSP vested Performing in line with expectations shares equivalent to 100% of salary 50% of total shares available 175% of salary payout in annual bonus 100% of maximum opportunity.
PSP vested shares equivalent to 200% of salary 100% of total shares awarded Maximum 112 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Chief Executive Officer President of Sage Total: 3,880,000 4 million in GBP 3.5 million in GBP 3% 3% 40% 3.5 3 Total: 2,575,000 3% 3 Total: 2,706,000 2.5 1% 4% 41% 4% 2.5 29% 2 Total: 1,781,000 5% 34% 2 1% 29% 1.5 34% 35% 1.5 Total: 993,000 36% 1 11% 1 Total: 624,000 12% 14% 77% 29% 20% 2% 0.5 84% 29% 20% 0.5 0 0 Minimum Performing in line Maximum Minimum Performing in line Maximum with expectations with expectations Salary Bonus PSP Pension Benets Salary Bonus PSP Pension Benets Note: Blair Crumps pension is 9,166 across all performance levels.
Development of our remuneration policy Consistency with remuneration for the wider Group The remuneration policy for our Executive Directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy and principles that underpin remuneration for the wider Group.
The remuneration arrangements for employees below the main Board reflect the seniority of the role and local market practice and therefore the components and levels of remuneration for different employees will differ from the policy for executives as set out above.
Consideration of pay and conditions for the wider Group The Remuneration Committee generally considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group when considering pay for the main Board Directors and the Executive Committee.
When considering base salary increases, the Remuneration Committee reviews overall levels of base pay increases offered to other employees and other executives of the major geographies in which we operate.
The Remuneration Committee also reviews information with regard to bonus payments and share awards made to management of the Group.
Colleagues were not consulted in the formulation of the 2019 Policy.
Communication with our shareholders The Remuneration Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and seeks the views of significant shareholders when any major changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee takes into account the views of significant shareholders and shareholder representative bodies such as Institutional Shareholder Services, the Investment Association and Glass Lewis when formulating and implementing the policy.
A consultation process was undertaken with our largest shareholders and shareholder representative bodies ahead of the introduction of this revised policy.
Recruitment remuneration arrangements In the event of hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will seek to align the remuneration package with our remuneration policy, which may include the elements outlined in the policy table above.
However, the Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to meet the individual circumstances of the recruitment.
This may, for example, include the following circumstances: An interim appointment is made to fill an Executive Director role on a short-term basis: Exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-executive Director takes on an executive function on a short-term basis: An Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or PSP award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance.
The quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and appropriate basis: An executive is recruited from a business or location that offered some benefits that the Remuneration Committee might consider appropriate to buy out but that do not fall into the definition of variable remuneration forfeited that can be included in the buyout element under the wording of the regulations: The Sage Group plc.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED The executive received benefits at his previous employer which the Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate to offer: The Remuneration Committee may alter the performance measures, performance period and vesting period of the annual bonus or long-term incentive, subject to the rules of the plan, if the Remuneration Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration.
The rationale will be clearly explained.
In determining appropriate remuneration arrangements on hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will take into account relevant factors: this may include the calibre of the individual, local market practice, the existing remuneration arrangements for other executives and the business circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both Sage and its shareholders and seeks not to pay more than is appropriate.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new Executive Directors in respect of their recruitment, excluding buy-out arrangements, is 500% of base salary in the first year of employment.
Variable pay in subsequent years will be in line with the policy table above.
The Remuneration Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Remuneration Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of awards.
The Remuneration Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis to awards forfeited.
In order to facilitate the variable pay opportunity and buyout awards mentioned above, the Remuneration Committee may rely on exemption in LR 9.4.
2. of the Listing Rules which allows for the grant of awards to facilitate, in exceptional circumstances, the recruitment of a Director.
The Remuneration Committee may also rely on the rules of the PSP which permit the grant of two PSP awards in the first year of employment, with the individual limit from the plan rules applying separately to each PSP award.
Where an Executive Director is an internal promotion, the normal policy is that any legacy arrangements would be honoured in line with the original terms and conditions.
Similarly, if an Executive Director is appointed following Sages acquisition of or merger with another company, legacy terms and conditions would be honoured.
In the event of the appointment of a new Non-executive Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line with the structure set out in the policy table for Non-executive Directors.
Change of control The rules of the PSP provide that, in the event of a change of control, unvested awards would vest to the extent determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the extent to which it determines the performance conditions have been satisfied based on all factors it considers relevant at the date of such event.
The extent to which the Remuneration Committee allows awards to vest would also, unless it determines otherwise, take into account the period of time that has elapsed between the grant of the award and the date of the change of control as a proportion of three years or such other period the Remuneration Committee considers to be appropriate.
However, the Remuneration Committee may vary the level of vesting of awards if it believes that exceptional circumstances warrant this, Awards that are subject to a holding period at the time of the change of control will be released at that time.
Awards granted under the deferred bonus plan will vest in full upon a change of control.
Awards held under all-employee plans would be expected to vest on a change of control and those which have to meet specific requirements to benefit from permitted tax benefits would vest in accordance with those requirements.
Alternatively, the Directors may exchange their awards over Company shares for equivalent awards in shares of the acquiring company if the terms of the offer allow this.
If the Company is wound up or in the event of a demerger, delisting, special dividend or other event which, in the Remuneration Committees opinion, would materially affect the current or future value of the Companys shares, the Remuneration Committee may allow deferred share and PSP awards to vest and be released early on the same basis as for a change of control.
Executive Director service contracts All current Executive Directors have service contracts, which may be terminated by the Company for breach by the executive or by giving 12 months notice by the Company or the individual.
Service contacts for new Directors will generally be limited to 12 months notice.
However, the Remuneration Committee may agree a longer period, of up to 24 months initially, reducing by one month for every month served until it falls to 12 months.
114 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Terms and conditions for Non-executive Directors The appointment of the Non-executive Directors is for a fixed term of three years, during which period the appointment may be terminated by the Board on up to six months notice.
The Chairmans term of appointment is five years.
There are no provisions on payment for early termination in letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment of Non-executive Directors and service contracts of Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Company s registered office during normal business hours and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
Payments to departing Directors There are no pre-determined special provisions for Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office: compensation is based on what would be earned by way of salary, pension entitlement and other contractual benefits over the notice period.
In the event that a contract is to be terminated, and a payment in lieu of notice made, payments to the Executive Director may be staged over the notice period, at the same interval as salary would have been paid.
During that period the Executive Director must take all reasonable steps to obtain alternative employment and payments to the Executive Director by the Company will be reduced to reflect payments received in respect of that alternative employment.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make any other payments in connection with a Directors cessation of office or employment where the payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of a compromise or settlement of any claim arising in connection with the cessation of a Directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include, but are not limited to, paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment.
There is no automatic entitlement to annual bonus.
Executive Directors may receive a bonus in respect of the financial year of cessation.
The payment of any annual bonus will be at the Remuneration Committees discretion, based on the individual circumstances, and would usually be pro-rated for the period of service and may be paid entirely in cash.
In determining the level of bonus to be paid, the Remuneration Committee may, at its discretion, take into account performance up to the date of cessation or over the financial year as a whole based on appropriate performance measures as determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Where an Executive Director leaves by reason of death, disability or ill-health they would receive a pro-rata bonus for the year of cessation.
The treatment of leavers under our long-term incentive plans is determined by the rules of the relevant plans.
Deferred bonus plan If an Executive Director ceases to hold office or employment within the Group during the vesting period of a deferred share award as a result of his death, injury, ill health, disability, redundancy or retirement, because his employing company or business is sold out of the Group or in any other circumstances the Remuneration Committee determines, his award will vest on the normal vesting date unless the Remuneration Committee determines the award should vest following his cessation of office or employment.
Awards will normally be accelerated in the event of a participants death.
If the individual ceases to hold office or employment with a member of the Group in any other circumstances, any unvested deferred share awards he holds will lapse.
PSP If the Director leaves as a result of his death, ill health, injury or disability, redundancy or retirement, because his employing company or business is sold out of the Group or in any other circumstances the Remuneration Committee determines, any unvested awards will vest and be released from any holding period at the same time as if the individual had not left the Group, unless the Remuneration Committee determines the award should vest and be released following his cessation of office or employment.
The extent to which awards vest in these circumstances will be determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account the extent to which it determines the performance conditions have been satisfied at the end of the original performance period or following the Directors cessation of office or employment as appropriate and, unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed between the grant of the award and the date of the cessation of office or employment as a proportion of three years or such other period the Remuneration Committee considers to be appropriate.
Unvested PSP awards will lapse in any other circumstances e. g. if the Executive Director leaves as a result of his termination for cause.
Where an Executive Director leaves whilst holding vested PSP awards that are subject to a holding period, those awards will normally be released at the end of the relevant holding period, unless the Remuneration Committee determines the award should be released following his cessation of employment.
If, however, an Executive Director is summarily dismissed, any outstanding PSP awards he holds will lapse.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT Purpose of this section: Provides remuneration disclosures for Executive and Non-executive Directors Details financial measures for bonus and PSP Illustrates Company performance and how this compares to executive pay Outlines implementation of remuneration policy for Executive and Non-executive Directors for 2019 Single gure for total remuneration audited information The following table sets out the single gure for total remuneration for Executive Directors for the financial years ended 30 September 2017 and 2018.
His remuneration is shown on a proportionate basis from that date.
Blair Crump is based in the USA and is paid in US Dollars.
His remuneration has been converted into GBP at the average exchange rate for the year, consistent with the basis of the presentation of financial performance in the accounts.
His remuneration for 2018 is shown on a proportionate basis to that date.
For details of Stephen Kellys remuneration arrangements on cessation as a Board Director, see page 122.
3 Details of salary progression since 2016 for the current Executive Directors are summarised in the Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year on page 123.
Steve Hares salary includes his acting-up allowance as Interim COO & CFO, which was paid from 1 September 2018 further information is set out on page 123.
It is not consolidated into salary for the purposes of pension and other salary related benefits.
His bonus for the reporting period is based on his substantive salary over FY18, which was 522,000.
The fees for Donald Brydon were increased from 360,000 to 400,000 on 6 July 2018, the anniversary of the renewal of his service agreement, in recognition of his contribution to Sage since he became Chairman of the Board.
His previous fee had been applied since his appointment as Chairman on 1 September 2012.
Current fees for Non-executive Directors are set out on page 125.
4 Benets provided to the Executive Directors included: car benets or cash equivalent UK-based executives only, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance, financial advice and, where deemed to be a taxable benefit, the grossed-up costs of travel, accommodation and subsistence for the Directors and their partners on Sage-related business if required.
A portion of Steve Hares benefits related to the grossed-up cost of his travel to Sages London office which, since 1 April 2015, has been deemed a taxable benefit as a result of the enhanced amount of time he has been required to spend in London attending to Sage matters.
83,000 of Stephen Kellys benefits value related to the grossed-up cost of travel, accommodation and subsistence for his hosting Platinum Elite, a major internal event for high-performing colleagues, which is deemed by HMRC to be a taxable benefit.
A portion of Blair Crumps benefits related to the payment of UK tax on his US income, which is payable under UK tax law for the days on which he is attending to Sage matters in the UK.
Blairs permanent workplace is in the US.
He receives assistance in the preparation of his tax returns.
Donald Brydon receives a company car benefit.
5 In respect of the financial year FY18, Steve Hare and Blair Crump waived their entitlement to a bonus and Stephen Kelly did not receive a bonus.
Further information about how the level of FY18 award was determined is provided in the additional disclosures below.
6 Pension emoluments for Stephen Kelly and Steve Hare were equal to 25% of base salary.
Both elected to receive them as a cash allowance.
Pension emoluments for Blair Crump were 1.8% of base salary, which were paid into a 401 k retirement account.
7 The 2018 PSP value is based on the PSP award granted in 2016 which is due to vest in March 2019.
The awards included in the single figure table have the same performance conditions.
The value is based on the number of shares vesting in 2019 multiplied by the average price of a Sage share between 30 June and 28 September 2018 the last trading day of the year, which was 6.211, plus dividend equivalents accrued.
Stephen Kellys and Steve Hares 2015 PSP for 2017 has been updated.
The change in value is as a result of changes in the share price reported in 2017 in line with the methodology set out in the 2013 reporting regulations 6.896 and the share price actually achieved at vesting 7.59478.
8 Total remuneration for Directors in 2018 was 4,072,000 compared to 6,527,000 in 2017 updated from the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report.
116 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Additional disclosures for single gure for total remuneration table audited information Annual bonus 2018 The bonus targets for FY18 were set by reference to the strategy for FY18, in particular the achievement of organic revenue growth taking into account the Companys annual budget and consensus in determining the payout curve.
The Remuneration Committee has decided following discussions with the Board that it is appropriate to change the bonus disclosure policy to immediate retrospective disclosure in the year bonus outcomes are determined previously bonus was disclosed after one year.
This change is made as long as the financial performance measures for a given year are considered by the Board not to be commercially sensitive information, bearing in mind that many of our competitors are unlisted companies who do not provide this level of disclosure.
Threshold Target Stretch Actual % of maximum Bonus measure % weighting performance performance performance performance bonus payable Organic revenue 80% 7.3% 8.1% 8.9% 6.9% Zero growth 24% of 56% of 80% of bonus bonus bonus payable payable payable Strategic 20% The assessment of strategic measures is Steve Hare Interim COO & CFO : 12% of maximum measures set out below this table between 2.4% Blair Crump President of Sage : 5% of maximum and 20% of bonus payable Stephen Kelly CEO : zero Total Steve Hare: 12% of maximum bonus 15% of salary Blair Crump: 5% of maximum 6.25% of salary Stephen Kelly: zero Note: Organic revenue growth, underlying operating profit margin and recurring revenue growth are dened on pages 210 and 211.
Organic targets, which were set at the beginning of the year, have been adjusted to remove the contribution of assets and liabilities held for sale at 30 September 2018 see note 16.3 on page 196, so that targets and actuals are presented on a like-for-like basis.
Actuals have been retranslated at Budget FX rates consistent with the basis on which the targets were set.
Payment of a bonus for organic revenue growth was subject to the achievement of two underpin conditions: Group underlying operating margin and Group recurring revenue growth.
The recurring revenue growth target of 9.0% was not met FY18 actual: 6.8% : underlying operating profit margin target of 27.0% was not met FY18 actual: 26.8%.
Steve Hare and Blair Crump waived their entitlement to a bonus in respect of the financial year ended 30 September 2018.
Executive Directors personal strategic objectives Executive Directors personal strategic objectives were set by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of the financial year, consistent with the key deliverables within the annual budget.
Targets for strategic objectives are considered to be commercially sensitive and are not disclosed.
However, details of metrics that were taken into account by the Remuneration Committee in coming to its assessment of this measure are set out below: Steve Hare, Interim COO & CFO Steve Hare was assessed against objectives including business simplification, integration of acquisitions, risk management and G&A expense control.
These objectives were all met or partially met with particular achievements taken into account by the Remuneration Committee being the successful integration of Sage People and Sage Intaact, significant progress against principal risks identified by the Audit and Risk Committee and a reduction in G&A expense below 13% of revenue demonstrating greater efficiency in the way Sage operates.
The Remuneration Committee also noted the significant work done by Steve to develop talent and strengthen succession potential in the finance function and the leadership stability he provided during his period as Interim COO.
Overall, the Remuneration Committee determined that a bonus of 15% of salary out of the maximum 25% of salary available would be payable.
However, Steve Hare voluntarily waived this payment in light of Group financial and share price performance during the year.
Blair Crump, President of Sage Blair Crump was assessed against objectives including ARR and net promoter score growth in Sage Business Cloud, ARR growth in Sage Accounting and Sage Financials, enterprise growth, customer retention and deployment of a revised Sage Partner Programme in the UK and US.
Performance against the objectives was mixed.
Significant progress was made against the Partner Programme goals and Sage Business Cloud achieved its ARR growth target.
However, other targets were not met.
Overall, the Remuneration Committee determined that a bonus of 6.25% of salary out of the maximum 25% of salary available would be payable.
However, Blair Crump voluntarily waived this payment in light of Group financial and share price performance during the year.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 117 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Stephen Kelly, CEO Stephen Kelly was assessed against objectives including customer retention, net promoter score, implementation of the strategic move to a subscription model and employee engagement.
As the targets for these objectives were not met, the Remuneration Committee determined that no bonus was payable.
Disclosure of 2017 bonus targets The target ranges for financial measures used to determine the 2017 bonus were not disclosed in last years Annual Report and Accounts as this was considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive information.
The table below therefore sets out the target ranges for the financial measures that were used to determine the 2017 bonus.
% Threshold Target Stretch Actual % of maximum Bonus measure weighting performance performance performance performance bonus payable Organic revenue 80% 6.2% 7.3% 8.3% 6.6% 46%, adjusted to zero for missing the recurring 1 growth revenue growth underpin 40% of 56% of 80% of bonus bonus bonus payable payable payable Strategic measures 20% The assessment of strategic measures CEO: 19% was disclosed on page 93 of the 2017 CFO: 19% Annual Report between 2.4% and 20% of bonus payable Total CEO 19% of maximum bonus 24% of salary CFO 19% of maximum bonus 24% of salary Note: 1 Organic revenue growth for the purposes of the 2017 bonus is dened on page 185 of the 2017 Annual Report.
The Remuneration Committee considered the impact on the bonus outcomes of the disposal of the Sage Payments Solutions business SPS, which was considered organic at the time the targets were approved, and determined that the targets would be adjusted upwards to account for the disposal, so that actual performance is assessed using targets prepared on a comparable basis.
The targets presented above are after the upward adjustment for the SPS disposal.
Additionally, two underpins had to be achieved for any bonus relating to organic revenue growth to pay out.
The Group underlying operating margin was 27% satisfying the target of 27% and as reported on page 84 of the 2017 Annual Report recurring revenue growth at 9% did not meet the stretching target set 10%.
As one of the underpins was not met, the financial element of the bonus did not pay out.
PSP awards Awards granted under the PSP in 2016 vest depending on performance against two equally weighted measures, measured over three years, from 1 October 2015 to 30 September 2018: 50% recurring revenue growth with underpins for EPS growth and organic revenue growth 50% relative TSR performance against the FTSE 100 excluding financial services and extracting companies For each measure, three levels of performance are dened below, with straight-line vesting between each level of performance: target, stretch and exceptional.
Measure Between target and stretch Between stretch and exceptional Recurring revenue growth Compound Between 8.3% and 10.3% with EPS growth Between 10.3% and 12.3% or above Annual Growth Rate CAGR CAGR of 8% p. a. and organic revenue growth with EPS growth CAGR of 8% p. a. and of 6.3% p. a. organic revenue growth of 6.3% p. a.
Relative TSR Between median and upper quartile Between upper quartile and upper decile or above Measure Achieved Vesting Recurring revenue growth CAGR 8.3% 10.0% Relative TSR 57th percentile 18.5% Total 28.5% The Remuneration Committee deemed the underpins to have been met.
Organic revenue growth was 6.5% p. a. and basic underlying EPS growth was 10.2% p. a. over the period.
Basic underlying EPS growth is defined on page 210.
118 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE The definition of organic revenue was updated for FY18, part-way through the performance cycle as outlined on page 95 of the 2017 Annual Report.
Consequently, the recurring revenue growth target and the organic revenue growth underpin were adjusted to reflect the updated definition of organic revenue which from FY18 includes Intacct and Fairsail Sage People.
The impact of the acquisitions was pro-rated across the FY16 PSP to reflect the proportionate contribution of the acquired businesses over the performance period an increase of 0.3% p. a. respectively.
The EPS underpin was not changed, aligning to the Companys commitment to maintain margin following the acquisitions.
For the purposes of assessing performance under the 2016 PSP, recurring revenue includes processing revenue.
Processing revenue is defined on page 211.
In assessing 2018 performance, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the most appropriate basis for assessing performance against underlying EPS growth is to neutralise part-year contributions to underlying EPS from Sage Intacct and Sage People in the prior comparative year of 2017 by imputing a full-year profit and loss impact using their respective closing operating margins.
This measures organic revenue and EPS on a like-for-like basis.
No other adjustments to underlying EPS have been made.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this approach ensures that management time transactions using sound judgement and not with a view to maximising their incentive outcomes.
It will continue to review the impact on incentives of future acquisitions and disposals on a case-by-case basis.
PSP awards granted in FY18 audited information Awards were granted under the PSP on 7 December 2017 at a market value of 7.605 to selected senior employees, including the Executive Directors, in the form of conditional share awards.
In alignment with our business strategy for FY18, performance conditions for awards granted in FY18 are: Relative TSR Recurring revenue 50% 50% of award of award Have both underpin conditions been met?
EPS growth CAGR of 8.0% p. a. Organic revenue growth CAGR of 7% p. a.
No Yes TSR ranking This portion of the award lapses Recurring revenue growth CAGR % of award vesting % of award vesting The following key points are highlighted in relation to the performance measures: Recurring revenue growth as a medium-term performance condition provides close alignment with our medium-term strategic priorities to grow our subscription-based services and acquire new customers.
The recurring revenue and organic revenue targets were set based upon the updated definition of organic revenue for FY18, as outlined on page 34 of the 2017 Annual Report.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 119 Median 10% Upper quartile 40% Upper decile 50% 9% p. a.
50% DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Continued focus on overall Group growth and delivery of shareholder value is achieved by: 50% of the awards being determined by relative TSR performance: Requiring the achievement of two broader underpin conditions based on EPS and organic revenue growth before the recurring revenue growth element of the PSP awards can vest.
The targets for these underpin conditions 8.0% p. a. EPS and 7.0% p. a. organic revenue growth are consistent with delivery of a successful transitional phase.
More specifically, they ensure that the transition to a subscription model is achieved whilst maintaining overall growth in revenues and earnings i. e. subscription growth will need to more than offset the decline in licence growth.
Awards will vest, subject to satisfaction of those performance conditions, on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
A holding period to the PSPs will apply for two years from the vesting date for Stephen Kelly and Steve Hare.
No further performance conditions attach to the awards during the holding period.
Blair Crumps appointment to the Board took place after the FY18 PSP grant and his award will not be subject to a holding period on vesting.
Maximum number of Face value Face value Threshold vesting % of 1 Type of award shares % of salary award End of performance period Stephen Kelly 266,272 2,025,000 250% 20% 30 September 2020 Steve Hare Performance shares 171,597 1,305,000 250% 20% 30 September 2020 Blair Crump 171,814 1,306,653 250% 20% 30 September 2020 Note: 1 The face value of the awards has been calculated using the market value middle market quotation of a Sage share on 6 December 2017 the day prior to grant of 7.605.
The FX rate used to calculate Blair Crumps award was 1 GBP 1.3393 USD.
Blair was not an Executive Director at the time of grant.
120 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Change in remuneration of Chief Executive Ocer compared to Group employees The table below shows the percentage change in total remuneration of the Chief Executive Ocer with a comparator group of all UK employees over the same time period.
Sage has employees based all around the world, some of whom work in countries with comparatively higher inflation than the UK: therefore, a comparison to Sages UK-based Group employees is more appropriate than to all employees.
CEO All UK employees 1 Salary 0.4% 5.9% 2 Taxable benets 140.4% 25.0% 3 Annual incentive 100% 51.5% Notes: 1 The CEOs salary in 2018 is the sum of Stephen Kellys salary to his cessation as CEO and Steve Hares salary including his step-up allowance from the date of his appointment as Interim COO & CFO compared to Stephen Kellys salary in 2017.
The percentage change for UK colleagues shown is the 2017 annual pay review and promotions market adjustments during 2018.
This is consistent with the basis of the disclosure in previous reports.
2 The CEOs taxable benefits in 2018 is the sum of Stephen Kellys taxable benefits to his cessation as CEO and Steve Hares taxable benefits from the date of his appointment as Interim COO & CFO compared to Stephen Kellys taxable benefits in 2017.
The increase for all UK employees is due to an increase in the cost of private medical insurance premiums.
3 Stephen Kelly did not receive a bonus in respect of FY18.
Steve Hare waived his entitlement to a bonus.
Historical executive pay and Company performance The table below summarises the Chief Executive Ocer single gure for total remuneration, annual bonus payout and PSP vesting as a percentage of maximum opportunity for the current year and previous nine years.
Whilst Steve Hares job title at 30 September 2018 was Interim Chief Operating Officer & Chief Financial Officer, not Chief Executive Officer, he is regarded as being the equivalent of Chief Executive Officer for the purposes of the disclosure.
2 Stephen Kelly stepped down from the position of CEO on 31 August 2018.
3 Guy Berruyer stepped down from the position of CEO on 5 November 2014.
4 Paul Walker resigned as CEO on 1 October 2010.
5 Steve Hare waived his entitlement to a bonus in respect of 2018.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 121 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Historical Group performance against FTSE 100 The graph below shows the Total Shareholder Return of the Group and the FTSE 100 over the last ten years.
The FTSE 100 index is the index against which the TSR of the Group should be measured because of the comparable size of the companies which comprise that index.
Value 500 400 300 200 100 0 30-Sep-08 30-Sep-09 30-Sep-10 30-Sep-11 30-Sep-12 30-Sep-13 30-Sep-14 30-Sep-15 30-Sep-16 30-Sep-17 30-Sep-18 Sage FTSE 100 Index Note: This graph shows the value, by 30 September 2018, of 100 invested in The Sage Group plc on 30 September 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Payments to past Directors audited information As noted in the RNS announcement on 31 August 2018, Stephen Kelly stepped down as CEO on 31 August 2018 and remains employed until 31 May 2019, on which date his employment ceases.
Until that date he will continue to be paid on a monthly basis his base salary of 810,000 p. a. and benefits including car allowance, pension contributions, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance and life assurance, after which date he will receive in lieu of notice his base salary, pension contributions and car allowance that he would have received during the remaining three months of his notice period.
Payments in lieu will be made in instalments and are subject to deductions for mitigation.
He is not eligible to be considered for an FY19 bonus or to receive an FY19 Performance Share Plan PSP award.
Stephen Kelly retains interests in the Companys PSP and Deferred Bonus Plan DBP.
PSP awards will vest at the normal vesting dates, to the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied and the number of shares under award will be pro-rated by reference to the proportion of the applicable performance period that has elapsed by 31 May 2019.
The performance conditions for Stephen Kellys PSP awards are set out in the Annual Report for the year of grant.
His shares in the DBP will vest on their normal vesting dates and not be subject to time pro-rating.
Details of Stephen Kellys share awards are set out below on pages 126 and 127.
Any unexercised options under the Companys Savings-Related Share Option Plan at the date of cessation of employment will lapse.
Stephen Kelly also received 11,000 plus VAT as contributions towards legal fees in connection with the arrangements relating to his departure.
Stephen Kelly received no other termination-related payments.
Relative importance of spend on pay The charts below show the all-employee pay cost as stated in the notes to the accounts, profit before tax and returns to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks for 2017 and 2018.
The information shown in this chart is based on the following: Underlying PBT Underlying profit before income tax taken from the consolidated income statement on page 144.
Underlying PBT has been chosen as a measure of our operational profitability: Returns to shareholders Total dividends taken from note 15.5 on page 194: share buyback taken from consolidated statement of changes in equity on page 147: Total employee pay Total sta costs from note 3.3 on page 161, including wages and salaries, social security costs, pension and share-based payments.
122 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Underlying PBT m Returns to shareholders m Total employee pay m 48 Ordinary dividends 4 14 Shares repurchased for discretionary share plans -9 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in the following financial year This section provides an overview of how the Remuneration Committee is proposing to implement our remuneration policy in 2019.
Base salary An annual salary review was carried out by the Remuneration Committee in November 2018.
Following that review, the Remuneration Committee approved the following: Salary 1 January 2019 Salary 1 January 2018 Salary 1 January 2017 Salary 1 January 2016 770,000 appointed CEO 2 522,000 0% increase 522,000 2.5% increase 509,000 3% increase 1 Steve Hare Nov 2018 2 Blair Crump $700,000 0% increase $700,000 N A N A Notes: 1 Steve Hare was appointed CEO on 2 November 2018.
For the period 1 September to 1 November, Steve Hare received a step-up allowance of 186,750 per annum in connection with his appointment to the post of Interim COO & CFO.
This is in addition to his base salary as CFO.
The allowance was payable until the appointment of a CEO and therefore ceased on Steve Hares appointment as CEO.
2 Blair Crump was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
Pension and benets UK-based Executive Directors will receive a reduced pension provision worth 15% of salary as a contribution to a dened contribution plan and or as a cash allowance and our US-based Executive Director will receive a pension provision in line with our US benefits policy, currently up to 3.5% of salary.
They will also receive a standard package of other benets and where deemed necessary the costs of travel, accommodation and subsistence for the Directors and their partners on Sage-related business, consistent with that in FY18.
In addition, the Company will continue to cover the cost of Steve Hares travel and accommodation for days on which he attends to Sage matters in the Companys London offices.
Sage will also continue to tax equalise that portion of Blair Crumps remuneration that is subject to UK tax for days on which he attends to Sage matters in the UK.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 123 471 475 157 171 9 0 789 837 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual bonus Key features of the Executive Directors annual bonus plan for 2019 are as follows: The maximum annual bonus potential is 175% of salary: One-third of any bonus earned will be deferred into shares for three years under The Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan: Annual bonuses awarded in respect of performance in 2019 will be subject to potential withholding malus or recovery clawback if specified trigger events occur within three years of the payment award of the annual bonus.
Trigger events will include a material misstatement of the audited results, error in calculation of the bonus payout, serious reputational damage or significant financial loss as a result of an individuals conduct or gross misconduct which could have warranted an individuals summary dismissal.
The annual bonus for 2019 for Executive Directors will be determined as detailed below: As a percentage of maximum bonus opportunity: Measure CEO President of Sage 1 Annualised recurring revenue ARR growth 80% 80% Strategic goals 20% 20% Note: 1 Payout is dependent upon the satisfaction of the underpin condition of underlying operating profit margin.
The selection of measures and targets takes into account the Companys strategic priorities, its internal budgeting and consensus.
The annualised recurring revenue growth measure is based on the definition of annualised recurring revenue set out on page 210.
Targets are not disclosed because they are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive.
Many of our competitors are unlisted companies and not required to disclose their targets: our disclosure could provide our competitors with a considerable advantage.
It is intended for retrospective disclosure to be made in next years Remuneration Report.
Performance Share Plan PSP The Chief Executive Officer and President of Sage will be amongst the participants in the PSP award to be granted in March 2019.
Awards will be of shares worth 200% of salary at the date of grant.
Vesting of these awards will be subject to satisfaction of the following performance conditions measured over the three financial years to 30 September 2021.
A holding period to the PSPs granted for the financial year FY19 will apply for two years from the vesting date.
Annualised recurring revenue growth ARR performance condition 70% of award 1 ARR growth CAGR % of award vesting Below target Less than 8.0% p. a.
70% Note: 1 For any of this portion of the PSP awards to vest, an underpin condition must be met: Return on Capital Employed ROCE of 12%.
Relative TSR performance condition 30% of award TSR ranking % of award vesting Below target Below median 0% Target Median 6% Stretch Upper quartile 24% Exceptional Upper decile 30% TSR performance comprises share price growth and dividends paid.
Sages TSR performance will be measured relative to the TSR of the constituents of the FTSE 100, excluding financial services and extracting companies.
PSP awards granted in 2019 will be subject to potential withholding malus or recovery clawback if specified trigger events occur prior to the third anniversary of the release date of an award.
Trigger events in respect of PSP awards will comprise a material misstatement of the audited results, error in calculation of the extent of PSP vesting, serious reputational damage or significant financial loss as a result of an individuals conduct or gross misconduct which could have warranted an individuals summary dismissal or a material failure of risk management.
124 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Non-executive Director remuneration The table below shows the fee structure for Non-executive Directors for 2019.
Non-executive fees are determined by the full Board except for the fee for the Chairman of the Board which is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Non-Executive fees will next be reviewed by the Remuneration Committee in 2019.
2019 fees 1 Chairman of the Board all-inclusive fee 400,000 Basic Non-executive Director fee 60,000 2 Senior Independent Director additional fee 10,000 Audit and Risk Committee Chairman additional fee 17,000 Remuneration Committee Chairman additional fee 17,000 Notes: 1 The fees for Donald Brydon were increased from 360,000 to 400,000 on 6 July 2018, the anniversary of the renewal of his service agreement, in recognition of his contribution to Sage since he became Chairman of the Board.
2 On appointment as Senior Independent Director, Drummond Hall elected to receive an additional fee of 10,000 to reflect the responsibilities and additional time commitment of the Senior Independent Director.
The fee is lower than the previous fee of 15,000 and reflects the fact that he also receives a fee as Remuneration Committee Chairman.
Directors shareholdings and share interests audited information The shareholding guideline for Executive Directors is currently 200% of salary, increasing to 250% of salary in the new Remuneration Policy: the 200% of salary guideline has been eective from the 2016 AGM.
Executive Directors are expected to build up the required shareholding within a five-year period of a Directors becoming subject to the guideline.
As at 30 September 2018, Steve Hare held shares worth 336% of salary and Blair Crump held shares worth 23% of salary, including unvested deferred shares net of tax.
The values for Executive Directors are derived from interests in shares valued using the average market price of a share in the three months to 28 September 2018 the last trading day of the financial year, which was 6.221, and the executives basic salary on 30 September 2018, translated into GBP using the average middle foreign currency exchange rate for the same period used to calculate the share price.
Interests in shares The interests as at 30 September 2018 of each person who was a Director of the Company during the year together with interests held by his or her connected persons were: Ordinary shares at Ordinary shares at 30 September 2018 30 September 2017 1 Director number number 2 N Berkett 50,661 50,729 D Brydon 78,024 78,024 3 B Crump 15,000 15,000 D Hall 10,000 10,000 S Hare 260,019 147,397 J Howell 31,000 31,000 S Jiandani 0 0 4 S Kelly 401,193 237,346 C Keers 0 0 Total 845,897 569,496 Notes: 1 2017 values contain a restatement for auto-reinvestment of dividends, as announced through the Regulatory News Service on 8 June 2018.
2 Neil Berketts shareholding at 30 September 2017 was incorrectly reported in the 2017 Directors Annual Remuneration Report due to an administrative error and has been restated, as announced through the Regulatory News Services on 26 October 2018.
3 Blair Crump was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2018.
4 Stephen Kelly stepped down from the Board on 31 August 2018.
His 2018 shareholding is shown to that date.
There have been no changes in the Directors holdings in the share capital of the Company, as set out in the table above, between 30 September 2018 and the date of this report.
Details of the Executive Directors interests in outstanding share awards under the PSP, Deferred Bonus and all-employee share option plans are set out below.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 125 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED All-employee share options audited information UK-based Executive Directors were entitled to participate in The Sage Group Savings-Related Share Option Plan SRSOP, which is now closed for new invitations.
In addition, all Executive Directors are eligible to join the all-employee share plan, The Sage Save and Share Plan, on the same terms as all employees based in their respective local jurisdiction.
See note 15.2 on page 192 for more detail of this plan.
In the year under review, Stephen Kelly and Steve Hare did not participate in this scheme as their existing contributions to the SRSOP are at the HMRC-approved contribution limit.
Blair Crump was a participant in the 2017 Save & Share Plan.
The outstanding all-employee share options granted to each Director of the Company are as follows: Shares under Exercised Lapsed Shares under option at Granted during the during the option at Exercise price 1 October 2017 during the year year year 30 September 2018 Director per share number number number number number Date exercisable S Hare 317p 9,463 9,463 1 August 2019 31 January 2020 B Crump 610p 1,964 1,964 1 August 2019-1 September 2019 S Kelly 456p 6,578 6,578 1 August 2020 31 January 2021 Total 18,005 18,005 Notes: No performance conditions apply to options granted under the SRSOP and Save and Share Plans.
For the 2015 SRSOP grant, the exercise price was set at 4.560, a 20% discount to the average share price of 5.70 on 18, 19 and 20 May 2015.
For the 2014 SRSOP, the exercise price was set at 3.17, a 20% discount to the average share price on 15, 16 and 19 May 2014 of 3.9625.
Blair Crump participated in the 2017 Save and Share Plan.
Under the US Save and Share plan rules, the scheme has a two-year saving period.
No performance conditions apply to options granted under this Plan.
For the 2017 US Save and Share grant, the exercise price was set at 6.10, a 15% discount on the average share price on the three dealing days prior to grant which was on 1 June 2017.
The market price of a share of the Company at 28 September 2018 the last trading day of the financial year was 5.864 mid-market average and the lowest and highest market price during the year were 5.702 and 8.214 respectively.
Stephen Kellys options will lapse on 31 May 2019, the date of cessation of his employment.
The market price of a share on 6 December 2017, the day prior to the date of the awards made in the year ended 30 September 2018, was 7.605.
The performance conditions for awards granted in January 2015, March 2016, September 2016 and December 2016 are set out in the respective Annual Reports for the year of grant and for awards granted in December 2017 on page 119.
Stephen Kellys awards will be pro-rated to the date of cessation of his employment, which is 31 May 2019.
The performance conditions for Stephen Kellys and Steve Hares awards that vested during 2018 are set out on page 94 of the 2017 Annual Report.
Awards for Steve Hare and Stephen Kelly granted in December 2017 are subject to a holding period of two years on vesting.
126 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
GOVERNANCE Deferred shares audited information The outstanding awards granted to each Executive Director of the Company under The Sage Group Deferred Bonus Plan are as follows: Under award at Awarded Vested Lapsed Under award at 1 October 2017 during the year during the year during the year 30 September 2018 Director Grant date number number number number number Vesting date S Hare 7 December 2017 5,491 5,491 7 December 2019 14 December 2016 23,528 23,528 14 December 2018 9 December 2015 13,673 13,673 9 December 2018 12 January 2015 11,047 11,047 12 January 2018 B Crump 7 December 2017 8,488 8,488 7 December 2019 S Kelly 7 December 2017 8,520 8,520 7 December 2019 14 December 2016 36,503 36,503 14 December 2018 Total 84,751 22,499 11,047 96,203 Notes: Awards are not subject to further performance conditions once granted.
The market price of a share on 6 December 2017, the date prior to the date of the awards made in the year ended 30 September 2018, was 7.605.
No variations were made in the terms of the awards in the year.
There are limits on the number of newly issued and treasury shares that can be used to satisfy awards under the Groups employee share schemes in any 10-year period.
The limits and the Groups current position against those limits as at 15 November 2018 the last practicable date prior to publication of this document are set out below Limit Current position 5% of Groups share capital can be used for discretionary share schemes 2.38% 10% of Groups share capital can be used for all share schemes 3.19% The Company has previously satisfied all awards under the Performance Share Plan through the market purchase of shares or transfer of treasury shares and will continue to consider the most appropriate approach, based on the relevant factors at the time.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted, where appropriate and with Board approval, to take Non-executive Directorships with other organisations in order to broaden their knowledge and experience in other markets and countries.
Fees received by the Directors in their capacity as Directors of these companies are retained, reecting the personal responsibility they undertake in these roles.
The Board recognises the significant demands that are made on Executive and Non-executive Directors and has therefore adopted a policy that no Executive Director should hold more than two directorships of other listed companies.
The Board encourages Executive Directors to limit other directorships to one listed company.
Except in exceptional circumstances, where approved in advance by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, if an Executive Director holds Non-executive positions at more than one listed company then only the fees from one such company will be retained by the Director.
Neither of the Executive Directors currently holds an appointment of this nature.
No formal limit on other board appointments applies to Non-executive Directors under the policy but prior approval not to be unreasonably withheld from the Chairman on behalf of the Board is required in the case of any new appointment.
In the case of the Chairman, prior approval of the Nomination Committee is required on behalf of the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 127 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Unexpired term of contract table Unexpired term of contract on 30 September 2018, Director Date of contract or on date of contract if later Notice period under contract Executive Directors S Hare 3 January 2014 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual B Crump 1 January 2018 12 months 12 months from the Company and or individual Non-executive Directors N Berkett 1 July 2016 9 months 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual D Brydon 6 July 2017 1 year 9 months 6 months from the Company and or individual J Howell 15 May 2016 8 months 6 months from the Company or 1 month from individual D Hall 1 January 2017 1 year 3 months 1 month from the Company or 1 month from individual S Jiandani 28 February 2017 1 year 5 months 1 month from the Company or 1 month from individual C Keers 1 July 2017 1 year 9 months 1 month from the Company or 1 month from individual Consideration by the Directors of matters relating to Directors remuneration The following Directors were members of the Remuneration Committee when matters relating to the Directors remuneration for the year were being considered: Drummond Hall Chair : Neil Berkett: Jonathan Howell: Cath Keers.
The Remuneration Committee received assistance from Amanda Cusdin Chief People Ocer, Tina Clayton Executive Vice President, Reward & Recognition, Vicki Bradin General Counsel and Company Secretary and Miranda Craig Interim Company Secretary and other members of management, who may attend meetings by invitation, except when matters relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
External advisers The Remuneration Committee continues to receive advice from Deloitte LLP, an independent rm of remuneration consultants appointed by the Remuneration Committee after consultation with the Board.
During the year, Deloittes executive compensation advisory practice advised the Remuneration Committee on developments in market practice, corporate governance, institutional investor views, the development of the Companys incentive arrangements and the review of the remuneration policy.
Total fees for advice provided to the Remuneration Committee during the year were 108,650.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the advice it has received has been objective and independent.
Deloitte is a founding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and adheres to its Code in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Other parts of Deloitte have provided tax advice, specic corporate finance support in the context of merger and acquisition activity and unrelated corporate advisory services.
Statement of shareholding voting The table below sets out the results of the vote on the remuneration policy at the 2016 AGM and report at the 2018 AGM: Votes for Votes against Votes Votes Number % Number % cast withheld Remuneration policy 767,613,442 97.43 20,268,897 2.57 787,882,339 2,910,738 Remuneration report 832,945,959 98.12 15,946,831 1.88 848,892,790 996,239 Drummond Hall Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 November 2018 128 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 The Sage Group plc.
