Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Governance Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Chairs Annual Statement The Companys core principles of remuneration are to support: sustainable long-term value creation: profitable growth and strong cash generation: and attraction and retention of high calibre individuals.
Further evolution in our performance conditions for the LTIP in 2018 Our strategy is evolving along with our operating model, and we have been keen to avoid a disconnection between the basis for the earnings per share EPS target established at IPO and the strategy now driving underlying growth.
To support our evolving strategy, we introduced an Organic earnings per share Organic EPS measure last year which allows the significant acceleration of growth Dear Shareholder, which is called for over and above that which has been This has been a year of both operational progress delivered since IPO to be recognised and targeted.
The and disappointment on the prospects for short-term Group has worked hard to build and develop the Travel profitability.
The decisions taken by management in business since IPO to provide a diversified profit stream the second half of the year will benefit the delivery of from a range of products and services in addition to the sustainable growth and performance, but the Trading Insurance business.
An assessment of Organic EPS Update issued on 6 December 2017, which set out the allows the Company to reward and incentivise the revised profit expectations for 2017 and 2018, had a Executive Directors and the Executive Team together material negative impact on the share price of the defined as the Group Executive as detailed on page 11 Company.
This in turn has framed decisions and of this Annual Report and Accounts to deliver this outcomes on both current and future remuneration step change in growth.
and these are detailed in this summary and the body of the Remuneration Report itself.
We are now proposing a change in respect of the implementation of the Policy for 2018 19 to further Our current Remuneration Policy was approved at the increase the focus of the LTIP in supporting the strategy AGM in June 2015.
This Report includes the proposed over the next period.
The change is a replacement of Policy which will be subject to shareholder approval at the Basic earnings per share Basic EPS performance the AGM in June this year.
In arriving at our proposed condition with Return on Capital Employed ROCE.
Policy, the Committee has discussed the developments The rationale for this change is: in legislative and governance matters relating to remuneration.
We believe that the proposed Policy The ROCE metric will ensure that the Executive reflects the intent of these developments, but we will Directors are focused on generating an appropriate continue to monitor the regulatory framework after level of return on the investments being made over June 2018 and consider any further policy the next period.
adjustments that might be appropriate.
The dynamic tension between ROCE and the Organic EPS growth targeted will ensure that the This report also lays out the activities and decisions of Executive Directors are focused on both growing the Remuneration Committee over the past 12 months.
earnings and the quality of those earnings.
We believe these take full account of our actual The ROCE metric will ensure that the Executive performance and the desire to deliver sustainable, Directors have an equal focus on ROCE, Organic long term value creation in the business.
EPS and TSR Total Shareholder Return.
We felt that once ROCE was included, operating two EPS Proposed Policy performance conditions did not provide any This report lays out the proposed Directors additional benefit to the Company or shareholders.
Remuneration Policy for the next three years which will When looking at the current two EPS measures, be subject to shareholder approval at our AGM and our we felt that Organic EPS, which excludes insurance practice over the past year, based on the current Policy.
reserve releases, is an appropriate long-term I trust we have done this with a transparency and clarity measure of profit for the Company and is more that aid your understanding of both our intent and our closely aligned to the medium and long-term activity.
There are few material changes from our current strategy of the business, as it focuses management and proposed Policy see pages 89-91 for an overview.
on accelerating operating performance and growth.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 83 Governance Remuneration Committee Chairs Annual Statement continued The targets have been set with reference to our internal Underlying Profit Before Tax which excludes business plan and we are satisfied that they are derivatives, restructuring costs, debt issue costs sufficiently stretching.
Our view is that these changes and the Ogden impact in the prior year increased by to the operation of the LTIP in 2018 will ensure that the 1.4% to 190.1m 2017: 187.4m.
For the purpose of Executive Directors are rewarded for delivering a setting management bonus targets, debt issue costs balanced and sustainable set of results across the were included, so the profit before tax measure for profit, capital efficiency and shareholder return of the bonus purposes was 185.8m 2017: 187.4m.
Company over the next critical period in the Continued high levels of cash conversion meant that implementation of the Companys strategy.
the Group has continued its deleveraging.
The net debt to Trading EBITDA ratio is now 1.7x 2017: 1.9x.
The following table shows the performance conditions Dividend payments to our shareholders of 5.8p per and targets currently operated and those proposed: share in respect of 2017 and an interim dividend of 3.0p in respect of 2018 that reflect the strong cash Performance 2017 LTIP Proposed 2018 generative performance of the business.
measures weightings LTIP weightings Demonstrated confidence in the growth and and targets and targets potential of our Cruise business by exercising the Basic EPS Weighting: 30% Removed from option for a second new cruise ship to be delivered Threshold: 5% p. a.
Launched the membership programme Possibilities Organic EPS Weighting: 30% Unchanged which supports the attraction, retention and growth Threshold: 12% p. a. of High Affinity Customers HACs.
Strengthened our insurance operating model with a significant information technology upgrade, a new Relative total Weighting: 40% Unchanged broking platform in the final stages of testing and shareholder Measured against a new claims platform which is now live.
return TSR FTSE 250 excluding Impact of Company performance for 2017 18 on investment trusts remuneration for the year unaudited Threshold: median We issued a Trading Update on 6 December 2017 Maximum: full details are on the Companys website.
upper quartile Return on New for 2018 LTIP Weighting: 30% The Trading Update setting out the revised profit expectations for 2017 and 2018 had a material capital Threshold: employed 10.5% p. a. negative impact on the share price of the Company.
We took into account that 2017 has been a challenging ROCE Max: 11.5% p. a. year for the Company and its shareholders.
Recognising the broader picture: Company performance for the 2017 18 financial year audited 2018 salaries salaries will be frozen for the The implementation of our strategy as outlined on Executive Directors this year.
pages 1-51 has been substantiated through the key 2017 bonus outcome the formulaic outcome under performance outcomes of the year: the bonus would have resulted in a bonus payout of 47.4% and 39.5% of salary for the CEO and CFO Continued strong performance in Travel and growth respectively.
The Executive Directors felt that, taking in written profits in Insurance, which has led to a into account this broader picture and looking in a stable level of underlying profits for the Group.
holistic way at the performance of the business and Group profit before tax from continuing operations the experience of shareholders, it would be appropriate decreased by 7.6% to 178.7m 2017: 193.3m, on to waive their 2017 bonuses.
The Committee accepted revenue of 860.1m 2017: 871.3m.
the offer of the Executive Directors given its view that the formulaic outcome from the bonus would not entirely reflect the performance of the business over the period nor the impact on near-term profitability.
Full details of the bonus are set out on pages 107-108.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 84 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 2015 LTIP vesting audited Approved the business and personal objectives for It is currently anticipated that 26.0% of the 2015 LTIP 2018 19.
These were considered in light of both will vest on 29 June 2018.
The EPS performance overall performance expectations for 2018 and condition resulted in 52.0% of this proportion of the our medium-term business strategy.
Details of the award vesting.
No element is currently expected to vest personal objectives for the Executive Directors are in respect of the TSR performance of the Company on page 107. over this performance period.
The Committee is Noted the voting results on our Remuneration comfortable that this level of vesting is consistent with Report at the 2017 AGM.
Despite overall support the underlying performance of the business and has being at 94.46%, the Committee wanted to therefore not exercised any discretion to depart from understand the concerns of those who had voted the formulaic outcomes.
against the report, or who had not voted at all.
The views of those who responded to our subsequent What we have done during the year matters approach were discussed as part of our review of the discussed, decisions made and actions taken Remuneration Policy.
Made grants in May 2017 under the Saga Long Reviewed in great depth our existing Remuneration Term Incentive plan LTIP for the Executive Policy.
Given the strong support for the Policy Committee and senior management of the Company.
in 2015, we considered it largely fit for purpose.
Grant levels were consistent with our normal However, we believe that a number of changes award policy.
are appropriate: Approved the award of free shares to all eligible Reduce the maximum pension entitlement for employees in July 2017. existing Executive Directors to 15% of salary: and Reviewed the governance and processes of the three limit it to 10% for new Executive Directors.
Saga Share Schemes in operation in the Company Increase the shareholding requirement for the and confirmed that they met the necessary CEO and CFO to 250% and 200% of standards and were well communicated.
Supported base salary increases of 2.0% average Eliminate the existing provision of sign-on for the employee population.
As explained above, compensation for new Executive Directors.
Executive Director salaries will be frozen at their We have also given significant consideration to current level.
The Board concurrently agreed that the performance measures in the LTIP.
Non-Executive fees would remain at their current level.
Reviewed and approved the bonus outcomes for 2017 as detailed above.
Reviewed a risk evaluation for the subsidiary regulated businesses, Saga Personal Finance Limited, Saga Services Limited and AICL, and considered whether they highlighted any material adverse activities, decisions or outcomes that should impact subsidiary or Group bonus calculations.
We concluded that these evaluations were robust and that there were no risk issues to consider in determining bonus outcomes for any of the regulated entities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 85 Governance Remuneration Committee Chairs Annual Statement continued Changes to the Executive Directors The Committee receives assistance from Karen On 28 March 2018, the Company announced that Caddick, Group HR Director and Vicki Haynes, Jonathan Hill, Chief Financial Officer, informed the Company Secretary.
Our adviser PwC attends by Board of his decision to resign from Saga to join Paddy invitation, as do Lance Batchelor, Group Chief Executive Power Betfair Plc as Chief Financial Officer.
Jonathan Officer, Jonathan Hill, Group Chief Financial Officer, will remain with Saga until September.
The Board and and Andrew Goodsell, Chairman, except when issues the management team are extremely grateful for the relating to their own remuneration are being discussed.
contribution Jonathan has made to Saga over the last Our terms of reference three years, and wish him every success in the future.
Our terms of reference were reviewed by the Following Jonathan Hills resignation he will continue Committee and subsequently approved by the to remain employed until the end of his notice in Board on 18 September 2017.
They are available on September 2018 during which period he will receive our website, http: corporate.
co. uk corporatehis current salary, benefits and pension contribution.
information corporate-governance and from the He will not be eligible for a bonus for the 2018 19 Company Secretary at Sagas registered office.
Time spent on matters Jonathan Hill has a number of subsisting share awards under the following discretionary Company share plans: Remuneration Policy c. 10% The Saga plc Long Term Incentive Plan: Regulatory developments The Saga plc Deferred Bonus Plan.
c. 15% Senior management c. 35% remuneration He will not be granted any awards under these Plans Share schemes in respect of the 2018 19 financial year.
Any awards Employee benefit which have not vested by the date of his cessation of structures employment will lapse.
In addition, he has awards under c. 30% c. 10% the Saga plc Short Term Incentive Plan, the Companys all employee arrangement: these awards will be treated in accordance with the HMRC approved rules of the Plan.
Structure of the report Remuneration Committee Chairs Annual Statement Jonathan Hill will receive no payments for loss of office.
A summary of our remit Summary Report pages 88-99.
To review the broad Remuneration Policy for the Fairness, diversity and wider workforce senior executives.
To recommend and monitor the level and structure Annual Report on Remuneration pages 106-111. of remuneration for senior management.
To govern all share schemes.
New elements to this report To review any major changes in employee benefit Saga is committed to creating an inclusive working structures throughout the Company or Group.
environment and to rewarding its employees throughout Attendance the organisation in a fair manner.
In making decisions All Committee members are independent Non-Executive on executive pay, the Remuneration Committee Directors.
We held four meetings during the year.
considers wider workforce remuneration and conditions.
We believe that employees should be able to share in Member Attendance the success of the Company through ownership.
We have enabled this via a Share Incentive Plan SIP Gareth Williams Chair 4 through which people can buy shares.
We also provide 1 Philip Green 1 all employees with more than a years service free Ray King 4 shares every year.
We also believe that employees should have the opportunity to save for their future and Bridget McIntyre 4 to this end we have in place an open defined benefit Orna NiChionna 3 scheme which operates on a career average basis.
The Company also has a matched contributions defined Note: contribution scheme, which allows people up to 10% of 1 Philip Green resigned on 31 March 2017 their base salaries as pension benefits.
This is aligned with the proposed Policy for our Executive Directors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 86 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements As part of our commitment to fairness, we have Conclusion introduced a new section to this report see pages I hope you find the information contained in this report 100-105 which sets out more information on the pay helpful, thoughtful and clear.
I welcome any feedback conditions of our wider workforce, the cascade of from the Companys shareholders and you can contact incentives throughout our business, our CEO to me at gareth.
co. uk if you have any employee pay ratio, our gender pay statistics, and our questions or comments on this report.
I look forward to diversity policy.
Whilst we recognise there is much hearing your views and will be available to answer any work still to do, we believe that transparency is an questions at the Companys AGM, where we will ask our important first step towards making improvements shareholders to approve the Directors Remuneration in relation to these important issues.
Effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee An evaluation of the Committees effectiveness took place during the year, as part of the Board effectiveness review for details see page 65.
The review found that the Committee feels it is working effectively, and that it has good support Gareth Williams from management and external advisers and that Chair, Remuneration Committee sound solutions and outcomes are identified.
Looking ahead This report has been prepared in accordance We will keep our work under review including assessing with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized the scope of our involvement in remuneration Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports deliberations and how we work with executives on such Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013, the matters.
We will also be watching developments in the provisions of the current Code and the Listing Rules.
evolution of the corporate governance environment and the impact of the new Code on widening the remit of the Committee.
Given that we have now disclosed our gender pay data we will be working closely with executives on action planning for reducing the gender pay gap by proactively addressing the demographic and non-demographic reasons for the gap.
Shareholder consultation The Committee consulted its major shareholders and the main shareholder representative bodies IA, ISS and Glass Lewis on the proposed new Remuneration Policy.
The Committee is grateful for the time taken to consider the Committee proposals and provide feedback.
At the end of the consultation the majority of shareholders consulted indicated they were supportive of the new Remuneration Policy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Saga plc 87
