Remuneration Report continued Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any share-based incentives and do not hold any interests in shares other than shares owned outright.
Number of shares owned outright including connected persons at 31 December 2018 or date of 1 Name resignation Sir Roy Gardner 100,000 Mike Clasper 56,000 Rachel Lomax 40,000 John Rishton 43,086 Ian El-Mokadem 50,000 Lynne Peacock 15,000 Kirsty Bashforth 10,000 Notes: 1.
Includes shares owned by connected persons.
There were no changes in Directors interests in the period 1 January 2019 and the date of this report.
Non-Executive Directors do not have shareholding guidelines and there are no interests in shares held by Non-Executive Directors where the individual does not own those shares outright.
Other shareholding information Shareholder dilution Awards granted under the Company share plans are met either by the issue of new shares or by shares held in trust when awards vest.
The Committee monitors the number of shares issued under its various share plans and their impact on dilution limits.
The relevant dilution limits established by the Investment Association formerly the ABI in respect of all share plans is 10% in any rolling ten-year period and in respect of discretionary share plans is 5% in any rolling ten-year period.
Based on the Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2018, our dilution level was within these limits.
The Group has an employee share ownership trust which is administered by an independent trustee and which holds ordinary shares in the Company to meet various obligations under the share plans.
The Trust held 8,728,497 and 3,527,740 ordinary shares at 1 January 2018 and 31 December 2018 respectively.
Summary of the approved Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors The 2018 Directors Remuneration Policy the Policy took effect following shareholder approval at the 2018 Annual General Meeting held on 10 May 2018.
The full Policy may be found on the Companys website.
A summary of the approved policy for Executive Directors is provided below.
This summary does not replace or override the full approved policy which is available on our website within the 2017 Annual Report and Accounts.
Sercos Remuneration Policy supports the achievement of the Groups long-term strategic objectives.
Sercos approach to executive remuneration is designed to: support Sercos long-term future growth, strategy and values: align the financial interests of executives and shareholders: provide market-competitive reward opportunities for performance in line with expectations and deliver significant financial rewards for sustained out-performance: enable Serco to recruit and retain the best executives with the required skills and experience in all our chosen markets: and be based on a clear rationale which participants, shareholders and other stakeholders are able to understand and support.
We approach Executive Directors remuneration on a total reward basis to provide the Remuneration Committee with a holistic view of total remuneration rather than just the competitiveness of the individual elements.
Analysis is conducted by looking at each of the different elements of remuneration including salary, annual bonus, performance share plan and pension in this context.
This ensures that in applying the Remuneration Policy executive pay is sufficient to achieve the goals of the Remuneration Policy without paying more than is necessary.
The balance of fixed to variable pay also ensures that significant reward is only delivered for exceptional performance.
This remuneration framework is echoed throughout the organisation with the approach to pay for the wider workforce reflecting these core principles.
| 126 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements How the element supports our Operation Opportunity Performance framework strategic objectives Base salary To recognise an individuals Pay levels are designed to Whilst there is no prescribed, Review takes account of experience, responsibility attract and retain formulaic maximum, over the individual performance and and performance of the role, experienced, skilled policy period, base salaries contribution to the Company and by providing the basis for executives reflecting the skills for Executive Directors will be during the year.
a competitive remuneration and role of the individuals.
set at an appropriate level package: to help recruit and within the peer group and will retain executives of the Base salaries are set by normally increase at no more necessary calibre to execute reference to: than the greater of inflation Sercos strategic objectives.
the relevant experience and salary increases made to and time in role of the the general workforce in the individual: jurisdiction the Executive individual performance: Director is based in.
compensation of similarly situated executives of Higher increases may be companies in an made in exceptional appropriate peer group: circumstances.
Such cases and would include where there the wider economic has been a significant change environment.
in role size or complexity which has resulted in the In some circumstances an salary falling below a market executive may start on a competitive level given the lower salary than would be enhanced responsibilities of competitive in the market, the role.
with a phased increase applying depending on performance in role and individual ability.
Salaries are normally reviewed annually and any changes are usually effective from 1 April.
Salary reviews take account of the individuals performance and contribution to the Company during the year.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 127 Remuneration Report continued How the element supports our Operation Opportunity Performance framework strategic objectives Benefits To provide a competitive A range of benefits may be The maximum opportunity None level of benefits.
provided to Executive for benefits is defined by the Directors.
These include, but nature of the benefits and the are not limited to, company cost of providing them.
As car or car allowance, private the cost of providing such medical insurance, benefits varies based on permanent healthcare market rates and other insurance, life cover, annual factors, there is no formal allowance for independent maximum monetary value.
financial advice, and voluntary health checks every two years.
Relocation benefits will be provided in a manner that reflects individual circumstances and Sercos relocation benefits policy.
For example, relocation benefits could include temporary accommodation for the executive and dependents, education costs for dependents and tax equalisation.
Benefits are reviewed annually against market practice and are designed to be competitive.
| 128 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements How the element supports our Operation Opportunity Performance framework strategic objectives Annual bonus Incentivise executives to The Committee sets Maximum bonus opportunity Performance is assessed achieve specific, objectives and their is 175% of salary for CEO and annually.
predetermined goals that are weightings at the start of 155% of salary for other aligned to the business each performance year.
This represents the Both financial and nonstrategy during a one-year annual performance maximum bonus payable for financial measures are used, period.
measures and objectives are exceptional stretch with a weighting of no less determined with reference to performance.
Financial Compulsory deferral into the Groups overall strategy measures are based on the shares increases alignment of and annual business plan and Companys Key Performance the short-term incentive with priorities for the year.
At the Indicators KPIs for the year shareholders.
end of the performance year such as Trade Profit, Cash the bonus result is Flow and Revenue and take Reward ongoing stewardship determined by the into consideration analyst and contribution to core Committee based on consensus and the values.
performance against the Companys forecasts.
Non-financial measures are based on personal Annual bonuses are paid performance against key after the end of the financial strategic objectives for year to which they relate.
There is compulsory deferral into shares vesting after three Awards for on-target years of any bonus earned performance are 50% of over 100% of salary.
Committee has discretion to At minimum threshold permit a dividend equivalent performance the award that to accrue during the vesting may be received is 0% of the period.
are delivered to participants in the form of additional All bonus payments are shares or cash to the extent ultimately at the discretion of that the award vests.
the Committee, taking into consideration the Directors Awards made to Executive personal contribution to Directors are subject to malus business performance over and clawback provisions.
the relevant year and leadership behaviours demonstrated in making that contribution.
Performance conditions do not apply to the deferred element.
| Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 129 Remuneration Report continued How the element supports our Operation Opportunity Performance framework strategic objectives Performance Share Plan PSP Recognises achievement Awards under the PSP are Maximum annual award of up Performance measures and against the longer-term usually made in the form of to 200% of base salary for the weightings will be set by the objectives linked to the nominal cost options or CEO and 175% for other Committee at the start of Groups strategy and aligns conditional share awards, Directors.
the three year performance incentives with shareholder but may also take the form period on the basis of the value creation.
of nil-cost options or market Groups strategic plan.
At least 75% of the vesting of the LTIP is dependent Awards are normally granted on two or more financial on an annual basis.
However, performance conditions the Committee will consider chosen from: awards under the PSP twice EPS a year.
TSR ROIC Awards will be subject to performance conditions.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to Awards are typically settled introduce additional financial in Ordinary Shares however, measures aligned to the at the discretion of the Board, Groups strategy.
awards may be converted to a cash equivalent based on In addition, up to 25% of the the value of the shares at the LTIP vesting may be based on vesting date in cases where the achievement of strategic due to local law it is not measures.
The Remuneration possible to deliver shares, Committee has discretion to or subject to net settlement.
restrict the vesting against the non-financial element if, The Committee has on assessment of the discretion to permit a Companys performance as a dividend equivalent to accrue whole including the financial during the vesting period.
performance, the formulaic Dividend equivalents are outcome of the non-financial delivered to participants in measures is not reflective the form of additional shares of this.
or cash to the extent that the award vests.
25% of the award vests for threshold performance Shares are subject to a two rising on a straight-line basis year post vesting holding to full vesting for maximum period.
During this time the performance.
shares must be retained but are not subject to forfeiture The Committee with input provisions.
Shares may be from the Audit and Group sold in order to satisfy tax or Risk Committees as other liabilities as a result of appropriate considers the vesting of the award.
Sercos underlying performance and external Awards made to Executive market reference points as Directors are subject to malus well as performance against and clawback provisions.
the specific targets set in determining the overall outcome of the PSP.
| 130 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements How the element supports our Operation Opportunity Performance framework strategic objectives Pension To provide pension-related Executive Directors may Employer pension None benefits to encourage participate in the Group contributions or the executives to build savings defined contribution pension equivalent, and or combined for retirement.
plan or overseas Serco with a cash supplement, of up pension plan as appropriate.
Employer contributions are The maximum employer reviewed against local market pension contribution or the practices annually.
equivalent, and or combined with a cash supplement, for Executive Directors may new Executive Directors will choose to receive some or all be up to 20% of base salary.
of their employer pension contribution in cash to invest as they see fit.
Shareholding guidelines To support long-term The Committee reviews the The shareholding guidelines None commitment to the Company shareholding guideline with are 200% of salary for the and the alignment of the Policy review to ensure CEO, and 150% of salary for employee interests with the guidelines remain in line other Executive Directors.
with market and best practice.
The Committee has the discretion to increase the Unvested awards that are shareholding guideline of the subject to performance Executive Directors.
conditions are not taken into account in determining an Executive Directors shareholding for these purposes.
Share price is measured as at end of the relevant financial year.
Executives are required to retain in shares 50% of the net value of any performance shares vesting or options exercised until they satisfy the shareholding guideline.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: David Eveleigh Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 20 February 2019 | Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Serco Group plc 131
