Governance Directors remuneration report Dear shareholder I am pleased to present our 2018 directors remuneration report.
The resilience of our strategy and business model Annual bonus and LTIP against the backdrop of the economic and political outcomes for the year uncertainty nationally has delivered EPRA earnings of 17.1 pence per share, an increase of 5.6% and an At the beginning of each year, we set financial and operational targets for the annual bonus scheme increase in the portfolio valuation of 3.8% to 3.95 which align with our long-term strategy.
The key performance metrics are summarised projects extend for periods beyond the financial year, on page 89 and more detailed financial information is annual targets are set to assess progress towards set out in the strategic report.
achievement of the ultimate objectives.
In setting The remuneration policy on pages 90 to 96 sets out targets, we use the Groups KPIs which drive value our approach to the reward of executive and through the delivery of long-term rental growth.
Our aim is to provide a remuneration structure which is fair, with incentives The outcome of performance against our targets was aligned to our strategy and long-term objectives, and 52.5% of the maximum potential award.
Each which encourages executive continuity, in line with executive director has elected to receive his award our culture.
This policy will be submitted for a binding solely in the form of deferred shares, and will shareholder vote at our 2019 AGM.
therefore receive an award under the Deferred Committee members Annual Share Bonus Scheme of 78.75% of salary in The remainder of the report, on pages 97 to 107, December 2018, which will vest in December 2021.
Sally Walden Chairman summarises the remuneration outcomes in respect of the reporting year and the proposed executive LTIP awards which were made in 2015 will vest in Richard Akers director remuneration for the year ahead.
This part December 2018, based on a threeyear performance of the report will be subject to an advisory period which ended on 30 September 2018.
Annualised Jill Little shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
TSR of 1.9% per annum exceeded that of the benchmark Dermot Mathias FTSE 350 REIT Index by 1.5% per annum over the period.
Growth in NAV exceeded the benchmark RPI Committee composition and Hilary Riva by 1.4% over the period.
As a result of this performance, meetings the TSR target was partially met and the NAV target We have good experience on the Committee with was not met resulting in 22.5% vesting of these two current and one former public company awards.
This vested award will be subject to a remuneration committee chairs.
two-year holding period in line with our policy.
Our external advisors attend meetings when required.
The Committee has not exercised discretion in The Chairman is invited to attend all meetings, and making these awards.
the Chief Executive also attends when invited.
1 An alternative performance measure see page 140.
Key activities Annual salary review Review annual work cycle Set 2018 annual bonus Ratify LTIP vesting targets Oversight of all employee Update on share schemes LTIP grant approval salary reviews Review 2017 annual Committee report bonus outcomes October 2017 November 2017 December 2017 January 2018 February 2018 March 2018 April 2018 Shaftesbury Annual Report 2018 86 3 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Review of remuneration 2019 LTIP grant Key responsibilities An LTIP award will be made in December 2018 at policy 125% of basic annual salary with a three-year Determine the terms of employment and In advance of the renewal of our remuneration performance period ending 30 September 2021. policy at the 2019 AGM, during 2018 the Committee remuneration for executive directors and Subject to performance against the targets, awards undertook a thorough review of the framework senior management.
will vest in December 2021, and be released in currently in place to ensure it remains appropriate Ensure that the executive directors are December 2023 following a two-year post-vesting for the business and in the context of evolving remunerated fairly and responsibly with holding period.
shareholder expectations and market practice.
the long-term interests of the Company The Committee determined that our current As part of the policy review described above, the in mind.
remuneration policy continues to support the Committee reviewed the performance measures Consider the appropriateness of the delivery of the strategy and long-term objectives within our incentive framework to ensure they directors remuneration framework whilst encouraging executive continuity.
Therefore, remained appropriate to reflect business the Committee is not proposing to make any against arrangements for other performance and shareholder value creation.
major changes to the structure of the policy.
Following the review, we are proposing to amend the LTIP performance measures as follows: Review and approve the performance The Committee is mindful of recent developments Introduce a new element based on Total targets and outcomes for the annual in the market and UK Corporate Governance Accounting Return TAR against a peer group Code regarding the alignment of executive bonus schemes and share incentive of FTSE 350 REIT companies.
This measure pension contributions with those across the schemes.
captures NAV per share growth plus any wider organisation.
The Committee is proposing Review the remuneration policy every ordinary dividends paid, expressed as a that the new policy will reduce pension provision three years.
percentage of the period's opening NAV.
for future executive director appointments from Ensure that the remuneration report and 25% to 17.5% of salary, in line with the pension We will retain the current TSR and NAV disclosure of director remuneration is contribution received by all our other employees.
measures in their current form.
These simple to read and understand, accurate measures have been used since the inception The new UK Corporate Governance Code will be and complete.
applicable to us from 1 October 2019.
The Committee will monitor how practice and investor The three measures will be equally weighted expectations evolve during 2019 with respect to one-third on each.
the extension of shareholding requirements into We believe that this structure provides a more a post-employment period and will report on our Focus for 2019 balanced and comprehensive approach to proposed approach in next years Directors' assessing our property and shareholder value Monitor practice of post-employment Remuneration Report.
performance over the long-term and provides a shareholding guidelines less binary outcome to performance assessment.
Impact of new Corporate Governance Code generally Oversight of remuneration policies and procedures throughout Shaftesbury and link with culture F eedback from Review advisors Policy review Policy review shareholders performance Preparation for year end R eview Committee Interim update remuneration processes performance on bonus and LTIP Dilution review performance Shaftesbury March 2018 April 2018 May 2018 June 2018 July 2018 August 2018 September 2018 Annual Report 2018 87 Governance Directors remuneration report continued 2018 salary review Salaries of executive directors were reviewed and Advisor to the Committee increases of 2% for the Chief Executive and Property Deloitte LLP act as independent advisor to the Committee.
Directors and 3% for the Finance Director were approved, effective from 1December 2018.
This is Deloitte LLP is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and voluntarily in line with CPI of 2.7% and below the average operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration salary increases awarded to employees.
The Committee is satisfied that the Deloitte LLP engagement partner and team that provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have Alignment with employees connections with the Group that may impair their objectivity and independence.
In reviewing salaries and bonus outcomes, we The fees charged by Deloitte LLP for the provision of independent advice to the consider overall remuneration packages of the Committee during the financial year were 32,000 excluding VAT.
Deloitte LLP executive directors together as well as all other provided no other services to the Group during the year.
All employees have the same benefit structure as directors: they participate in the LTIP and have the opportunity to defer their annual bonus into shares.
They also participate in Sharesave, and Context for our approach to remuneration receive health and life insurance.
We have 30 permanent employees, including four executive directors.
The Engagement with combined holdings of the executive directors is just over 3.3 million shares market value at 30 September 2018 of circa 30 million.
This equates to individual holdings shareholders of between 3 and 30 times their annual salary.
As Chairman of the Committee, I consult with shareholders on a regular basis regarding These substantial holdings have been built up over a number of years through a executive remuneration.
Ahead of the publication combination of: of this report, I engaged with shareholders Taking the annual bonus in shares through the Deferred Annual Share Bonus representing 70% of our share capital and scheme: received good support for the proposed changes Retaining shares from the LTIP: and to policy and to our LTIP performance measures.
I am available to shareholders throughout the year and at the 2019 AGM to answer questions on Our small team of executive directors and key employees all have a close executive remuneration.
involvement and direct impact on the continuing development and implementation of the Groups strategy.
Consequently, the Committee considers it appropriate that, in setting objectives and measuring performance, emphasis is Sally Walden placed on team rather than individual performance.
Chairman - Remuneration Committee Average length of service of the executive directors is 25 years and members of 26 November 2018 the executive committee excluding executive directors is 11 years.
