Governance Directors Remuneration Policy The Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM held on 31 May 2018 and became effective from the close ofthat meeting.
The full Policy as approved by shareholders is set out below, excluding the illustrations of the application of the policy forthe 2018 financial year which is disclosed within our 2017 Annual Report, available on our website at siriusminerals.
Policy for Executive Directors Purpose and Component link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Base salary Core element of fixed The Remuneration Committee Whilst there is no maximum While no formal performance remuneration reflecting ordinarily reviews base salaries salary, increases will conditions apply, an theindividuals role annually, taking into account a normally be within the individuals performance andexperience.
number of factors including but range of salary increases inthe role is taken into not limited to the value of the awarded in percentage of account in determining individual and their experience salary terms to other anysalary increase.
However, higher increases The Remuneration Committee may be awarded in also takes into consideration: appropriate circumstances, pay increases within the Group including but not more generally: and limited to : Group organisation, affordability and prevailing an increase in scope of market conditions.
the role or the individuals responsibilities: where an individual has been appointed at a lower than typical market salary to allow for growth in the role, in which case larger increases may be awarded to move salary positioning to a typical market level as the individual gains experience: change in size and complexity of the Group: and or significant market movement.
Such increases may beimplemented over suchtime periods as the Remuneration Committee deems appropriate.
Benefits To provide broadly market The Company provides benefits Whilst the Remuneration Not applicable.
in line with market practice and Committee has not set an includes private medical absolute maximum on the insurance and travel insurance level of benefits Executive for the Executive Director and Directors may receive, the his her family, life insurance, value of benefits is set at a provision of a mobile phone or level which the Remuneration reimbursement of mobile phone Committee considers to be costs and laptop.
appropriately positioned taking into account relevant Other benefits may be provided market levels based based on individual on the nature and circumstances, which may location of the role and include relocation costs.
76 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Purpose and Component link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance measures Retirement benefits To provide a means of The Company may make a Up to 10% of salary.
saving to deliver income contribution to a defined At the date of the approval in retirement.
contribution pension of this Policy, the Company arrangement, personal pension makes a contribution in or pay a salary supplement.
linewith auto-enrolment requirements 2% with effect from April 2018.
Bonus The Remuneration Targets and objectives willbe The overall maximum Targets which may be based Committee may award reviewed annually.
Performance annual bonus opportunity on financial or strategic Executive Directors a will typically be assessed over a is up to200% of base measures and individual bonus opportunity, which period of one year.
However, in normal objectives are determined will be earned for circumstances, the toreflect the Companys The Remuneration Committee has performance against maximum annual strategy.
Where more than discretion to amend the payout targets and or objectives opportunity will be up to one measure applies, the should any formulaic output not linked to the delivery of the 175% of base salary for the Remuneration Committee reflect the Remuneration Companys strategy.
Companys CEO and up to willdetermine the weighting.
Committees assessment 150% of base salary for ofoverall business performance.
Bonuses will vest to the the Companys CFO.
The extent determined by the additional opportunity up Any bonus earned in excess of Remuneration Committee to the overall maximum will 100% of base salary will be between 0% and 100% of only be used in exceptional deferred into shares, typically for theopportunity based on circumstances, linked a period of two years.
itsassessment of the extent totheachievement of to which the measure or Recovery provisions apply, as atransformational objective is achieved.
referred to on page 78. strategicmilestone.
Long-term incentives Long-term incentive Awards may be granted in the form The overall maximum value Performance conditions theSirius Minerals Plc awardswill be granted of conditional shares, nil-cost of shares over which a willbe determined by the 1 Long Term Incentive Plan under the LTIP, which options or Jointly Owned Equity participant may be granted Remuneration Committee in or LTIP provides a clear link awards, or ascash-based an award in respect of advance of each grant and between the remuneration equivalents.
anyfinancial year of the aligned with the Companys of the Executive Directors Company is up to 500% of strategy.
These conditions The vesting of awards will be and the creation of value base salary.
However, in may be based on operational subject to the satisfaction of for shareholders by normal circumstances, the strategic milestones or performance conditions.
rewarding the Executive maximum annual award financial measures.
Directors forthe will be up to 200% of base Recognising the Companys Vesting will be determined achievement of salary for the Companys strategy and the stage of its inaccordance with a objectives aligned to CEO and up to 175% of development, performance vestingschedule set by shareholders interests.
base salary for the conditions may be achieved, so theRemuneration Committee Companys CFO.
Any that awards vest, before the third as at the date of grant.
additional award up to anniversary of the date of grant.
the overall maximum will However, vested shares will, only be granted where ordinarily, only be released to the awards are subject to Executive Director so that he can exceptional aspirational dispose of them other than sales stretch targets.
to cover tax liabilities arising in relation to the award before the fifth anniversary of the date of grant of the award if the Executive Director satisfies the shareholding guideline.
Recovery provisions apply, asreferred to below.
A Jointly Owned Equity award JOE gives the participant an interest in the future growth in value of shares owned jointly with a trustee.
A JOE award may also include the right to acquire the trustees interest in the shares for nil cost, so that the participant is entitled to the full value of the vested shares.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 77 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued Recovery provisions malus and clawback Bonus and LTIP awards are subject to the following recovery provisions: Malus: The bonus opportunity may be cancelled or reduced before payment and an LTIP award may be cancelled or reduced before vesting in the event of material error or misstatement of results, material failure of risk management, material misconduct by the Executive Director, material health and safety failure.
Clawback: For up to two years following the vesting of a bonus or an LTIP award, the bonus paid may be recovered and any deferred bonus award may be cancelled or reduced and the LTIP award may be cancelled or reduced if it has not been realised or may be recovered in the event of material error or misstatement of results, material misconduct by the Executive Director, material health and safety failure.
Explanation of performance measures chosen In order that incentive remuneration is appropriately linked to the delivery of the Companys strategy and taking into account the stage ofthe Companys development, LTIP awards will typically be subject to performance conditions based on the delivery of operational milestones linked to the delivery of the Companys North Yorkshire polyhalite project.
The Remuneration Committee may vary or substitute any performance measure if an event occurs which causes it to determine that itwould be appropriate to do so including to take account of acquisitions or divestments, a material change in strategy or a change inprevailing market conditions, provided that any such variation or substitution is fair and reasonable and in the option of the Remuneration Committee the change would not make the measure less demanding than the original measure would have been but forthe event in question.
If the Remuneration Committee were to make such a variation, an explanation would be given in the next Directors Remuneration Report.
Shareholding guidelines To align the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted formal shareholding guidelines in accordance with which each Executive Director is required to build a shareholding equal to 200% of his or her annual base salary.
In accordance with the Policy table set out above, a post-vesting holding period applies to the LTIP awards until the holding is achieved.
Shares subject to awards which have vested but have not been realised and shares subject to any deferred bonus award count towards the guidelines on a net of assumed tax basis.
Operation of share plans The Remuneration Committee may amend the terms of awards and options under its share plans in accordance with the plan rules in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, special dividend or other similar event or otherwise in accordance with the rules of those plans.
The Remuneration Committee may operate any such plan in accordance with its rules.
Share awards granted under any such plan may be settled in cash, although the Remuneration Committee would only do so where the particular circumstances made this the appropriate course of action for example, where a regulatory reason prevented the delivery of shares.
Total remuneration annual cap For the reasons referred to in the statement from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, there is an overall annual total remuneration cap of 20 million for each Executive Director.
If the remuneration otherwise disclosable in the single figure table in the Directors Remuneration Report for a year would exceed this limit, the Remuneration Committee shall reduce variable pay as it considersappropriate.
78 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Policy for Non-Executive Directors Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity 1 Fees and benefits To provide fees within a marketThe fees of the Chairman are Fees are set taking into account the competitive range reflecting the determined by the Remuneration responsibilities of the role and expected experience of the individual, Committee and the fees of the time commitment.
responsibilities of the role and the Non-Executive Directors are Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic expected time commitment.
determined by the Board following a fee with additional fees paid for the recommendation from both the Chief To provide benefits, where appropriate, membership and chairing of Board Executive Officer and the Chairman.
which are relevant to the requirements Committees.
Non-Executive Directors may be An additional fee may also be paid for eligibleto receive benefits such as therole of Senior Independent Director.
travel and other reasonable expenses.
Non-Executive Directors may be paid additional fees on a daily rate basis where the time required to fulfil their duties is significantly more than anticipated.
Where benefits are provided to Non-Executive Directors they will be provided at a level considered to be appropriate taking into account the individual circumstances.
Notes: 1 Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in any of the Companys share schemes, incentive schemes or pension schemes.
However, certain Non-Executive Directors participate in share option arrangements established by the Company prior to Admission as disclosed in the Prospectus: those options shall continue and may be exercised in accordance with their terms: however, no options have been granted to Non-Executive Directors since 2013 and no further options will be granted to Non-Executive Directors.
Policy for the remuneration of employees more generally The Group aims to provide a competitive remuneration package which is appropriate to promote the long-term success of the Company.
The Company intends to apply this policy fairly and consistently and does not intend to pay more than is necessary to attract and motivate staff.
In respect of the Executive Directors, a greater proportion of the remuneration package is at risk and determined by reference to performance conditions.
A significant number of the Companys employees participate in LTIP awards in line with the Companys ethos of ensuring that incentives for the wider employee population remain aligned to the interests of shareholders.
Recruitment remuneration policy When hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will typically align the remuneration package with the above Policy.
When determining appropriate remuneration arrangements, the Remuneration Committee may include other elements of pay which it considers are appropriate.
However, this discretion is capped and is subject to the principles and the limits referred to below.
Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the Executive Director being appointed.
This may include agreement on future increases up to a market rate, in line with increased experience and or responsibilities, subject to good performance, where it is considered appropriate.
Retirement benefits will be provided in line with the above Policy.
The Remuneration Committee will not offer non-performance related incentive payments for example a guaranteed sign-on bonus.
Other elements may be included in the following circumstances: an interim appointment being made to fill an Executive Director role on a short-term basis: if exceptional circumstances require that the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director takes on an executive function on a short-term basis: if an Executive Director is recruited at a time in the year when it would be inappropriate to provide a bonus or long-term incentive award for that year as there would not be sufficient time to assess performance.
Subject to the limit on variable remuneration set out below, the quantum in respect of the months employed during the year may be transferred to the subsequent year so that reward is provided on a fair and appropriate basis: and if the Director will be required to relocate in order to take up the position, it is the Companys policy to allow reasonable relocation, travel and subsistence payments.
Any such payments will be at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 79 Governance Directors Remuneration Policy continued The Remuneration Committee may also alter the performance measures, performance period and vesting period, deferral period and holding period of the bonus or LTIP if the Remuneration Committee determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration.
The rationale will be clearly explained in the next Directors Remuneration Report.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted excluding buyout awards as referred to below is 700% of salary, reflecting an annual bonus opportunity of up to 200% of salary and an LTIP grant of up to 500% of salary.
However, awards at these levels would only be made in the event of exceptional performance targets applying.
The Remuneration Committee may make payments or awards in respect of hiring an employee to buyout remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Remuneration Committee will take account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to the forfeited arrangements and the time over which they would have vested.
The Remuneration Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards or payments on a comparable basis to the remuneration arrangements forfeited.
Any such payments or awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to above.
Buyout awards will ordinarily be granted on the basis that they are subject to forfeiture or clawback in the event of departure within 12 months of joining Sirius Minerals, although the Remuneration Committee will retain discretion not to apply forfeiture or clawback in appropriate circumstances.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under Sirius Minerals existing share plans.
If necessary and subject to the limits referred to above, recruitment awards may be granted outside of these plans as permitted under the Listing Rules which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Where a position is filled internally, any ongoing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue in accordance with their terms.
Fees payable to a newly appointed Chairman or Non-Executive Director will be in line with the policy in place at the time of appointment.
Executive Directors service agreements and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Companys policy is for Executive Directors to be employed on service agreements which, ordinarily, may be terminated on not more than six months notice by the Executive Director or the Company.
However, the Company reserves the right to offer a notice period of up to 12 months for any Executive Director appointed after the date on which this Policy becomes effective.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements but serve under letters of appointment which may be terminated on three months notice by the Non-Executive Director or the Company.
Details of the service contracts, letters of appointment and notice periods for the current Directors are set out below.
Name Commencement Notice period by Company Director Executive Directors 1 Chris Fraser 17 January 2011 Six months Thomas Staley 20 October 2014 Six months Non-Executive Directors Russell Scrimshaw 19 December 2010 Three months Noel Harweth 27 July 2015 Three months Keith Clarke CBE 23 December 2013 Three months Louise Hardy 12 May 2016 Three months Lord Hutton 18 January 2012 Three months Jane Lodge 27 July 2015 Three months Notes: 1 In the event of a change of control of the Company or certain similar events, the notice required to be given by the Company including in relation to any notice of termination given before the relevant event shall increase to 12 months.
80 Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Payment for loss of office Eligibility for the various elements of remuneration is set out below: Executive Directors Provision Treatment Salary, benefits and pension contributions or salary supplement will paid to the date of termination.
Fixed remuneration Where a payment in lieu of notice is made this will include salary, benefits and pension contributions or a salary supplement Payments in until the end of the notice period that would otherwise have applied.
Alternatively, the Company may continue to provide the lieuofnotice relevant benefits.
Bonus This will be reviewed on an individual basis and the decision whether or not to award a bonus in full or in part will be dependent upon anumber of factors including the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure and his or her contribution to the business during the bonus period in question.
Any bonus payment would typically be pro-rated for time in service to termination and paid at theusual time although the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to pay the bonus earlier in appropriate circumstances.
If bonus deferral would otherwise apply to any bonus for the year of termination or previous year, the Remuneration Committee may pay the full bonus earned in cash.
Any outstanding deferred bonus awards would typically continue other than in the event of summary dismissal, where the entitlement would lapse and vest at the originally anticipated date, although the Remuneration Committee retains discretion to release any such award at the date of cessation or some other date.
LTIP awards will vest if the participant is a good leaver to the extent determined by the Remuneration Committee taking LTIP intoaccount their assessment of performance relative to the performance condition and such other factors as they consider relevant, which may include the length of time from grant to cessation.
The Remuneration Committee shall determine whetherawards vest at cessation or continue and can vest following satisfaction of the milestone, or on some other date.
For these purposes, good leaver reasons are death, injury, redundancy, agreed retirement and any other reason at the Remuneration Committees discretion.
If an Executive Director ceases employment with the Group after an award under the LTIP has vested but during a postvesting holding period, the realised shares will, ordinarily, remain subject to the original holding period.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good Other payments faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
Any such payments may include, but are not limited to, paying any fees for outplacement assistance and or the Directors legal and or professional advice fees in connection with his cessation of office or employment and or in respect of accrued holiday entitlement.
Where a buyout or other award is made in connection with recruitment, the leaver provisions would be determined at the time of the award.
In accordance with his service agreement entered into in January 2011, Chris Fraser is also entitled on termination by the Company to a minimum of one months base salary for every year of employment by the Company, pro-rated for any part year of service.
LTIP awards will vest on a change of control to the extent determined by the Remuneration Committee.
In determining the extent Change of control ofvesting, the Remuneration Committee would have regard to the extent to which the performance measures had been satisfied, and other factors the Remuneration Committee considers relevant.
Any deferred bonus shares will vest on a change of control or other relevant event.
As described on page 83, the notice to which Chris Fraser is entitled to increases to 12 months in certain change of control situations.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to compensation on termination of their appointment in excess of their fees for the notice period.
Approval This Report was approved by the Board on 30 April 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Lord Hutton Chair Sirius Minerals Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2018 81
