Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Annual Statement of the Remuneration Committee Chairman However, we are cognisant that a number of features of our Dear Shareholder, remuneration policy continue to differ from typical UK As Chairman of Sophos Remuneration Committee, I am market practice and further, that this may have informed pleased to present the FY18 Directors Remuneration how those shareholders who voted in opposition to our Report which has been prepared by the Committee and Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2017 AGM, elected approved by the Board.
In line with the UK reporting to cast their votes.
In line with the reporting Regulations, regulations, this report is divided into three sections: we are required to resubmit the remuneration policy to a binding shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
In the intervening the Annual Statement of the Remuneration Committee period, the Committee will consider what changes may be Chairman, which this year includes a Remuneration at appropriate as Sophos matures as a business and market a Glance section on page 64: practice develops apace.
We look forward to a constructive the Directors Remuneration Policy, which was approved two-way consultation with our major shareholders on the by shareholders at the 2016 AGM and details Sophos evolution of our remuneration policy.
remuneration policies and their link to Group strategy, as well as projected pay outcomes under various Remuneration Decisions in FY18 performance scenarios, set out on pages 65 to 71: and, Sophos achieved strong results in the year-ended 31 March the Annual Report on Remuneration, which focuses on 2018, with billings of $768.6 million and cash EBITDA of our remuneration arrangements and incentive outcomes $193.7 million at actual rates, against stretching targets.
As for the year under review and how the Committee intends a result, Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray will receive bonuses to implement the Remuneration Policy in FY19, set out on of 88 per cent and 71 per cent of salary respectively.
During the year, Kris Hagerman and Nick Bray were granted The Annual Report on Remuneration will be put to an awards of 497 and 388 per cent of salary, respectively, under advisory vote at the AGM on 30 August 2018. the Sophos Group Long-Term Incentive Plan 2015 LTIP.
Performance share units comprising 75 per cent of the The Context for Executive Remuneration awards vest over three years subject to achievement of at Sophos annual billings and cash EBITDA targets, and restricted share units 25 per cent of the awards vest over four years subject The IT security market is global, as is the market in which to continued employment only.
Although no performance Sophos competes for high calibre executive talent.
In order share units were due to vest in the year under review, the for Sophos to be able to attract and retain executives in the awards granted in August 2015 will vest in August 2018 relevant geographies with the right skills and experience to based on performance over the three-year period that drive the long-term success of the Group, the Committee ended on 31 March 2018 see page 75 for details.
believes that remuneration packages need to be appropriately calibrated to be competitive globally, including Remuneration for FY19 in the UK, where Nick Bray our Chief Financial Officer is located, and on the US West Coast, where Kris Hagerman Following a review of Group performance and their personal our Chief Executive Officer, and many of the Groups contribution, the salaries of the Executive Directors will be executives, are located.
increased by 2.6 and 2.4 per cent respectively, effective from 1 July 2018.
This compares to the average increase expected At the 2016 AGM, the Committee implemented a for the wider employee population of c. 4 per cent.
The remuneration policy that was designed to balance this need, Committee will operate the annual bonus on the same basis to be competitive globally with accepted UK market and best as in FY18, and billings and EBITDA targets have been set by practice, and to measure and reward the performance of the the Committee to require significant stretch performance to Groups executives against the best measures of the Groups achieve full payout.
The bonus will continue to be paid in cash.
performance given its current size and stage of growth.
In FY19, the Committee intends to grant long-term incentive awards to Executive Directors in line with the stated As the Remuneration at a Glance section overleaf remuneration policy and using the same measures as were demonstrates, strong billings and cash EBITDA used in FY18 billings and cash EBITDA.
Awards will be made performance over the last three years has contributed to over performance share units at least 75 per cent of the total the Groups significant growth in share price 92 per cent award and restricted shares, within the normal policy limits.
since Listing and TSR outperformance of the FTSE250 index.
The Committee is comfortable that pay outcomes The Committee welcomes feedback from our shareholders as are appropriately aligned with Group performance against we remain committed to an open and transparent dialogue, its strategic objectives and longer-term shareholder value and hope to receive your support at the forthcoming AGM.
The Committee is further confident that the linkage of executive incentives to the Companys overall On behalf of the Remuneration Committee: growth targets for billings and cash EBITDA, remains appropriate for focusing the Groups executives on growing Paul Walker the business and establishing a strong customer base Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from which to build on.
16 May 2018 This report, prepared by the Remuneration Committee the Committee on behalf of the Board, takes account of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the latest Investment Association, ISS and PLSA guidelines, and has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Act, the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
The Act requires the Auditor to report to the Companys Shareholders on the audited information within this report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The Auditors opinion is set out on pages 88 to 93 and those aspects of the report that have been subject to audit are clearly marked.
