DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Dear Shareholder, As the new Chair of Sports Directs Remuneration Committee the Committee I am pleased to present our Remuneration Report for the period ended 29 April 2018, for which we will be seeking your approval at our AGM in September 2018.
In line with the applicable legislation, separate approvals will be sought for: 1 the proposed new Directors Remuneration Policy on a binding basis: and 2 the remainder of the Remuneration Report on an advisory basis.
I would like to thank out-going Chair Dave Singleton for his contribution to the Committee in the period up to his retirement from the Board and the Committee in September 2017.
I am pleased to welcome Dave Daly to the team, who joined the Committee in April 2018.
The Remuneration Committee consists of Non-Executive Directors who are considered independent and the Chairman of the Board.
The purpose of the Committee, as previously outlined, is to assist the Board to ensure that Executive Directors and Senior Executives receive appropriate levels of pay and benefits.
A key priority is to ensure that our remuneration policy is aligned with strategy to achieve the long-term success of the Group.
The Committee ensures that it complies with the applicable regulatory requirements including, but not limited to, the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, whilst meeting stakeholder, shareholder and staff expectations.
In line with recent suggestions for revisions to the Code we reiterate our commitment to including the following key objectives: Clarity Simplicity Predictability Proportionality: Risks and behaviours: and Alignment to Culture TOTAL REMUNERATION The Committee considers that the current remuneration arrangements promote the long-term success of the Company within an appropriate risk framework and are suitably aligned to the Companys objective of delivering long term sustainable growth.
REMUNERATION POLICY CHANGES The Companys current directors remuneration policy the Remuneration Policy reaches the end of its three year life at the AGM on 12 September 2018.
We shall be seeking shareholder approval for a revised Remuneration Policy at the 2018 AGM.
A key consideration in relation to the new Remuneration Policy has been the Companys long term incentive arrangements, both for Executive Directors and the wider workforce.
During FY18 the Committee has continued to consider the introduction of a new employee share scheme that appropriately aligns Executive Directors interests with the interests of shareholders in bringing consistent long-term profitable growth to the Company, and intends to seek shareholder approval in the near future for a new share scheme, referred to in the Directors Remuneration Report as the Future Share Scheme.
When we seek approval for the Future Share Scheme, we will also seek approval for the grant of awards under it to the Companys Executive Directors.
The Company will not grant any additional awards under the Executive Share Scheme, which was approved by shareholders in 2010, to any Executive Director.
The Committee has reviewed the current Remuneration Policy and proposes a small number of minor changes.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 115 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Continued The majority of these are summarised in the Future Policy Table on pages 118 to 120, with consequential changes also having been made to other areas of the Remuneration Policy.
Reflecting that we will seek approval for the Future Share Scheme in due course and that we will not grant any additional awards under the Executive Share Scheme, we have removed the Long-Term Incentive Pay section from the Remuneration Policy for which we will seek approval at the 2018 AGM.
This means that, as under the current Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors other than Mike Ashley may earn a bonus of up to 200% of salary in respect of any financial year, reflecting that our Executive Directors are not currently eligible to earn any variable remuneration: but we would review the bonus arrangements as part of any revised Remuneration Policy for which shareholder approval was sought in connection with the introduction of the Future Share Scheme.
The Remuneration Policy will also include provision for any bonus in excess of 100% of salary to be deferred into shares for two years.
However, recognising the level at which salaries are currently set, the Committee will retain discretion not to implement deferral or to require deferral of a smaller amount if the salary for the period in respect of which the bonus was earned is not commensurate with salaries paid by other companies of a similar size and complexity as the Company.
Our business model has not changed since shareholder approval of the current Remuneration Policy in 2015 and we believe that the structure of the current Remuneration Policy continues to be the right one for the Company and its shareholders.
It remains aligned to the Companys performance, with shareholder interests and with the Companys strategy, objectives and business model.
Therefore, we believe the minor changes proposed ensure that the future Remuneration Policy remains fit for purpose and supports the long-term success of the business.
BOARD CHANGES During financial year 2018, Jon Kempster joined the board as Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee determined his remuneration package in line with the existing shareholder approved directors remuneration policy.
Mr Kempsters salary has been set at the level of 150,000 consistent with the salaries that have applied for all executive directors, other than Mike Ashley who does not currently receive a salary, since 2002.
In line with the existing policy, Mr Kempster was not eligible to earn a bonus for FY18 and was not granted any share scheme or other long term incentive award.
FY18 PERFORMANCE RELATED REMUNERATION AND APPROACH TO EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION FOR FY19 No Executive Director was eligible to earn a bonus in respect of FY18 and no Executive Director has any outstanding award under any share scheme or other long term incentive scheme.
Our proposed approach to Executive Directors remuneration in respect of FY19 is summarised on pages 125 to 126.
WORKFORCE REWARD As we discussed in our last Annual Report and Accounts, we introduced a minimum share value guarantee of 3 to eligible employees on the vesting of the final tranche of shares under the 2011 Share Scheme in September 2017, rising to 4 for those who elect to defer the vesting of their share awards until September 2018.
The Company was pleased to report in September 2017 that c. 40m of shares were acquired by just under 2,000 eligible employees, and that those participants were able to benefit from the market price of the shares being above the 3 minimum guarantee at that time.
As noted above, during FY18 the Committee has continued to consider the introduction of a new employee share scheme that appropriately aligns Executive Directors interests with the interests of shareholders in bringing consistent long-term profitable growth to the Company, and proposes to seek shareholder approval for the Future Share Scheme in the near future.
116 It is worth reminding shareholders that in addition to share schemes, the Company operates other bonus and incentive awards for its workforce.
By way of recent examples, in FY16 our UK retail workers received a total of 19m in bonus and incentive awards, and this figure increased to 20m in FY17.
A significant proportion of these other bonus and incentive awards were paid to our casual retail workers.
The Remuneration Committee meets several times a year, with three formal meetings and a number of ad hoc meetings held in FY18.
A full report on the remuneration of Directors appears on pages 124 to 128.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMMITTEE Determining the Companys policy on Executive remuneration, including the design of bonus schemes and targets, share schemes when appropriate, together with payments under them Determining the level of remuneration of the Chairman and each of the Executive Directors Monitoring the remuneration of senior management and making recommendations in that respect Agreeing any compensation for loss of office of any Executive Director Ensuring that the Companys Remuneration Policy remains fit for purpose and takes note of the continuing enhancements proposed by regulatory bodies.
We are currently examining suggested enhancements to the UK Corporate Governance Code in this regard and will adopt those that we believe are appropriate to our business.
David Brayshaw Chair of the Remuneration Committee 18 July 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This part of the report sets out the Companys proposed Directors Remuneration Policy which, subject to shareholder approval, shall take binding effect from the date of the 2018 AGM and remain valid until the 2021 AGM.
The proposed Policy is determined by the Committee, and key changes to elements of the current Remuneration Policy, which was approved by shareholders at the 2015 AGM and expires at the 2018 AGM, have been highlighted for ease.
As explained in the statement from the Chair of the Remuneration Committee, the provisions of the old Remuneration Policy relating to long term incentives have also been removed.
However, the Remuneration Committee continues to consider the introduction of a new employee share scheme that appropriately aligns Executive Directors interests with the interests of shareholders in bringing consistent long-term profitable growth to the Company, and intends to seek shareholder approval for the Future Share Scheme in the near future.
Consequential changes have been made as to reflect the changes to the Remuneration Policy.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 117 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Continued FUTURE POLICY TABLE The table below describes each of the elements of the remuneration package for the Executive Directors.
ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION: BASE SALARY PURPOSE LINK TO STRATEGY Fixed element of the remuneration package, where the balance of fixed and variable remuneration is aligned to the commercial strategy of long-term profitable growth and reflects the Company remuneration philosophy of gearing reward to performance with a sharing of risk between Executive Directors and shareholders.
OPERATION Base salaries are normally reviewed annually and have not been increased since 2002.
Mike Ashley does not currently receive a salary for his role.
MAXIMUM Although salaries for Executive Directors other than Mike Ashley, who does not currently receive a salary have been set at 150,000 since 2002, the Committee retains discretion to set salaries at a level commensurate with other companies of a similar size and complexity as the Company.
CHANGES TO POLICY APPROVED AT THE 2015 AGM No change, other than the removal of references to the arrangements for the Companys former interim Chief Financial Officer.
ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION: BENEFITS PURPOSE LINK TO STRATEGY With the exception of a 20% staff discount on products purchased from the Groups retail stores, which is available to Executive Directors other than Mike Ashley, no additional benefits are available to Executive Directors.
The same level of staff discount is available to all staff.
OPERATION The current Executive Directors do not receive any benefits other than the staff discount, which is not available for Mike Ashley.
Benefits may be provided in line with market practice to recruit a new Executive Director taking into account individual circumstances.
Such benefits may include relocation expenses.
MAXIMUM Although the Remuneration Committee has not set an absolute maximum level of benefits Executive Directors may receive, the Company retains discretion to set benefits at a level which the Remuneration Committee considers appropriate against the market and to support the on-going strategy of the Company.
CHANGES TO POLICY APPROVED AT THE 2015 AGM No change, other than the availability of a 20% staff discount on purchases of products from the Groups retail stores and removal of references to the Executive Share Scheme.
118 ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION: RETIREMENT BENEFITS PURPOSE LINK TO STRATEGY Provide post-employment benefits to recruit and retain individuals of the calibre required for the business.
OPERATION The Executive Directors are entitled to participate in a stakeholder pension scheme on the same basis as other employees.
MAXIMUM The current maximum employer contribution to the stakeholder pension scheme is 2%, rising to 3% from April 2019.
The Committee may increase employer contribution rates to reflect changes in the auto enrolment employer contribution rates.
The Company retains the discretion to set retirement benefits including pension contributions and or a salary supplement in lieu of a pension contribution for any Executive Directors in accordance with the Committees approach to recruitment remuneration, as described on pages 121 to 122.
The maximum bonus that an Executive Director may earn shall be 200% of salary in respect of any financial year.
CHANGES TO POLICY APPROVED AT THE 2015 AGM Maximum employer contribution has increased to 2%, and will rise to 3% in April 2019, reflecting changes in the auto-enrolment employer contribution rates.
Discretion is retained to reflect any subsequent increases in those rates.
ELEMENT OF REMUNERATION: ANNUAL BONUS PURPOSE LINK TO STRATEGY Rewards the Executive Director for performance which supports the groups strategy and performance in role.
OPERATION Executive Directors, other than Mike Ashley, may earn a bonus.
Any bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary may be deferred into shares for a period of two years, unless the amount to be deferred would be less than 10,000.
However, if, in the opinion of the Committee, the Executive Directors salary for the period in respect of which the bonus was earned is not commensurate with salaries paid by other companies of a similar size and complexity to the Company, the Committee may decide not to require any deferral or to require deferral of a smaller amount.
The Committee also has discretion not to require deferral if the amount to be deferred would be less than 10,000.
Any bonus paid would be subject to clawback for a period of 3 years following its determination in the event of gross misconduct, material misstatement of the Companys financial statements or corporate failure.
MAXIMUM The maximum bonus that an Executive Director may earn shall be 200% of salary in respect of any financial year.
PERFORMANCE MEASURES Any bonus opportunity shall be assessed against one or more metrics determined by the Committee and linked to the Companys strategy and or the performance of the Executive Director in role, with the weighting between the metrics determined by the Committee if relevant.
Bonuses will be determined between 0% and 100% of the maximum opportunity based on the Committees assessment of the applicable metrics.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 119 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Continued CHANGES TO POLICY APPROVED AT THE 2015 AGM The deferral mechanism for any bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary.
Note that the ability to earn up to 200% of salary reflects i the Policy approved at the 2015 AGM which provided that an Executive Director may be awarded an annual incentive opportunity of up to 200% of salary per annum, until such time as he or she participates in the 2015 Share Scheme, and ii the fact that the 2015 Share Scheme lapsed in FY16 and the Executive Share Scheme is no longer in use.
The Company will review the bonus arrangements as part of any revised Remuneration Policy for which shareholder approval is sought in connection with the introduction of the Future Share Scheme.
The table below sets out an overview of the approach to remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
PURPOSE LINK APPROACH OF THE COMPANY TO STRATEGY Chairman and NonThe Committees Remuneration Policy in respect of the Non-Executive Directors is to pay annual fees which Executive Director reflect the responsibilities and duties placed upon them, while also having regard to market practice.
fees Non-Executive Directors receive a fixed annual fee.
The maximum aggregate amount of annual fees Provide an payable to all Non-Executive Directors shall not exceed the 500,000 limit set in the Companys articles appropriate reward of association.
Non-Executive Directors are not currently entitled to any additional fees for their roles as to attract and retain committee members, committee chairs, or the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Directors of the Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any bonus or share schemes.
calibre required for the business.
Non-Executive Directors may be eligible for benefits such as the use of secretarial support, travel costs or other benefits that may be appropriate.
EXPLANATION OF PERFORMANCE MEASURES CHOSEN Any bonus opportunity would be subject to performance metrics determined by the Committee and linked to the Companys strategy and or the performance of the Executive Director in role.
The metrics and performance against them would be disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report in which payment of the bonus was disclosed, or if later when they were no longer considered commercially sensitive.
Any performance measure may be varied or substituted by the Committee if an event occurs which causes the Committee to determine that it would be appropriate to do so: the rationale for any such variation or substitution would be given in the next Directors Remuneration Report.
EXPLANATION OF DIFFERENCES IN REMUNERATION POLICY FOR OTHER EMPLOYEES The Company has a large number of employees with different responsibilities and differing levels of seniority.
Reward policies for employees other than Executive Directors are determined by reference to grade, role, performance and other relevant factors.
The Committee engages with the wider workforce on the remuneration policy through the Employers Representative on the Board, whose feedback and views are sought by the Committee.
The Committee has reviewed the salaries, other remuneration and other employment conditions of senior and middle managers throughout the Group, and has taken them into account in considering Directors salaries and the creation of new incentive schemes in order to create a sense of common purpose and sharing of success.
Indeed, in order to reflect the Companys One Team ethos, the 2015 Share Scheme which lapsed in FY16 had applied to awards granted to both Executives and employees determined by the Board as eligible who meet the qualifying conditions as determined and agreed by the Committee and the Board on the same basis including the performance conditions, and it is proposed that the Future Share Scheme would apply on the same basis.
120 ILLUSTRATIONS OF APPLICATION OF REMUNERATION POLICY The charts below set out an illustration of the policy for FY19 in line with the future policy table above.
The charts provide an illustration of the total remuneration opportunity that could arise under three different levels of performance.
No chart is included for Mike Ashley, who does not receive any remuneration from the Company.
As the proposed Remuneration Policy does not currently include any long term incentive scheme, no such scheme is included in the chart.
Although the Committee has yet to determine whether Jon Kempster should be eligible to earn a bonus in respect of FY19, for the purposes of the chart it is assumed that he will be eligible to earn a bonus of up to 200% of salary.
JON KEMPSTER 500.0 400.0 300.0 200% 200.0 150.0 153.0 100.0 153.0 0.0 Minimum Performance Performance in line with expectations Maximum performance For the purposes of the chart, the following assumptions have been made.
FIXED PAY BONUS Minimum Base salary of 150,000.
remuneration An employer pension contribution of 2% of salary.
Performance in line No bonus earned because in the opinion of the No benefits as no benefits are currently proposed with expectations Committee, the performance metrics will be set to be provided to the Executive Directors in FY19 such that any bonus earned would require the other than the staff discount, which, in the opinion achievement of stretch performance.
of the Committee, cannot be reflected in these Maximum A bonus of 200% of salary is earned.
charts as its value depends upon the value of the remuneration Executive Directors purchase.
APPROACH TO RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION When agreeing a remuneration package for the appointment of a new Executive Director, the Committee will apply the following principles: the package will be sufficient to attract the calibre of Director required to deliver the Companys strategy: the Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary: and in the next Annual Report on remuneration, the Committee will explain to shareholders the rationale for the arrangements implemented.
The Committee will ordinarily seek to implement the remuneration package in accordance with the elements referred to in the policy table on pages 118 to 120.
The Committee retains discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside that policy to meet the individual circumstances of the recruitment, subject to the limits and parameters of this recruitment remuneration section of the Directors Remuneration Report.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 121 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Continued ELEMENT APPROACH Base salary and Aligned with the policy set out in the policy table on page 118. benefits Retirement benefits Typically aligned with the policy set out in the policy table on page 119 although the Committee may provide for up to 20% of salary to be paid to a pension arrangement or paid as a supplement to base salary in lieu of a pension arrangement until the new Executive Director participates in a long term incentive scheme.
Variable Until such time as the newly appointed Executive Director participates in the Future Share Scheme, he remuneration or she may be awarded an annual or longer-term cash incentive opportunity of up to 200% of salary per annum.
The Committee may vary the application of deferral to any annual bonus opportunity to reflect the circumstances of the recruitment.
Maximum variable The maximum level of variable remuneration that may be awarded to a new Executive Director is until remuneration such time as he or she participates in the Future Share Scheme, an annual or longer-term cash incentive opportunity of up to 200% of salary per annum.
The value of any buy-out arrangements described below does not count towards the maximum.
Compensation The Committee may make awards on hiring an external candidate to buy-out the remuneration for forfeited arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will have regard to arrangements relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to such arrangements and whether such conditions were achieved, the form of those arrangements e. g. cash or shares and the timeframe of such arrangements.
While such awards are excluded from the maximum level of variable remuneration referred to below, the Committees intention is that the value awarded would be no higher than the expected value of the forfeited arrangements.
Buy-out awards will be subject to forfeiture or clawback on early departure, with 100% being subject to forfeiture if the Executive departs within 12 months of joining, and a sliding scale down to 50% if the departure occurs within 12 and 24 months of joining, at the Committees discretion.
Relocation costs If necessary, the Company will pay appropriate relocation costs.
The Committee will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is necessary.
Any share awards referred to in this section will be granted as far as possible under the Companys existing share schemes.
If necessary and subject, where relevant, to the limits referred to above, awards may be granted outside existing share plans as permitted under the Listing Rules, which allow for the grant of awards to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Where a position is filled internally, any on-going remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay elements shall be allowed to continue according to their subsisting terms.
The remuneration package for a newly appointed Non-Executive Director would normally be in line with the policy set out in the future policy table above for Non-Executive Directors.
SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE The Companys policy is for Executive Directors to be employed on the terms of service contracts which may be terminated by either the Company or the Executive Director on the giving of not less than 12 months notice.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Details of each current service contract are set out below: CONTRACT DATE UNEXPIRED TERM NOTICE GOVERNING LAW PERIOD Mike Ashley 11 02 2007 12 months England & Wales Jon Kempster 18 07 2018 6 months England & Wales The Company may terminate Mike Ashleys service contract by giving 6 months notice if he is unable to perform his duties for over 120 days in any consecutive 12 months.
Notice may not be given to terminate Mr Kempsters service contract before 31 March 2019.
122 The principles on which the determination of payments for loss of office will be approached are summarised below: Payment in lieu of The Company may terminate an Executive Directors employment with immediate effect by making a notice payment in lieu of notice consisting of basic salary but excluding any bonus, commission, benefits or holiday entitlement during the notice period.
The Company may either i pay the payment in lieu of notice in a lump sum or ii in its discretion, pay the amount in equal monthly instalments during the notice period, with such instalment payments to be reduced in the event that the Executive Director obtains alternative income within the notice period.
Mike Ashley does not receive any salary or contractual benefits, and his service contract does not provide for a payment in lieu of notice.
Annual bonus Whether to award a bonus in full or in part in the event of a termination of employment would be at the discretion of the Committee on an individual basis and dependent on a number of factors, including the circumstances of the Executive Directors departure and his contribution to the business during the bonus period in question.
Typically bonus amounts would be pro-rated for time in service to termination.
Any bonus in respect of the year of termination or preceding year which would otherwise be deferred into shares may be paid wholly in cash at the election of the Committee.
Any deferred bonus would typically continue in the event of termination other than on dismissal for cause and be released to the Executive Director at the end of the originally anticipated deferral period, although the Committee has discretion to release the amount sooner in appropriate circumstances.
Other payments The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
In appropriate circumstances, payments may also be made in respect of legal fees.
Were the Company to make an award on recruitment of an Executive Director to buy out remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer then the leaver provisions for that award would be determined at the time of grant.
A payment may also be made in respect of accrued but untaken holiday.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Non-Executive Directors enter into an agreement with the Group for a period of three years, other than the Chairman whose agreement continues until terminated in accordance with its terms.
The appointments of the NonExecutive Directors may be terminated by either party on one months written notice and in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company.
Termination would be immediate in certain circumstances including the bankruptcy of the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors do not and are not entitled to participate in any bonus or share scheme.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to confidentiality undertakings without limitation in time.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to receive any compensation on the termination of their appointment.
Details of the letters of appointment are set out below: POSITION DATE OF LETTER OF APPOINTMENT Keith Hellawell Non-Executive Chairman 11 April 2018 Simon Bentley Non-Executive Director 15 July 2014 David Brayshaw Non-Executive Director 8 December 2016 David Daly Non-Executive Director 11 July 2017 Copies of the service contracts of Executive Directors and of the appointment letters of the Chairman and NonExecutive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 123 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Continued PAYMENTS OUTSIDE THE POLICY IN THIS REPORT The Committee retains discretion to make any remuneration payment or payment for loss of office outside the policy in this report: where the terms of the payment were agreed before the policy came into effect: where the terms of the payment were agreed at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a Director of the Company: or to satisfy contractual commitments made under legacy remuneration arrangements.
For these purposes, payment includes the satisfaction of awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
STATEMENT OF CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee consults major shareholders and representative groups where appropriate concerning remuneration matters.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the actual payments made by the Company to its Directors with respect to the period ended 29 April 2018 and how our Directors Remuneration Policy will be applied in the year commencing 29 April 2018.
SINGLE FIGURE TABLE AUDITED The aggregate remuneration provided to individuals who have served as Directors in the period ended 29 April 2018 is set out below, along with the aggregate remuneration provided to individuals who have served as Directors during the prior financial year.
2 David Brayshaws remuneration for FY17 as set out in the above table is his remuneration for the period from the date of his appointment to the end of FY17.
3 David Dalys remuneration for FY18 as set out in the above table is his remuneration for the period from the date of his appointment to the end of FY18.
4 Dave Singletons remuneration for FY18 as set out in the above table is his remuneration for the period from 30 April 2017 until 6 September 2018 when he ceased to be a Non-Executive Director.
No payment was made to Mr Singleton following his resignation.
5 Claire Jenkins remuneration for FY18 as set out in the above table is her remuneration for the period from 30 April 2017 until 4 May 2018 when she ceased to be a NonExecutive Director.
No payment was made to Ms Jenkins following her resignation.
124 NOTES TO THE SINGLE FIGURE TABLE AND IMPLEMENTATION OF POLICY IN THE YEAR ENDING 28 APRIL 2019 BASE SALARY AND FEES Base salaries are normally reviewed annually.
In the review in FY18 the Committee decided not to alter Jon Kempsters salary, and has also decided not to increase Jon Kempsters salary in FY19, which is in line with salaries for the Groups Executive Directors other than Mike Ashley since 2002.
Base salaries are set at a level well below the lower quartile for a business of the size and complexity of the Group.
Mike Ashley does not receive a salary for his role.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are normally reviewed annually.
In the review in FY18 fees were not increased and had not previously been increased since 2007.
The Companys approach to the fees for Non-Executive Directors for FY19 is yet to be finalised, but will be subject to the proposed new Remuneration Policy set out in pages 117 to 124.
ANNUAL BONUS SCHEME The Committee has yet to determine whether Jon Kempster should be eligible to earn a bonus in respect of FY19.
If he is eligible to earn such a bonus, any amount earned shall be determined by reference to one or more performance metrics determined by the Committee and linked to the Companys strategy and or Mr Kempsters performance in role.
Any such bonus shall be of up to 200% of salary, and any bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary may be subject to deferral.
Mike Ashley shall not be eligible to earn a bonus in respect of FY19.
LONG TERM INCENTIVES Mike Ashley is not eligible to be granted awards under the Executive Share Scheme, and no award will be granted to Jon Kempster under the Executive Share Scheme in FY19.
The Committee is actively considering the introduction of a new share scheme to replace the 2015 Share Scheme which lapsed in FY16, and intends to consult with shareholders on the terms of the new scheme once details have been further developed.
DIRECTORATE CHANGES Jon Kempster was appointed Chief Financial Officer with effect from 11 September 2017.
Mr Kempsters salary was set at the level of 150,000 consistent with the salaries that have applied for all executive directors, other than Mike Ashley who does not currently receive a salary, since 2002.
Claire Jenkins resigned as a Director with effect from 4 May 2017 and Dave Singleton resigned as a Director with effect from 6 September 2017.
Neither Ms Jenkins nor Mr Singleton received any payment for loss of office during the period ended 29 April 2018 or will receive any such payment in the future.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES AND TOTAL SHAREHOLDINGS OF DIRECTORS The Board believes it is important that Executive Directors have a significant holding in the capital of the Company.
In FY14 the Committee reassessed the shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors and determined that the Executive Directors must hold a minimum shareholding of 50,000 shares while employed by the Company.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 125 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Continued The beneficial interests of the Directors who served during the year and of their Persons Closely Associated in both cases at the beginning of the financial year, or at the date of appointment if later, and at the end of the financial year, or at the date of resignation if earlier, in the share capital of the Company are shown below: Ordinary Shares 29 April2018 of Ordinary Shares 30 April 2017 of if earlier the date of resignation if earlier the date of resignation Directors as at 29 April 2018 Mike Ashley 330,000,000 330,000,000 1 1 Jon Kempster - - Simon Bentley 10,000 10,000 2 Keith Hellawell 50,000 50,000 David Brayshaw 10,276 10,276 3 David Daly 11,007 - Former Directors 4 Dave Singleton 42,000 42,000 5 Claire Jenkins 21,725 21,725 1 Jon Kempster was appointed as a Director on 11 September 2017.
He is expected to acquire the minimum number of shares over a reasonable time period to be determined by the Committee during FY19.
2 These shares are held in the name of Keith Hellawell, as well as his wife.
3 David Daly was appointed as a Director on 2 October 2017.
4 David Singleton resigned with effect from 6 September 2017.
5 Claire Jenkins resigned with effect from 4 May 2017.
There has been no change to the interests reported above between 29 April 2018 and 18 July 2018.
The Company did not receive any notifications under DTR 5 between 29 April 2018 and 18 July 2018.
Neither Jon Kempster nor Mike Ashley currently participates in any share scheme arrangement.
Therefore, there are no outstanding share scheme interests held by any Director of the Company.
PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The following graph shows the Companys performance measured by the Total Shareholder Return compared with the performance of the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts.
They are widely accepted as national measures and include the companies that investors are likely to consider alternative investments.
The table below shows details of the total remuneration and performance-related pay for the Companys Chief Executive Officer over the last nine financial years.
Total remuneration Executive Share Scheme as a % of maximum opportunity FY18 Nil N A 1 FY17 Mike Ashley Nil N A 2 FY17 Dave Forsey 62,500 N A FY16 150,000 N A 3 3 FY15 150,000 0% FY14 150,000 N A FY13 150,000 N A FY12 150,000 N A 4 FY11 6,620,000 100% FY10 150,000 N A 1 Mike Ashley was appointed as CEO with effect from 22 September 2016.
2 Dave Forsey resigned with effect from 22 September 2016.
His total remuneration is his remuneration earned in the period from 25 April 2016 until the date his resignation took effect.
3 The figures for FY15 reflect Dave Forseys decision on 6 June 2016 to forego an award over 1 million shares which would otherwise have been due to vest on 6 September 2017.
4 For these purposes the total remuneration in FY11 includes the value of Dave Forseys award over 1 million shares that vested on 15 August 2013 subject to the satisfaction of a performance condition based on EBITDA in FY11.
For these purposes, the value of a share is 6.47 being the closing price of a share on that date.
CEO PAY INCREASE IN RELATION TO ALL EMPLOYEES The table below sets out in relation to salary, taxable benefits and annual bonus the percentage increase in pay for the Companys Chief Executive compared to the average increase between the same periods for the Groups UK Head Office employees, which the Committee believes is the most appropriate comparator group.
The percentages shown relate to the amounts for FY18 as compared to the amounts for FY17 in each case for Mike Ashley, who was Chief Executive Officer for approximately seven months of FY17 and all of FY18.
Element of remuneration Mike Ashley % change UK head office employee average % change Salary 0% Mike Ashley does not receive a salary 5.5% Taxable benefits 0% no taxable benefits were provided to Mike Ashley in 1.0 % either year Annual bonus 0% no annual bonus arrangement was operated for Mike 11.0% Ashley in either year RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below sets out the Groups distributions to shareholders by way of dividends and share buybacks, investment calculated as set out below and total Group-wide expenditure on pay for all staff as reported in the audited Financial Statements for FY18 and FY17 and the Companys share price calculated as at the close of business on the last day of FY18 and FY17.
SPORTS DIRECT - ANNUAL REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 127 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Continued FY18 FY17 % CHANGE Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and share buyback 114,146,336 108,689,056 5.0% Investment 431,650,000 407,192,000 6.0% Group-wide expenditure on pay for all employees 393,357,000 386,717,000 1.7% Share price pence 405.8 306.8 32.3% Comprises of increases in working capital, acquisitions and capital expenditure in the year as the Board believes these to be the most relevant measures of the Groups investment in future growth.
For these purposes, the share price for FY18 and the share price for FY17 is calculated at the close of business on 27 April 2018 and 28 April 2017 respectively, being the last working days prior to the year ends.
CONSIDERATION BY THE DIRECTORS OF MATTERS RELATING TO DIRECTORS REMUNERATION MEMBERSHIP During FY18 the Committee consisted of David Brayshaw, Simon Bentley, David Daly, Dave Singleton and Claire Jenkins, who are independent Non-Executive Directors, and Keith Hellawell, who is the Non-Executive Chairman.
Dave Singleton was Chair of the Committee until his retirement from the Board following the conclusion of the 2017 AGM, at which point David Brayshaw was appointed Chair of the Committee.
Claire Jenkins resigned from the Board and the Committee on 4 May 2017, David Daly joined the Committee in April 2018.
The role and main responsibilities of the Committee are detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on page 112.
Attendance at the meetings held during the year is detailed on page 103.
The members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided, no actual or potential conflicts of interest arising from other Directorships and no day-to-day operational responsibility within the Company.
ADVISERS TO THE COMMITTEE Mike Ashley, the Chief Executive, and Jon Kempster, the Chief Financial Officer, have advised or materially assisted the Committee throughout FY18 when requested.
Executive Directors are not present during, nor do they take part in, discussions in respect of matters relating directly to their own remuneration.
SHAREHOLDER VOTING The following table sets out actual voting in respect of the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 April 2017 at the 2017 AGM and the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Policy at the 2015 AGM.
Votes for % for Votes % against Total votes Votes against cast withheld Directors Remuneration Report 454,984,951 99.89 502,902 0.11 455,487,853 2,242 for the year ended 30 April 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy 426,150,848 81.4 97,167,282 18.6 523,318,130 1,825,428 David Brayshaw Chair of the Remuneration Committee 18 July 2018 128
