AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED KPMGs performance was assessed in the year via the completion As previously advised, the Committee intends that no significant of an effectiveness questionnaire by Committee members, regular new areas of work will be allocated to PwC to safeguard their attendees and contributors within the Company to the external independence and objectivity, with Committee approvals as audit process.
Questions were posed around the reputation, calibre necessary, should a conflict arise.
There were none reported and independence of the audit firm, the effectiveness and in the year.
performance as well as the technical competence of the audit team, the output, quality and cost effectiveness of the audit process and Effectiveness of the internal audit process the effectiveness of communications with the audit team.
KPMG The effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed annually presented the findings of the firms AQR report and provided by the Committee, primarily by assessing performance against the assurance to the Committee that improvement actions were being internal audit charter.
During the year, the Committee reviewed effectively implemented into the audit process.
The Committee its effectiveness and performance via the completion of an will continue to monitor agreed improvement actions and accepted effectiveness questionnaire, completed by Committee members, the conclusion of the review.
Furthermore, the Committee remains regular attendees and contributors within the Company to internal satisfied with the performance of KPMG as external auditor and audits.
The key findings were presented to the Committee is of the view that there is nothing of concern that would impact whereupon some continuous improvement actions in respect the effectiveness of their external audit processes.
of these findings were agreed with PwC, principally around supporting Head of Internal Audit access to SLE members and Internal audit ensuring ongoing effective communication to maintain group-wide The internal auditors key objectives are to provide independent understanding of the purpose and remit of internal audit.
and objective assurance that each business area implements and The Committee remains satisfied with the performance of PwC as maintains appropriate and effective controls.
There is a rolling internal auditor and is of the view that there is nothing of concern three-year plan informed by the Groups strategy and key risks that would impact the effectiveness of their internal audit processes.
identified by the Risk, Assurance and Compliance Committee, which covers the nature and timing of internal audit plans and Risk management and internal control focus.
The annual audit plan is designed to assist in improving the During the year, the Committee monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of governance and key risk management and internal effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting controls processes.
It also has input into ensuring that adequate policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk resources are made available and that the necessary support is management procedures and compliance controls, as well as provided by the business to accomplish the agreed work the Companys statements on internal controls, before they programme.
The Committee Chairman meets with the Head of were agreed by the Board for this annual report.
Internal Audit regularly to discuss activities and the nature of any significant issues which may have arisen.
This year the timing of In doing so, the Committee considered: the Governance review was brought forward on the internal audit implementation of the Group strategy and the progress made: agenda at the request of the Committee and GDPR and IT disaster recovery reviews were added to the schedule and completed.
the Groups risk register, including significant and emerging risks, mitigating controls in place and how exposures have changed over the reporting period: Internal audit governance review case study the scope, membership and output of the newly established Risk, An internal audit governance review was completed earlier Assurance and Compliance Committee: in the year to help identify gaps in the current executive governance framework in the context of the strategy.
The external views from RSM in relation to emerging risks and best review noted numerous areas of good practice, however, given practice risk management: the size of the Company and the industry in which St. Modwen internal audit reports on key audit areas and any significant operates, it highlighted several areas which could be improved.
deficiencies in the control environment: Led by the executive management, the governance framework was updated and terms of reference formats for all executive management reports on the system of internal controls and risk level committees enhanced to address any inconsistencies and management, including tax compliance: control design issues that had been identified in the review.
The external audit reports from KPMG which included details of their revised governance framework clarified the purpose, authority, audit risk assessment process: accountabilities and reporting responsibilities for each executive committee ensuring transparency around decision making and actual and potential legal claims and litigation involving the Group: effective oversight: governance arrangements that will internal audit reports on potential fraudulent activities successfully support our strategic aims, objectives and priorities.
perpetrated against the Group: Governance framework the effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions: and See pages 68 and 69 the Groups approach to IT, information security and GDPR.
Internal audit is a regular agenda item at Committee meetings.
Reports from the Head of Internal Audit usually include updates on audit and assurance activities, progress of the Group internal audit plan, the results of reviews and monitoring the status of implementation of recommendations and actions to address any unsatisfactory areas.
Any overdue actions on the status tracker can be escalated as appropriate in order to ensure they have been completed.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 84 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The Committee has received regular updates on enhancements to the management and oversight of risk within the business, Whistleblowing and fraud along with updates on its key risks.
This has included a review The Groups whistleblowing policy encourages employees to of the revised risk management policy and the terms of reference report, in confidence and anonymously if preferred, concerns and minutes of the Risk, Assurance and Compliance Committee, about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing in any matters which has carried out a robust review of the principal risks facing affecting the business.
Any matters reported are thoroughly the Company, including those that could threaten its business investigated and escalated to the Committee.
During the year, model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.
The Groups risk there were no whistleblowing incidents reported to the management framework incorporates both a top-down, strategic, Committee.
The Company Secretary is undertaking an audit and bottom-up, operational, approach to the evaluation of key of the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and will report risks, to ensure there is a common understanding of the risks the outcome of the review to the Committee later in the year.
to which the Group is exposed and their potential impact on The Groups fraud prevention policy requires employees to the performance of the business and achievement of strategy.
be alert to the possibility of the threat of fraud and to report Its evaluation of solvency risks in the context of the new strategy immediately any concerns they have.
The Company remains is described further in the going concern and viability statements.
vigilant against such risk, including fraudulent payment PwC, as internal audit service providers, continue to deliver a requests, and continues to ensure the adequacy of controls programme of internal audit reviews approved by the Committee.
and procedures to prevent such fraud.
The Committee is made Progress against the programme, and outcomes from internal aware of all potential fraudulent activity.
The Committee audit reviews, have been considered by the Committee along with reviewed the policy in the year resulting in only minor progress made by the business in implementing actions to improve amendments to reflect changes in job roles within the Group.
The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining a sound system of risk management and internal control and for determining the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
During 2018, the Board has continued to review the Groups risk management framework to ensure it continues to remain aligned with the refreshed strategic objectives and changes to the internal governance structures.
This review has also included a detailed review of the Group strategic risk register, the risk appetite framework and risk management strategy.
Risk management See pages 54 to 64 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 85 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT Attendees and contributors to the Committee by invitation : Chief Executive Mark Allan Non-executive Director Simon Clarke General Counsel and Company Secretary Secretary to the Committee Andrew Eames Dear Shareholders This has been another busy year for the Nomination Committee, in particular with the search for my successor.
In doing so, the Committee has taken care to ensure that the Company continues to be led by directors who have the required skills and experience IN THIS REPORT, WE EXPLAIN THE to deliver the Groups strategy.
KEY ACTIVITIES AND FOCUS OF THE It has been my privilege to serve as Chairman of the Board and COMMITTEE DURING THE YEAR.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee for over eight years.
In line with evolving best practice regarding director tenure, I made the decision last year to step down from the Board at the conclusion of this years AGM to be held on 29 March 2019.
Our Senior Independent Director, Ian Bull, led the Committees search for my replacement as both Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee Chairman and, following the conclusion of this process, Danuta Gray was appointed by the Board as Chair Designate in Bill Shannon October 2018.
She has extensive operational and board experience Chairman of the Nomination Committee in both executive and non-executive roles in FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 companies see page 70 for Danutas biography.
I am confident that Danuta will set the Boards agenda so that key Attendance and composition of the Committee strategic, operational and governance issues receive appropriate All members of the Committee who served during the year are review and that under her stewardship all directors will continue considered to be independent.
Under its terms of reference, the to contribute to the Boards deliberations.
Committee is responsible for keeping its composition under review and for making recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
In addition to the appointment of Danuta, the Committee finalised the search and appointment of Jamie Hopkins as a non-executive director in March 2018.
Jamie brings with him significant Scheduled meetings Percentage commercial, strategic and operational management experience and attended in attended knowledge of the property sector with a career spanning 20 years, year out of in year out of maximum maximum culminating in his current role as CEO of Workspace Group PLC.
1 Committee Member Member since possible possible I also wish to congratulate Ian Bull on his appointment as Senior Ian Bull Sep 2014 3 3 100% Independent Director in March 2018, taking over from Richard 2 Kay Chaldecott Mar 2013 1 1 100% Mully, a role that he has already made his own, as evidenced by his 3 key leadership role in relation to the search for the Chair Designate.
Danuta Gray Oct 2018 1 1 100% Lastly, I am very pleased that our General Counsel and Company Jenefer Greenwood Jun 2017 3 3 100% Secretary, Andrew Eames, was appointed during the year having 4 previously held the role in an interim capacity.
Jamie Hopkins Mar 2018 2 2 100% 5 Lesley James Oct 2009 3 3 100% 6 Richard Mully Sep 2013 0 1 0% Bill Shannon Chairman Nov 2010 3 3 100% 1 For full biographies of the Committee members see the Board biographies on pages 70 and 71.
2 Resigned from the Committee and the Board on 28 March 2018.
3 Joined the Committee and the Board with effect from 1 October 2018.
4 Joined the Committee and the Board with effect from 1 March 2018.
5 Resigned from the Committee and the Board with effect from 30 November 2018.
6 Resigned from the Committee and the Board on 28 March 2018.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 86 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The Committee also supported the strengthening of the Groups How the Committee operates Board and executive governance and, recognising the particular The Committee agrees an annual programme of matters to be significance of health, safety and environmental matters, the Board covered for the forthcoming year and meetings are arranged at approved the establishment of a new Group Safety, Health and appropriate times throughout the period.
During 2018 there were Environment SHE Committee.
Following due consideration of the three scheduled meetings and three ad-hoc meetings convened in Group SHE Committees remit and responsibility, the Committee relation to finalising new appointments to the Board.
Several informal recommended to the Board that Mark Allan and Jamie Hopkins meetings, conference calls and discussions took place between be appointed as Chairman and committee member respectively.
Committee members, search consultants and potential candidates Further information relating to the Group SHE Committee can during the recruitment process for new non-executive directors.
The Committee also recommended to the During the year the Chairman of the Board chaired all meetings Board the appointment of Simon Clarke as the Boards designated of the Committee unless they related to the appointment of his employee engagement non-executive director.
successor: in which case the Senior Independent Director, Ian Bull, Looking forward, the Nomination Committee is well placed to meet was invited to take the Chair.
the increased requirements of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Following each meeting, the Committee Chairman provides formal Code.
We also welcome the increased emphasis on diversity and updates to the Board on the Committees activities and highlights inclusion, particularly in relation to succession planning for senior matters of particular relevance.
management as well as the wider workforce.
The full Board received an update during the year of the work management Key activities of the Committee in the year has undertaken to understand the levels of diversity throughout Succession planning the Group and is fully supportive of the programme of activities To support its activities in respect of succession planning at Board proposed to further enhance St. Modwen as having a safe and level, the Committee revisited the Board skills matrix to consider the inclusive environment to work in.
Furthermore, we will continue need for any changes to the desired skills and experience required to review the Boards composition in the context of our strategy.
to support the delivery of our strategic objectives.
The The remainder of the report details further information on key appointments of Danuta Gray and Jamie Hopkins have significantly activities the Committee has undertaken during the year in added to the strength and experience of the Board.
Our current discharging its responsibilities as well as providing an overview Chairman is working closely with Danuta as Chair Designate in of how it operates.
order to ensure a smooth transition.
Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Committee Following a successful year of appointments, the Committee members for their continuing hard work and commitment and remains mindful of the balance of skills, experience, independence welcome our new members.
Whilst I am naturally sad to be leaving, and knowledge to support the elements of our strategy and the I believe that the Committee is well placed with Danuta to take over Committee is currently in the early stages of a search for a potential as Committee Chairman to continue to support the Board and further non-executive director.
The Committee also recognises the importance of developing employees of St. Modwen, particularly in relation to succession Bill Shannon planning for senior positions within the Company.
People pipeline Chairman of the Nomination Committee and development was reviewed by both the Committee and the 4 February 2019 Board to ensure that plans are in place to recognise and grow internal talent in order to effectively deliver our strategy, see pages 31 to 33 for further information.
Appointment of new directors The Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board when suitable candidates have been identified in line with Board-approved procedures.
When a vacancy arises, the Committee prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for that appointment having identified skills gaps that exist or will exist in the future, in addition to taking diversity considerations into account.
Where appropriate, external recruitment consultants are engaged to assist with the search process.
During the year, the Committee successfully conducted two separate search processes for additional non-executive directors in line with succession planning and made two appointment recommendations to the Board.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 87 NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED In looking for a future Chairman, the Committee set up a The Board therefore recommends that shareholders approve the sub-committee led by the Senior Independent Director.
The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM relating to the re-election sub-committee met with several well-known search firms and of the directors.
Further supporting information in respect of the recommended the appointment of Heidrick & Struggles, a leading non-executive directors can be found on page 190. executive search firm.
Heidrick & Struggles prepared a long list, Following her appointment by the Board in October 2018, Danuta followed by a short list of candidates for consideration, several Gray will offer herself, for the first time, for election by shareholders of whom were interviewed by the sub-committee and executive at the AGM.
management but most particularly the Chief Executive, given the critical nature of the relationship between the Chairman and Chief As previously announced, the current Chairman, Bill Shannon will Executive.
Following the sub-committees recommendation, the be stepping down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, Board unanimously approved Danutas appointment to the Board having served on the Board for over eight years.
In order to familiarise herself with the Boards activities Danuta joined both the Nomination and Board diversity Remuneration Committees at the time of her appointment and All aspects of diversity are considered during the recruitment has been working closely with the Chairman, Chief Executive, CFO, process at every level within the business, including appointments Company Secretary and executive management as part of the to the Board.
The Board is committed to promoting diversity in all induction and handover process.
forms and recognises the benefits that it can bring, both to the boardroom and across the business by drawing on a range of Zygos Partnership were also engaged to work with the Committee thought, experience and expertise.
Differences in skills, industry in its search for a new non-executive director.
Several candidates experience, background, ethnicity, gender and other qualities can were shortlisted, who were interviewed by the Committee and combine to provide different perspectives and impact positively selected members of executive management, which concluded on the Groups performance and wider organisational effectiveness.
with the Committee recommending Jamie Hopkins to join the Board as an additional non-executive director in March 2018.
Regarding gender diversity, in line with the Boards commitment to increase female representation at Board and senior management In relation to both appointments, candidates from a range of level, the Committee will only engage executive search firms who backgrounds were considered, including both male and female have signed up to the enhanced voluntary code of conduct which candidates and comprehensive profiles were prepared by the supports more female appointments to FTSE 350 boards.
To date, agencies for the Committees consideration.
however, the Board has not set prescriptive gender targets for Neither Heidrick & Struggles nor Zygos Partnership had any gender or any other aspect of diversity as it does not believe these connection with the Company other than conducting these are in the best interests of either the Company or its shareholders.
Both the Committee and the Board have a fundamental obligation to ensure that the best candidates, selected on merit against The Committee is also responsible for overseeing a new directors objective criteria are appointed.
Further details on our induction process is provided on page 73.
The Committee was mindful of the balance between male and female representation on the Board during the year.
It was cognisant Independence and re-appointment of non-executive directors of both the Parker Review and the latest Hampton-Alexander The terms of service of the Chairman and the other non-executive Review.
At the time of the Hampton-Alexander Review, the directors are contained in letters of appointment.
These set out the Companys female representation at Board level was 25%, time commitment expected from each non-executive director resulting in the Company being ranked in 12th position out of to ensure they perform their duties satisfactorily.
22 companies in the real estate sector and 108th in the FTSE 350 At the time of their appointment each non-executive director index.
The Boards female representation has fluctuated in the year confirms that they are able to allocate the time required to carry between 25% and 33% and with Lesley James retirement on out their duties and thereafter to reconfirm this, as part of their 30 November 2018, currently stands at 25%.
The Committee individual annual performance evaluation undertaken by is focused on the issue and committed to increasing female the Chairman.
representation on the Board, within the context of appointing the best candidates whilst taking into account the 33% representation The Committee and the Board are satisfied that all directors at Board level recommended by the Hampton-Alexander Review offering themselves for re-election at this years AGM continue by 2020.
This is made clear when engaging search consultants.
to be effective in, and demonstrate commitment to, their respective roles on the Board and that each makes a valuable contribution to The Boards diversity and inclusion policy is kept under regular the leadership of the Company.
All directors offering themselves review as guidance and market practice in this area continues for re-election are independent with the exception of Simon Clarke.
In addition, the Board and Committee are aware that Simon represents the interests of the Clarke family, one of the management is undertaking a Group-wide review of the Groups Companys largest shareholders and has served on the Board for policies and practices in relation to diversity and inclusion and will 14 years.
Simon has a unique knowledge of our corporate history take this review and any resulting recommendations into account which makes him well placed to provide invaluable continuity and when considering the Boards own policy.
See page 32 of the Our stability.
During the year, the Committee agreed to recommend people section for further information on the Groups approach to the Board his appointment as the Boards designated employee and the Board male to female ratio as at 30 November 2018. engagement non-executive director, as he was well positioned to liaise between employees and the Board.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 88 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Evaluation The performance of the Committee was evaluated during the year by way of an online questionnaire which was completed by all members of the Committee as well as by its regular attendees.
The questionnaire required respondents to indicate the extent to which they agreed with a number of statements relating to the Committees effectiveness.
Respondents were also able to provide additional comments.
Feedback received reflected that members and attendees were supportive of the manner in which the Committee operated.
The feedback highlighted that there was a desire to further increase the Committees visibility of internal talent for succession planning.
Wishing to build upon the Committees visibility this year, in relation to the organisational design and people development, it is intended that the Group HR Director will be invited to attend selected meetings to provide continuing detail on bench strength and talent within the business.
Further developments in this area will also be brought to the Committee.
As outlined in the corporate governance report, the Chairman has conducted a wider evaluation in relation to the Boards effectiveness.
The Committee agreed that it would not undertake an external Board evaluation during this financial year given that the role of Chairman is transitioning and resolved to delay the external evaluation until later in 2019.
As announced, Bill Shannon will be stepping down at the close of the Companys AGM in March and has been working closely with the Chair Designate to ensure a smooth handover.
Following due consideration by the Nomination Committee, it was resolved not to undertake a performance evaluation of the outgoing Chairman for the year ended 30 November 2018 as any feedback for implementation would not be fully actioned in the remaining period.
A Chairmans effectiveness review for the new Chairman, Danuta Gray, will be undertaken in late 2019 once she has been established in the role.
Governance The Committee reviewed its terms of reference to ensure that it reflected best practice and remained appropriate covering all aspects of the Committees remit and will progress its consideration of the forthcoming 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code requirements with respect to those areas relating to the Committee.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 89 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION Dear Shareholders On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the report on directors remuneration for the financial year ended 30 November 2018, my first since taking over from Lesley James in March as Committee Chair.
I thank Lesley for her Chairmanship of the Committee over the previous eight years.
This report includes our annual report on remuneration pages 93 to 113 which describes how the shareholder approved directors remuneration policy was implemented for the year ended 30 November 2018 and how we intend to apply the policy for the year ending 30 November 2019.
This report, together with this annual statement, will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
IN THIS REPORT WE EXPLAIN HOW Our approach to remuneration continues to be governed by our REWARDS DELIVERED TO OUR directors remuneration policy which received shareholder approval MANAGEMENT TEAM REFLECT at the 2017 AGM with 96% of votes cast in favour.
We are proposing no changes to our policy at the 2019 AGM as we believe ANOTHER YEAR OF STRONG it continues to support the Companys key strategic goals as we PERFORMANCE AT ST. MODWEN.
progress with our strategy: providing a clear link between the Companys success and individuals remuneration outcomes and equips us to attract and retain the best talent at St. Modwen.
We judge that the policy continues to effectively incentivise management to deliver strong returns for our shareholders and Jenefer Greenwood, OBE promotes the long-term success of the Company.
To enable you Chair of the Remuneration Committee to cross reference our remuneration practice against our directors remuneration policy, we have republished the key parts of our policy report which can be found on pages 94 to 101.
Attendance and composition of the Committee The Committee is mindful of the need to seek shareholder approval The Committees composition is kept under review by the to renew our policy at the 2020 AGM.
Consequently, we shall Nomination Committee, which is responsible for making undertake a thorough review over the coming months and shall recommendations to the Board as to its membership.
All members consult with our major shareholders well in advance of seeking of the Committee receive an appropriate induction to ensure that their approval for the new policy next year.
they have a sound and objective understanding of the principles of, and recent developments in, executive remuneration matters.
Remuneration outcomes in 2017 18 Ongoing training is undertaken as required.
In the year to 30 November 2018, the Company delivered a solid Scheduled performance against a backdrop of continued market uncertainty.
meetings Percentage Our focus was firmly on executing the new, more focused strategy attended in attended year out of in year out of we set out in 2017, based on four key strategic objectives: portfolio maximum maximum focus and capital discipline: accelerate our commercial 1 Committee Member Member since possible possible development activity: grow our residential and housebuilding Ian Bull Sep 2014 3 3 100% business: and cement our regeneration reputation.
2 Kay Chaldecott Mar 2013 1 1 100% These strategic objectives are fully reflected in our approach to 3 senior executive reward for the year.
A significant portion of the Danuta Gray Oct 2018 1 1 100% executive directors remuneration is linked to performance via the 4 Jenefer Greenwood, OBE Jun 2017 3 3 100% annual bonus and Performance Share Plan PSP, with the metrics 5 Jamie Hopkins Mar 2018 2 2 100% used in these plans firmly supporting our strategy: 6 Lesley James, CBE Oct 2009 3 3 100% Portfolio focus and Blend of annual bonus 7 Richard Mully Sep 2013 0 1 0% capital discipline and PSP targets measure successful delivery of Bill Shannon Nov 2010 3 3 100% strategy: 1 For full biographies of the Committee members see the Board biographies Accelerate commercial Trading profit on pages 70 and 71. development activity Total accounting return 2 Resigned from the Committee and the Board on 28 March 2018.
See-through loan-to-value 3 Joined the Committee and the Board with effect from 1 October 2018.
Relative TSR Grow our residential and 4 Appointed as Remuneration Committee Chair on 28 March 2018 in place housebuilding business of Lesley James.
5 Joined the Committee and the Board with effect from 1 March 2018.
Cement our regeneration 6 Resigned from the Committee and the Board with effect from reputation 30 November 2018.
7 Resigned from the Committee and the Board on 28 March 2018.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 90 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Reflecting both the financial results for the year and individual Whilst the review of our current policies and practices will be performance, Mark Allan and Rob Hudson were awarded bonuses framed against the six factors listed in the new Code, we believe equivalent to 114.1% and 111.2% respectively of their base salaries that our current approach is already well positioned against them: 76.1% and 74.1% of the maximum for the year ended Clarity our policy is well understood by our management 30 November 2018.
Full details of the Committees assessment team and has been clearly articulated to our shareholders.
of performance against bonus objectives for the year can be found Furthermore, as noted above, we are engaging with our wider on pages 103 and 104. employee base via our People Matters Group on many key issues The PSP awards granted in 2016 were subject to performance including remuneration and continue to be committed to conditions measured over the three financial years to 30 November developing communications with all employees.
Reflecting the approach followed at the time of their grant Simplicity the Committee is very mindful of the need to a different approach has been used for subsequent awards, avoid overly complex remuneration structures which can be vesting of half of this award was subject to TSR performance misunderstood and deliver unintended outcomes.
Therefore, relative to the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services one of the Committees objectives is to ensure that our executive Index, with the remaining 50% subject to an absolute TSR condition.
remuneration policies and practices are as simple to communicate As explained in more detail on page 104, 50% of this award vested.
and operate as possible, while also supporting our strategy.
These bonus and PSP outturns reflect how the Committee envisages Risk our remuneration policy is designed to ensure that these incentive plans operating, in that they continue to deliver inappropriate risk-taking is not encouraged and will not be rewards commensurate with our underlying performance.
rewarded via i the balanced use of both shortand long-term incentive plans which employ a blend of financial, non-financial Approach to regulatory changes and shareholder return targets, ii the significant role played The Committee continues to monitor the various changes to the by equity in our incentive plans together with shareholding regulatory environment as they relate to executive remuneration, guidelines and iii malus clawback provisions.
particularly the new Corporate Governance Code the new Code and new legislation that will require companies to make additional Predictability our incentive plans are subject to individual caps, pay disclosures.
Notwithstanding the fact that these changes are with our share plans also subject to market standard dilution not technically applicable to St. Modwen until the financial year limits.
The scenario charts on page 99 illustrate how the rewards ending 30 November 2020, the Committee anticipates early potentially receivable by our executive directors vary based on adoption by the year ending 30 November 2019, for those performance delivered and, now, share price growth.
elements relevant to the Remuneration Committee, and these Proportionality there is a clear link between individual awards, changes will be at the forefront of our policy review during 2019. delivery of strategy and our long-term performance as Preparatory steps have already been taken in a number of areas, demonstrated in the diagram on page 90.
In addition, the such as: significant role played by incentive at-risk pay, together with The operation of the annual bonus plan and the PSP have the structure of the executive directors service contracts, ensures been reviewed to ensure that the Committee has necessary that poor performance is not rewarded.
discretion to override formulaic outcomes again as required Alignment to culture St. Modwens core purpose is by the new Code.
Our regeneration and The recovery provisions in the annual bonus plan and PSP development projects have allowed us to clean up thousands have been reviewed and now reflect the new best practice of acres of contaminated brownfield land to create areas that requirements.
provide homes and thriving communities for thousands of people, new business parks, manufacturing facilities, The Companys People Matters Group has been identified as the warehousing and retail parks that support employment body with which the Board will liaise through the appointment of throughout the country.
Our executive pay policies are fully a designated NED.
Following due consideration, the Nomination aligned to this core purpose through the use of metrics in both Committee recommended Simon Clarke be appointed to the role the annual bonus and PSP that measure how we perform against see page 88 of the Nomination Committee report for further main KPIs that underpin the delivery of our strategy.
information to ensure that the views of employees on all matters including remuneration are taken into account.
The Committee In addition, we have included some of the new disclosure looks forward to continuing to engage with and be informed of requirements prescribed by recent legislation, e. g. how share price views with regards to wider company remuneration.
Further appreciation impacts executive pay both in the single figure table information on the People Matters Group can be found on and the scenario charts on pages 102 and 99 respectively.
The Committee is also aware that St. Modwen will be required to disclose the ratio of Chief Executive pay to all-employee pay going In addition, the Committees terms of reference will be reviewed to forward.
The Committee will calculate the ratio and accompanying ensure that they reflect the expanded scope required by the new narrative and envisages complying with this requirement in Code i. e. i responsibility for setting remuneration for the Board its report relating to the year ending 30 November 2019 and senior management, and ii taking account of Group-wide i. e. one year earlier than technically required.
remuneration and policies when setting executive pay.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 91 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED How we will apply our remuneration policy in 2018 19 AT A GLANCE The structure of remuneration arrangements for 2018 19 will remain largely unchanged from that applied in 2017 18.
Executive directors will continue to have the opportunity to earn a bonus How we performed of up to 150% of salary and will be granted long-term incentive 1 EPRA NAV per share awards to the same value, both subject to stretching and rigorously applied performance conditions aligned to our business KPIs with, as explained on page 110, adjusted EPRA earnings replacing trading 484.1 pence 2.7% profit as the profit metric employed for bonus purposes to ensure 1 alignment with our external reporting.
Total accounting return The salaries of the executive directors have been increased by 2.5% effective 1 December 2018.
This is in line with the average 6.0% 0ppt cost of living increase awarded to the Companys employees 1 and is considered appropriate in light of the executive directors Adjusted EPRA earnings continued delivery to the Company.
31.7m 7.8% Conclusion I hope that you find the report clear and informative and I look 1 Adjusted EPRA earnings per share forward to receiving your support for the resolution approving this report at the 2019 AGM.
14.3 pence 7.5% Jenefer Greenwood, OBE 1 See-through loan-to-value Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 February 2019 16.9% -6.3ppt NAV per share 470.4 pence 4.3% Total dividend per share 7.1 pence 13.1% 1 Trading profit 69.1m 7.0% Basic earnings per share 27.1 pence 0.7% Group net borrowings 271.1m -37.5% 1 These measures are non-statutory, reconciliations between all the statutory and non-statutory measures and the explanations as to why the non-statutory measures give valuable further insight into the Groups performance are given in note 2 and 3 to the Group financial statements.
This report complies with the requirements of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 the Regulations, the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 92 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information How our policy was implemented in the year ending 30 November 2018 Key component Feature Metrics targets How we implemented Base salary Competitive base salary to attract and N A Chief Executive: 579,125 retain individuals of the necessary calibre CFO: 325,000 to execute the strategy Pension To provide competitive post-retirement and N A Chief Executive and CFO: 15% of benefits other benefits in a cost-effective manner salary cash allowance in lieu of pension, plus standard benefits Annual bonus To incentivise and reward the delivery Trading profit 25% Chief Executive 660,782 of stretching, near-term strategic, financial 76.1% of maximum Total accounting return 25% and operational measures at Company and CFO 361,482 74.1% of personal levels consistent with the budget See-through loan-to-value maximum and strategic plan.
Compulsory investment 25% in shares aligns to shareholders interests in 40% of net bonus received Personal strategic 25% the creation of sustainable, long-term value, applied to acquire shares which maximum opportunity 150% of salary are retained for at least three years PSP To incentivise and reward the delivery Relative TSR vs bespoke sector 2016 award vested based on of strong returns to shareholders and peer group 50% performance up to end of sustained, long-term performance.
Payable FY 17 18 Total accounting return 50% in shares delivered under the Performance 2018 awards made at 150% Share Plan.
Three year performance period of salary plus two year post-vesting holding period Shareholding To ensure alignment of interests of Executive directors are required Chief Executive 239% of salary requirements executive directors and shareholders to build up and maintain a CFO 91% of salary on track shareholding worth at least to meet holding requirement 200% of base salary, which is normally expected to be reached within five years of appointment The Remuneration Committee Set corporate and personal objectives for the 2017 18 annual Principal role bonus arrangements for executive directors and undertook Determines the policy for the remuneration of the executive an assessment of performance against targets for 2016 17. directors, which is designed to promote the long-term success of the Company, be compatible with risk policies and controls and Agreed the launch of the all-employee SAYE plan which be aligned to the Companys long-term strategic goals, culture enabled employees to be granted options at a larger 20% and values.
discount to the share price increased from 10% and increased the maximum monthly savings limit to 500 Key activities in 2017 18 increased from 250 to provide the maximum incentive Agreed how our remuneration policy should be applied for for all employees to become shareholders.
2017 18 in terms of fixed pay levels, the operation of the annual Considered investor feedback from last years report and bonus and awards under the PSP and approved share awards prepared this report on directors remuneration.
granted in 2018 together with associated performance criteria.
Ensured the performance metrics and targets selected for Areas of focus for 2018 19 incentive plans continued to be aligned with our long-term Take appropriate steps regarding compliance with the new strategic goals built around our core purpose.
Corporate Governance Code and legislative changes to further enhance the role of the Committee.
Continued to closely monitor market trends in remuneration arrangements and developments in the corporate governance Review the implementation of the remuneration policy to environment, including the new Corporate Governance Code.
ensure it remains appropriate in light of our evolving business strategy, culture and values whilst also taking due account Reviewed the executive directors base salaries and agreed of wider company pay structures.
the fee arrangements for Danuta Gray as Chair Designate and Andrew Eames as General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Review our remuneration policy in advance of its renewal at the 2020 AGM.
Assessed and approved the outturn of PSP awards granted in 2016 and the recruitment-related awards made to Mark Allan.
co. uk about-us corporate-governance St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 93 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The key parts of the policy report that was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM are set out below to enable the reported remuneration to be assessed in the context of the relevant aspects of the policy.
The current intention is that this policy will operate until the 2020 AGM.
The original policy report approved at the 2017 AGM is published in its entirety in the Companys annual report for the year ended 30 November 2016, which is available to view at www.
Base salary Purpose To attract, retain and motivate individuals of the necessary calibre to execute the Companys strategy.
To provide competitive base remuneration relative to the external market.
To recognise and reward performance, skills and experience.
Operation Normally reviewed annually with changes typically effective from 1 December.
Review reflects: individual and corporate performance: the individuals level of skill and experience: increases throughout the Company including cost of living awards : internal relativities: and prevailing market conditions through periodic benchmarking for comparable roles in companies of a similar size and scope.
The Committee is mindful of institutional investors concerns on the upward ratchet of base salaries and does not consider benchmark data in isolation.
Opportunity Salaries may be adjusted and salary increases will normally be in percentage of salary terms no higher than those awarded to the wider workforce.
Larger increases may be awarded at the Committees discretion to take account of exceptional circumstances such as: changes in scope and responsibility of a role: and where a new director is appointed at a salary which is at a lower level to reflect their experience at that point, the Committee may award a series of increases over time to achieve the desired salary position subject to satisfactory performance and market conditions.
Actual salary levels are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant financial year see page 110 for those effective 1 December 2018.
Performance None, although overall performance of the individual is considered by the Committee as part of the annual review.
measures Benefits Purpose To provide a competitive and cost-effective benefits package.
To assist with recruitment and retention.
Operation The Company provides a range of non-pensionable benefits to executive directors which may, for example, include a combination of a company car or car allowance, private fuel, driver, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance, holiday and sick pay, and professional advice in connection with their directorship.
Other benefits such as relocation allowances may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee.
Executive directors will be eligible for any other benefits which are introduced for the wider workforce on broadly similar terms.
Any reasonable business-related expenses can be reimbursed, including the tax thereon if determined to be a taxable benefit.
Executive directors are also eligible to participate in any all-employee share plans operated by the Company, in line with HMRC guidelines currently prevailing where relevant, on the same basis as for other eligible employees.
Opportunity There is no maximum limit set.
Benefits are set at a level which the Committee considers to be appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and scope and provides a sufficient level of benefit based on the role and individual circumstances.
measures St. Modwen Properties PLC 94 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Pension Purpose To provide competitive post-retirement benefits in a cost-effective manner.
Operation The Company offers an allowance expressed as a percentage of base salary which can be taken as: an employer contribution to the defined contribution section of the Companys pension scheme: a cash allowance which is not counted as salary for bonus purposes : or a blend of the two.
The Committee may amend the form of any executive directors pension arrangements in response to changes in pensions legislation or similar developments, provided any amendment does not increase the cost to the Company of a directors pension provision.
Opportunity Up to 15% of base salary for all executive directors.
measures Annual bonus Purpose To incentivise and reward the delivery of stretching, near-term strategic, financial and operational measures at Company and personal levels.
Corporate measures selected are consistent with the budget and strategic plan.
An element of compulsory investment in shares to align to shareholders interests in the creation of sustainable, long-term value.
Operation All measures, weightings and targets are reviewed and set annually by the Committee at the beginning of the financial year and specific performance criteria will be aligned to the Companys strategic objectives at that time.
Levels of award determined by the Committee after the year end will be based on performance against the targets set.
The Committee retains an overriding discretion to ensure that overall bonus payments reflect its view of corporate performance during the year.
Bonuses are paid in cash and are non-pensionable.
Directors are required to invest an amount equal to 40% of the net bonus received in the Companys shares and to retain these shares for a minimum period of three years.
Withholding malus and recovery clawback provisions apply to all bonuses paid such that, in exceptional circumstances such as misstatement of performance or misconduct, the Committee has discretion to reduce some or all of the value of an award within a period of four years following the end of the relevant bonus year.
Opportunity Maximum bonus potential of up to 150% of salary for all executive directors.
On-target performance would result in a bonus payment of half of the maximum potential.
Performance Performance is assessed using the following metrics: measures a majority of the award will be based on corporate measures: and 1 a minority no more than 25% of the overall bonus opportunity will be based on personal measures.
There is also a cap on the amount of bonus awarded for performance in respect of personal measures, set at one-third of the total actual bonus awarded.
The specific measures that will apply for the year ending 30 November 2019 are described in the annual report on remuneration on page 110.
Measures for subsequent years will be summarised in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 95 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Long-term incentives Purpose To incentivise and reward the delivery of strong returns to shareholders and sustained, long-term performance.
Aligns the long-term interests of directors and shareholders.
Operation Awards are normally made under the Performance Share Plan PSP annually with vesting dependent on the achievement of stretching performance conditions set by the Committee.
A holding period will apply to awards granted in the financial year ended 30 November 2017 and beyond.
The holding period will require executive directors to retain at least the after-tax value of shares acquired for a minimum period of 24 months from the vesting date and will remain in place if the executive leaves employment during the two-year holding period.
A dividend equivalent provision exists which allows the Committee to pay an amount in cash or shares equivalent to the dividends paid or payable on vested shares between the date of grant and the vesting of an award or, if later, and only whilst an option remains unexercised in respect of vested shares, the expiry of the holding period.
An amount payable may assume the reinvestment of dividends.
Withholding malus and recovery clawback provisions apply to all awards granted such that, in exceptional circumstances such as misstatement of performance or misconduct, the Committee has discretion to reduce some or all of the value of an award within a period of four years following the end of the relevant performance period.
Opportunity The maximum annual grant level is 150% of salary or 200% in exceptional circumstances, such as recruitment.
The normal annual award limit is 150% of salary for all executive directors.
Awards vest on the following basis: threshold performance delivers 20% of the shares awarded: and maximum performance delivers 100% of the shares awarded, with straight line vesting between.
Performance Performance is normally measured over three years.
measures Awards to vest are based on performance against stretching financial targets and relative TSR performance, set and 2 assessed by the Committee in its discretion.
Within these parameters, the Committee may introduce or re-weight specific performance measures so that they are directly aligned with the Companys strategic objectives for each performance period.
The Committee has discretion to decide whether and to what extent performance conditions have been achieved and must also be satisfied that certain underpinning conditions are met before permitting awards to vest for example, that the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
The underpin conditions will be set so that they are directly aligned with the Companys strategic objectives for each performance period.
The specific measures that will apply for awards made in the year ending 30 November 2019 are described in the annual report on remuneration on page 111.
3 Shareholding requirement Purpose To ensure alignment of interests of executive directors and shareholders.
Operation The Company operates a shareholding requirement which is subject to periodic review.
Opportunity Executive directors are required to build up and maintain a shareholding worth at least 200% of base salary, which is normally expected to be reached within five years of appointment.
Executive directors are required to retain all of the post-tax shares acquired as a result of the compulsory investment of bonus into shares and half of the post-tax shares vesting under the PSP until the shareholding requirement is met.
measures St. Modwen Properties PLC 96 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Fees payable to Chairman and non-executive directors Purpose To attract and retain the calibre of Chairman and non-executive directors necessary to promote the long-term success of the Company by offering market competitive fee levels.
Operation Normally reviewed annually with changes effective typically from 1 December.
Any increase will be guided by changes in market rates, time commitment and responsibility levels, as well as by increases made throughout the Company.
Fees are structured as follows: the Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all Board responsibilities.
This fee is determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee: and non-executive directors are paid a basic fee, plus additional fees for chairing Board Committees or for undertaking the Senior Independent Director role, which are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the executive directors.
Fees are normally paid in cash.
Neither the Chairman nor the other non-executive directors participate in the annual bonus or long-term incentive arrangements or in the pension scheme, nor do they receive benefits in kind.
Opportunity Fees are set at a level which reflects the commitment and contribution that is expected and is appropriately positioned against comparable roles in companies of a similar size and scope.
Overall fees paid to directors will remain within the limit set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Actual fee levels are disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant financial year see page 111 for those effective from 1 December 2018.
Performance None, although overall performance of the individual is considered as part of the annual review.
measures 1 The annual bonus metrics are designed to ensure that annual performance is focused on key corporate measures which support the Companys strategic targets.
These are supported by individual performance measures to ensure that executive directors are incentivised to deliver across a range of objectives.
Targets are set in line with the Companys budget and strategic plan for the year with a stretch element to reward substantial outperformance.
2 The Committee believes that a combination of relative TSR and key financial measures provides strong alignment with the interests of shareholders and complements the focus on operational performance measures in the annual bonus arrangements.
Targets are set to ensure that only modest awards are available for delivering on-target performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial outperformance of the Companys budget and strategic plans.
3 The Committee is aware of the developing guidance around share ownership guidelines both during and post cessation of employment and this will form part of the remuneration policy review in 2019, with it noted that the post vesting shareholding requirement that already exists in the PSP survive cessation of employment.
How the Committee sets the remuneration policy The primary objective of the Companys remuneration policy is to promote the long-term success of the Company through the operation of competitive pay arrangements which are structured so as to be in the best interests of shareholders.
The executive directors remuneration includes a significant proportion of performance-related elements with demanding targets to align their interests with shareholders and to reward success.
The policy is structured so as to be aligned with key strategic priorities, reflect the Companys culture and values and to be consistent with a Board-approved level of business risk.
The Committee also considers developments in institutional investors best-practice expectations and the views expressed by shareholders.
For example, the Committee is aware of the support expressed by some shareholders for the downward harmonisation of executive pension allowances to bring them into line with percentages for the wider workforce.
Current allowances for the Companys executive directors are 15% of base salary, which reflects mid-market practice and previous commitments made on appointment.
However, the Committee is closely monitoring how market practice and investor views about this topic develop and will reflect on this issue as part of the policy review to be undertaken in 2019.
In setting and operating the remuneration policy for the executive directors, the Committee takes into consideration the remuneration practices found in other UK companies of comparable size and scope and has regard to the remuneration arrangements for the Companys employees generally.
Greater emphasis is placed on variable pay for executive directors and senior employees, albeit with lower maximum incentive opportunities at levels below the Board.
Similarly, long-term incentives are offered only to those expected to have the greatest impact on Company performance.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 97 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Engaging with the wider workforce The Committee is giving active consideration as to how best to engage further with the wider workforce to explain broader pay policies and practices.
As noted above, the Companys People Matters Group has been identified as the body with which the Board via Simon Clarke who has been appointed as designated NED for these purposes will liaise, to ensure that the views of employees on all matters including remuneration are taken into account.
In addition, when considering the level and structure of remuneration to apply to executive directors, the Committee takes into account the overall approach to reward for employees across the business and is kept updated of any changes.
Salary increases for executive directors are normally in percentage of salary terms no higher than those awarded to the wider workforce and all qualifying employees are eligible to participate in the Groups Saving Related Share Option Scheme SAYE.
The Committee was very pleased to note the positive impact on take up of the 2018 SAYE following its decision to increase the discount at which employees could be granted options to 20% of the market value of shares from the 10% discount previously offered and increased the maximum savings limit from 250 to 500 per month.
Almost 50% of eligible employees now participate in a live St. Modwen SAYE scheme.
Engaging with our shareholders The Committee is committed to an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and seeks the views of its major investors when considering significant changes to remuneration arrangements.
The Committee also considers shareholder feedback received in relation to the directors remuneration report each year following the AGM.
This, plus any additional feedback received from time to time, is then considered as part of the Committees annual review of remuneration policy and its implementation.
Committee discretions The Committee retains discretion to make any payments, notwithstanding that they are not in line with the policy set out above, where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect, or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration of the individual becoming a director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are determined at the time the award is granted.
Details of any such payments will be disclosed in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year.
The Committee will operate the annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements according to their respective rules and in accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
Consistent with market practice the Committee retains certain discretions in respect of the operation and administration of these arrangements which include, but are not limited to, the following: the participants: the timing of the grant of an award or payment: the size of an award: the determination of the extent to which performance measures have been met and the corresponding vesting or payment levels: discretion required when dealing with a change of control or restructuring of the Group: determination of the treatment of leavers based on the rules of the respective arrangement and the appropriate treatment chosen, including the pro rating of awards: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : the annual review of performance measures, weighting and targets from year to year: and the manner in which share awards can be satisfied i. e. through the use of new issue, market purchased or treasury shares or by way of a cash payment.
In addition, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures if events occur e. g. a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the conditions are no longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
Any use of the above discretions would be explained in the annual report on remuneration for the relevant year and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 98 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Illustration of remuneration policy The following charts illustrate the remuneration opportunity provided to each executive director under the remuneration policy at different levels of performance for the 2018 19 financial year.
In line with the new legislative requirements, the maximum scenario illustrates the potential remuneration payable if the share price increased by 50% i. e. the value of the PSP award increased by 50% between grant and vesting.
Three scenarios have been illustrated for each director: Chief Executive Mark Allan Chief Financial O cer Rob Hudson 000 000 3,500 2,000 2,939k 1,646k 3,000 2,494k 1,396k 1,500 2,500 36% 36% 2,000 13% 13% 1,000 1,336k 746k 1,500 36% 36% 33% 33% 1,000 500 100% 54% 28% 100% 54% 28% 500 Fixed On target Maximum 0 0 Fixed On target Maximum LTIP value with 50% share price growth LTIP value with 50% share price growth LTIP LTIP Annual Bonus Annual Bonus Fixed Pay Fixed Pay 1 Minimum performance: comprising the minimum remuneration receivable i. e. fixed pay only, being base salary effective 1 December 2018, pension allowances for the 2018 19 financial year and benefits calculated using the 2017 18 figure as set out in the table on page 102.
2 On-target performance: comprising fixed pay, an annual bonus payment of 50% of the maximum opportunity 75% of salary and PSP awards vesting at 20% of maximum opportunity 30% of salary.
3 Maximum performance: comprising fixed pay, 100% of annual bonus 150% of salary and 100% vesting of PSP awards 150% of salary.
The maximum performance scenario also illustrates potential payout under the PSP with a 50% share price growth.
The illustrations do not take into account dividends and exclude the value of any all-employee share plan awards.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 99 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Recruitment arrangements The remuneration package for a new executive director would be set in accordance with the terms of the prevailing approved remuneration policy at the time of the appointment and take into account the skills and experience of the individual, the market rate for a candidate of that level of experience and the importance of securing the relevant individual.
Base salary levels for new recruits will be set in accordance with the policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual recruited.
Where it is appropriate to offer a lower salary initially to reflect the individuals experience at that point, the Committee may award a series of increases over time to achieve the desired salary position subject to performance and market conditions.
Pension arrangements will be in line with the policy.
The maximum level of variable pay which may be awarded to new executive directors, excluding the value of any buyout arrangements, will be in line with the policy.
In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash and or share-based elements to replace deferred or incentive pay, or benefit arrangements, forfeited by an executive leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including the form e. g. cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
The Committee will generally seek to structure buyout awards on a comparable basis to awards forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will, to the extent possible, be granted using the Companys existing share schemes, although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
The Committee may also apply different performance measures, performance periods and or vesting periods for initial awards made following appointment under the annual bonus and or long-term incentive arrangements, subject to the rules of the scheme, if it determines that the circumstances of the recruitment merit such alteration.
A long-term incentive award can be made shortly following an appointment provided the Company is not in a closed period.
Where a position is filled internally, the Committee may honour any pre-existing remuneration obligations or outstanding variable pay arrangements in relation to the individuals previous role such that these shall be allowed to continue according to the original terms adjusted as relevant to take account of the Board appointment.
For internal and external appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation and or incidental expenses as appropriate.
Fees payable to a newly-appointed Chairman or non-executive director will be in line with the fee policy in place at the time of appointment.
External appointments The Board recognises the benefit which the Company can obtain if executive directors serve as non-executive directors of other companies.
Subject to review in each case, the Boards general policy is that an executive director can accept one non-executive directorship of another company but not the chairmanship and can retain the fees in respect of such appointment.
Executive director service agreements and payments for loss of office The Companys policy is for executive directors to have service agreements which may be terminated by the Company for breach by the executive or with no more than 12 months notice from the Company to the executive and six months notice from the executive to the Company.
If notice is served by either party, the executive director can continue to receive base salary, benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a period of garden leave.
The Company may elect to make a payment in lieu of notice equivalent in value to a maximum of 12 months base salary and benefits including pension contribution but excluding bonus, payable in monthly instalments, which would be subject to mitigation if alternative employment is taken up during this time.
Alternatively, the Committee retains discretion to provide this payment as a lump sum.
In the event of termination for cause e. g. gross misconduct neither notice nor payment in lieu of notice will be given and the executive director will cease to perform their services immediately.
In redundancy situations, the Committee will comply with prevailing relevant legislation.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, the Company may pay a contribution towards the executive directors legal fees for entering into a statutory agreement, may pay a contribution towards fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement, or may make a payment to compromise claims the executive director may have.
There is no provision for additional compensation on termination following a change of control.
Payment may also be made in respect of accrued benefits, including untaken holiday entitlement.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 100 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The principles set out in the table below will apply to annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements in the event of loss of office.
In respect of all-employee share schemes and the Companys Employee Share Option Schemes, the same leaver conditions will be applied to executive directors as those applied to other employees.
Remuneration element Good leavers Other leavers Annual bonus An executive director will be treated as a good leaver in certain Unless the Committee circumstances, for example if he or she dies or ceases employment due exercises its discretion to to injury, disability, retirement with the Companys agreement, or sale treat the executive director of the business in which he or she is employed, or for any other reason as a good leaver, no bonus at the discretion of the Committee.
In these circumstances, the executive director remains eligible to be paid a bonus, subject to the applicable performance measures.
Any payment awarded may be pro-rated to reflect the period of time served from the start of the financial year to the date of termination, but not for any period in lieu of notice.
Long-term incentive awards An executive director will be treated as a good leaver in certain All awards will lapse in full As apply to the Companys circumstances, for example death, injury, disability or for any other where termination is by current Performance Share Plan reason at the discretion of the Committee.
reason of summary approved at the 2017 AGM dismissal.
Awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date, subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions at that time and In other circumstances, reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of the vesting period actually unvested awards will lapse served.
However, under the plan rules, the Committee has discretion in full unless the Committee to determine that awards vest at cessation of employment and or applies discretion to treat to disapply the time pro rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
the executive director as a good leaver.
A good leaver may exercise their vested awards for a period of 12 months following the individuals cessation of employment and unvested awards may be exercised for a period of 12 months from vesting.
Nonexecutive director terms of appointment The terms of service of the Chairman and the other non-executive directors are contained in letters of appointment.
Appointments are for a fixed term of three years, during which period the appointment may be terminated by three months notice by either party.
Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve two three-year terms subject to mutual agreement and satisfactory performance reviews.
There are no provisions for payment in the event of termination, early or otherwise.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 101 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This part of the report has been prepared in accordance with Part 3, Schedule 8 to The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in 2013 and with the requirements of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules.
Remuneration payable audited information Pension Share plans contribution 1 2 3 4 Base salary fees Benefits Annual bonus vesting allowance Other items Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 3 Director 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Executive directors 5 Mark Allan 579 565 30 23 661 684 87 85 1,077 1,235 2,434 2,592 3 6 Rob Hudson 325 282 14 19 361 346 210 49 42 2 961 689 Non-executive directors 7 Danuta Gray 28 28 Bill Shannon 167 163 167 163 8 Ian Bull 61 54 61 54 9 Kay Chaldecott 15 45 15 45 Simon Clarke 46 45 46 45 10 Jamie Hopkins 34 34 11 Lesley James 49 54 49 54 12 Jenefer Greenwood 52 22 52 22 13 Richard Mully 18 54 18 54 1,374 1,284 44 42 1,022 1,030 210 136 127 1,079 1,235 3,865 3,718 1 All benefits for the executive directors comprising mainly the provision of company car car allowance, private fuel and medical insurance arise from employment with the Company and do not form part of final pensionable pay.
2 Bonus payable in respect of the relevant financial year.
Further information as to how the level of bonus awarded for the year ended 30 November 2018 was determined is provided on pages 103 and 104.
40% of the after tax amount of any bonus earned is required to be invested in shares and held for three years.
3 The performance period for the 2016 PSP awards ended on 30 November 2018, 50% of the award is due to vest on and become exercisable on 22 February 2019.
Of the final vesting value of this award, 29,000 is attributable to share price growth since grant.
The Committee has not exercised any discretion in connection with the impact of share price appreciation on the value of this award.
Further information on awards and performance conditions to which they were subject can be found on page 104.
As the awards had not vested as at the date of this report, their value has been estimated using a share price of 381.65 pence, being the three month average to 30 November 2018, plus 19.23 pence per share which is the value of the dividend equivalent deliverable in shares on the awards that vest.
The dividend equivalent is based on dividends paid to shareholders with record dates occuring between the date of grant and 30 November 2018.
4 Further details regarding pension entitlements can be found on page 107.
5 Mark Allans share plan award vesting relates to tranches 3 and 4 of a share award granted in connection with his recruitment, as detailed on page 90 of the 2015 16 Directors Remuneration report.
Tranche 3 relating to 105,708 shares was subject to performance conditions relating to Mark Allans original employer Unite plc which were met in full, thereby resulting in full vesting of this award on 10 April 2018.
Tranche 4 originally relating to 159,134 shares was subject to performance conditions relating to Unite plc which were met in part, thereby resulting in vesting of 152,991 shares on 2 April 2018.
The share award includes an entitlement to a cash payment following a tranches vesting date in respect of a dividend equivalent that would have accrued under the forfeited awards to the extent they had vested.
The dividend equivalent following the exercise of tranches 3 and 4 was 63,111, paid to Mark Allan in April 2018.
The share price on the date of vesting used to value tranche 3 was 387.4 pence and tranche 4 was 394.2 pence.
The amount shown in the table above also reflects the grant of a Sharesave option on 13 August 2018, with the value based on the market value on the date of grant 381.6 pence, less the option price 330.0 pence, multiplied by the number of options granted.
Further details can be found on page 106.
6 Reflects the grant of a Sharesave option on 13 August 2018, with the value based on the market value on the date of grant 381.6 pence, less the option price 330.0 pence, multiplied by the number of options granted.
7 Appointed to the Board as Chair Designate on 1 October 2018.
8 Took the role of Senior Independent Director with effect from 28 March 2018.
9 Ceased to be a director with effect from 28 March 2018.
10 Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2018.
11 Resigned as Remuneration Chair in March 2018.
Retired from the Board on 30 November 2018.
12 Appointed to the Board 1 June 2017.
Took the role of Remuneration Committee Chair with effect from 28 March 2018.
13 Ceased to be a director with effect from 28 March 2018.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 102 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Annual bonus outturn audited information In the financial year ended 30 November 2018, both executive directors had the opportunity to be awarded an annual bonus of up to 150% of base salary as at 1 December 2017.
Of this, 112.5% of salary 75% of overall opportunity was dependent on achieving corporate measures and 37.5% of salary 25% of overall opportunity on meeting personal objectives.
Performance against targets and resulting bonus awards are set out in the tables below.
Threshold On-target Stretch Super stretch performance performance performance performance Actual Payout Weighting as 25% of 50% of 75% of 100% of performance % of 1 Measure Link to strategy % of award maximum maximum maximum maximum achieved maximum Corporate: Trading profit Reflects profitability 25% 59.0m 65.6m 72.2m 78.7m 69.1m 63.3% of the business after -10% 10% 20% operating costs Total accounting Recognises 25% 21.8 pence 25.7 pence 29.5 pence 33.3 pence 26.9 pence 57.9% return the delivery per share per share per share per share per share of significant -15% 15% 30% added value See-through Ensures continued 25% 30.3% 28.9% 27.4% 26.0% 16.9% 100.0% loan-to-value balance sheet 5% -5% -10% strength Personal: Individual targets Ensures that each 25% Substantially Met Exceeded Significantly Mark Allan: Mark Allan: for executive director focuses met exceeded Above stretch 31.0% directors on his individual contribution in the Rob Hudson: Rob Hudson: broadest sense Stretch 28.1% through business performance, leadership role, people and team, and personal development objectives Award % of salary 37.5% 75.0% 112.5% 150.0% Mark Allan: 114.1% Rob Hudson: 111.2% Award % of maximum 25.0% 50.0% 75.0% 100.0% Mark Allan: opportunity 76.1% Rob Hudson: 74.1% 1 Details of performance versus personal objectives for both of the executive directors is further explained in the supplementary table overleaf.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 103 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Key personal objectives Assessment of achievement of objectives Mark Allan Ensure progress is made in the delivery of the Groups Comprehensive strategic plan presented in summer longer-term business plan objectives, including 2018.
Long-term clarity of pipeline progression for acceleration of the development pipeline and both industrial and logistics and residential and portfolio rebalancing.
KPIs exceeded in the year.
Oversee the launch of the Groups purpose, strategy, Successful launch of the strategy, enhanced values and brand throughout 2018.
Success to be understanding within the business.
Employee measured according to outputs from the next engagement survey conducted in the year employee engagement survey.
see page 32 for further details of the satisfying results.
Oversee the continued development of the SLE, Leadership and team development programmes both as an effective leadership team for the business, launched with the SLE, with clear personal and also as individuals.
Support the Chairman and Nomination Committee Successful support provided leading to the in ongoing Board succession agenda.
appointment of Danuta Gray as Chair Designate in October 2018.
Rob Hudson Delivery of Company finance related KPIs, in particular Core modelling support to strategic plan delivered those relating to interest cost, leverage and overheads in the year, with project appraisal models introduced in finance and IT.
Development of a more flexible, to further support assessment of delivery on strategic intuitive approach to financial modelling across the objectives.
Relevant financial related KPIs on track Group, providing a clear link between the strategic or ahead of plan.
objectives, performance measures and external communication.
Ensure the alignment of IT strategy to business IT strategy finalised and communicated, continuing strategy and delivery of plans for preparation alignment to the business agenda throughout 2019 of GDPR and information security for the Group.
Effective delivery of GDPR and information security projects in the year.
Ensure successful embedding of organisational design New recruitments in IT and finance departments across finance, IT and legal to include successful have been successfully embedded and well induction and performance of new senior integrated across the business.
In light of both corporate and individual performance, the Committee determined that the following bonus awards be made: Award Corporate Award Personal Total award Salary on which bonus Executive director as a % of salary as a % of salary as a % of salary award is calculated Total bonus award Mark Allan 83.1% 31.0% 114.1% 579,125 660,782 Rob Hudson 83.1% 28.1% 111.2% 325,000 361,482 Bonus payments to Mark Allan and Rob Hudson were conditional upon the executive director undertaking to invest at least 40% of the bonus received, after payment of income tax and national insurance, in the Companys shares and to retain those shares for a minimum period of three years.
Long-term incentives audited information Performance Share Plan PSP The three-year performance period for the 2016 PSP awards ended on 30 November 2018.
The performance conditions which applied to the awards together with actual performance are summarised in the table below.
Vesting of award Vesting of award Threshold at threshold Maximum at maximum Actual Proportion of Performance measure Weighting performance performance performance performance performance award to vest Absolute TSR growth 50% of award 20% 12.5% 50% 50% -6.91% 0% TSR relative to FTSE All-Share 50% of award Equal 12.5% 120% 50% Maximum 50% Real Estate Investment & to Index of Index Services Index i. e. -12.43% i. e. -10.36% Total 50% St. Modwen Properties PLC 104 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information In addition, the award was subject to certain underpin conditions.
Firstly, the Committee must be satisfied that the extent of vesting is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the performance period.
Secondly, the Committee has the discretion to reduce the level of vesting if the level of stretch in the Index TSR condition is considered insufficient.
Thirdly, if no dividend was been paid on the last normal dividend date prior to the vesting date or if the Committee believes that no dividend would be paid in respect of the year in which the award vests, the award will not vest at that time and vesting will be delayed subject to continued employment until dividend payments are resumed.
The dividend-related underpin was satisfied.
The Committee also determined that the first two underpins had been met, taking account of St. Modwens strong underlying financial performance and relative outperformance of its sector peers over the relevant vesting period.
On 20 March 2018, the following PSP awards were granted to executive directors as nil cost options: % of award that would Face value of award vest for threshold 1 Executive director Basis of award 000 Number of shares performance Mark Allan 150% of salary 869 222,700 20% Rob Hudson 150% of salary 488 124,977 20% 1 Calculated using the average share price of 390.07 pence which was, in accordance with the rules of the PSP, used to determine the number of shares to be awarded being the average over the three dealing days immediately preceding the date of grant.
The performance conditions which apply to these PSP awards are summarised below.
The performance period started on 1 December 2017 and will end on 30 November 2020.
Vesting of award Vesting of award Threshold at threshold Maximum at maximum 2 2 Performance measure Link to strategy performance performance performance performance 1 Relative TSR performance Rewards outperformance of the returns Companys 20% Companys 100% generated by a comparator group TSR is ranked TSR is ranked 50% of award comprising listed company peers at median of at or above the comparator the upper Directly correlates reward with the return groups TSR quartile of the delivered to shareholders through share comparator price growth and dividend payments groups TSR Provides an objective measure of the Companys long-term success Total accounting return Rewards delivery of continued long-term 5% average 20% 11% average 100% significant added value per annum per annum 50% of award Key internal measure of the Companys long-term performance Reflects value added by the Companys asset management activities 1 The constituents of the TSR peer group for the 2018 awards are: A&J Mucklow Group Grainger Land Securities Group Shaftesbury British Land Company Great Portland Estates LondonMetric Property St. Modwen Properties Capital & Counties Properties Hammerson Picton Property Income Town Centre Securities Capital & Regional Hansteen Holdings Regional REIT U and I Group Derwent London Helical SEGRO Workspace Group 2 Vesting of awards between threshold and maximum performance will be on a straight-line basis.
Performance below threshold would result in nil vesting for that measure.
The 2017 18 awards will be subject to an additional performance condition whereby the Committee must be satisfied that the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the three-year performance period.
The 2017 18 awards will also be subject to a compulsory two-year post-vesting holding period, which will require executive directors to hold any shares vesting after tax for a period of two years, meaning there can be no disposal of shares for a period of at least five years from grant.
The holding period will remain in place if the executive leaves employment during the two-year holding period.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 105 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED All PSP awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
Awards Awards held on End of Awards held on Awards made Awards vested lapsed forfeited 30 November performance 1 Executive director Date of grant 1 December 2017 during year during year during year 2018 period Exercise period 4 5 Mark Allan 02 11 16 105,708 105,708 31 12 16 10 04 18 to 10 10 18 5 6 159,134 152,991 6,143 31 12 17 02 04 18 to 02 10 18 79,591 79,591 31 12 17 02 04 19 to 02 10 19 07 07 17 278,500 278,500 30 11 19 07 07 20 to 06 07 27 3 20 03 18 222,700 222,700 30 11 20 20 03 21 to 19 03 28 622,933 222,700 258,699 6,143 580,791 2 Rob Hudson 02 10 15 119,018 119,018 30 11 17 02 10 18 to 01 10 25 22 02 16 104,664 104,664 30 11 18 22 02 19 to 21 02 26 07 07 17 115,785 115,785 30 11 19 07 07 20 to 06 07 27 3 20 03 18 124,977 124,977 30 11 20 20 03 21 to 19 03 28 339,467 124,977 119,018 345,426 1 The performance conditions for the 2016 awards are based 50% on relative TSR compared to a peer group and 50% based on a range of absolute TSR targets, as described on page 104, in addition, all awards are subject to two underpin conditions, namely that a the extent of vesting under the performance conditions is appropriate given the general financial performance of the Company over the performance period: and b if no dividend has been paid on the last normal dividend date prior to the vesting date or if the Committee believes that no dividend will be paid in respect of the year in which the award vests, the award will not vest at that time and vesting will be delayed subject to continued employment until dividend payments are resumed.
2 2015 award granted on 2 October 2015 on Rob Hudson joining.
3 The share price used to calculate the number of shares awarded, under the rules of the PSP, was 390.07 pence, the three-day average share price before the date of the award.
4 The Company agreed to compensate Mark Allan for unvested share-based incentives awarded to him by his previous employer and forfeited as a consequence of him leaving to join St. Modwen on 1 November 2016.
The compensation comprised the grant, on 2 November 2016, of an award over 694,325 shares in the Company.
5 Vesting of two tranches of the award occurred on 10 April and 2 April 2018 respectively and Mark Allan exercised the awards on 10 April 2018.
Further details of the recruitment arrangements for Mark Allan can be found on page 90 of the 2015 16 remuneration report.
6 Award exercised reduced from 159,134 to 152,991 due to Unite plcs 2015 LTIP Mark Allans previous employer vesting at 96.14% of maximum.
Saving Related Share Option Scheme SAYE SAYE awards held by the executive directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below.
Options Options held on Options held on Options granted exercised during Options lapsed 30 November Executive director Date of grant 1 December 2017 during year year during year 2018 Exercise price Exercise period Mark Allan 13 08 18 9,090 9,090 330 pence 01 10 23 to 31 03 24 Rob Hudson 15 08 16 3,658 3,658 246 pence 01 10 19 to 31 03 20 13 08 18 4,545 4,545 330 pence 01 10 23 to 31 03 24 The closing mid-market share price on 30 November 2018 was 382.2 pence and the price range during the year was 365.0 pence to 426.0 pence.
St. Modwen Properties PLC 106 Annual report and financial statements 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Pension entitlements audited information All executive directors receive a pension contribution of 15% of base salary which is paid either into the defined contribution section of the Companys pension scheme or as a cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution or a combination of both.
No compensation is offered for any additional tax suffered by an executive director in the event that the value of their pension exceeds the statutory Lifetime Allowance.
Cash allowance in lieu of pension contribution Total Executive director 2018 2017 2018 2017 Mark Allan 86,869 84,750 86,869 84,750 Rob Hudson 48,750 42,281 48,750 42,281 135,619 127,031 135,619 127,031 Further information on the Companys pension scheme is shown in note 19 to the Group Financial Statements.
Payments to past directors and for loss of office audited information Details of payments to past director Bill Oliver and Steve Burke were disclosed in the 2017 Directors Remuneration reports and can be found on page 102 of that report.
Statement of directors shareholding and share interests audited information The interests of the directors and their connected persons in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company are shown in the table below.
As at 30 November 2018 or on date of leaving the Board if earlier Long term incentive awards vested Long term incentive Ordinary shares but unexercised awards not yet vested SAYE awards Executive directors Mark Allan 362,537 580,791 9,090 2 Rob Hudson 76,985 345,426 8,203 Non-executive directors Danuta Gray 10,500 Bill Shannon 95,000 Ian Bull 35,000 1 Kay Chaldecott 21,025 Simon Clarke 2,704,157 Jenefer Greenwood, OBE 10,359 Jamie Hopkins 12,564 Lesley James, CBE 30,000 1 Richard Mully 70,000 1 As at 28 March 2018 when ceased to be a director.
2 Of awards not yet vested as at 30 November 2018, the performance conditions for the 2016 PSP award have after 30 November been tested and 52,332 will vest on 22 February 2019 and 52,332 will lapse.
There have been no changes in these shareholdings or interests between 30 November 2018 and the date of this report.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual report and financial statements 2018 107
