Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Directors remuneration report Delivering fair, transparent and competitive remuneration, rewarding improved financial and strategic performance Highlights Committee composition Scheduled meetings The Committee considered the improved financial and strategic performance in 2018 C M Hodgson Chair 5 5 alongside other factors and concluded that remuneration outcomes should re ect a Group scorecard assessment of 55 per cent of the maximum Dr L Cheung 5 5 2018 Group discretionary incentives of $1,179 million which are 3 per cent higher than Dr B E Grote 5 5 in 2017, compared with a 28 per cent increase in underlying pro t N Kheraj 5 5 Annual incentive award of 50 per cent of xed remuneration for Bill Winters, Group 1 J M Whitbread 4 5 Chief Executive, and 48 per cent of xed remuneration for Andy Halford, Group Chief 1 Jasmine Whitbread was unable to attend the meeting Financial Of cer held on 25 July 2018 due to a prior arranged business commitment Good progress made on delivering against the commitments set out in our Fair Pay Charter Other attendees for relevant parts of Committee meetings in 2018 included: Group A new directors remuneration policy will be proposed for implementation in 2019, Chairman: Group Chief Executive: Group Head, HR: subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
The key Global Head, Performance, Reward and Conduct: elements of the proposed policy are: Group Company Secretary: Group Chief Financial Simpli ed structure of xed remuneration Of cer: Group Chief Risk Of cer: Group General Counsel: Group Head of Compliance.
Alignment of pension contribution for new directors to the contribution level for The Committee has written terms of reference that UK employees can be viewed at sc.
com termsofreference Unchanged structure of variable remuneration Main responsibilities of the Committee In certain speci c retirement situations the Committee will have the exibility to The Committee is responsible for setting the choose to disapply the time proration of long-term incentive plan LTIP awards.
governance framework for remuneration for all This will not be automatic and the Committee will consider the circumstances of colleagues.
The Committee is already well positioned each case at the relevant time against the requirements of the revised UK Corporate Governance Code.
In particular, the Committee: Signi cantly increased shareholding requirements Determines and agrees with the Board the Introduction of post-employment shareholding requirements remuneration framework and policies for the Group Chairman, executive directors and other senior executives, taking into account workforce Introduction remuneration and the alignment of incentives and reward with culture On behalf of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the directors Approves Group discretionary incentives, including remuneration report for the year ended 31 December 2018. risk adjustment Reviews and approves the Groups Fair Pay This directors remuneration report is subject to two shareholder votes at the 2019 AGM: Charter which includes oversight of the The application in 2018 of the existing directors remuneration policy is subject to an development and implementation of workforce advisory vote remuneration policies and practices, ensuring they are consistent with sound and effective risk A binding vote on the proposed directors remuneration policy which, if approved, management, the Groups Culture and Valued will apply from the date of the AGM.
The policy sets out the framework for directors Behaviours and long-term sustainable success remuneration for up to three years Oversees the identi cation of material risk takers and ensures their incentives are structured in Our Fair Pay Charter sets out the principles we use to make remuneration decisions accordance with the requirements of the prevailing that are fair, transparent, competitive and strongly re ect business and individual remuneration rules performance, supporting us in embedding a high performance culture.
Our approach to remuneration promotes long-term focus and alignment with shareholder interests, and Directors remuneration report 94 Remuneration summary re ects the achievement of financial and strategic results as well as the demonstration 96 The Remuneration Committee of our valued behaviours in pay decisions.
We seek to keep remuneration as simple 97 Directors remuneration in 2018 as possible, ensure we meet all regulatory requirements and incorporate evolving 103 Group-wide remuneration in 2018 best practice.
In making decisions on remuneration for 2018 for all colleagues, and in 108 Proposed new directors remuneration policy setting the direction for 2019, the Committee considered these principles as well as 116 2019 policy implementation for directors the progress made since 2015, the overall performance of the Group in 2018 and our 118 Additional remuneration disclosures refreshed strategic priorities for 2019 to 2021.
91 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report We believe that our decisions deliver competitive remuneration, fairly The status of historical financial crime controls was taken in to differentiated to reward colleagues for the financial and strategic consideration by the Committee when determining historical performance which has delivered the fundamentally stronger platform incentives and risk adjustments were made at that time.
The ongoing off which to grow and transform the business further.
remediation of financial crime control issues formed part of the scorecards used to determine 2018 remuneration outcomes, and For the year ahead, remuneration decisions will re ect our refreshed maintaining and enhancing effective financial crime compliance strategy for 2019 to deliver our next phase of growth.
The strategy controls is also re ected in the scorecards that will be used to seeks to improve productivity signi cantly and to deliver strong results determine 2019 remuneration outcomes.
The Committee will continue to our stakeholders.
to monitor the resolution of the US investigation and the FCA process and consider it as part of remuneration decision-making as new Our Fair Pay Charter information comes to light.
Attracting, retaining and motivating a diverse, future-ready workforce is essential to delivering on our purpose, long-term strategy and Directors remuneration in 2018 shareholder returns.
In support of this, in 2017 the Committee Under the existing policy, approved by shareholders in May 2016, developed our Fair Pay Charter which sets out the principles we use executive directors were eligible for a maximum annual incentive to determine and deliver pay for all colleagues globally, including of 80 per cent of xed remuneration see 2018 annual incentive senior management and executive directors.
We are proud to share awards below and a maximum long-term incentive plan award in this report more details about how we meet the commitments in of 120 per cent of xed remuneration see 201921 LTIP awards the Charter and our plans for making further progress against the to be granted in March 2019 below in respect of 2018. stretching goals we have set ourselves.
One of these goals is to pay a living wage across all 60 of our markets.
During 2018, we 2018 annual incentive awards developed our understanding of living wages and took action to The Committee determined that Bill and Andy should receive annual pay all employees at or above this level, meeting our commitment incentives of 50 and 48 per cent of xed remuneration respectively one year ahead of our target.
We have also developed our wellbeing based on Group and individual performance compared with programme with bene ts which underpin our four pillars: mental, 61 per cent in 2017.
Notwithstanding the improvement in Group physical, social and financial wellbeing, and have begun a multi-year performance and the strong personal performance against their programme introducing exibility to allow colleagues to tailor their objectives, the more stretching targets set for 2018 and the bene ts to their individual needs.
Committees consideration of other factors including share price performance during the year resulted in a 17 per cent year-on-year Remuneration outcomes for 2018 reduction in the annual incentive award for Bill and an 18 per cent In 2015, we announced a strategic plan to secure the Groups year-on-year reduction for Andy.
Further information on the foundations, get lean and focused, and invest and innovate.
determination of the annual incentive awards is provided on Substantial progress has been made in executing the strategy.
Underlying pro t is four times higher and return on equity RoE on an 201921 LTIP awards to be granted in March 2019 underlying basis has increased to 4.6 per cent.
The quality of our loan portfolio is greatly improved and our Common Equity Tier 1 CET1 201921 LTIP awards will be granted in March 2019, delivered in ratio has reached 14.2 per cent, which together with our improved ordinary shares and with a value of 120 per cent of xed remuneration pro tability allowed us to reinstate the full year and interim dividends at the time of award.
Depending on performance over the next three during 2018.
The progress made in building a fundamentally stronger years, awards will be deferred over seven years and an additional platform is a critical enabler to delivering sustainable returns above one-year retention period will apply post-vesting.
Performance will the cost of capital over the medium term.
When determining 2018 be assessed based on return on tangible equity RoTE with a CET1 remuneration outcomes, the Committee: underpin, total shareholder return TSR relative to a peer group, and the achievement of strategic measures that are aligned to the Groups Considered the importance of rewarding employees for the refreshed strategic priorities: to deliver our network and grow our improved strategic and financial performance in the year.
Underlying af uent business: transform and disrupt with digital: and purpose pro t has increased by 28 per cent year-on-year.
generation and enhanced risk management have further increased the Groups resilience.
Strategic progress has been made including RoTE is one of the financial KPIs that will be used to measure improved client satisfaction, credit quality and cost savings, growth progress against our refreshed strategic priorities see pages 17 to 19. in digital volumes and signi cant improvements in innovation The Committee considers target setting carefully before each grant and is committed to setting targets that are challenging and act as an Acknowledged the disappointing share price performance in 2018 effective incentive for executive directors to execute the strategy.
The and, that despite improved pro tability, returns are not yet above the RoTE target range for 201921 LTIP awards is 8 to 11 per cent, which cost of capital has been set considering the Groups current financial position and Took account of current and future risks identi ed by the Groups plan, and the market environment and outlook.
The broadly equivalent Principal Risk Types including operational, conduct, information and RoE range is 7 to 10 per cent which represents a continued increase cyber security and financial crime risks in the stretch of our performance targets over recent years, from an RoE target range of 5 to 8 per cent for the 201719 LTIP and from a Considered the wage in ation pressures in many of the emerging range of 6 to 9 per cent for the 201820 LTIP.
Further information on markets in which we operate.
95 per cent of colleagues are based the grant of the 201921 LTIP awards is provided on pages 99 to 100. outside of Europe & Americas Considering these factors, the Committee concluded that 201618 LTIP awards vesting in May 2019 remuneration outcomes should re ect a Group scorecard The 201618 LTIP awards are due to vest in May 2019 and are subject assessment of 55 per cent of the maximum.
This resulted in to performance over three years from 2016 to 2018.
Following an discretionary incentives in 2018 of $1,179 million, representing assessment of the performance conditions, 27 per cent of these an increase of 3 per cent on 2017 compared with a 28 per cent awards are expected to vest.
This re ects zero vesting for the RoE increase in underlying pro t. and TSR measures which are below the threshold targets set and strong performance against our strategic objectives, securing the foundations needed to deliver higher returns in the medium-term.
Standard Chartered 92 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Further information on the vesting of the 201618 LTIP awards is awards in certain circumstances.
This would reinforce the alignment provided on pages 100 to 101. of executive directors remuneration with the Groups financial and strategic performance and shareholders interests beyond their tenure.
Single total gure of remuneration for 2018 Before considering whether to exercise their discretion to disapply proration to the vesting of LTIP awards the Committee would need The 2018 single total gure of remuneration consists of xed to be satis ed that the executive director: remuneration received in 2018, annual incentives relating to 2018 performance see above section on 2018 annual incentive awards, Has more than five years service on the Board and long-term incentives where 2018 is the last year of the Is retiring from full-time employment in financial services and performance cycle see above section on 201618 LTIP awards comparable roles in other industries vesting in May 2019.
Has demonstrated satisfactory conduct and achieved their performance objectives This represents a year-on-year increase of 27 and 28 per cent respectively, re ecting the first LTIP awards vesting to Bill and Has a Board approved handover plan in place to support the Andy since their appointments in 2015 and 2014 respectively.
transition to an identi ed successor A signi cant portion of their total remuneration is delivered in If these criteria have been met the Committee would then carefully shares which will be released over the next five years.
The deferral, consider using its discretion to disapply time proration on a case-byretention and recovery provisions reinforce continued alignment case basis, taking into account all of the circumstances at that time.
If with shareholder interests and the Groups long-term performance.
the exibility were to be used, typically, there would be no LTIP award Further information on the single total gure of remuneration is in the final year of employment or additional payments in lieu of notice provided on page 101. and there will be clear and detailed disclosure in the subsequent directors remuneration report explaining the circumstances and Proposed new directors remuneration policy why the decision was made.
If an executive director retires and subsequently takes up comparable executive employment again, We will be proposing a new directors remuneration policy to unvested awards that had proration disapplied will lapse and the shareholders for approval at the AGM in May 2019.
The Committee executive will be expected to re-pay any vested awards.
conducted a detailed review of the directors remuneration policy in 2018 and considered views of shareholders, our refreshed strategic Details of the proposed directors remuneration policy for 2019 and priorities, market benchmarking and best practice.
how it will be implemented are set out on pages 108 to 117.
The current policy is well-supported by shareholders receiving a 94 per cent vote in favour when it was implemented in 2016 and Directors remuneration for 2019 continues to support the delivery of our long-term strategy.
During our Following a review of xed remuneration, the Committee noted that review of the policy, alternative variable remuneration structures were there had been no increase for Bill since his appointment in June considered, such as removing the long-term incentive component 2015.
Taking this into account, together with his development in the and introducing restricted shares.
Following careful consideration, role since joining the Group and his remuneration compared with the Committee decided to retain the key features of the current global peers, the Committee awarded a total salary increase of policy, and to enhance some components in order to achieve further 3 per cent, from 2,300,000 to 2,370,000, with effect from 1 April simplicity, increase shareholder alignment and reinforce sustained 2019.
In making this decision the Committee also took into account long-term focus on our strategic priorities.
The refreshed policy the pay increases made to the broader employee population, which ensures continued regulatory compliance and re ects evolving best have been, on average, 4 per cent per year since 2015. practice in many areas.
The key features of the new policy are: Following the review, no increase was made to xed remuneration A simpli ed xed pay structure combining salary and xed pay for Andy.
His xed remuneration components will be rebalanced to allowances FPA into total salary delivered as a combination of maintain the same total xed remuneration and a similar proportion cash and shares.
This re ects that both of these elements are of cash under the new policy as currently details are provided on considered when determining the pay of the executive directors page 116. for their role, skills and experience The Committee will continue to review xed remuneration annually.
For future directors we will set the pension contribution at The structure of remuneration in 2019 will be set by the new directors 10 per cent of total salary in line with the pension contribution rate remuneration policy being proposed at the May 2019 AGM, which is for all employees in the UK.
For the existing directors, to deliver the summarised above with full details on pages 108 to 115. current contractual value and to re ect the change to total salary, We have consulted shareholders extensively as part of reviewing pension will be set at 20 per cent of total salary our directors remuneration policy and I would like to thank them for Signi cantly increased shareholding requirements to 250 per cent their engagement and valuable contribution.
I look forward to further of total salary for the Group Chief Executive and 200 per cent of engagement with stakeholders during 2019 and hearing your views.
total salary for the Group Chief Financial Of cer.
This signi cantly increases the value of the required holding and changes the structure of the requirement from a speci ed number of shares to a percentage of total salary, which is more common practice A new post-employment shareholding requirement of 100 per cent of the shareholding requirement in place for Christine Hodgson one year and 50 per cent of the requirement in place in the Chair of the Remuneration Committee second year following cessation of employment Currently, if an executive director retires, their LTIP awards vest on a pro rata basis depending on time served during the performance period.
The Committee has carefully considered, and discussed with major shareholders, the inclusion of a provision in the policy to provide them with the exibility to disapply time proration on the vesting of LTIP 93 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Remuneration summary Variable remuneration awarded to directors in respect of 2018 In 2018, the annual incentive opportunity for executive directors was a maximum of 80 per cent of xed remuneration.
The annual incentive re ects the Group scorecard outcome of 55 per cent of the maximum and the executive directors personal performance in their respective areas of responsibility.
Executive directors will also receive an LTIP award of 120 per cent of xed remuneration, subject to three-year RoTE performance with a CET1 underpin, relative TSR and a combination of strategic measures focused on the delivery of the strategic priorities.
Detailed information on the determination of individual variable remuneration awards can be found on pages 97 to 101.
W T Winters A N Halford 2018 2017 2018 2017 Annual incentive 000 1,391 1,678 850 1,039 Annual incentive as a percentage of xed remuneration excluding bene ts 50% 61% 48% 61% LTIP award value of shares subject to performance conditions 000 3,312 3,312 2,118 2,051 LTIP award as a percentage of xed remuneration 120% 120% 120% 120% Total variable remuneration as a percentage of xed remuneration 170% 181% 168% 181% Total variable remuneration 000 4,703 4,990 2,968 3,090 New directors remuneration policy for 2019 At our May 2019 AGM we will propose a new directors remuneration policy.
Full details of the policy are set out on pages 108 to 115 of this report.
The following table sets out the key elements of the proposed policy and an explanation of the changes being made.
Summary of the proposed new directors remuneration policy Element of proposed policy Summary Details Fixed Total salary A combination of existing cash salary and xed New structure for 2019 to simplify the remuneration pay allowance, to be delivered part in cash paid labelling of xed pay monthly and part in shares to be released over five years Pension 20 per cent of total salary for existing directors The policy for new directors is in line and 10 per cent of total salary for new directors with the pension contribution rate for all UK employees Bene ts Bene ts package which supports directors to Unchanged from previous policy carry out their duties effectively Variable Annual incentive award Based on the Group scorecard of a combination Unchanged from previous policy remuneration of financial and strategic targets and personal performance, measured over one year Maximum opportunity of 80 per cent of xed remuneration fide ned as total salary and pension to be delivered as a combination of cash and shares subject to holding requirements Long-term incentive plan award Awards to be granted annually and subject Unchanged from previous policy to performance measured over three years Maximum opportunity of 120 per cent of xed remuneration with phased vesting over three to seven years Total variable remuneration cannot exceed Unchanged from previous policy 200 per cent of xed remuneration Other elements Shareholding requirements Increased to 250 per cent of total salary for the The new policy introduces signi cantly CEO and 200 per cent of total salary for the CFO increased requirements and is set as a proportion of total salary rather than a number of shares to align with market practice Post-employment 100 per cent of the shareholding requirement New provision for 2019 to increase shareholding requirement in place for one year and 50 per cent of the alignment with shareholder interests requirement in place for the second year and long-term focus following cessation of employment Leaver provisions The Committee will have the discretion to New provision for 2019 to provide the disapply proration for time not served during Committee with the ability to reinforce the performance period to the vesting of LTIP that directors remuneration supports awards, in speci c retirement situations and robust succession and transition planning on a case-by-case basis, when speci c criteria and sustained long-term focus have been met Standard Chartered 94 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Executive directors remuneration structure in 2019 The following table illustrates the structure of the new policy, demonstrating the long-term delivery of remuneration: 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 Implementation for 2019 Bill Winters: 2,370,000 an increase of 3 per cent Total salary Total salary shares with effect from 1 April 2019, delivered 50 per cent in cash phased release shares, 50 per cent in cash Andy Halford: 1,471,000 delivered 33 per cent in shares and 67 per cent in cash Total salary shares allocated during 2019 and released from 2020 over five years Pension of 10 per cent of total salary for any new Pension and executive director appointed bene ts Pension of 20 per cent of total salary for existing executive directors to ful l existing contractual requirements: 474,000 for Bill and 294,000 for Andy A bene ts package that supports executives to carry out their duties effectively Maximum of 80 per cent of xed remuneration Annual Determined based on a balanced scorecard and incentive personal performance The Group scorecard is weighted 50 per cent financial Awarded measures and 50 per cent strategic measures.
Further details can be found on page 117 Delivered in March 2020 following year end Subject to ex-post risk adjustment provisions Maximum of 120 per cent of xed remuneration LTIP Award deferred for three to seven years, with performance measured over 2020 to 2022 and vesting between 2023 and 2027 Performance period Phased vesting Performance measures for LTIP awards to be granted in March 2020 will be disclosed in the 2019 annual report Subject to ex-post risk adjustment provisions Remuneration approach for all employees Employees typically receive salary, pension and other bene ts and are eligible to be considered for variable remuneration determined based on both business and individual performance.
To support transparent communication with colleagues on pay, we are publishing our first internal Fair Pay Report which will update colleagues on how the Fair Pay Charter is being met through our reward and performance approach, as well as highlighting areas of the Charter where the Group intends on making further progress in meeting its objectives.
Our Fair Pay Charter and a summary of the Fair Pay Report, together with details of our Group-wide remuneration approach and how it applies to different groups of employees, is provided on pages 103 to 104.
Element Operation Salaries re ect the skills and experience of the individual and are reviewed annually, taking into account market Total salary information, the individuals personal performance and affordability Group-wide principles are applied when salaries are set and reviewed and apply to all employees, including executive directors Salaries are typically delivered in cash monthly.
For executive directors a portion of salary is delivered as shares over five years to enhance alignment with shareholder interests Bene ts are provided depending on local market practice and typically comprise company-funded elements such Pension and as pension schemes, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life assurance and cash allowances bene ts Pension levels differ globally to be competitive and to meet regulatory requirements in our different markets, and there is therefore no single pension level across the Group Employees are typically eligible to be considered for variable remuneration based on Group, business and Discretionary  variable The same Group scorecard is used for all those eligible including the executive directors remuneration Annual incentives are delivered in cash up to certain limits and the balance is deferred in shares and or cash 95 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report The Remuneration Committee The Committee is responsible for overseeing the remuneration of all assurance, advisory, tax advice and certain services relating to colleagues including determining the framework and policies for the Human Resources.
The Committee considered PwCs role as an remuneration of the Group Chairman, the executive directors and adviser to the Group, and determined that there was no conict or other senior management, and overseeing workforce remuneration, potential conict arising.
The Committee is satisfied that the advice ensuring alignment of reward, incentives and culture.
the Committee receives is objective and independent.
The total fee paid to PwC on an agreed per diem fee basis was 137,231 which The Committee has written terms of reference that can be viewed at sc.
com termsofreference includes advice to the Committee relating to executive directors remuneration and regulatory matters.
Managements advice to the Committee was also supported by the provision of market data from Shareholder voting and shareholder engagement PwC included in the above fee and from Willis Towers Watson.
1 The table below shows the votes cast at the AGM in May 2018 on remuneration-related matters.
The binding vote on the directors The Group Chief Financial Of cer and Group Chief Risk officer remuneration policy at the May 2016 AGM received a vote in favour provided the Committee with regular updates on finance and risk of 94 per cent.
The Committee recognises and manages any conicts of interest when receiving views from executive directors For Against Withheld or senior management on executive remuneration proposals and Advisory vote on the 629,891,075 21,735,458 11,506,710 no individual is involved in deciding their own remuneration.
2017 remuneration report 96.66% 3.34% Priorities for the Committee in 2019 1 Number of votes is equal to number of shares held Speci c priorities for the Committee in 2019, in addition to its usual During 2018, the Committee consulted with shareholders on the scheduled activities, will be to: development of the new directors remuneration policy and the Implement the 2019 directors remuneration policy for performance measures used to determine variable remuneration executive directors outcomes and sought feedback.
The proposed policy has been Continue to review the implementation of the Fair Pay Charter and re ned and nalised taking shareholder feedback into consideration.
alignment of workforce policies and practices with the principles In particular, key areas of focus for shareholders were shareholding Monitor market trends to ensure the Groups remuneration requirements, pension contribution levels and the introduction of remains competitive, in the context of improving performance discretion to disapply time proration to the vesting of LTIP awards and productivity for retiring executive directors in certain circumstances.
Continue to assess the alignment between Group incentives and Advice to the Committee a high performance, client focused, innovation culture and the The Committee was assisted in its considerations by delivery of the strategy  LLP PwC who were formally Ensure compliance with the requirements of the 2018 UK Corporate re-appointed by the Committee as its remuneration adviser Governance Code and the additions to the Directors Remuneration in 2017.
It is the Committees practice to undertake a detailed Report Regulations for financial years starting on 1 January 2019 review of potential advisers every three to four years.
Committee effectiveness review PwC is a signatory to the voluntary Code of Conduct in relation to Observations from the 2018 effectiveness review undertaken by the remuneration consulting in the UK.
PwC also provides professional Committee can be found on page 69 of the Directors report.
services to the Group in the ordinary course of business including Committee activities in the year 16 January 30 January 25 July 2 October 28 November Consideration of financial performance and risk, control and conduct matters Summary of engagement with shareholders and regulators, and consideration of feedback, emerging regulatory, investor, political and governance trends, and AGM outcomes Executive directors remuneration: Review of the directors remuneration policy Review of xed and variable remuneration Annual and long-term incentive performance measures, targets and outcomes Senior management remuneration: Review remuneration proposals on recruitment and on termination of senior employees Review of xed and variable remuneration for senior management Identi cation of material risk takers and review of xed and variable remuneration Annual and long-term incentive performance measures, targets and outcomes All employee remuneration: Group-wide discretionary incentives Outcomes from the annual performance and reward review Annual and long-term incentive performance measures, targets and outcomes The Fair Pay Charter and the gender pay gap The Committee held an additional meeting in 2018 to discuss strategic matters relating to the Groups approach to performance management and remuneration with particular focus on the changing nature of the workforce and workplace and on how we reward our colleagues.
The Committee dealt with certain less material matters on an ad hoc basis through email circulation.
Standard Chartered 96 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Directors remuneration in 2018 This section sets out how the remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2016 was applied during 2018 and, together with the section on 2018 fees for the Group Chairman and independent non-executive directors INEDs, is subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
Standard Chartereds remuneration policy in place for 2018 for executive directors, the Group Chairman and INEDs was approved at the AGM held on 4 May 2016 and applies for three years from that date.
The full policy can be found on pages 105 to 114 of the 2015 Annual Report.
Annual incentive awards for the executive directors audited Annual incentive awards for all eligible employees are based on the assessment of the Group scorecard, an assessment of individual performance and, for most employees, an assessment of the performance of their business area or function.
The same Group scorecard is used for the executive directors and other employees.
For Bill Winters and Andy Halford, the Committee considered Group performance, the performance of each of them, and risk, control and conduct-related matters with input from Risk and other control functions.
The Committee followed a three-step process for determining annual incentive awards.
Consider eligibility: The Committee considered that each director had exhibited an appropriate level of conduct against targets set and was deemed to have met the gateway requirement to be eligible for an incentive.
Evaluate performance against the Groups scorecard: The Group achieved good financial performance during 2018 in challenging operating conditions, delivering improved income, operating pro t and RoE.
Speci c strategic achievements included improved client satisfaction, credit quality and cost savings, growth in digital volumes and signi cant improvements in innovation.
4, 5 Measures Weighting Target Assessment of achievement Outcome 1 Total income 10% Threshold: $14.5 billion $15 billion 5% Mid-point of target range: $15 billion Maximum: $15.5 billion 1 Operating pro t 10% Threshold: $3.1 billion $3.9 billion 10% Mid-point of target range: $3.45 billion Maximum: $3.8 billion RoE plus CET1 20% Threshold: 4% RoE of 4.6% 10% 2 underpin Mid-point of target range: 4.5% CET1 of 14.2% Maximum: 5% Funding 10% Threshold: 3 basis points bps 4.2 bps 4% 3 optimisation Mid-point of target range: 5 bps Maximum: 7 bps Focus on clients 10% Improve client satisfaction rating Client satisfaction improved and targets 5% and growth, and exceeded across Commercial and Deliver client growth in target segments drive cross-bank Private Banking client segments Increase segmental collaboration collaboration Client growth just behind target and further improvement required in segmental collaboration Strengthen 10% Improve credit quality Exceeded targeted improvement in credit quality 5% foundations in Maintain effective and sustainable anti-money Achieved targets for AML and sanctions controls risk and control laundering AML and sanctions controls Slightly behind target in achievement of cyber risk Successfully deliver cyber risk management management plan milestones plan milestones Improve ef ciency, 10% Achieve gross cost savings and cost-to-income Client on-boarding turnaround times improved 7% productivity and ratio targets as targeted service quality Improve productivity Gross cost savings of $527m exceeded a target of $450m and risk adjusted revenue measures Improve client on-boarding turnaround time per FTE ahead of targets set Cost-to-income ratio of 68% is behind threshold level Embed innovation, 10% Deliver growth in digital volumes Target achieved in growth in digital volumes 7% digitisation and Drive innovation through new products, solutions Signi cant improvements made in innovation analytics and services to clients exceeding initial targets set against an index Invest in people, 10% Improve management diversity Employee net promoter score of 11.3 exceeded a 6% strengthen culture target of 7.5 and sustainability targets exceeded Improve scores against employee engagement and conduct and culture of inclusion metrics Satisfactory progress made on conduct plans as targeted Diversity and culture of inclusion metrics behind target Total 100% Total scorecard assessment 59% The Committee considered underlying business performance, shareholder returns and current and future risks identi ed by the Groups Principal Risk Types including operational, conduct, information and cyber security and financial crime risks and concluded that annual incentives should re ect a scorecard outcome of 55 per cent.
The Committee recognises that share price performance during 2018 was disappointing, and took this into account when nalising the overall annual incentive outcomes for the executive directors and other employees.
Total scorecard outcome for the executive 55% directors and other employees 97 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Notes to the 2018 Group scorecard assessment 1 Total income and operating pro t are on an underlying basis.
Certain items are presented as restructuring and other items that are excluded from the underlying results of the Group.
These are income, costs and impairment and resulting operating pro t relating to identi able business units, products or portfolios from the relevant dates that they have been approved for restructuring, disposal, wind down or redundancy.
This includes realised and unrealised gains and losses from managements decisions to dispose of assets as well as residual income, direct costs and impairment of related legacy assets of those identi able business units, products or portfolios.
See Note 2 page 246 2 RoE was based on pro t attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-effected basis, for pro ts or losses of a capital nature, restructuring charges, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent and infrequent exceptional transactions that are signi cant or material in the context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period.
The CET1 underpin was set at the higher of 12 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2018 taking into account any transition rules or material changes in regulatory rules.
Unaudited 3 Funding optimisation was an initiative that targets an ef cient level and mix of funding liabilities to support the Groups growth aspirations.
Measured in basis points reduction in funding costs relative to a normalised benchmark, which excludes the impact of interest rate movement, but requires a minimum level of growth in quality funding.
Unaudited 4 A maximum minimum performance threshold was set for each performance measure.
The Committee used its judgement to determine scorecard outcomes within this range with a higher than 50 per cent outcome for performance above target and a lower than 50 per cent outcome for below target performance 5 Strategic targets are aligned to internal scorecards measuring in-year progress on multi-year initiatives.
Assess personal performance and nalise awards: As outlined in the policy, the Committee can make an upwards or downwards adjustment to the scorecard outcome for personal performance, consistent with the approach for other employees who were eligible to be considered for discretionary incentives.
When considering whether such an adjustment is appropriate, the Committee considers the particular areas of responsibility of the executive director together with the objectives that they were asked to prioritise for the year and their personal contribution to the scorecard outcome.
The adjustment will usually be in the range of - 10 percentage points to the scorecard outcome.
Bill Winters The Committee assessed Bill as having outstanding personal performance against his personal objectives during 2018 and in role modelling the valued behaviours expected by the Board.
During 2018, Bills leadership has secured the improved performance re ected in the scorecard, as well as broader successes in strengthening the Groups foundations and in the increased impetus to becoming a simpler, more productive and more innovative organisation.
Taking this into account, the Committee considered an adjustment of 8 percentage points to be appropriate and determined to award an annual incentive of 63 per cent of the maximum opportunity.
This equates to 50 per cent of xed remuneration 61 per cent in 2017.
Key objectives Achievement Lead by example and role model The Committee considered Bill as having role modelled the conduct and behaviour expected by the Board, the Groups valued behaviours setting the very strong tone from the top and the high bar on conduct, which have been instrumental in delivering the 2018 financial and strategic objectives This is supported by feedback from colleagues across the Group, the leadership team and the Board, showing that Bill is a very effective, respected and trusted executive leader Embed culture change, During 2018, Bill continued to build on his efforts in 2017 to strengthen the culture across all levels and areas of the instilling a challenging, business.
He personally led the refresh and launch of our valued behaviours and has devoted considerable time high performance culture and effort to embedding these Bills energy and focus has had positive results, with the stronger performance culture evident to the Board, both in improved performance and in day-to-day operations Bill personally led initiatives to embed a new approach to problem-solving that increases simplicity and speed in client processes and injected a new focus on innovation, meeting key objectives set by the Board Develop refreshed long-term During 2018, Bill met his objective to better understand the long-term challenges the Group is facing from external vision and strategy for the Group domains and to put plans in place to turn these into opportunities for longer-term growth.
The results of this are evident in the refreshed strategic priorities Maintain effective and The Committee considered Bill to have delivered against this objective based on regulatory, investor and constructive relationships client feedback with our stakeholders Bill took signi cant time personally to cultivate and maintain important client relationships Andy Halford The Committee assessed Andy as having made a strong personal performance during 2018 against his personal objectives and in demonstrating the valued behaviours expected by the Board.
During 2018 Andy led the successful design of key strategic initiatives for the Group, improving ef ciency and productivity.
Taking these achievements into account, alongside Andys personal contribution to the scorecard outcome, the Committee considered an adjustment of 5 percentage points to be appropriate and determined to award an annual incentive of 60 per cent of the maximum opportunity.
This equates to 48 per cent of xed remuneration 61 per cent in 2017.
Standard Chartered 98 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Key objectives Achievement Lead by example and role model The Committee considered that Andy continues to foster a positive culture, setting the tone from the top by the Groups valued behaviours demonstrating very high standards of conduct and behaviour He maintains strong relationships with stakeholders and colleagues, and constructively challenges and contributes to the Management Team and the Boards decision-making Deliver agreed 2018 plans for Andy exceeded targets for Strategy and Corporate Development, with executable plans in place for nine key Corporate Development, growth markets and relevant corporate transactions delivered effectively Strategy, Property and Treasury Andy met Treasury targets, enhancing quality, reducing the costs of the liabilities base and making strong progress on improving portfolio risk return Andy met Property targets, reducing Property costs per employee Deliver improved productivity Andy has dedicated signi cant time and effort to driving the shift from ef ciency to productivity in 2018, with signs of early progress and foundations in place for 2019 Gross cost reductions for 2018 exceeded targets set.
Andy enhanced and simpli ed reporting and tracking in 2018, operationalising new productivity metrics in line with targets set Key milestones on IFRS9 were met In 2018, Andy made a signi cant contribution to creating a Hong Kong hub entity structure to enhance further capital and liquidity utilisation across the Group Net interest margins continued to improve in 2018 Deliver on people and conduct Andy delivered a material improvement in employee net promoter score, in the culture of inclusion and on female plans for functions in his portfolio management diversity metrics for his functions, exceeding the targets set He has delivered the people development plans across his portfolio, including very good progress in developing a strong leadership team Maintain effective and The Committee considered Andy to have delivered against this objective based on regulatory and investor constructive working feedback and progress on relevant regulatory matters and transactions relationships with stakeholders Long-term incentive plan awards for the executive directors to be granted in 2019 LTIP awards for the 2018 performance year will be granted to Bill and Andy in March 2019 with a value of 120 per cent of xed remuneration 3.3 million and 2.1 million respectively.
Remuneration regulations for European banks mean that dividend equivalent shares are not permitted to be awarded on vesting.
The number of shares awarded in respect of the LTIP will take into account the lack of dividend equivalents calculated by reference to market consensus dividend yield such that the overall market value of the award is maintained.
These awards will vest in five annual tranches beginning after the third anniversary of the grant i. e. March 2022 to March 2026 subject to meeting the performance measures set out below at the end of 2021.
All vested shares are subject to a 12-month retention period.
The Committees starting point for determining performance measures and target levels was to review the financial plan and the Groups strategic priorities.
The Committee also balanced the Groups current financial position and the market environment and outlook with ensuring the executive directors are incentivised in a challenging yet realistic manner.
Performance for 201921 LTIP awards will be assessed based on RoTE with a CET1 underpin, TSR relative to a peer group, and the achievement of strategic measures.
This aligns with the Group moving to reporting RoTE, rather than RoE, as it is a more commonly used metric.
The equal weighting of the measures provides a balanced performance assessment, giving an appropriate focus on execution of the strategy, investor returns and prudent risk-taking.
The RoTE target range for 201921 LTIP awards is 8 to 11 per cent, which has been set considering the financial plan and market outlook.
The equivalent RoE range is broadly 7 to 10 per cent which represents a continued increase in the stretch of our performance targets over recent years, from an RoE target range of 5 to 8 per cent in the 201719 LTIP and from a range of 6 to 9 per cent in the 201820 LTIP.
The criteria used to select the comparator group for the calculation of the relative TSR performance measure are companies with generally comparable business activities, size or geographic spread to Standard Chartered or companies with which the Group competes for investor funds and talent.
In aggregate, the comparator group is intended to be representative of the Groups geographic presence and business operations.
The constituents of the comparator group are reviewed annually, prior to each new LTIP grant.
The TSR comparator group for 201921 LTIP awards will be the same as for the 201820 LTIP and is detailed overleaf.
TSR is measured in sterling for each company and the TSR data averaged over a month at the start and end of the three-year measurement period which starts from the date of grant.
99 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Performance measures for 201921 long-term incentive plan awards Conduct gateway requirement to be met in order for awards to vest An appropriate level of individual valued behaviours and conduct have to be exhibited before the vesting of awards is considered.
Amount vesting Threshold performance Maximum performance Measure Weighting as a % of total award target target 1,2 1.
RoTE in 2021 plus CET1 underpin One-third Maximum 33.3% 8% 11% of the higher of 13% or the minimum Threshold 8.3% regulatory requirement Below threshold 0% 3 2.
Relative TSR against peer group One-third Maximum 33.3% Median Upper quartile Threshold 8.3% Below threshold 0% 3.
Strategic measures One-third Maximum 33.3% Performance against each component of the scorecard will be assessed by the Committee Minimum 0% using proof points to determine the percentage of the award that may vest Deliver our network and grow our af uent business Improve client satisfaction rating Deliver client growth in target segments Capitalise on China opportunities including through RMB and mainland wealth growth Develop Africa through digital growth, increasing the number of clients and improving client satisfaction Maintain credit quality Transform and disrupt with digital Use partnership, platforms and technologies to improve client experience Deliver progression through growth in digital volumes Purpose and people Enhance compliance and financial crime compliance controls Successfully deliver cyber risk management plan milestones Develop Human Capital by improving diversity, employee engagement and culture of inclusion metrics and by delivering conduct plans 1 Normalised RoTE is based on pro t attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-affected basis, for any fair value changes relating to gains losses on disposals, exceptional transactions and restructuring gains and losses, expenses and impairments that are signi cant or material in the context of the Groups normal business for the period, less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period.
Normalised RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines but, for remuneration purposes, this would be subject to review by the Remuneration Committee 2 If RoTE reaches 8 per cent then 8.3 per cent of the award vests.
If RoTE reaches 11 per cent then 33.3 per cent of the award vests.
If RoTE is between the threshold and maximum, vesting is calculated on a straight-line basis between these two points 3 Relative TSR is measured against a comparator group.
If the Groups TSR performance is at least equivalent to the median ranked company then 8.3 per cent of the award vests.
If the Groups TSR performance is at least equal to the upper quartile ranked company then 33.3 per cent of the award vests.
Between these points, the Groups TSR is compared to that of the comparators positioned immediately above and below it and straight-line vesting applies The comparator group for the TSR measure in the 201921 LTIP is set out below: Banco Santander Barclays DBS Group ICICI Socit Gnrale United Overseas Bank Bank of America BNP Paribas Deutsche Bank JPMorgan Chase Standard Bank Bank of China Citigroup HSBC KB Financial Group State Bank of India Bank of East Asia Credit Suisse ICBC Oversea Chinese UBS Banking Corporation Performance outcomes for 201618 long-term incentive plan awards LTIP awards were granted to Bill and Andy in 2016 with a face value of 200 per cent of xed remuneration, to reinforce the achievement of the business turnaround and incentivise the new executive directors.
The Committee determined there would be no annual incentives in respect of 2015 due to the Groups financial performance.
The award was share-based and subject to the satisfaction of stretching performance measures over three years.
The conduct gateway requirement must be met before any awards would vest.
The awards were then subject to RoE and relative TSR targets and a qualitative and quantitative assessment of the strategic measures.
The Committee concluded that Bill and Andy exhibited appropriate conduct during the performance period and therefore the conduct gateway was met.
The threshold RoE target has not been achieved and the relative TSR threshold target will be measured in March 2019 but is estimated not to have been achieved and, therefore, there will be no vesting for the 66.6 per cent of the awards subject to these measures.
The strategic element of the LTIP was designed to measure progress against key elements of the strategic objectives set out for the Group in 2015.
The Committee considered performance against the proof points as set out in the table below and determined that in the majority of Standard Chartered 100 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information cases the targets set had been met or exceeded, with good progress being made in other areas, re ecting strong overall performance across the scorecard.
The Committee believes this is consistent with the Groups very strong overall progress against these strategic objectives over the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2018 which is crucial in laying the foundations for future sustainable returns.
The Committee recognises that this has not yet translated into RoE above 7 per cent or shareholder returns above median, and on this basis the Committee determined that the overall vesting of the LTIP would be 27 per cent.
The awards will vest pro rata over 2019 to 2024 and shares will be subject to a six-month retention period post-vesting.
Malus and clawback provisions apply.
The table below summarises the performance measures, targets and performance outcomes.
Performance for minimum Performance for maximum Measure Weighting vesting 25% vesting 100% 201618 LTIP outcome 1 RoE in 2018 plus CET1 underpin One-third 7% 10% RoE 4.6% and CET1 14.2% therefore 0% vested Relative TSR performance against One-third Median Upper quartile Positioned below the median therefore comparator group 0% vested estimated outcome as final TSR performance will be measured in March 2019 Strategic measures One-third Following the assessment shown below 27% of the total award vested Proof point Assessment Conduct and Successfully execute the Groups financial crime The Group has made signi cant progress in successfully executing financial risk and other conduct-related mitigation and against the Financial Crime Risk and other conduct-related mitigation crime remediation programmes and remediation programmes remediation Secure the Liquidate and exit identi ed non-strategic assets: $25 billion of non-strategic RWA exited as at 31 December 2018 meeting foundations $25 billion of risk-weighted assets RWA to nil by the stretching target set end of 2018 Cost discipline: deliver $2.3 billion gross $3.1bn of gross ef ciency savings have been delivered as at 31 ef ciency target December 2018, signi cantly exceeding the original target of $2.3 billion Get lean and Retail: progress towards achieving a cost income The Retail cost to income ratio has not yet materially improved.
The focus focused ratio of c. 55% by 2020 of the Retail strategy shifted during 2018, to target higher returns from growth in the af uent client base Return on RWA in Retail improved by 50bps between 2016 and the end of 2018, meeting targeted returns from the revised strategic focus Restructure of Corporate & Institutional Banking Corporate & Institutional Banking and Commercial Banking RWA and Commercial Banking: achieve $50 billion of optimisation and ef ciency signi cantly improved in each performance RWA optimisation by 2018 year during the period Invest and Private Banking and Wealth Management grow Private Banking and Wealth Management AUM grew by $16 billion, innovate assets under management AUM by $25 billion which was below the initial target of $25 billion, impacted by general market conditions Retail Banking: achieve over 40% of income from Continued improvement in income generated from Retail priority clients, priority clients from 39% in 2016 to 47% in 2018, signi cantly above the 40% target Deliver market share gains across Africa region Improvement in market share position in the most sizeable markets in Africa Nigeria and Kenya in line with the targets set Maintain leadership position on the Maintained leadership on the internationalisation of renminbi, internationalisation of renminbi demonstrated through the introduction of the largest number of investors to the Bond Connect programme in 2018, and the winning of key industry awards including, Best RMB Bank overall, and also in Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan 1 RoE was based on pro t attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-effected basis, for pro ts or losses of a capital nature, restructuring charges, amounts consequent to investment transactions driven by strategic intent and infrequent exceptional transactions that are signi cant or material in the context of the Groups normal business earnings for the period.
The CET1 underpin was set at the higher of 12 per cent or the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2018 taking into account any transition rules or material changes in regulatory rules Single total gure of remuneration for the executive directors audited This table sets out salary, xed pay allowances, pensions, bene ts and annual incentives receivable in respect of 2018 and estimated values of 201618 LTIP awards vesting.
W T Winters A N Halford 2018 2017 2018 2017 Salary 1,150 1,150 880 850 Fixed pay allowance 1,150 1,150 519 519 Pension 460 460 352 340 Bene ts 210 245 96 109 Annual incentive award 1,391 1,678 850 1,039 Vesting of LTIP award Value of vesting awards based on performance 1,516 905 0 Value of vesting awards based on share price growth 73 43 0 Total 5,950 4,683 3,645 2,857 101 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Additional information on the elements of remuneration in the single total gure table audited Fixed pay allowances are paid in shares, subject to a retention period and released over five years.
The number of shares allocated is determined by the monetary value of the allowance and the prevailing market price of the Groups shares on the date of allocation Executive directors receive bene ts, such as private medical cover, life assurance, permanent health insurance, a cash bene ts allowance and the use of a company vehicle and driver for business purposes.
Executive directors occasionally use a Group car service for travelling and their partners may travel to accompany attendance at Board or other similar events.
The Group covers any tax liability that arises on these bene ts Bill is entitled to support with the preparation of his annual tax returns.
The bene ts gures refer to UK tax years 2017 18 and 2016 17 respectively In 2017, the Group scorecard outcome was 66 per cent of the maximum and the personal performance adjustment was 10 percentage points.
In 2018, the Group scorecard outcome was 55 per cent of the maximum and the personal performance adjustment was 8 percentage points for Bill and 5 percentage points for Andy Executive directors annual incentive awards in respect of 2018 are delivered 50 per cent in cash paid in March 2019 and 50 per cent in shares subject to a minimum 12-month retention period.
The detail of how directors annual incentive awards are determined is set out on pages 97 to 99.
Awards will be subject to clawback for up to 10 years The LTIP awards granted in May 2016 are due to vest in May 2019, based on performance over the years 2016 to 2018.
Following an estimated assessment of the performance measures RoE with CET1 underpin, relative TSR and strategic measures, 27 per cent of these awards will vest.
The final assessment of relative TSR performance will be conducted in March 2019, the end of the three-year performance period.
Based on a share price of 5.83, the three-month average to 31 December 2018, the estimated value to be delivered is 1,589,000 to Bill and 948,000 to Andy.
The final value will be restated in the 2019 directors remuneration report based on final TSR performance and the share price at vesting.
Awards are subject to malus and clawback for up to 10 years from grant.
Further details are provided on pages 100 to 101 The estimated amount of the LTIP award attributable to share price appreciation is calculated based on the total value of the award vesting minus dividend equivalents minus the face value of the award at the time of grant multiplied by the percentage of the award that vested For 2017, the LTIP performance measures were not met for awards granted in March 2015, so the awards lapsed for Andy.
Bill did not participate in the March 2015 LTIP Group performance versus the Group Chief Executives remuneration The graph below shows the Groups TSR performance on a cumulative basis over the past 10 years alongside that of the FTSE 100 and peer banks, and the table below shows the historical levels of remuneration of the Group Chief Executive.
The FTSE 100 provides a broad comparison group against which shareholders may measure their relative returns.
Total shareholder returns since 2009 300 Standard Chartered FTSE 100 Comparator median 250 200 150 100 50 0 Jan 2009 Jan 2010 Jan 2011 Jan 2012 Jan 2013 Jan 2014 Jan 2015 Jan 2016 Jan 2017 Jan 2018 Jan 2019 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Single gure of total remuneration 000 P A Sands CEO until 10 June 2015 7,135 7,970 7,779 6,951 4,378 3,093 1,290 1 W T Winters appointed CEO on 10 June 2015 8,399 3,392 4,683 5,950 Annual incentive as a percentage of maximum opportunity P A Sands 64% 70% 70% 63% 50% 0% 0% W T Winters 0% 45% 76% 63% Vesting of LTIP awards as a percentage of maximum P A Sands 81% 90% 90% 77% 33% 10% 0% 0% W T Winters 27% 1 Bills single gure of total remuneration in 2015 includes his buy-out award of 6.5 million to compensate for the forfeiture of share interests on joining from his previous employment Standard Chartered 102 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Group-wide remuneration in 2018 Our Fair Pay Charter We know that fairness is important to colleagues and that it can mean different things to different people.
That is why, in February 2018, we launched our Fair Pay Charter to our stakeholders, including colleagues, to set out clearly the principles we use to guide performance and reward decision-making globally, including how we fide ne fairness.
We are publishing our first Fair Pay Report internally to all colleagues to explain how our performance and reward approach meets the principles of the Charter, and to provide an update on areas where we are working to enhance our approach.
A summary of how we apply these principles is set out below.
We will continue to make progress against our commitments in 2019 and beyond, and a further update will be included in next years report.
Fair Pay Charter principle How do we meet the principle?
We commit to pay a living wage in During 2018, we worked with the Fair Wage Network, a non-governmental organisation, to 1 all our markets by 2020 and seek to develop our understanding of living wages for each of our markets.
We then conducted an go beyond compliance with minimum analysis of our salary levels against the living wage benchmarks and incorporated living wage wage requirements reviews into our 2018 year-end pay decisions As we expected, salaries in many of our markets are already well above living wage rates.
We will continue to ensure that employees are paid a living wage through our pay review and hiring processes.
Our approach to determining pay at a market competitive level continues alongside our living wage commitment For 2019, all employees are paid above a living wage During 2019, we will conduct a review to assess the potential to incorporate living wages in to parts of our supply chain, starting with non-employed workers We provide an appropriate mix of xed and Global pay guidelines support our hiring teams and people leaders in ensuring an appropriate 2 variable pay and a core level of bene ts to balance between salary and bonus opportunity depending on the role and location.
We conduct ensure a minimum level of earnings and assurance on this as part of our hiring and pay review processes security to colleagues and to re ect the We provide core bene ts to all employees globally, covering retirement savings, medical Groups commitment to wellbeing insurance and life assurance, the details of which vary depending on country market practice Our wellbeing vision is to empower our people through encouraging better living.
The bene ts provided under our four wellbeing pillars mental, physical, social and financial allow us to provide support to employees at every stage of their lives During 2018, we aligned our wellbeing provisions to the four pillars, put in place employee wellbeing champions which now cover 99 per cent of all colleagues, and extended our Employee Assistance Programme, which provides support and advice to colleagues in times of need, from 26 countries in 2017 to more than 35 in 2018 2018 was the first year that we asked colleagues how they felt about wellbeing support in our engagement surveys and, globally, 81 per cent of colleagues felt positive To support our wellbeing pillars we run country speci c and global communication campaigns on different topics including mental health awareness and financial wellbeing We support colleagues in working exibly, Our global exible working practices standard ensures that exible working opportunities are 3 in ways that balance both business needs available to colleagues in all markets and our global standard for parental leave is market-leading and their personal circumstances, and across much of our footprint.
In our engagement survey, 76 per cent of colleagues said they provide colleagues with the opportunity to feel supported to work exibly and we are committed to taking action to continue to improve select the combination and level of bene ts this score over time that is right for them The launch of the first phase of our revised bene ts strategy in March 2019 will provide colleagues in Singapore and the UK with the opportunity to select and adjust bene ts to meet their personal needs, with further countries to follow in later phases.
To enable greater exibility employees can choose the combination and level of bene ts that best meets their personal needs Pay is well administered with colleagues Our payroll accuracy is already above 99 per cent and work to automate further our processes 4 paid accurately, on time and in a way that is ongoing, to ensure we can maintain this high standard.
When colleagues have questions is convenient about their monthly pay, our HR service desk responds within one day We provide a competitive total xed We continue to focus on ensuring market competitive levels of pay.
For all roles at all levels, 5 and variable pay opportunity that we use externally sourced market data to help guide pay decisions, alongside other factors enables us to attract, motivate and such as skills and experience, performance, affordability and availability of talent retain colleagues based on market During 2018, we adjusted our hiring processes in the US, to remove the need for candidates to rates for their role, location, performance, share existing compensation data on hiring, to ensure packages are being set with reference skills and experience to benchmark data and relevant skills and experience rather than historical pay levels.
We will use our experience of this change to inform thinking on whether we can extend the practice to additional locations in the future The structure of pay and bene ts is We are redesigning our bene ts offering in a phased approach by location, to bring consistency 6 consistent for colleagues based on their to what we offer to all employees based on their role and location, regardless of their seniority location and role, with a clear rationale or tenure.
for exceptions For example, in the UK the annual leave entitlement has been harmonised and is now the same regardless of seniority or tenure 103 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Fair Pay Charter principle How do we meet the principle?
We are committed to rewarding colleagues During 2018, we took steps to enhance our support for people leaders throughthe introduction 7 in a way that is free from discrimination on of the Inclusive Leadership Programme, which is designed to support all people leaders in the basis of diversity, as set out in our understanding the importance of developing an inclusive work environment and equipping Group Code of Conduct them with skills and capabilities to drive change We carry out assurance as part of our annual pay review cycle on areas of potential gender bias in both performance and pay and we have developed analytics to check globally for equal pay by gender.
The outcomes from this review are shared with the Committee and Management Team Where available, pay assurance based on diversity characteristics is carried out at a country level.
We recognise that this is a dif cult area to assure, and we look to further enhance our position as we develop new ways of gathering and recording diversity data, where regulations allow us to do so and where colleagues are happy to provide it We ensure pay decisions re ect the Our approach to determining variable pay is consistent across the Group, and considers 8 performance of the individual, the business achievement and demonstration of our valued behaviours in support of the high performance they work in and the Group, and recognise culture we want to embed the potential, conduct, behaviours and In particular, our incentive plans have a clear link to Group and business performance, through values demonstrated by each individual published scorecards, and each individuals performance including conduct and achievement against personal objectives is assessed at least annually The same Group scorecard is used for all colleagues including the executive directors We set clear expectations for how Each employee has a people leader who supports their performance management, including 9 colleagues are rewarded and the principles setting and reviewing personal objectives, providing advice through regular discussions and guiding decisions, including clear personal holding structured performance and development conversations at mid-year and year end objectives and feedback We encourage continuous feedback at all levels of the organisation.
During 2018, we launched a new integrated colleague feedback tool, including an app delivered on corporate iPhones and iPads, which has made it even easier for colleagues to give and request feedback at any time We provide clear communication of pay We send Group communications on pay review outcomes to all colleagues, and feedback is 10 and performance decisions, and seek actively sought through our engagement surveys, including a survey dedicated to employee feedback and input from colleagues experience of the performance and pay review process each March on our pay structures and outcomes Our communications explain the principles people leaders use to make salary and variable pay decisions, helping to demystify how pay is determined Where colleagues do not feel decisions have been made fairly or explained clearly, there are mechanisms in place to raise and resolve grievances, ranging from support from people leaders, HR and, if needed, through our formal and con dential Speaking Up programme Remuneration approach for all employees Further information on the remuneration approach for different employees is provided in the table below.
There may be some country variations based on statutory requirements and market practice.
Alignment between different groups Element Operation of employees Salaries re ect the skills and experience of the individual and are reviewed Executive directors: Yes Salary annually against market information and in the context of the annual Material risk takers: Yes performance assessment and affordability Other employees: Yes Increases may occur where there is a role change, increased responsibility or to ensure market competitiveness Salaries are typically delivered in cash monthly.
For executive directors a portion of salary is delivered as shares over five years to enhance alignment with shareholder interests Bene ts are provided with the details depending on local market practice.
Executive directors: Yes Pension Employees have access to country-speci c, company-funded bene ts Material risk takers: Yes and bene ts such as pension schemes, private medical insurance, permanent health Other employees: Yes insurance, life insurance and cash allowances.
The cost of providing the bene ts is fide ned and controlled Pension and bene t levels differ globally to be competitive in different markets, and there is no single pension level across the Group Employees who are relocated or spend a substantial portion of their time in more than one jurisdiction for business purposes may be provided with mobility bene ts.
If employees incur tax charges when travelling overseas in performance of their duties, these costs may be met by the Group Sharesave is an all-employee plan where participants are able to open a savings contract to fund the exercise of an option over shares.
The option price is set at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the share price at the date of invitation or such other discount as may be determined by the Committee.
An equivalent cash or share plan is offered in some countries where Sharesave may not be offered typically due to tax, regulatory or securities law issues Standard Chartered 104 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Alignment between different groups Element Operation of employees Employees are typically eligible to be considered for variable remuneration Executive directors: Yes, annual Discretionary incentive cash and shares and Individual incentives are determined with reference to Group, business area variable LTIP award and individual performance considering both what they have achieved and remuneration their demonstration of our valued behaviours Material risk takers: Yes, annual incentives paid in cash up to certain Balanced scorecards are used to assess Group, business and individual limits and the balance deferred in performance.
The scorecards include financial and strategic measures and shares and or cash for between are designed to drive the right outcome for clients while ensuring prudent three and seven years and or an risk-taking LTIP award.
At least 50 per cent of Discretionary variable remuneration is delivered in the form of an annual discretionary variable remuneration is incentive and, for eligible employees, an LTIP award delivered in shares.
Material risk takers Annual incentives are delivered in the form of cash, shares and or deferred are subject to the 2:1 maximum ratio shares and deferred cash of variable to xed remuneration Typically awarded to senior management, LTIP awards are delivered in Other employees: Yes, most shares and subject to long-term performance measures employees are considered for an The variable remuneration of employees in the Audit, Risk and Compliance annual incentive paid in cash up to functions is set independently of the business they oversee certain limits and the balance is Senior management incentives are deferred for up to seven years deferred over three years in shares When determining levels of variable remuneration, the Group considers the and or cash and or LTIP award overall level of performance and risk events in the year The proportion of variable to xed remuneration is carefully monitored to ensure compliance with regulatory requirements All incentives are subject to the Groups ex-post risk adjustment of remuneration policy.
This provides the Group with the ability to reduce or revoke variable remuneration in respect of a risk, control or conduct issue, event or behaviour Approach to risk adjustment Performance adjustment: potential diminution in the value of any deferred variable remuneration award through non-vesting due to At an individual level, variable remuneration is aligned with the performance measures and share price movement until vesting long-term interests of the business and the timeframe over which financial risks crystallise through: The operation of in-year adjustments, malus and clawback is summarised in the following table: A proportion of variable remuneration being delivered in the form of deferred awards: having an appropriate level of variable remuneration deferred for a suf cient period of time that can have risk adjustments applied Criteria includes Application Individual level Deemed to have i caused in full or in part a material loss for the Group as In-year adjustment, malus and a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions or ii exhibited inappropriate clawback may be applied to valued behaviours or applied a lack of appropriate supervision all or part of an award at the Committees discretion The individual failed to meet appropriate standards of tness and propriety Business unit and or Material restatement of the Groups nancials In-year adjustment, malus and Group level clawback may be applied to Signi cant failure in risk management all or part of an award at the Discovery of endemic problems in financial reporting Committees discretion As a result of financial losses, due to a material breach of regulatory guidelines The exercise of regulatory or government action to recapitalise the Group following material financial losses Continued focus on competitive levels of pay and of taking a global Determining Group-wide 2018 discretionary approach to remuneration, considering wage in ation pressures in incentives many of the emerging markets in which the Group operates In determining 2018 incentives, the Committee considered: The Groups capital position and current and future risks identi ed 2018 performance measured using the Group and business by the Groups Principal Risk Types including operational, conduct, scorecards, ensuring risk-taking did not exceed the Groups information and cyber security and financial crime risks Risk Appetite In determining the Groups total incentives, the Committee used its Strong financial performance with improving pro tability and rising judgement to establish the right balance between the performance return on equity despite dif cult operating conditions of the Group and its ability to attract and retain talent that will drive the delivery of the Groups strategy.
In 2018, the Committee took into Improved client satisfaction, credit quality and cost savings, growth account Group, business and regional scorecards which were aligned in digital volumes and signi cant improvements in innovation to the Groups strategy, a range of risk-adjusted metrics and advice The importance of rewarding and incentivising colleagues to from both the Group Chief Financial officer and Group Chief Risk execute the Groups long-term goals and of driving sustainable officer on performance.
The Committee recognises that share price growth for our shareholders performance during 2018 was disappointing and took this into account when nalising the overall annual incentive outcomes.
The need to position remuneration in the Group to pay good performers competitively and recognising the demonstration of valued behaviours 105 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report The Committee determined that total discretionary incentives in 2018 Incentives trend 2013 to 2018 should be $1,179 million.
This represents an increase of 3 per cent on 2017 and a reduced ratio of variable compensation to pre-variable 2018 $1,179m compensation PBT from 28 to 24 per cent, in light of the material increase in the Groups underlying pro tability in 2018.
2017 $1,146m 2016 $1,039m The total incentives gure for 2018 includes i the 201921 LTIP awards, the value of which will be determined by Group performance 2015 $993m over the period 2019 to 2021 and ii incentive awards made to $1,098m 2014 individuals who left the Group during 2018 as part of restructuring, $1,208m 2013 who were in service for at least nine months of the year.
Income statement charge for Group discretionary incentives 2018 2017 $million $million Total discretionary incentives 1,179 1,146 Less: deferred discretionary incentives that will be charged in future years 135 134 Plus: current year charge for deferred discretionary incentives from prior years 114 96 Total 1,158 1,108 Actual Expected Year in which income statement is expected to re ect deferred discretionary 2017 2018 2019 2020 and beyond incentives $million $million $million $million Discretionary incentives deferred from 2016 and earlier 96 55 18 10 Discretionary incentives deferred from 2017 49 51 33 31 Discretionary incentives deferred from 2018 50 54 71 Total 145 156 105 112 Allocation of the Groups earnings between stakeholders When considering Group variable remuneration, the Committee takes account of shareholders concerns about relative expenditure on pay and determines the allocation of earnings to expenditure on remuneration carefully, and has approached this allocation in a disciplined way over the past five years.
The table below shows the distribution of earnings between stakeholders over the past five years.
The amount of corporate tax, including the bank levy, is included in the table because it is a signi cant payment and illustrates the Groups contribution through the tax system.
Actual Allocation 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 $million $million $million $million $million % % % % % Staff costs 7,074 6,758 6,303 7,119 6,788 75 83 87 71 63 Corporate taxation including levy 1,763 1,367 983 1,113 1,896 19 17 13 11 18 Paid to shareholders in dividends 561 00 1,7782,095 6 00 18 19 The relationship between the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive and all employees The Groups approach to remuneration is consistent for all employees In our 2017 directors remuneration report we voluntarily disclosed and is designed to help ensure pay is fair and competitive in line with the ratio of the pay of the Group Chief Executive to that of the average our Fair Pay Charter.
For the Group Chief Executive and all colleagues: UK employee.
We have restated the 2017 ratio following publication of the calculation methodology by the UK Government in 2018.
Externally sourced market data is used to help guide pay decisions Employee pay is calculated to be comparable with the calculation Our incentive plans have a clear link to Group and business of the CEO single gure: this is Option A under the reporting performance, through published scorecards requirements and was selected to take account of investor guidance stating a preference for this option.
Each individuals performance, including conduct and achievement against personal objectives, is assessed at least annually and drives In line with the legislation, the pay ratios have been calculated by incentive decisions reference to UK employees and the Group Chief Executives pay The same Group scorecard is used to determine incentives for which has been compared to that of the UK lower quartile, median colleagues including the Group Chief Executive and upper quartile employees.
We employ more than 85,000 people in 60 markets around the world with different market rates of pay and LTIP awards are granted to senior executives who have clear line of there are varied requirements in the provision and tax treatment of sight to in uence the targets linked to the long-term performance of bene ts across different jurisdictions.
the Group Further details on the approach to Group-wide remuneration and how we meet the principles set out in our Fair Pay Charter can be found on pages 103 to 105.
Standard Chartered 106 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Ratio of the pay of the Group Chief Executive to that of the UK lower quartile, median and upper quartile employees Pay ratio Year Method 25th percentile 50th percentile median 75th percentile 2018 A 76:1 48:1 29:1 2017 A 61:1 39:1 23:1 Additional information on the ratio of the pay of the Group Employee pay data excludes leavers, joiners and employee Chief Executive to that of employees transfers in or out of the UK during the year, to help ensure data is on a like-for-like basis, and data for life assurance and long-term 2017 ratios are restated to be in line with the published illness cover are based on the value of notional premia.
No other methodology, using Option A calculation adjustments or assumptions have beenmade The ratio published for 2017 in the 2017 directors remuneration CEO pay is as per the single total gure of remuneration for 2018 report was 47:1 and was based on comparing the Group Chief and for 2017, as disclosed on page 101 Executive single gure of total remuneration with the median average of UK employee remuneration.
The methodology used this The 2018 ratio will be restated in the 2019 directors remuneration year and restated for 2017 uses a median and quartile analysis of report to take account of the final LTIP vesting data for eligible the single gure for all employees.
employees and for the CEO Employee pay data is based on full time equivalent pay for UK The Committee has considered the pay data for the three employees as at 31 December 2018 and as at 31 December 2017, individuals identi ed for 2017 and 2018 and believes that it fairly for 2018 and 2017 respectively.
For each employee, total pay is re ects pay at the relevant quartiles among the UK employee calculated in line with the single gure methodology i. e. xed pay population.
Each of the individuals identi ed was a full-time accrued during the financial year and the value of performanceemployee during the year and received remuneration in line with based incentive awards vesting in relation to the performance year.
the Group remuneration policy, and none received exceptional pay Salary and total remuneration used to calculate the ratio of pay To provide further context, the table below shows the CEO and the employee percentile pay used to determine the 2018 pay ratios.
CEO 25th percentile 50th percentile median 75th percentile 000 000 000 000 1 Total salary 2,300 53 91 152 Total remuneration single gure 5,950 78 123 208 1 Total salary includes FPA for the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief Financial Of cer which are paid in shares, subject to a retention period and released over five years Our long-term incentive plan is intended to link total remuneration to Therefore, the Committee also discloses below the quartile and the achievement of the Groups long-term strategy and to reinforce median pay ratios for 2018 and 2017 covering total salary and total alignment between executive remuneration and shareholder interests.
salary plus annual incentive, with all UK employees being eligible to Therefore, participation is typically senior employees who have line be considered for an annual incentive based on Group, business and of sight to in uence directly the performance targets on the awards.
The lower quartile, median and upper quartile employees identi ed The year-on-year increase in the pay ratios in the tables below will be this year are not participants in the long-term incentive plan.
With a signi cantly in uenced by the increase in the CEO single total gure of signi cant proportion of the pay of our Group Chief Executive linked remuneration which re ects the first LTIP award vesting to Bill since his to performance and share price over the longer-term, it is expected appointment in 2015. that the ratio will depend materially on long-term incentive outcomes each year, and accordingly may uctuate.
Additional ratios of pay based on total salary and total salary plus annual incentive Pay ratio CEO 2018 000 25th percentile 50th percentile median 75th percentile Total salary 2,300 43:1 25:1 15:1 Total salary plus annual incentive 3,691 52:1 33:1 19:1 Total remuneration single gure 5,950 76:1 48:1 29:1 2017 Total salary 2,300 42:1 28:1 19:1 Total salary plus annual incentive 3,978 58:1 39:1 22:1 Total remuneration single gure 4,683 61:1 39:1 23:1 Group CEO and all employee percentage change The chart opposite shows the percentage change in remuneration in remuneration 2017 to 2018 between the 2017 and 2018 performance years for the Group Chief Executive and the wider employee population.
The Committee awarded an annual incentive of 50 per cent of xed remuneration -17% Annual incentive 3% to the Group Chief Executive for 2018, compared with 61 per cent for 2017.
1 -14% Taxable benets 1% 1 For the all employees group, the percentage change in salary represents the difference in the salary component of staff costs in 2017 and in 2018 for the global employee population.
The taxable bene ts comparison is based on UK employees 0% Salary 6% as it is deemed the most appropriate comparison for the Group Chief Executive given the varied requirements in the provision and tax treatment of bene ts across different Group CEO All employees jurisdictions.
The annual incentive data is based on the global employee population who are eligible to receive annual incentives 107 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Proposed new directors remuneration policy This section sets out the revised directors remuneration policy which will be put forward to shareholders at the AGM for a binding vote and, if approved, will apply from 8 May 2019 for up to three years.
The current remuneration policy for executive directors, the Chairman and independent non-executive directors was approved at the AGM held on 4 May 2016 and has applied for three years from that date.
The policy was well supported by shareholders and continues to support the delivery of our strategy.
The Board and the Committee conducted a detailed review of the policy in 2018 and considered the views of shareholders, the strategic objectives of the Group, the remuneration of all colleagues, market benchmarking and best practice.
Following careful consideration, the Committee decided to retain the current policy, and to enhance some components in order to achieve further simplicity, increase shareholder alignment and reinforce sustained long-term focus on our strategic objectives.
Within this framework, several changes are being made which are summarised in the table opposite.
The re nements to the remuneration policy will ensure it continues to reinforce achievement of the business strategy and shareholder value creation, and promote alignment with colleagues.
The refreshed policy ensures continued regulatory compliance and alignment with evolving best practice in many areas.
Consideration of stakeholder views The Committee Chair maintains regular contact with the Groups major shareholders on remuneration and ensures the Committee is informed of their views.
During 2017 and 2018, shareholders representing approximately 70 per cent of our share register were consulted during the development of the new policy proposals.
The shareholder feedback has been considered and re ected in the proposed remuneration policy, with some elements of the policy being changed in response to speci c feedback.
The remuneration of the Group Chairman, executive directors, senior management and all colleagues was considered in the development of the new policy.
The Committee considered the remuneration of the wider workforce to provide greater alignment with Group-wide remuneration arrangements.
The policy is designed to re ect the Groups purpose, valued behaviours and culture ambitions as well as following the principles of the Fair Pay Charter used to make remuneration decisions for all colleagues in the Group.
When determining pay levels, the Committee takes account of pay increases across the Group, particularly for those employees based in the UK.
Variable pay outcomes are based on Group and business performance, based on measures cascaded from the Group scorecard, and each individuals performance is determined based on achievement of their objectives, conduct and valued behaviours.
The Group seeks feedback from all colleagues on remuneration as well as on other workforce policies and practices through a wide range of mechanisms, including: Board engagement sessions with colleagues when travelling to our markets Employee focus groups such as our Employee Representative Groups and our partnerships with our recognised unions and work councils Feedback from our Group and Country Diversity and Inclusion Councils responsible for promoting diversity and inclusion across the Group Feedback mechanisms such as Speaking Up where employees can raise concerns in con dence Biannual engagement surveys of all colleagues on reward, workforce practices and culture and an annual survey dedicated to the employee experience of the performance and pay review process each March Forums with our Board and or with management such as town halls The key components of the directors remuneration policy will be explained to the workforce following the AGM.
Standard Chartered 108 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Key elements and changes to the executive directors remuneration policy Element of pay Current policy Proposed policy for 2019 Fixed Comprises salary, pension, bene ts and xed pay A simpli ed policy, combining salary and FPA into total salary.
remuneration allowances FPA This is to simplify the labelling of xed pay and re ect that total salary is considered when determining levels of pay for the The FPA is delivered to executives in shares over five executive directors for the size and scope of the role and their years with 20 per cent released annually skills and experience An annual pension allowance or contributions of up to Total salary will be delivered part in cash and part in shares with 40 per cent of salary is payable the share element being released over five years with 20 per cent released each year For existing directors, pension will be set at 20 per cent of total salary to meet existing contractual commitments For new directors, the pension will be 10 per cent of total salary, which is the same contribution rate for all UK employees Variable Variable remuneration cannot exceed 200 per cent of The structure and operation of the variable element of remuneration remuneration xed remuneration.
It is delivered in two distinct parts, will remain unchanged in the new policy an annual incentive and an LTIP award: The Committee considers it appropriate that variable remuneration Annual incentive: is subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions and with at least 60 per cent subject to performance over the long Maximum opportunity of 80 per cent of xed term, and with a signi cant proportion of variable pay delivered in remuneration fide ned as total salary and pension shares over a period of up to seven years plus a further 12-month Performance scorecard based on a combination of retention period, to reinforce alignment of interests with those of our financial performance and strategic measures and shareholders and meet regulatory requirements personal performance, measured over a one-year Alternative variable remuneration structures were considered period as part of the review and it was concluded to retain the current Delivered as a combination of cash and shares with structure.
This follows a rebalancing of variable pay over a retention period several years LTIP award: The current structure was well supported by shareholders and Maximum opportunity of 120 per cent of xed continues to be supportive of our strategy remuneration fide ned as total salary and pension Delivered in shares LTIP vesting is subject to stretching future performance conditions, measured over at least three years Vesting over three to seven years The delivery of the annual incentive in combination with the LTIP satis es the regulatory deferral requirements Shareholding Executive directors are required to build up and hold The implementation of the policy will be amended to re ect the requirements a speci ed number of shares shareholding requirement as a percentage of total salary and increase the total requirement to: The implementation of the policy sets out shareholding requirements of: Group Chief Executive: 250 per cent of total salary Group Chief Executive: 250,000 shares Group Chief Financial Of cer: 200 per cent of total salary Group Chief Financial Of cer: 150,000 shares These result in material financial increases of four times the current requirements for the CEO and three times the current requirements for the CFO and a move away from a number of shares to a percentage of total salary, in line with market practice The shareholding requirements have been signi cantly increased following a review of best practice and have been determined in line with shareholder feedback Post-employment No current policy A new post-employment shareholding requirement is being shareholding introduced to ensure executive directors continue to be aligned requirement to shareholder interests and long-term performance after leaving the Group Shares to be held of 100 per cent of the shareholding requirement in place for one year and 50 per cent of the requirement in place for the second year following cessation of employment The Committee considered it appropriate to set the requirement at this level.
This takes into account evolving best practice, balanced with the overall level of the proposed shareholding requirements and the combined eight-year deferral and retention period that applies to LTIP awards 109 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Element of pay Current policy Proposed policy for 2019 Leaver The Committee has the discretion under the relevant Typically, when a director leaves, LTIP awards would be prorated provisions plan rules to determine how eligible leaver status should for time served.
To reinforce a long-term strategic focus for retiring be applied on termination, including the ability to award executive directors, the Committee will introduce the exibility to eligible leaver status in respect of some but not all of an disapply proration for time not served during the performance period executive directors unvested awards to the vesting of LTIP awards in certain retirement situations where speci c criteria have been met.
Following engagement with our largest shareholders, the criteria below would need to be met as a minimum before the Committee would consider the disapplication of proration: The executive director has more than five years service on the Board The executive director is retiring from full-time employment in financial services and comparable roles in other industries The executive director has demonstrated satisfactory conduct and has achieved their performance objectives A clear, Board approved, handover plan is in place to transition to an identi ed successor If these criteria have been met the Committee would then carefully consider using its discretion to disapply time proration on a case-bycase basis, which we expect to be rare, taking into account all of the circumstances at that time.
If the exibility were to be used, typically, there would be no LTIP award in the final year of employment or additional payments in lieu of of ce.
If the individual leaves and subsequently takes up executive employment unvested awards that had proration disapplied will lapse and the executive will be expected to re-pay any vested awards.
There will be no change in performance conditions nor any acceleration of vesting.
Proposed executive directors remuneration policy The proposed executive directors remuneration policy, to be effective from the date of the Groups AGM in May 2019 and beyond, is set out in the following table.
Fixed remuneration Element and purpose in supporting the Additional detail including maximum value and Groups strategic objectives Operation performance measures Total salary Delivered part in cash and part in shares Increases may be made at the Committees Support the recruitment and retention of discretion to take account of circumstances The share element is subject to a holding executive directors, recognising the size such as: period of five years, with 20 per cent being and scope of the role and the individuals released annually Increase in scope or responsibility skills and experience Reviewed annually with increases generally Increase to re ect the individuals development Set at a level, together with other xed applying from April in role e. g. for a new appointment where salary remuneration, that enables the Group to may be increased over time rather than set When determining total salary levels, operate fully exible variable remuneration directly at the level of the previous incumbent consideration is given to the following: or market level The size and scope of the role Alignment to market-competitive levels The individuals skills and experience Consideration to increases given in the context Pay at international banks of a similar size of salary increases across the Group and international scope Pay within large UK-listed companies including the major UK-listed banks Pension Normally paid as a cash allowance or contribution An annual pension allowance or contributions of The pension arrangements comprise to a fide ned contribution scheme up to 20 per cent of total salary are payable to the part of a competitive remuneration executive directors appointed to the Board prior Pension contributions may also be made in lieu of package and facilitate long-term to 2019 any waived salary and the cash amount of any retirement savings for directors annual incentive For future directors, an annual pension allowance or contributions of up to 10 per cent of total salary will be payable Standard Chartered 11 0 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Element and purpose in supporting the Additional detail including maximum value and Groups strategic objectives Operation performance measures Bene ts A range of bene ts may be provided, including The maximum opportunity for bene ts depends Provide a competitive bene ts package standard bene ts such as holiday and sick pay, on the type of bene t and the cost of providing that is consistent with the Groups valued and may also include the provision of a bene ts it, which may vary according to the market, behaviours and supports executives to cash allowance, a car and driver or other individual circumstances and other factors carry out their duties effectively car-related service, private medical insurance, Set at a level which the Committee considers permanent health insurance, life insurance, suf cient based on the role and individual financial advice and tax preparation and tax circumstances return assistance Additional bene ts may also be provided where an executive director is relocated or spends a substantial portion of their time in more than one jurisdiction for business purposes.
Bene ts may include, but are not limited to, relocation, shipping and storage, housing allowance, education fees and tax and social security costs Other bene ts may be offered if considered appropriate and reasonable by the Committee Executive directors are reimbursed for expenses, such as travel and subsistence, and any associated tax incurred in the performance of their duties.
In addition, if executive directors incur tax charges when travelling overseas in performance of their duties, these costs will be met by the Group Executive directors may from time to time be accompanied by their spouse or partner to meetings events.
The costs and any associated tax will be met by the Group Variable remuneration Element and purpose in supporting the Additional detail including maximum value and Groups strategic objectives Operation performance measures Annual incentive Annual incentive awards are determined annually The maximum value of an annual incentive award Performance-based remuneration linked based on Group and individual performance granted to any executive director cannot exceed to measurable performance criteria 80 per cent of that executive directors xed Annual incentives are delivered as a combination remuneration fide ned as total salary and Links total remuneration to achievement of cash, shares subject to holding requirements pension.
For this purpose, annual incentive of the Groups strategy in the short-term and deferred shares awards may be valued in line with the relevant Deferral proportions and vesting pro les will remuneration regulations be structured so that, in combination with any Annual incentive awards can be any amount from LTIP award: zero to the maximum The proportion of variable remuneration that is The determination of an executive directors deferred is no less than required by the relevant annual incentive is made by the Committee remuneration regulations currently 60 per cent based on an assessment of a balanced Group The deferred remuneration vests no faster than scorecard containing a mix of financial and other permitted under the relevant remuneration long-term strategic measures and personal regulations currently pro rata over years three performance.
Financial measures will comprise at to seven after award least 50per cent of the scorecard.
The measures, The Committee can, in speci ed circumstances, individual personal performance weightings and apply malus or clawback to all or part of annual targets will be set annually by the Committee incentive awards.
Details on how malus and The targets, together with an assessment of clawback operate currently are provided on performance against those targets, will be page 105 disclosed retrospectively Deferred annual incentive awards will be granted The Committee will review the scorecard annually as conditional share awards or nil-cost options and may vary the measures, weightings and The Committee may apply discretion to adjust targets each year the vesting of deferred annual incentive awards Discretion may be exercised by the Committee to and or the number of shares underlying a ensure that the annual incentive outcome is a fair deferred annual incentive award on the and accurate re ection of business and individual occurrence of corporate events and other performance and any risk-related issues but it will reorganisation events not exceed the maximum opportunity 111 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Element and purpose in supporting the Additional detail including maximum value and Groups strategic objectives Operation performance measures LTIP LTIP awards are granted annually, with award The maximum value of an LTIP award granted Performance-based remuneration levels set to provide appropriate levels of to any executive director cannot, in combination linked to measurable, long-term long-term incentives to executive directors, with with the annual incentive opportunity in respect performance criteria performance of the Group and of the individual of any particular year, exceed 200 per cent of considered in determining the award level that executive directors xed remuneration Ensures a market-competitive fide ned as total salary and pension remuneration package LTIP awards are delivered in shares and may be subject to holding requirements For this purpose, LTIP awards may be valued in Links total remuneration to achievement line with the relevant remuneration regulations of the Groups long-term strategy Vesting pro les are structured so that no LTIP award vests before the third anniversary of The Committee will, for each year, determine grant and in combination with any annual the split of the overall variable remuneration incentive award: opportunity between the LTIP award and annual incentive opportunity at the start of the year and The proportion of variable remuneration that is disclose this split in advance.
The maximum deferred is no less than required by the relevant LTIP award will form at least 120 per cent of remuneration regulations currently 60 per cent xed remuneration i. e. at least 60 per cent of The deferred remuneration vests no faster than the maximum variable remuneration opportunity permitted under the relevant remuneration for any financial year, so that the majority of the regulations currently pro rata over years three variable remuneration opportunity is based on to seven after award long-term performance The Committee can, in speci ed circumstances, LTIP awards can be any amount from zero to apply malus or clawback to all or part of any the maximum LTIP awards.
Details on how malus and clawback LTIP awards will be subject to long-term operate currently are provided on page 105 performance measures, measured over a LTIP awards will be granted as conditional share period of at least three years awards or nil-cost options The long-term performance measures may be The Committee may apply discretion to adjust a mix of financial measures and other long-term the vesting of LTIP awards and or the number strategic measures.
Financial measures will of shares underlying an LTIP award on the comprise at least 50 per cent of the performance occurrence of corporate events and other measures.
Weightings and targets will be set in reorganisation events advance of each grant by the Committee and disclosed prospectively, and performance against those measures will be disclosed retrospectively.
For financial measures, vesting will be on a sliding-scale basis between threshold and maximum with no more than 25 per cent vesting at threshold performance Shareholding requirement Executive directors are required to hold a The shareholding requirement is expressed as a A requirement for executive directors speci ed level of shares, to be built up over percentage of total salary and is reviewed by the to hold a speci ed value of shares to a reasonable timeframe from the date of Committee on an annual basis ensure alignment with the interests of appointment as an executive director or, if later, shareholders during employment from the date of any changes to the terms of the shareholding requirement Shares that count towards the requirement are bene cially owned shares including the share element of total salary and vested share awards subject to a retention period and unvested share awards for which performance conditions have been satis ed on a net-of-tax basis Sharesave Sharesave is an all-employee plan where Savings per month of between 5 and Provide an opportunity to invest participants including executive directors are the maximum set by the Group which is voluntarily in the Group able to open a savings contract to fund the currently 250 exercise of an option over shares The option price is set at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the share price at the date of invitation, or such other discount as may be determined by the Committee An equivalent cash or share plan is offered in some countries where Sharesave may not be offered typically due to tax, regulatory or securities law issues Legacy arrangements Any previous commitments or arrangements In line with existing commitments Honour existing payments entered into with current or former directors will be honoured, including remuneration arrangements entered into under the previously approved directors remuneration policy Standard Chartered 11 2 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Remuneration approach on recruitment of an executive director The Groups approach to remuneration re ects the fact that many of its colleagues bring international experience and expertise and that the Group recruits from a global marketplace.
The Committees approach to recruitment is to pay competitive remuneration that re ects the Groups international nature and enables it to attract and retain key talent.
Any new executive directors remuneration package would include the same elements and be subject to the same variable remuneration maximums as those for the existing executive directors.
The pension provision for new executive directors is 10 per cent of total salary, consistent with the contribution rate for all UK employees.
The policy is summarised below.
Policy Details Total salary Set to re ect the role and the skills and experience of the candidate.
Total salary is delivered part in cash and part in shares with the shares being released to the director in equal tranches over five years Bene ts Dependent on circumstances but typically includes bene ts allowance, car and driver or other car-related service, private medical insurance, permanent health insurance, life insurance, financial advice and, for international hires, expatriate benets Pension 10 per cent of total salary Variable remuneration Dependent on circumstances but no more than 200 per cent of xed remuneration Shareholding requirements Executive directors are required to hold a speci ed level of shares, to be built up over a reasonable timeframe from the date of appointment as an executive director or, if later, from the date of any changes to the terms of the shareholding requirement Shares that count towards the requirement are bene cially owned shares including any vested share awards subject to a retention period and unvested share awards for which performance conditions have been satis ed on a net-of-tax basis Buy-out awards The Committee may consider buying out forfeited remuneration and forfeited opportunities and or compensating for losses incurred as a result of joining the Group subject to proof of forfeiture or loss The value of any buy-out award will not exceed, in broad terms, the value of the remuneration forfeited Any award will be structured within the requirements of the applicable remuneration regulations, and will be no more generous overall than the remuneration forfeited in terms of the existence of performance measures, timing of vesting and form of delivery The value of buy-out awards is not included within the maximum variable remuneration level where it relates to forfeited remuneration from a previous role or employer Legacy matters Where a senior executive is promoted to the Board, his or her existing contractual commitments agreed prior to their appointment may still be honoured in accordance with the terms of the relevant commitment, including vesting of any pre-existing deferred or long-term incentive awards Notes to the remuneration policy for executive directors Committees judgement and discretion In addition to assessing performance and making judgements on the appropriate levels of annual incentive awards and LTIP awards, the Committee has certain operational discretions that it may exercise when considering directors remuneration, including but not limited to: i.
Determining whether a leaver is an eligible leaver under the Groups share plans and treatment of remuneration arrangements ii.
Amending LTIP performance measures following a corporate event to ensure a fair and consistent assessment of performance iii.
Deciding whether to apply malus or clawback to an award Ability for the Committee to amend the policy for emerging and future regulatory requirements The Committee retains the discretion to make reasonable and proportionate changes to the remuneration policy if the Committee considers this appropriate in order to respond to changing legal or regulatory requirements or guidelines including but not limited to any Prudential Regulation Authority revisions to its remuneration rules and any changes to regulations caused by the UK leaving the European Union.
This includes the ability to make administrative changes to bene t the operation of the remuneration policy and or to implement such changes ahead of any formal effective date, ensuring timely compliance.
Where proposed changes are considered by the Committee to be material, the Group will consult its major shareholders and any changes would be formally incorporated into the policy when it is next put to shareholders for approval.
11 3 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report Executive directors contracts, outside appointments and payments on loss of of ce or change of control The Groups approach to executive directors in respect of service contracts, notice periods and payments on loss of of ce and change of control re ects market practice and is set out below.
In the event of termination for gross misconduct, no notice is given and no payments will be made.
Policy Details Other provisions Executive directors May be required to work and or serve a period of garden service contracts leave during the notice period and or may be paid in lieu of Maximum of 12 months notice if not required to remain in employment for the whole notice from the company notice period and the executive director Outside appointments Executive directors may accept appointments in other To encourage self-development organisations subject to relevant Board approval.
Executive and allow for the introduction of directors tend to be limited to one non-executive directorship external insight and practice in another listed company.
Fees may be retained by the executive director Compensation for loss of Payable quarterly other than the share element of total In the event of a settlement agreement, the of ce in service contracts salary which is allocated annually and subject to mitigation Committee may make payments it considers Dependent on an individuals if the executive director seeks alternative employment reasonable in settlement of potential legal contract but in any event no claims, including potential entitlement to Not in addition to any payment in lieu of notice or if the more than 12 months total compensation in respect of statutory rights individual remains in employment for the whole notice period salary, pension and bene ts under employment protection legislation The Committee may also include in such payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees, such as legal fees and tax advice and any associated tax, in connection with such arrangements.
Career transition support may also be provided Treatment of variable Eligible leavers as determined by the Committee may On a change of control, typically the amount remuneration on termination be eligible for variable remuneration although there is no is pro rata to the period of service during Variable remuneration automatic entitlement the year.
The Committee may alter the is awarded at the performance period, measures and targets The Committee has discretion to reduce the entitlement of an Committees discretion to ensure the performance measures remain eligible leaver in line with performance and the circumstances relevant but challenging of the termination Treatment of unvested For eligible leavers, awards not subject to long-term On a change of control, awards become awards on termination performance measures vest in full over the original timescale exercisable and vest to the extent under the share plan rules and remain subject to the Groups claw-back arrangements.
performance measures are met either at the The Committee has the The Committee has discretion to reduce the level of vesting change of control or later.
The Committee discretion under the relevant may allow awards to continue or roll-over in Awards subject to long-term performance measures will plan rules to determine how agreement with the acquirer, taking into typically vest subject to those performance measures and eligible leaver status should be account the circumstances, and may alter on a pro rata basis re ecting the proportion of the relevant applied on termination, including the performance period, measures and financial performance period that the executive director has the ability to award eligible leaver targets to ensure the performance measures been employed and remain subject to the Groups clawstatus in respect of some but remain relevant back arrangements not all of an executive directors The Committee has the exibility to disapply time proration unvested awards on the vesting of LTIP awards in certain circumstances, The current approach is that on a case-by-case basis, taking into account all of the eligible leaver status will circumstances at that time.
The following minimum criteria generally be given in cases such need to be met before the Committee can consider using as death, disability, retirement this exibility: and redundancy.
Discretion The executive director has more than five years service on is applied as to awarding the Board eligible leaver status in cases The executive director is retiring from full-time employment in of mutual separation.
financial services and comparable roles in other industries In addition, eligible leaver status The executive director has demonstrated satisfactory will be given other than in cases conduct and has achieved their performance objectives of termination for cause where A clear, Board-approved, handover plan is in place to the date of termination is five transition to an identi ed successor years or more after the date If the exibility were to be used, typically, there would be no of grant LTIP award in the final year of employment or additional payments in lieu of of ce If an individual leaves and subsequently takes up executive employment, unvested awards that had proration disapplied will lapse and the executive will be expected to re-pay any vested awards.
Vesting may be subject to non-solicit and non-compete requirements Awards lapse for employees not designated eligible leavers Standard Chartered 11 4 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information Policy Details Other provisions Post-employment On cessation of employment executive directors will be shareholding requirement required to hold 100 per cent of the shareholding requirement in place for one year and 50 per cent of the requirement in the second year or, if lower, the actual shareholding on departure.
Chairman and independent non-executive directors remuneration policy During 2018, the Board reviewed the remuneration policy for independent non-executive directors INEDs and determined there would be no change to the fee structure.
Element and purpose in supporting the Groups Additional detail including maximum value and strategic objectives Operation performance measures Fees Attract a Chairman and INEDs who, together Fees are paid in cash or shares.
Post-tax fees Overall aggregate base fees paid to the with the Board as a whole, have a broad may be used to acquire shares Chairman and all INEDs will remain within range of skills and experience to determine the limit stated in the Articles of Association The Chairman and INED fees are reviewed Group strategy and oversee its implementation currently 1.5 million periodically.
The Board sets INED fees and the Committee sets the Chairmans fees.
Fees are set at a level which re ect the duties, The Chairman and INEDs excuse themselves time commitment and contribution expected from any discussion on their fees from the Chairman and INEDs INEDs may also receive fees as directors of Fees are reviewed and appropriately positioned subsidiaries of Standard Chartered PLC, against those for the Chairman and INEDs in to the extent permitted by regulation banks and other companies of a similar scale and complexity There are no recovery provisions or performance measures Bene ts Attract a Chairman and INEDs who together The Chairman is provided with bene ts There are no performance measures with the Board as a whole have a broad associated with the role, including a car range of skills and experience to determine and driver and private medical insurance, Group strategy and oversee its implementation permanent health insurance and life insurance.
Any tax costs associated with these bene ts are paid by the Group.
Any future Chairman based outside of the UK may receive assistance with their relocation consistent with the support offered to individuals under the Groups international mobility policies The INEDs are paid fees for chairmanship and membership of Board committees and for the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director roles The Chairman and INEDs are reimbursed for expenses, such as travel and subsistence and including any associated tax, incurred in the performance of their duties, and may receive tax preparation and tax return assistance In exceptional circumstances the Chairman and INEDs may be accompanied by their spouse or partner to meetings or events.
The costs and any associated tax are paid by the Group Approach on recruitment for Chairman or INEDs Fees and benets for a new Chairman or INED will be in line with the Chairman and independent non-executive directors remuneration policy.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of ofce for the Chairman and INEDs The Chairman is provided a notice period of up to 12 months and is entitled to a payment in lieu of notice in respect of any unexpired part of the notice period at the point of termination.
INEDs are appointed for a period of one year unless terminated earlier by either party with three months written notice.
No entitlement to the payment of fees or provision of bene ts continues beyond termination of the appointment and INEDs are not entitled to any payments for loss of of ce other than entitlements under contract law, such as a payment in lieu of notice if notice is not served.
11 5 Directors remuneration DIRECTORS REPORT report 2019 policy implementation for executive directors The structure of remuneration in 2019 will be in line with the new directors remuneration policy as detailed on pages 108 to 115 of this report subject to shareholder approval at the May 2019 AGM.
The key elements of remuneration will include total salary delivered in cash and shares, pension, bene ts, an annual incentive and a long-term incentive plan award.
The Committee reviews the salaries of the executive directors on an annual basis, taking into account, changes to the scope or responsibility of the role, the individuals development in the role, and alignment to market-competitive levels.
The Committee also takes into account the average salary increases made to the broader employee population.
For 2019, the Committee determined that an increase to total salary for Bill Winters from 2,300,000 to 2,370,000 an increase of 3 per cent with effect from 1 April 2019 was appropriate.
In making the decision, the Committee noted that his xed remuneration was below that of some of his global peers, that he had not received a salary increase since his appointment in 2015 and his development in the role since that time.
The Committee also took into account the average salary increase made to the broader employee population since 2015 which was, on average, 4 per cent each year.
Bills pension will continue to be delivered as a contribution to a fide ned contribution plan and as a cash allowance.
For 2019, the Committee determined that there should be no change to the quantum of xed remuneration for Andy Halford.
Andys pension will continue to be delivered as a cash allowance.
The components of Andys xed remuneration will be rebalanced with no change to the overall quantum that he is contractually entitled to.
Total salary will increase by 4 per cent and the proportion of total salary delivered in cash will increase to offset the 17 per cent reduction in the pension cash allowance.
As a result of the rebalancing, the proportion of total xed pay delivered in cash will increase by 1 per cent.
Details of xed remuneration for Bill and Andy are set out below.
W T Winters A N Halford 2019 2018 % change 2019 2018 % change Total salary in cash 1,185 1,150 3% 986 890 11% Total salary in shares 1,185 1,150 3% 485 519 6% Total salary 2,370 2,300 3% 1,471 1,409 4% Pension 474 460 3% 294 356 17% Total xed pay 2,844 2,760 3% 1,765 1,765 0% Proportion of total xed pay paid in cash 58% 58% 72% 71% Proportion of total xed pay paid in shares 42% 42% 28% 29% Illustration of application of the 2019 remuneration policy The charts below illustrate the potential outcomes under the proposed directors remuneration policy being put to shareholders for approval at the AGM in May 2019 i. e. for awards that would be made in March 2020, based on 2019 total xed pay.
The charts show potential remuneration outcomes for each executive director in four performance scenarios: minimum, on-target, maximum performance and maximum performance with 50 per cent share price appreciation in line with reporting requirements.
The percentages shown in each bar represent the amount of total remuneration provided by each element of pay.
Actual xed pay in 2019 will be dependent on the cost of bene ts 3 Minimum performance assumes no annual incentive is awarded and no LTIP award vests 4 Target performance assumes an annual incentive of 50 per cent of the maximum opportunity and LTIP vesting at 50 per cent of the total award, i. e. an annual incentive award of 40 per cent of xed pay and the vesting of the LTIP at 60 per cent of xed pay 5 Maximum performance assumes the maximum annual incentive opportunity and LTIP vesting in full, i. e. an annual incentive of 80 per cent of xed pay and an LTIP award of 120 per cent of xed pay 6 Maximum performance with 50 per cent share price appreciation is as footnote 5, plus a 50 per cent share price appreciation in the value of the vested LTIP award since the time of grant Standard Chartered 11 6 Annual Report 2018 Strategic report DIRECTORS REPORT Risk review and Capital review Financial statements Supplementary information 2019 annual incentive scorecard The measures in the scorecard reinforce the delivery of the refreshed strategic priorities.
The targets are set annually by the Committee and take into account the Groups annual financial plan, the Group strategy and its priorities for the next few years within the context of the economic environment.
The Committee considers such targets to be commercially sensitive and that it would be detrimental to the interests of the Group to disclose them before the end of the financial year.
Targets will be disclosed in the 2019 Annual Report alongside the level of performance achieved.
Financial measures make up 50 per cent of the annual incentive scorecard.
Some of the strategic measures are also financial in nature, and all strategic measures are assessed by the Committee using a quantitative and qualitative framework.
Step 1: Conduct gateway requirement to be met in order to be eligible for any annual incentive Appropriate level of individual valued behaviours and conduct exhibited during the course of the year Step 2: Measurement of performance against financial and other strategic measures Financial measures Weighting Target 1 Income 7% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively Costs 7% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively 1 Operating pro t 10% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively 2 3 RoTE plus CET1 underpin of the higher of 13% or the minimum regulatory requirement 20% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively 4 Funding optimisation 6% Target to be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively Other strategic measures Weighting Target Deliver our network and grow our 15% Improve client satisfaction rating af uent business Deliver client growth in target segments Capitalise on China opportunities including through RMB and mainland wealth growth Develop Africa through digital growth, client growth and improved client satisfaction Maintain credit quality Transform and disrupt with digital 15% Develop ventures beyond traditional business model and products Deliver client-facing system stability and availability targets Use partnerships, platforms, and technologies to improve client experience Deliver growth in digital volumes Improve data analytics to develop new products and attract new clients Improve productivity 5% Successfully deliver key milestones to create a Hong Kong hub entity structure Execute organisation design and strategic people initiatives Purpose and people 15% Maintain effective compliance and financial crime compliance controls Successfully deliver cyber risk management plan milestones Develop human capital by improving diversity, employee engagement and culture of inclusion metrics and by delivering conduct plans Step 3: Assessment of personal performance The Committee reviews the individual performance of each executive director in their areas of personal responsibility.
Consistent with the Groups treatment of all colleagues, the Committee can make a positive adjustment to the annual incentive if the executive directors performance is considered strong and is not fully re ected in the scorecard outcome and vice versa, if appropriate.
The Committee will generally consider personal performance adjustments in the range of up to - 10 percentage points on the scorecard outcome.
1 Income, costs and impairment and resulting operating pro t relating to identi able business units, products or portfolios from the date that have been approved for restructuring, disposal, wind down or redundancy are presented as restructuring and excluded from the underlying results of the Group.
This includes realised and unrealised gains and losses from managements decisions to dispose of assets as well as residual income, direct costs and impairment of related legacy assets of those identi able business units, products or portfolios 2 Normalised RoTE is based on pro t attributed to ordinary shareholders, adjusted, on a tax-affected basis, for any fair value changes relating to gains losses on disposals, exceptional transactions and restructuring gains and losses, expenses, impairments that are signi cant or material in the context of the Groups normal business for the period, less the average goodwill and intangibles for the reporting period.
Normalised RoTE normally excludes regulatory fines but, for remuneration purposes, this would be subject to review by the Committee 3 The CET1 underpin will be dynamically set at the higher of 13 per cent and the minimum regulatory level as at 31 December 2019 taking into account any transition rules or material changes in regulatory rules.
In addition, the Committee has the discretion to take into account at the end of the performance period any changes in regulatory capital and risk-weighted asset requirements that might have been announced and implemented after the start of the performance period 4 Initiative that targets an ef cient level and mix of funding liabilities to support the Groups growth aspirations.
Measured in basis points reduction in funding costs relative to a normalised benchmark, which excludes the impact of interest rate movement, but requires a minimum level of growth in quality funding 11 7
