com Governance Directors Remuneration Report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our 2018 Remuneration Report.
The Committee has sought to further improve its disclosures this year to provide not only the regulatory information we are required to disclose, while balancing against commercial sensitivities, but also the context surrounding pay arrangements.
Additional context has been provided where we believe this will help present a complete picture of the structure of our remuneration framework and its alignment with our business strategy and our approach to the rest of the workforce as well as payments made as a result of business performance this year.
As required, this report is split into two further distinct sections: the first sets out our Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at our 2017 AGM: the second covers remuneration in action for financial year 2018.
In accordance with regulations, the Directors Remuneration Report, excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy, will be subject to an advisory vote at our AGM on 11 September 2018.
Membership and meeting Remuneration Framework attendance The Board is committed to ensuring that its remuneration framework supports our strategy and provides balance between Number of motivating and challenging our senior leaders to deliver our business priorities and strong performance while also driving meetings Committee member Member since attended held Superdrys long-term sustainable success.
As a result, a significant proportion of performance related reward is delivered through shares.
This ensures that our leaders have meaningful long-term investment in our business, and their interests are Penny Hughes Appointed 1 April 2017 5 5 closely aligned with our shareholders.
Chairman 12 September 2017 Keith Edelman Resigned as 4 February 2010 5 5 The Remuneration Policy for Senior Executives and other senior managers is based on the following principles: Chairman 12 September 2017 Minnow Powell 1 December 2012 5 5 John Smith 1 February 2018 1 2 Dennis Millard 1 February 2018 2 2 Link to Drives Encourages Supports Our Retains High Steve Sunnucks Resigned 13 July 2016 0 1 Business Sustainable Share Values Calibre Talent 12 September 2017 Strategy Growth Ownership Actual number of meetings attended Maximum number of scheduled meetings which the Directors could have attended Not standing for re-election at the AGM.
John Smith joined Superdry on 1 February 2018 and had existing Encourages commitments which meant he could not attend all of the scheduled Board Recruit & Enables behaviours and Committee meetings during the remainder of financial year 2018.
John Built around Aligned to retain talented executives to which deliver advised the Company of that fact before accepting his appointment.
our strategic our six people able to engage with long-term plan core values lead & deliver Superdry as The Committee met five times during the year.
In addition to the sustainable excellence shareholders members of the Committee, which comprised independent Nongrowth Executive Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and the Group HR Director attended the meetings except where their own remuneration was being discussed.
By invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Chairman of the Board and other Non-Executive Directors attended meetings and provided advice to the Committee during the year.
The role of secretary to the Committee is performed by the Company Secretary or his nominee.
A report on the Committees activities was given to the Board at each Board meeting following a meeting of the Committee.
indd 73 26 07 2018 16:58:34 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Remuneration Report oversee remuneration and benefits structures and policies consideration of thematic points arising from voting Key Responsibilities of the throughout Superdrys business and to give advice on any recommendations of proxy advisers: Remuneration Committee major changes.
reviewing the Directors Remuneration Policy and Groupwide remuneration practices: The key responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are to: Activities during the year approving the remuneration terms relating to senior new hires determine the framework and policy for the remuneration of The key activities undertaken by the Committee during the and departures and associated share scheme implications: the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, the other Executive year were: Directors, the Company Secretary and other senior reviewing and approving the Committees terms of reference: executives together the Senior Executives and ensure it and reviewing the operation of the performance share plan remains appropriate: including the grant and vesting of awards and reviewing and reviewing the effectiveness of the Committees operation updating the TSR comparator group including taking into advise on the design of, and to determine and agree, against its terms of reference.
account M&A activity amongst the existing comparators and the total individual remuneration package of each of the the evolution of Superdrys business: Senior Executives, giving due regard to any relevant legal Remuneration Policy requirements, the provisions and recommendations set out reviewing the salary, benefits and bonus schemes for the Our updated Remuneration Policy received 97.7% shareholder in the Code and the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and Senior Executives and agreeing the level of bonus awards to approval at the 2017 AGM.
As part of an annual review cycle the associated guidance: be made to them: Committee once again reviewed the Remuneration Policy and approve the design of, and targets for, annual and long-term consideration of the proposals to establish and arrangements determined that it remains fit for purpose.
It therefore proposes performance related pay schemes operated for the Senior connected with the establishment of the Founder Share Plan: no changes for 2019.
Executives and other senior managers, the total annual reviewing and approving the reporting on Superdrys Gender payments made under such schemes and provide oversight Pay Gap: and guidance in relation to other Group-wide incentive proposals to ensure that these are aligned to performance, Superdrys core values and the Boards risk appetite: and Remuneration for financial year 2018 The Committee is satisfied that incentive payments for the Executive Directors reflect both the overall financial performance of the business and the hard work undertaken to achieve this in a challenging environment.
The Committee has reviewed the performance of the Company and the roles played by our Executive Directors against established corporate and personal objectives.
In what was certainly a challenging year for retailers, financial performance met expectations.
Further strategic progress was made in simplifying the business and establishing Superdry Sport as a standalone growth opportunity.
Many of the personal goals for each of the Executive Directors have also been met.
Full details of this assessment can be found on page 86.
The Committee is satisfied that incentive awards reflect performance delivered and are summarised below.
Group Financial Performance 70% Business Specific Performance 15% Personal performance 15% Target Performance Group underlying profit before tax Performance Achievement Performance Achievement Total Award Director Min 93m Max 100m % Opportunity Euan Sutherland 57.14% of max opportunity 100% of opportunity 70% of opportunity 97m 65.5% 701,505 Nick Wharton 57.14% of max opportunity 100% of opportunity 70% of opportunity 97m 65.5% 272,585 74 Superdry Front Section.
com Governance Euan Sutherland and Nick Wharton each hold a PSP award on 5 July 2018.
He will remain available to Superdry and engaged In line with our Remuneration Policy and the wider approach granted in 2015 in respect of the three-year performance period on projects and other matters until he leaves on 31 December within the Group, a base salary increase of 2% was awarded to which ended on 28 April 2018.
That award is due to vest in 2018.
Euan Sutherland with effect from 1 May 2018.
This compares August 2018 and will vest at 100% of the original award.
This with an average increase of 4% across the UK business, No termination payment is due to Nick Wharton and all is based on 30% vesting against the EPS targets 70% of including our store colleagues who benefited from increases outstanding PSP awards will be treated in accordance with award and 70 % against the relative Total Shareholder Return to the National Living Wage.
Ed Barker, who commenced his Remuneration Policy.
A more detailed summary of the treatment TSR targets 30% of award and reflects EPS growth over the employment in April 2018, and Nick Wharton, who has given of these awards is detailed on page 84 and full details of share performance period of 13.2% CAGR and TSR growth of 83.1% notice of his intention to retire at the end of 2018, were not vests will be included in future annual reports on remuneration.
placing Superdry at the 97th percentile of its comparator peer eligible for an increase.
Further details about our share schemes can be found on The Annual Bonus Plan will continue to be based on financial Employee Share Plans pages 123 to 124. targets currently 70%, a shared business objective currently In September 2017, with the generous financial support of our 15% and personal performance objectives currently 15%.
two founders, Julian Dunkerton and James Holder, the Founder Appointments The maximum opportunity will remain 150% of salary for the Share Plan FSP was launched.
The FSP offers the potential Ed Barker joined Superdry in April 2018 and, taking into account CEO and 100% of salary for the CFO.
The financial measure for Superdry colleagues to share in the success of Superdry.
the fact this is his first permanent Chief Financial Officer role, the will continue to be underlying profit before tax at a Group level.
Executive Directors were not invited to participate in the FSP.
The Committee approved a base salary for him of 375,000.
This Any award made in excess of 100% of salary will, in line with Committee has been given the power to administer and operate salary level is below that paid to the current incumbent and it is our Remuneration Policy, be awarded in shares and deferred the FSP on behalf of Julian and James.
the Committees intention to keep Eds salary under review in the for three years.
coming years subject to his development and performance in In addition to the FSP there are incentive and or recognition The PSP will continue to be based 70% on EPS and 30% on the role.
The Committee anticipates that, subject to satisfactory structures throughout the Group.
Employee share ownership is relative TSR performance targets measured over a three year performance, Eds base salary may increase at a faster pace than strongly encouraged through the FSP and our SAYE and BAYE period.
Shares awarded under the PSP have a two year post the wider employee group during the early years of his tenure.
In seeking to hire a new CFO, the Committee carefully considered Gender Pay Gap Report In 2018 Euan Sutherland will be conditionally awarded PSP the extent to which it was willing to compensate the right shares to the value of 200% of salary and Ed Barker 150% candidate for incentive awards forfeited on leaving a previous The sharing of our Gender Pay Gap report facilitated the next of salary.
Despite the continued challenging economic and employment.
In line with the Remuneration Policy and step in our diversity conversation and in ensuring equality across market environment, and UK consumer concerns over Brexit, in order to recruit Ed it decided to compensate him for lost Superdry.
Like many organisations we currently have a gender the Committee has held targets in line with the 2017 PSP.
TSR awards through an appropriate combination of cash awards, pay gap, which we would, of course, aspire not to have.
While performance will be measured against a newly defined bespoke restricted share awards and performance share awards granted this gap is largely driven by the wider society norm that men are group of comparator companies which reflect the increasingly in financial years 2018 and 2019.
The awards made vest over more likely to be in senior roles, we are keen to understand and international nature of our business including non-UK based time periods no shorter than and are of equivalent value to the address the reasons for it at Superdry.
Twenty-five per cent of each element of awards that Ed forfeited on leaving J Sainsbury Plc.
The mix of The Committee recognises that the gender pay measures are the award vests for threshold performance increasing to 100% awards places a higher weighting on shares than the awards very different from equal pay comparisons and is confident vesting for maximum performance.
forfeited and all forfeited awards that remained contingent on that our Group-wide approach to pay means that we do not future performance have been replaced with performance share allow unequal pay to exist within Superdry.
The Committee has AGM awards.
Further details about Eds terms of appointment can be concluded that the Superdry gender pay gap demonstrates that found on page 84.
The Committee considers the simplicity and transparency of our our most senior roles are largely filled by men and we therefore approach to remuneration arrangements and their consistent need to improve diversity in our most senior job levels.
Resignations application have contributed positively to Superdrys strong Our full report on gender pay is available at https: corporate.
leadership team continuing to deliver excellent performance Julian Dunkerton, Product and Brand Director, stepped down superdry.
Further detail on our approach to diversity and despite the challenging environment.
from the Board and left the Company on 31 March 2018 in diversity data can be found in our Nomination Committee report order to focus on his other business and charitable interests.
I There will be a resolution to approve the Directors Annual and on page 72. would like to acknowledge Julians remarkable achievement in Remuneration Report including the implementation of the current establishing and building Superdry and thank him for everything Remuneration Policy in respect of financial year 2019 at the Key elements of 2019 that he has done.
No termination payment was due to Julian.
We look forward to your support.
remuneration arrangements The Committee acknowledges the early indication Nick Wharton Penny Hughes provided of his desire to retire.
Following a comprehensive search Except for a change to the comparators used to measure relative Remuneration Committee Chairman and selection exercise and a structured handover and smooth TSR in the PSP, remuneration arrangements for the forthcoming 4 July 2018 transition with his successor Ed Barker, Nick will leave the Board year will be consistent with those for financial year 2018.
indd 75 26 07 2018 16:58:34 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Remuneration Report Part 2: Directors Remuneration Policy unaudited In formulating the Remuneration Policy, full consideration has been given to the principles set out in the Code.
The Committee regularly reviews the Remuneration Policy to ensure it takes account of best practice and serves our needs.
As part of the regular review, the Committee undertakes a dialogue with major shareholders and listens to their feedback, alongside guidance from shareholder representative bodies.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report and any matters discussed with shareholders during the year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
In accordance with section 439A of the Companies Act 2006 this section sets out the Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders at the AGM on 12 September 2017.
No changes are proposed to the Remuneration Policy.
Remuneration Policy overview We aim to provide a remuneration structure and approach that helps align the interests of Executives and shareholders, and enables the attraction, retention and motivation of high calibre people with the capability to drive continued growth of the business.
Where the Committee has discretion in implementing the Remuneration Policy, that discretion will be exercised diligently and in a manner aligned with shareholder interests.
Discretion will only be exercised within the boundaries and limits set out in the Remuneration Policy.
Summary of the Executive Director Remuneration Policy Element Base Salary Purpose and link to strategy Set at levels to attract and retain talented Executive Directors of the high calibre required to develop and deliver our ambitious growth strategy.
Base salary will reflect each Executive Directors individual skill, experience and role within the Group.
Any changes to salary will take account of average increases across the Group.
Operation When determining base salary the Committee typically takes into account: salary levels for comparable roles at companies of a similar size, industry, global scope and complexity: business and individual performance: changes to the scale and complexity of the role: and salaries paid to other employees across the Group.
Base salary is normally paid on a monthly basis in cash.
The base salary for each Executive Director is normally reviewed annually in May by the Committee although an out of cycle review may be conducted if the Committee determines this is necessary.
A salary review will not necessarily lead to an increase in salary.
Maximum opportunity Salary increases will typically be in line with the general level of increase awarded to other employees in the Group and or the Executive Directors country of employment.
In exceptional circumstances e. g. where there is an increase in scale, scope and or responsibility, to reflect the development and success of the individual within the role, and or to take account of relevant levels market movements a higher increase may be awarded.
There is no prescribed maximum base salary level or maximum annual increase.
Current salaries are detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measures Individual and business performance are taken into consideration when deciding salary levels.
Element Retirement Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To provide retirement benefits which are market competitive and to enable us to attract and retain Executive Directors of the right calibre.
Operation Executive Directors can choose to participate in the personal pension plan relevant to the country where they are employed, or to receive a cash allowance, or a combination of the two.
Our Group personal pension plan is a defined contribution plan.
Maximum opportunity The maximum employer contribution to an Executive Directors pension or equivalent cash allowance is 15% of base salary.
com Governance Element Other Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To ensure Superdry is broadly competitive on benefits with broader market practice.
To support personal health and well-being.
Operation Benefit provision is set at an appropriate market level taking into account market practice in the Executive Directors home jurisdiction, the jurisdiction where they are based, and benefits for similar roles at similar companies and the level type of benefits provided elsewhere in the Group.
The benefits to which Executive Directors are entitled include but are not limited to private medical insurance for the individual and their family, company sick pay, holiday pay, life assurance, car allowance and staff discount on Superdry products.
Other benefits may be provided where appropriate.
In-country and global relocation support may also be provided where appropriate.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate, on the same basis as other employees, in our SAYE and BAYE schemes.
They may also be granted eligibility to participate on the same terms in any new benefit plans, including all-employee share incentives, set up for the wider employee group.
Executive Directors are excluded from participating in the Founder Share Plan.
Maximum opportunity There is no maximum level of benefits provided to an individual Executive Director.
Participation by Executive Directors in the SAYE scheme, and any other all-employee share plan operated in the future, is limited to the maximum award levels permitted by HM Revenue & Customs.
Element Annual Performance Bonus Purpose and link to strategy To encourage and reward the achievement of challenging financial and strategic performance targets during a financial year.
The performance measures set each year align to our strategy and shareholder value creation.
Operation Bonus payments are normally awarded in cash and are not pensionable.
An individual Executive Director may choose to defer bonus awarded into our Group personal pension plan.
The Committee will defer any bonus earned in excess of 100% of salary into Superdry shares with a three-year holding period.
Maximum opportunity Up to 150% of base salary.
Performance measures Performance is normally assessed over one financial year.
The annual performance bonus may be based on a mix of financial, personal and or strategic business objectives relevant to the particular performance year and is aimed at securing a sustainable long-term business model.
The performance criteria and performance targets are determined by the Committee each year and include threshold levels for minimum award below which no bonus will be awarded, on-target award and maximum award.
The Committee will set demanding performance targets to encourage stretch performance.
These targets are considered to be commercially confidential and will therefore be disclosed in due course after the performance period has ended.
A straight-line sliding scale between threshold 0% of opportunity, target 50% of opportunity and maximum 100% of opportunity is used to determine the level of award.
Malus and clawback provisions apply as described below.
indd 77 26 07 2018 16:58:34 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Remuneration Report Element Performance Share Plan Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise and reward Executive Directors to develop and deliver Superdrys ambitious strategy, that create long-term value and to ensure a strong link between executive reward and Group performance total shareholder return.
To support recruitment, long-term retention and collaborative working through share ownership.
Operation Awards are granted on a discretionary basis and are normally subject to performance and continued employment at the end of a three-year performance period with a two-year post-vest holding period.
Awards may be structured as conditional awards or nil or nominal cost options.
Executive Directors may benefit, in the form of cash or shares, from the value of any dividend paid between the date of grant and the date of vesting to the extent that awards vest.
Maximum opportunity Normal maximum award limit: 200% of salary.
Exceptional circumstances award limit: 300% of salary.
Performance measures The Committee determines performance targets for each new cycle to ensure that the targets are stretching and support value creation for shareholders while remaining motivational for management.
Performance measures will be based on financial metrics, such as EPS and relative TSR over a three-year performance period.
25% of an award vests for threshold performance increasing to 100% vesting for maximum performance.
Malus and clawback provisions will apply as described below.
Element Share Ownership Guidelines Purpose and link to strategy To help further strengthen the alignment between management and shareholders.
Operation Executive Directors not holding shares worth at least 200% in the case of the CEO or 150% in the case of the other Executive Directors of their base salary will be expected to retain 50% of any PSP awards which vest net of tax until such time as that level of holding is met.
Level Minimum of 150% or 200% of base salary as applicable.
For three years after any PSP award vests, the Committee may Selection of performance Malus and clawback provisions decide that the individual is subject to clawback if: The Committee has discretion to cancel, reduce or clawback measures there has been is a material misstatement of results that individual or all annual bonus awards in certain circumstances Financial performance measures e. g. underlying diluted EPS resulted in an award being paid at too high a level: including: EPS and TSR are used for the PSPs performance criteria.
there has been an error in assessing any performance The Groups key performance indicators, as set out in the a misstatement of results that resulted in an award being condition or there was inaccurate or misleading information Strategic Report, contribute to the delivery of EPS and TSR.
The paid at too high a level: or assumptions that resulted in the Award vesting at a higher combination of EPS and TSR as performance conditions for a material failure of risk management or health and safety: level than otherwise would have been the case: and the PSP provides a balance between rewarding management and there has been gross misconduct on the part of the for growth in sustainable profitability and stock market serious reputational damage to Superdry: and or personal individual.
TSR is a clear indicator of the relative success of misconduct.
the Group in delivering shareholder value and, as a performance measure, firmly aligns the interests of PSP participants and Legacy arrangements The Committee may at any time before the vesting of PSP awards shareholders.
The EPS target range will require significant reduce the number of shares in certain circumstances including if: In approving this Remuneration Policy in 2017, authority was levels of growth and the TSR condition will be based on relative given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into a material misstatement of financial results has resulted in the outperformance of relevant listed companies.
Performance against with current or former Executive Directors prior to the adoption award having been granted over a higher number of shares the TSR and EPS targets will be independently calculated by a of the previous Remuneration Policy in 2014.
Details of any than would otherwise have been the case: and third party and then reviewed by the Committee.
payments made to former Executive Directors pursuant to the number of shares awarded was based on any other any such commitments will be set out in the Annual Report on kind of error or basis of information or assumption that turns Remuneration as they arise.
out to be inaccurate and resulted in the award having been granted a higher number of shares than would otherwise have been the case.
com Governance PSP a small number of the management team who provide the opportunity to buy shares up to the value of 1,800 per Remuneration arrangements significant strategic input or lead a significant function within year using pre-tax earnings.
For every ten shares purchased across Superdry Superdry, and more junior employees who have made an through this scheme the Group offers one free matching exceptional contribution, may be invited to participate in the share.
The reward philosophy is consistent across Superdry, namely that PSP in any financial year.
Retirement benefits in line with local country practices, reward should support our business strategy and be sufficient Founder Share Plan FSP all of our colleagues across we encourage all employees to contribute appropriate to attract, motivate and retain high performing individuals.
Within Superdry were invited to participate in the FSP.
Funded by savings toward their retirement.
In the UK, we operate this framework, there are differences for a range of reasons, the generosity of our two founders, Julian Dunkerton and pension arrangements within the Occupational and Personal including global location, culture, best practice, employment James Holder, the plan gives every colleague the opportunity Pension Schemes Automatic Enrolment Regulations 2010. regulation and the local employment market conditions.
to share in a proportion of the wealth gain due to the growth Salaries and benefits a range of factors are considered in Superdrys share price.
Executive Directors do not benefit Executive Directors including business performance, individual capability and from the FSP.
performance, the pay of other employees and external service agreements All employee share schemes in the UK the Group market data.
The following table sets out a description of any obligations on operates SAYE and BAYE share schemes which are open to Annual performance bonus consistent with the Superdry, contained in the current Executive Directors service all eligible employees.
Under the SAYE scheme employees Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, annual bonuses contracts, which could give rise to, or impact, remuneration can elect to save up to 500 each month for a fixed period are typically linked to business performance with a focus on payments or payments for loss of office.
At the end of the savings period, individuals underlying profit before tax, although the business retains may use their savings to buy Superdry ordinary shares at a the right to void a bonus award in circumstances where we discount capped at up to 20% of the market price set at the deem an individual has not performed to an acceptable level launch of the scheme.
The BAYE scheme gives employees or has acted inappropriately during the performance period.
Element Terms Notice period A maximum of 12 months by Superdry and 12 months by the Executive Director.
Contract date Euan Sutherland 22 October 2014 Ed Barker 16 April 2018 Nick Wharton 24 June 2015 Expiry date Euan Sutherland and Ed Barker have no fixed expiry date in their contracts.
Nick Wharton has given notice of his intention to retire and will step down from his current role and the Board on 16 July 2018 and leave the business on 31 December 2018.
Base salary Contractual entitlement to receive a base salary and for a salary review to take place each year.
Superdry is not obliged to increase an Executive Directors salary following a review.
Pension contributions Employer pension contribution.
Contractual benefits Contractual entitlement to: private medical insurance: company sick pay: life assurance: holiday pay: car allowance: and discount on Superdry products.
Annual bonus At the discretion of the Committee opportunity to participate in the annual performance bonus scheme, subject to our policy in relation to such a scheme and to the approval of the Committee.
Long-term incentive plan At the discretion of the Committee opportunity to participate in the PSP, subject to our policy in relation to such a scheme and to the approval of the Committee.
The service contract for a new Executive Director will not include any provision that is more generous than those listed above.
All Executive Director service contracts are available for inspection at our registered office during normal hours of business and will also be available at our AGM.
With the consent of the Board, where an appointment can enhance an individual Executive Directors experience and add value to the Group, Executive Directors are able to accept non-executive appointments outside the Group.
Three Executive Directors currently hold Non-Executive Directorships: Euan Sutherland with Britvic plc 55,000 fee, Nick Wharton with Mothercare plc 47,500 fee and Ed Barker with Staffline Group plc 30,000 fee.
Annual fees received by the Executive Director are retained by them at the discretion of the Committee.
indd 79 26 07 2018 16:58:34 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Remuneration Report Any use of the above discretions would, where relevant, be Rules.
Details of shares or interests in shares held by Executive Discretions retained explained in the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, Directors at the end of the financial year are set out in the Annual by the Committee as appropriate, be the subject of consultation with our major Report on Remuneration.
These remain eligible to vest based on shareholders.
The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan and PSP according to their respective rules or relevant documents, in The operation of our SAYE and BAYE share schemes will be as line with the applicable approved Remuneration Policy and in permitted under HM Revenue & Customs rules and the Listing accordance with the Listing Rules where relevant.
The Committee retains certain discretions, consistent with market practice, with Illustrations of application of the Remuneration Policy regard to the operation and administration of these plans.
These Our remuneration arrangements have been designed so that a substantial proportion of reward is dependent on the achievement of include, but are not limited to, the following in relation to the stretching short and long-term performance targets.
The chart below shows the value of the current Executive Directors packages PSP: the participants: the timing of grant of an award: the size under three reward scenarios minimum, on-target and maximum.
of an award: within policy limits the determination of vesting: the discretion that may be required if dealing with a change of control 4,000 or restructuring of the Group: determination of the treatment of leavers: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights 3,500 issues, corporate restructuring events and special dividends : 3,000 reviewing performance measures and weighting: and targets for the PSP from one cycle to the next.
2,500 1,457 In relation to the annual bonus plan, the Committee retains 2,000 728 discretion over: the participants: the timing of grant of a payment: 1,092 the determination of the bonus payment: dealing with a change 1,500 546 of control: determination of the treatment of leavers based on 563 1,000 the rules of the plan and the appropriate treatment chosen: the 281 annual review of performance measures and weighting: and 375 188 500 869 869 869 targets for the annual bonus plan from year to year.
447 447 447 0 In relation to both our PSP and annual bonus plan, the Committee retains the ability to adjust the targets and or set different measures if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a business which cause it to determine that Euan Sutherland Ed Barker the conditions are no longer appropriate and that an adjustment Fixed Variable PSP is required so that the conditions achieve their original purpose and are not materially more or less difficult to satisfy.
We have used EPS as a determining measure since inception for the PSP: The chart above is based on the following assumptions: it is therefore consistent and transparent to participants and base salary as at 1 May 2018: shareholders.
The Committee may exercise discretion if required estimated value of benefits and pension: to adjust EPS to reflect what it considers to be a fairer outcome for shareholders and participants.
on-target bonus taken to be 50% of the maximum potential maximum is 150% of salary for Euan Sutherland, 100% of salary for Ed Barker : on-target PSP award is taken to be 50% of the maximum potential maximum potential is 200% of salary for Euan Sutherland and 150% of salary for Ed Barker : and no share price appreciation.
indd 80 26 07 2018 16:58:34 000 Minimum On Target Maximum Minimum On Target Maximum corporate.
com Governance Payment may also be made in respect of accrued benefits, Policy on payment for loss of office Approach to the recruitment and including untaken holiday entitlement, in line with the treatment of We are committed to ensuring a consistent approach and to retention of Executive Directors other employees.
not paying more than is necessary in the circumstances of loss of office.
In the event of an early termination of a contract, In addition, as is consistent with market practice, we may pay Principles the policy is to seek to minimise any liability.
When managing a contribution towards an Executive Directors legal fees for When hiring a new Executive Director or promoting to the Board such situations the Committee takes a range of factors into entering into a settlement agreement and may pay a contribution from within Superdry, the Committee will offer a package that is account, including contractual obligations, shareholder interests, towards fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated sufficient to attract, retain and motivate the right talent, while at organisational stability and the need to ensure an effective settlement.
all times aiming to pay no more than is necessary.
Executive Directors may be entitled to a payment in an appropriate remuneration package, the Committee will take There is no provision for additional compensation on termination lieu of notice PILON if notice is served by us.
In the normal into consideration all relevant factors including but not limited following a change of control, nor liquidated damages of any course of events, the Executive Director would work their to the impact on other existing remuneration arrangements, the kind.
In the event of termination for cause e. g. gross candidates location and experience, external market influences misconduct or negligence, neither notice nor PILON would be and internal pay relativities.
Consideration of conditions given and the Executive Director would cease to perform services The remuneration package for a new Executive Director would immediately.
elsewhere in Superdry be set in accordance with the terms of our prevailing approved The Committee has oversight of the main compensation In the event of termination for reasons other than cause for Remuneration Policy at the time of appointment and take into structures throughout Superdrys business and actively example, resignation where the individual is requested by us to account the skills and experience of the individual, the market considers the relationship between general changes to employee cease working before the end of the notice period, PILON may rate for a candidate of that experience and the importance of remuneration and to Executive Director remuneration.
If a portion of the notice period is served, the PILON securing the relevant individual.
considering changes to Executive Director remuneration, the payment will be reduced on a pro rata basis.
Payments may Committee is provided with relevant comparative employee Salary would be provided at such a level as required to attract be made on a phased basis.
Alternatively, rather than making a information for example, average salary review across Superdry.
the most appropriate candidate and may be set initially at PILON, we may place an Executive Director on garden leave for a below mid-market level on the basis that it may progress the duration of some or all of their notice period.
The Committee does not consider it appropriate to consult towards the mid-market level once expertise and performance directly with employees when formulating Executive Director Where an Executive Director leaves during a financial year, the has been proven and sustained.
The annual bonus potential reward policy.
However, it does take into account employee annual bonus may be payable with respect to the period of the would be limited to 150% of salary and grants under the PSP feedback on remuneration provided by the Group HR Director.
financial year worked although it will be prorated for time and would be limited to 200% of salary 300% of salary in exceptional paid at the normal payment date.
Consideration of shareholder views Any share based entitlements granted to an Executive Director The members of the Committee are always available to discuss Pension and other benefits will be offered in line with local market under our share plans will be determined based on the relevant any issues or concerns with shareholders.
practices dependent on where an Executive Director is located.
The default treatment under the PSP is that any In addition, the Committee may offer additional cash and outstanding awards lapse on cessation of employment.
However, or share based elements to replace deferred or incentive pay in certain prescribed circumstances, such as death, ill health, injury, forfeited by an Executive Director leaving a previous employer.
disability, retirement, sale of the employing company or business It would seek to ensure, where possible, that these awards outside the Group or any other circumstances at the discretion would be consistent with awards forfeited in terms of vesting of the Committee, good leaver status may be applied.
For good periods, expected value and performance conditions.
For leavers, awards will normally vest on their normal vesting date, an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable pay subject to the satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to at that time and will be reduced pro rata to reflect the proportion of pay out according to its terms.
In addition, any other ongoing the performance period actually served.
However, in the event of remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may the death of an Executive Director, the Committee has discretion to continue.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee determine that awards vest at cessation, subject to performance may agree that certain relocation and or incidental expenses as targets, with no service pro rata reduction.
indd 81 26 07 2018 16:58:34 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Remuneration Report Summary of the Non-Executive Director Remuneration Policy The Board aims to recruit high calibre Non-Executive Directors with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
The Remuneration Policy is as follows: Element Fees Purpose and link to strategy Fees are set at an appropriate level to attract and retain high calibre Non-Executive Directors, and reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of each role and fees paid in other companies of a similar size, industry, global scope and complexity.
Operation Fees are normally reviewed annually and are normally paid in cash.
Each Non-Executive Director is paid a basic fee for undertaking Non-Executive Director and Board duties.
A higher fee is paid to the Chairman of the Board and the Senior Independent Director.
Additional fees may also be payable for taking on Committee responsibilities and other Board duties.
Non-Executive Directors also receive staff discount on Superdry products.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive any other benefits other than reasonable expenses.
Travel and other appropriate expenses including fees incurred in obtaining professional advice in the furtherance of their duties incurred in the course of performing their duties are reimbursed to Non-Executive Directors along with any associated taxes.
Non-Executive Directors are covered by the Directors and Officers insurance and indemnification.
Maximum opportunity As is the case for the Executive Directors, there is no prescribed maximum fee or maximum fee increase.
The aggregate fees payable to all Non-Executives combined are capped as set out in Superdrys Articles of Association.
Performance measures No performance measures apply.
Fees are set at an appropriate level to attract and retain high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
When recruiting a new Non-Executive Director, the remuneration arrangements offered will be consistent with the policy presented above.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years subject to election at the Companys AGM and then continue to serve subject to annual re-election at the Companys AGM.
Appointments may be terminated by either the Company or the Non-Executive Director giving three months notice, or in the case of the Chairman, 12 months written notice.
Save in respect of retirement by rotation, a Non-Executive Director being removed from office will be entitled to compensation equal to the fee during any remaining notice period.
Name Date of appointment Peter Bamford 29 January 2010 Keith Edelman 4 February 2010 Penny Hughes 1 April 2015 Minnow Powell 1 December 2012 Dennis Millard 1 February 2018 John Smith 1 February 2018 Not standing for re-election at the AGM.
All Non-Executive Director letters of appointment are available for inspection at our registered office during normal hours of business and will also be available at our AGM.
com Governance Consistent with the financial year 2018 awards, performance for Benefits in kind and pension unaudited Part 3: Annual Report on financial year 2019 awards will be based 70% on sliding scale Benefits will continue to include private medical insurance for the Remuneration EPS growth and 30% on TSR relative to a selected group of individual and their family, sick pay, holiday pay, life assurance, retailers as measured over the three-year period ending at the car allowance and staff discount on Superdry products.
Other The following part of the Directors Remuneration Report, 2021 financial year-end: benefits may be provided where appropriate.
We will continue to together with the Remuneration Committee Chairmans Annual contribute no more than 15% of salary into the Groups personal Statement, will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM and 25% of the EPS-related component of the award will vest pension plan and or in the form of a salary supplement.
sets out how the Remuneration Policy will be implemented in for average annual EPS growth of 8% p. a. increasing on a financial year 2019, and how it was implemented in financial year straight-line basis to 100% vesting for EPS growth of 12% Annual bonus unaudited 2018.
This part of the report has been prepared in accordance p. a. : and We will continue to operate an annual bonus plan for financial with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 25% of the TSR-related component of the award will vest if year 2019 based on the achievement of a stretching financial Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2008 as the Groups TSR is ranked at the median of a comparator metric linked to underlying profit before tax 70% of the bonus amended and 9.8.
group increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting at opportunity, shared business objectives 15% of the bonus The following sections of the Annual Report and Financial the upper quartile of the group.
The comparator group for opportunity and personal strategic objectives 15% of the bonus Statements are identified as audited or unaudited as appropriate.
the awards has been reviewed and will comprise of listed opportunity.
Specific targets will not be disclosed in advance apparel brands and retailers in the UK, US and Europe.
as they are commercially confidential, but will be disclosed next Implementation of the Remuneration year.
The maximum bonus opportunity in financial year 2019 will Abercrombie & Fitch be 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% Policy for Financial Year 2019: Adidas of base salary for the CFO, with any bonus earned in excess of Base salary audited American Eagle Outfitters 100% of salary continuing to be deferred in Superdry shares with Executive Directors base salaries are normally reviewed annually, ASOS a three year holding period.
Nick Wharton will not participate in taking into account business and individual performance, salary Boohoo the financial year 2019 annual bonus plan.
levels at companies of a similar size, industry, global scope, Brown N Group growth and complexity and the salaries paid to other employees Burberry Group Long-term incentives unaudited across Superdry.
Dunelm Group The Superdry PSP enables us to incentivise and reward Hennes & Mauritz participants appropriately for contributing to the delivery of our Annual salary increases for Executive Directors are below the Inditex strategic objectives and to provide an appropriate level of longwider head office employee group.
The average annual increase JD Sports Fashion term performance-related pay.
Current annual base salary levels Kingfisher are as follows: The Committee is conscious of the fact that at the time of Marks & Spencer Group granting awards for the 2019 LTIP the Superdry share price had Salary From From Mulberry Group Increase 1 May 2018 1 May 2017 fallen below the level used to calculate the 2018 award.
The Next Committee deliberated whether, in this context, a downwards Euan Chief Executive Sports Direct Intl.
adjustment would be appropriate but ultimately concluded that Sutherland Officer 2% 728,280 714,000 Ted Baker it was appropriate to follow the normal formula.
For financial Under Armour Ed Barker Chief Financial year 2019, the PSP grant for the Chief Executive Officer, Euan Officer In addition to the TSR performance condition, the Committee Sutherland will be 200% of salary and for the Chief Financial 1 Designate 0% 375,000 15,625 must also be satisfied that there has been an improvement in our Officer, Ed Barker, will be 150% of salary.
Their awards vest three Nick Wharton Chief Financial underlying financial performance.
years after grant subject to service and performance conditions 2 Officer 0% 416,160 416,160 and a two-year, post vest, holding period applied.
Ed Barker was appointed Chief Financial Officer Designate on 16 April 2018 and will be appointed Chief Financial Officer on 5 July 2018.
His salary will next be subject to scheduled review in May 2019.
Nick Wharton will step down as Chief Financial Officer on 5 July 2018 and leaves on 31 December 2018.
indd 83 26 07 2018 16:58:35 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Remuneration Report of Superdry shares granted in return will be calculated using Board on 5 July 2018.
He will remain available to Superdry and Summary of remuneration the applicable share prices on the date that awards are made.
engaged on projects and other matters until he leaves Superdry arrangements for Ed Barker Further details of the compensatory awards will be set out in the on 31 December 2018.
Nick will continue to receive his normal applicable annual remuneration reports for the financial years in remuneration and benefits up to his retirement on 31 December Ed Barker joined the Group as Chief Financial Officer Designate which those awards are made or vest.
2018 but will not be entitled to a bonus in relation to financial on 16 April 2018 and will take on the role of Chief Financial year 2019.
All other benefits are in accordance with our Remuneration policy including a 15% cash allowance as an alternative to an No termination payment is due to Nick Wharton and all The Committee carefully considered the requirement to employers pension contribution.
outstanding PSP awards will be treated in accordance with the compensate Ed for bonus awards cash and deferred share Remuneration Policy.
A summary of the treatment of annual bonuses and outstanding long-term incentive plan awards that The operation and structure of the PSP awards are in line with bonus and PSP awards is set out below and full details of he forfeited on leaving his previous employment.
In line with the other participants and will vest over the normal time frames.
The PSP share vests will be included in future annual reports on Remuneration Policy we will compensate Ed for these awards operation and structure of restricted share awards are subject remuneration.
through an appropriate mix of cash awards, restricted share to satisfactory personal performance and vest over a two year awards and increased PSP awards in financial years 2018 and period.
Superdry shares as awarded are subject to Director As a good leaver, Nick Whartons outstanding PSP awards under 2019.
The underlying principle is that Ed will be compensated on shareholding guidelines.
the 2016 and 2017 schemes will be prorated for the portion of a like-for-like basis in terms of vesting periods, expected value the performance period served and remain capable of vesting The Committee is satisfied that these awards are of comparable and applicable performance conditions.
subject to the achievement of the relevant performance criteria.
commercial value to the awards being bought out and provide an Accordingly, Nick retains 22,931 and 15,427 shares under the In total Ed will be provided with i a PSP grant for financial year appropriate level of deferred share based compensation.
2018 at 150% of his annualised salary ii ordinary shares in Superdry equivalent in value to the value of 131,588 shares in J Julian Dunkerton, Product and Brand Director, stepped down Resignations Sainsbury plc ii ordinary shares in Superdry equivalent in value from the Board and left the Company on 31 March 2018 in The Committee acknowledges the early indication Nick Wharton to 136,418 and iii a cash payment of 61,044.
The Committee order to focus on his other business and charitable interests.
provided of his desire to retire.
Following a comprehensive search has been provided with appropriate evidence to verify the No termination payment was due to Julian and he has no annual and selection exercise and a structured handover and smooth awards that Ed has forfeited on leaving his previous employment.
transition with his successor, Ed Barker, Nick will leave the The value of the shares in J Sainsbury plc and the number Non-Executive Directors audited No change will be made in 2018 to the annual fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
Annual fee levels for financial year 2019 are as follows: From From 1 May 1 May Role 2018 2017 Chairman 200,000 200,000 Base fee 55,000 55,000 Senior Independent Director increment 17,500 17,500 Audit Remuneration Committee Chair increment 12,500 12,500 84 Superdry Front Section.
Benefits include a car allowance, medical insurance and expenses in relation to the performance of duties.
Euan Sutherland, Nick Wharton and Ed Barker received a Company contribution of 15% of base salary in the form of either pension contribution or cash allowance.
Ed Barker was appointed on 16 April 2018.
For the purposes of the single figure the 2015 PSP will vest at 100% and the value included in the table has been calculated by multiplying the number of shares in respect of which the 2015 PSP will vest by the average share price 16.71 over the last quarter of the financial period ended 30 April 2018.
For the purposes of the single figure the 2014 PSP value was calculated using the actual share price on vesting of 18.40.
The 2018 bonus will be paid in financial year 2019.
The single figure for Euan Sutherland has been updated to reflect the actual share price of 18.40 for the 2014 PSP share vesting which matured in October 2017.
Dennis Millard was appointed on 1 February 2018.
John Smith was appointed on 1 February 2018.
Julian Dunkerton resigned on 31 March 2018.
Beatrice Lafon resigned on 12 September 2017.
Steve Sunnucks resigned on 12 September 2017.
For Non-Executive Directors certain expenses relating to the performance of a Non-Executive Directors duties, such as travel to and from Company meetings, are classified as taxable benefits by HMRC.
In such cases, the Company will ensure that the Non-Executive Director is not out of pocket by settling the related tax via the PAYE settlement agreement.
In line with current regulations these taxable benefits have been disclosed and are shown in the taxable benefits column in the Directors Remuneration table above.
The figures shown include the cost of the expenses grossed up for tax and national insurance.
indd 85 26 07 2018 16:58:35 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Remuneration Report Annual bonus for the year ended 28 April 2018 audited For financial year 2018 the maximum annual bonus opportunity was 150% of salary for the Chief Executive Officer and 100% of salary for the CFO.
The performance against the targets and bonus awards determined were as set out in the table below.
The Committee is satisfied the bonus awards for the Executive Directors reflect both the overall financial performance of the business and the hard work undertaken to achieve this in a challenging environment: Director Profit related targets 70% Shared business target 15% Personal strategic targets 15% Euan Sutherland Annual performance for FY18 was measured against Action was taken this year to simplify the range of product Euans objectives for financial year 2018 covered a range Group underlying profit before tax.
Group underlying options designed, manufactured and distributed through of strategically important issues and material operational profit before tax is used in the bonus plan as the Group our sales channels.
This resulted in a significant reduction initiatives.
They reflected the need to deliver a clear considers this to be an important measure of Group in option count and an increase in retail and wholesale purpose and articulation of values for Superdrys global performance and is consistent with how business range overlap, delivering cost efficiency and reducing business, the improvement of certain operational metrics performance is assessed internally by the Board and complexity.
Each of the option count and range overlap relating to store performance and inventory levels, the Executive Committee.
targets were exceeded resulting in a 5% award for each delivery of additional operational leverage and movement achievement 10% in total.
towards profitability in Superdrys development markets, For FY18 the start to earn threshold was set at 93m increased speed to market and further development of offering 25% of the opportunity the on target threshold at Superdry Sport offers significant future growth potential brand presence.
The Committee has assessed Euans 96.5m offering 50% of the opportunity and a maximum and action was taken this year to establish at least four individual performance against these objectives, the award 100% at 100m.
Eight stores were opened and expected and actual levels of achievement along with are trading well resulting in a full 5% award.
Group underlying profit before tax out-turn for the year the opportunities and challenges experienced across the was 97m which was above the on target trigger.
As a result Euan Sutherland and Nick Wharton were business in financial year 2018 and decided to award him As a result Euan Sutherland and Nick Wharton were awarded 100% of the maximum opportunity.
awarded 57.1% of the maximum opportunity.
Nick Wharton Nicks personal objectives covered delivery of Superdrys new store and Sport store space requirements along with the store refits planned for the year, the recruitment and on-boarding of a new Chief Information Officer to lead the IT function, the delivery of the IT elements of key infrastructure programmes, further improvements in Superdrys financial planning, reporting, decision making and governance capabilities and control environment, improved operational leverage through efficiency savings and maintenance of high quality investor relationships.
The Committee has assessed Nicks individual performance against these objectives, the expected and actual levels of achievement along with the changes in his role as a result of his decision to retire at the end of calendar year 2018 and the opportunities and challenges experienced across the business in financial year 2018 and decided to award him 70% of the maximum 15% opportunity.
com Governance Performance share plan audited The PSP awards granted on 14 August 2015 were based on a three-year performance period ended 28 April 2018 and were independently calculated by the Committees advisers Kepler.
As disclosed in previous annual reports, the performance condition for these awards was as follows: Metric Performance Condition Threshold Target Stretch Target Actual % Vesting Earnings per share 70% 25% of this part vests for average annual EPS growth of 8% in excess of RPI, increasing 8% 12% 13.2% in excess 70% on a straight-line basis to 100% of this part vesting for EPS growth of at least 12% in excess of RPI in excess of RPI of RPI max.
70% per annum in excess of RPI.
Total shareholder returns 30% 25% of this part of the award vests if the Groups TSR is ranked at the median of the Median Upper Upper 30% comparator companies, increasing on a straight-line basis to 100% vesting of this part quartile quartile max.
30% if the Groups TSR is ranked at the upper quartile of the comparator group comprising FTSE AllShare companies in the following subsectors: Apparel Retailers, Broadline Retailers, Clothing and Accessories, Furnishings, Home Improvement Retailers, Speciality Retailers and Toys.
100% In addition to the award of shares in line with the percentage set out in above table the awards to participants in the 2015 PSP were adjusted by additional share awards equivalent to the value of dividends paid on the underlying shares awarded at 80.5 pence per share in the time between the date of grant and date of vesting of the award.
The Director vesting arrangements are summarised in the table below.
Value of Vesting Total Value of Shares @ Value of Vest Salary on which Number of Q4 Average Price Dividends Including % of Salary award was based Shares Vesting 16.71 Accrued Dividend Director awarded in 2015 100% Euan Sutherland 200% 675,000 91,358 1,526,592 73,543 1,600,135 Nick Wharton 200% 400,000 54,138 904,646 43,581 948,227 Scheme interests awarded during the year audited PSP awards granted in the year 1 PSP awards were granted to the Executive Directors as follows: Date Number of Executive Granted PSP awards Basis Face value Performance condition Performance period 2 Euan Sutherland 20 July 2017 95,282 200% of base salary 1,428,000 Vesting will be determined by EPS and TSR over the Three financial years performance period as described below ending 2019 2020 2 Nick Wharton 20 July 2017 27,768 100% of base salary 416,160 3 Ed Barker 16 April 2018 36,106 150% of base salary 562,500 1.
PSP awards are structured as conditional awards.
Based on a share price of 14.98 which was the ten day weighted average share price.
Based on a share price of 15.57 which was the ten day weighted average share price.
indd 87 26 07 2018 16:58:35 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Remuneration Report The performance condition for these awards is set out below: % of PSP award which Performance condition % of award subject to condition Targets will vest 1 Average annual earnings per share EPS growth 70% Average annual EPS growth of 8% 25% Average annual EPS growth of 12% 100% Between 8% and 12% average Straight-line between annual EPS growth 25% and 100% Total Shareholder Return TSR against comparator 30% Median 25% 2 group of companies Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile Straight-line between 25% and 100% 1.
The Committee retains the ability to adjust the EPS condition if events occur e. g. material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business which cause it to determine that the condition is no longer appropriate and amendment is required so that the condition achieves its original purpose and is not materially less difficult to satisfy.
TSR comparator group: those companies listed in the following FTSE AllShare subsectors: Apparel Retailers, Broadline Retailers, Clothing and Accessories, Furnishings, Home Improvement Retailers, Recreational Products & Services, Restaurants & Bars and Speciality Retailers.
Directors interests in share awards audited The table below set out details of the Executive Directors outstanding share awards which will vest in future years subject to performance and or continued service.
All awards granted under the PSP are subject to continued employment and the satisfaction of the performance conditions set out above.
The PSP awards are all structured as conditional awards.
com Governance Share ownership audited The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of Superdry at 28 April 2018 are set out below: Interests in ordinary shares Interests in shares Shareholding guideline Director 28 April 2018 29 April 2017 percentage PSP Deferred Shares SAYE BAYE Total Executive Directors 1 2 Euan Sutherland 73,322 11,613 200% 275,158 32,319 1,648 216 382,879 Ed Barker 150% 3 Nick Wharton 5,000 5,000 150% 107,703 1,648 114,351 Non-Executive Directors Peter Bamford 6,000 6,000 6,000 3 Keith Edelman 4,000 4,000 4,000 Penny Hughes Minnow Powell 1,496 1,496 1,496 Dennis Millard John Smith 1.
Shares awarded under 2016 and 2017 Annual Bonus Plan deferred for three years.
195 partnership shares, 19 matching shares and 2 dividend shares.
Nick Wharton and Keith Edelman are not standing for re-election at the 2018 AGM.
In the period between 28 April 2018 and 5 July 2018 there have been no changes in the Directors interests above other than 25 shares purchased under the BAYE share scheme 23 partnership shares and 2 matching shares on behalf of Euan Sutherland.
The following sections of the Annual Report and Financial Statements are unaudited.
Relative importance of the spend on pay unaudited The following table sets out the percentage change in distributions to shareholders and employee remuneration costs.
2018 2017 m m Change Employee remuneration costs m 116.9 106.5 9.7% Ordinary dividends m 24.0 20.2 18.8% Special dividends m 16.3 n a Percentage increase in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer unaudited The table below shows the movement in salary, benefits and annual bonus for the Chief Executive Officer between the current and previous financial year compared to the average of all employees of the Group.
Element of remuneration % change Salary Chief Executive Officer 2% Employees 4% Taxable benefits Chief Executive Officer nil Employees nil Annual bonus Chief Executive Officer -30% 1 Employees n a 1.
Bonus payments are only made to a small group of senior leaders and Wholesale sales roles.
indd 89 26 07 2018 16:58:36 SUPERDRY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2018 Directors Remuneration Report Performance graph unaudited The graph below shows the total cumulative shareholder return for the Group compared with the TSR of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts over the period from the initial public offer to 28 April 2018.
The FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts was selected as this is the index of which Superdry was a constituent for the period shown.
Investment Trusts 90 day rolling average Single figure table audited The table below sets out the Chief Executive Officers single figure remuneration over the past seven years.
Long-term Total Annual bonus incentives Year ended Chief Executive Officer remuneration % of max % of max 2018 Euan Sutherland 3,160,427 65.5% 100% 2 2017 Euan Sutherland 4,000,708 96.1% 58.2% 2016 Euan Sutherland 1,677,125 85.0% n a 1 3 2015 Euan Sutherland 602,862 33.3% n a 1 2015 Julian Dunkerton 419,180 n a 2014 Julian Dunkerton 419,412 n a 2013 Julian Dunkerton 419,406 n a 2012 Julian Dunkerton 419,463 n a 1.
Euan Sutherland was appointed as Group Chief Executive Officer on 22 October 2014.
At the same time, Julian Dunkerton, previously Chief Executive Officer, switched to the newly created role of Founder, Product and Brand Director.
2017 total remuneration updated to reflect actual vest value of shares awarded under the 2014 PSP which vested in October 2017.
The figure disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report was 3,611,750.
Annual bonus is the proportion awarded of the maximum bonus opportunity.
com Governance Advisers to the Committee Statement of shareholder voting During 2018 the Committee received advice from Mercer Kepler, At last years AGM the Directors Remuneration Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration received the following votes from part of Mercer Limited, on senior executive remuneration and shareholders: employee share schemes.
Neither Kepler nor Mercer provided For Against Votes cast Votes withheld other services to the Group during the year.
Kepler is a member Directors Remuneration Policy of the Remuneration Consultants Group and complies with its Total number of votes 72,447,443 1,717,915 74,165,228 42,000 code of conduct.
% of votes cast 97.68 2.32 91.04% For financial year 2018 Keplers total fees charged to the Committee were 55,000.
Mercer Limited did no other material For Against Votes cast Votes withheld work for the Group although Mercers US business provided Directors Remuneration Report support on healthcare benefit administration for Superdrys US excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy colleagues.
The Committee is comfortable that the advice given Total number of votes 72,447,063 1,718,165 74,165,228 42,000 by Kepler has been and remains objective and independent.
% of votes cast 97.68 2.32 91.04% Macfarlanes LLP also provided legal advice to the Committee during the year.
The Directors Remuneration Report, excluding the Directors Remuneration Policy, will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM on 11 September 2018.
Dilution Penny Hughes In accordance with current guidance for employee share Remuneration Committee Chairman schemes issued formerly by the ABI and assumed by The 4 July 2018 Investment Association in 2014, the Committee applies a limit on the amount of shares which can be issued to satisfy employee share plan awards of 10% of issued share capital in any rolling ten-year period.
Of this 10%, only half can be issued to satisfy awards under the discretionary arrangements.
