Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Over the course of 2018, the Committee has reviewed the existing remuneration arrangements in order to ensure that the strong link between the Remuneration Policy and the business strategy On behalf of the Board, continues to remain clear and that the right incentives are in place Iam pleased to present the tosupport the delivery of our strategy.
As can be seen on page 52 of the report, this is clearly demonstrated in relation to performance Directors Remuneration against the annual bonus plan targets for the year.
Report for 2018 in TalkTalk The Groups remuneration approach applies throughout the Company and continues to be focused on enabling it to attract, Telecom Group PLCs motivate and retain high quality talent and ensuring there is a transparent link between remuneration and strategy at all levels, eighthyear as a publicly aswell as the long term performance of the Company.
Board changes during 2018 Board resignations John Gildersleeve As disclosed in last years report, Dido Harding stepped down from Remuneration the Board and left employment of the Company on 10 May 2017.
Committee Chairman Further to the Company announcement on 10 July 2017, Iain Torrens also stepped down from the Board and left employment of the Company on 30 September 2017.
Role changes in the year Cath Keers offered her expertise and experience in her role as Chairof the Companys Ultrafast Fibre Committee, to oversee Introduction boththe proposition rollout in York and the Companys investment In line with the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Group in BoltPro Tem Limited see note 13 to the consolidated financial Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 statements.
In line with the disclosure in last years report, theRegulations, the Remuneration Report for the year associated Committee fees were increased accordingly.
ended31March 2018 is split into two sections: John Allwood was appointed to the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Policy, which sets out the Companys policy on16May 2017 and his Committee fees were amendedaccordingly.
The policy was The TV Committee was reconvened from 1 April 2017 at which accepted by shareholders by a binding vote at the 2017 AGM and theassociated Committee Chair fees for Ian West were reinstated will be effective for three years from this date.
There have been from this date.
noamendments to the Remuneration Policy in the year ended 31March 2018, save for points of clarification around the use of Board appointments in the year Remuneration Committee discretion as agreed with the Investor Further to the Company announcement on 10 July 2017, Kate Ferry Association during the 2017 AGM season and page numbers.
was appointed to the Board in the role of Chief Financial Officer on 9October 2017.
The Annual Report on Remuneration, which explains how the Remuneration Policy was applied in relation to Executive Directors Nigel Langstaff was appointed to the Board as a NonExecutive for the year ended 31 March 2018 and how it will be implemented Director effective from 15 November 2017 and was appointed for the year ending 31 March 2019. totheAudit Committee on the same date.
Aligning the Remuneration Policy Board changes during 2019 with Company strategy and performance Board resignations At the start of the year, our Chairman set out our clear ambition It was announced on 24 May 2018 that Charles Bligh would stand toreset our business strategy, prioritising growth, cash generation down as Director and Chief Operating Officer on 30 June 2018 and and profit, in that order.
Over the course of the past twelve months, that James Powell would stand down as Director on 24 May 2018. the Company has seen strong delivery against the first of these, Neither will therefore stand for reelection at the 2018 AGM.
The incremental investment inSACand marketing to deliver this planned growth, however, has contributed towards a 35% decline in Headline EBITDA for 2018.
Customer experience has also been a key focus throughout the year, supporting a reduction in churn to 1.22%.
42 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Remuneration Policy during 2018 The Remuneration Policy, which was approved by a binding In the year ended 31 March 2018 and in line with the binding shareholder shareholder vote at the July 2017 AGM, is set out on pages 44 to 50 vote at the 2017 AGM, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed and details of how this Policy will be implemented for the financial the Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and has determined year ahead are set out on pages 51 to 58. that it remained appropriate and fit for purpose for that period.
I hope that you will find this report helpful and informative and agree Remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors and Non that the determinations made by the Committee are appropriate and Executive Directors have been operated in line with that in the long term interests of both the Company and our shareholders.
Iwould also like to take this opportunity to thank our shareholders for their ratification of our revised Remuneration Policy, resulting in a 2018 annual bonus performance binding shareholder vote of 92.99% at last years AGM and hope that The Remuneration Committee carefully considered performance you support the Directors Remuneration Report for the year at our against the annual bonus plan targets for the year ended 31 March 2018 AGM in July 2018.
I will be available at the meeting to answer any taking into consideration the wider business performance in the year.
questions that you may have regarding the work of the Committee.
Despite growth having been delivered through incremental net adds throughout the year, the Committee noted that due to investment in growth, the annual bonus plan hurdle of270m EBITDA had not been met and therefore determined that no bonus payment would John Gildersleeve be due to Executive Directors for 2018.
Achievement against the Remuneration Committee Chairman performance measures set is shown on page 52 of the report.
24 May 2018 Remuneration Committee meeting attendance during 2018 Over the course of the year ending 31 March 2018, Committee meeting attendance was as follows: Number of Number of Key messages for 2019 meetings meetings Non-Executive Director held attended No changes have been made to the Remuneration Policy during the year ended 31 March 2018, save for points of 1 John Gildersleeve 5 3 clarification as set out on the previous page.
Ian West 5 5 Executive Directors will receive no payment under the annual Roger Taylor 5 5 2 bonus plan for the year ended 31 March 2018.
John Allwood 4 4 1 John Gildersleeve did not attend the 4 May or 16 May 2017 Remuneration Committee meetings due to illness.
Ian West chaired the meetings in his absence.
2 John Allwood was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 16 May 2017 Our priorities for 2019 andattended all meetings from this point To better understand the voice of the employee through the introduction of bi-annual meetings between representatives Remuneration Policy for 2019 from the Company One Voice body and a nominated The Committee firmly believes that remuneration arrangements Non-Executive Director.
forExecutive Directors should be based on the same principles asthose of the wider employee population and should strive to Launch the 2018 Save-As-You-Earn SAYE Scheme to further encourage employee share ownership.
Employee achieve the objective of a simple, transparent and fair approach toremuneration for all colleagues.
share ownership currently stands at c. 43%.
Whilst there is already a high degree of transparency in relation to the operation of the Remuneration Policy throughout the Company, recognising the importance of the FRC recommendations currently The current regulations require the Companys auditor to under consultation around strengthening employee voice, the report to the members on the auditable part of this report Board plans to improve its engagement with the wider employee marked and to state, in its opinion, that this part of the population.
As a result, a NonExecutive Director will be appointed report has been properly prepared in accordance with the to meet with representatives of the employee forum One Voice on Companies Act.
a biannual basis to discuss executive remuneration and other such matters.
Further details will be provided in next years report.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 43 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy This section sets out the Companys policy on remuneration for Executive Directors.
TheRemuneration Policy in operation for the year ended 31 March 2018 was approved through a binding vote by shareholders at the 2017 AGM receiving 92.99% support and took immediate effect following the AGM.
That Policy will apply for a period of three years from this date.
The Policy stated below reflects small amendments to the approved Policy, for the purpose of clarity, such as further clarity being provided around the use of Remuneration Committee discretion, our proposal to improve employee voice and updates to page numbers.
Remuneration Committee to share their views through regular employee surveys and the The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making allemployee consultation body, One Voice.
It should also be noted recommendations to the Board in relation to the individual that although the Remuneration Policy is specifically used to set the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
remuneration for Executive Directors, where appropriate, similar These recommendations comply with the Remuneration Policy, remuneration practices are adopted throughout the Company for which is set by the Board, and the terms of reference of the Committee.
The Committee works with the Board to determine thebalance of The Board, however, is committed to better understanding the views allocation of profits between employee incentives, shareholder of employees and as such has appointed a Board representative as dividends and reinvestment into the Group.
the NonExecutive Director responsible for 'Employee Voice'.
For the year ending 31 March 2019, this post will be held by Nigel Langstaff.
Remuneration approach Beginning in June 2018, representatives of the employee forum 'One The aim of the Remuneration Policy is to support the Group in: Voice' will meet with the Board representative twice each financial year to discuss matters such as, but not limited to, the application of the aligning individual and business performance with the interests of shareholders through the delivery of clear and stretching targets: strategy of the Company and key Executive remuneration decisions.
strengthening the link between employee output and the delivery The Remuneration Committee is committed to consultation with of shareholder value: major shareholders both when setting the Remuneration Policy and when amending or applying new elements of the Policy from time to supporting the Groups overarching philosophy, to maintain its time.
Any significant changes are put to major shareholders and if value player positioning in the marketplace: any of these shareholders are opposed to any proposed application attracting, motivating and retaining high quality talent: of the Policy, the Committee will endeavour to meet with them, as appropriate, to understand and respond to any issues they may have.
maintaining a stable, efficient cost base: enabling the Groups remuneration strategy to be tailored to its Remuneration components changing circumstances: and We define our main fixed and performance related elements of remuneration as follows: reflecting corporate governance best practice.
base pay, car allowance, benefits and pension contribution The Company firmly believes that remuneration should be structured fixed : and in a fair and competitive way, in order to incentivise individuals to achieve the highest levels of performance, and takes a consistent annual performance bonus variable.
In addition, for Executive Directors and other key senior management, Packages are designed to be market competitive with fixed there are two long term incentive plans the Discretionary Share remuneration set at market median levels.
Variable rewards, which Option Plan DSOP and the Shareholder Value Plan SVP, which are linked to challenging objectives based on the performance of operates under the rules of the Value Enhancement Scheme VES.
theGroup, are designed to reward exceptional performance and These plans do not run concurrently.
forthe delivery of shareholder value creation.
The SVP is an alternative reward mechanism for Executive Directors and other members of the senior leadership team who will not normally Employee and shareholder consultation participate in the DSOP.
The Remuneration Committee intends that, The Remuneration Committee did not formally consult with employees generally, in any one year, participants may only receive an award under of the Company on the application of the Directors Remuneration the SVP and no other long term incentive plan, unless exceptional Policy in the year ended 31 March 2018.
In reaching its decisions circumstances apply such as the recruitment of key individuals.
inrelation to the application of the Remuneration Policy, the Committee is mindful, however, that with the Companys strong culture of employee The Committee reviews, at least on an annual basis, payout levels share ownership, with over 43% of employees holding shares in the for Executive Directors at minimum, on target, stretch and super Company, employees have the opportunity to comment and stretch levels of performance, in order to ensure alignment with voteon all elements of this report and Policy in their capacity ourshareholders.
Employees are also given the opportunity 44 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Malus and clawback The rules of the annual performance bonus and long term incentive plans allow the Remuneration Committee to exercise its discretion in using malus or clawback provisions, should it feel that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
The Committees policy on the exercise of its discretion is set out in this Remuneration Policy.
All future long term incentive awards will be subject to malus and clawback provisions.
Executive Director shareholding requirement To ensure that the interests of the Executive Directors are closely aligned to those of its shareholders, the Company requires Executive Directors to build over a number of years and retain a shareholding in the Company of at least 200% of their annual base pay.
For the purpose of this requirement the Company requires these to be in unfettered and beneficially owned shares.
Newly appointed Executive Directors are given the opportunity to build up their shareholding over a period of years.
Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Fixed To attract and retain talent Paid monthly in cash.
Base pay by ensuring base pay is Benchmarked against external market competitive in the market.
Set at a level which Takes into account the individuals incentivises Executive skills, experience and performance.
Directors to implement and deliver our The Remuneration Committee businessstrategy.
considers the level of the all employee pay review when making recommendations and decisions onpay for Executive Directors.
Any increase typically takes effect from 1 July annually.
Under normal circumstances no Executive Director will receive an increase in excess of 10% of their basepay in any given financial year.
Fixed Designed to be Core benefits typically include: Reviewed annually relative to the market.
Core benefits competitive in a defined contribution pension scheme, Pension contributions are made themarket.
oracash payment in lieu of a pension through salary sacrifice, with the contribution in certain circumstances: Company making a contribution of 5%base pay for Executive Directors.
private medical insurance for Executive Directors and their immediate family: and Cash payments in lieu of pension contributions may also be made car allowance company car.
to Executive Directors, but these Executive Directors are also entitled to will be subject to normal tax and participate on the same terms as all other NIdeductions.
employees in respect of the following benefits: Company contributions for all four times base pay life assurance: participating employees are made at 5% base pay and all employees income protection: and have the ability to join the Companys annual leave.
Company contributions will be reviewed over time, to ensure compliance with minimums set underautoenrolment guidelines.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 45 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy continued Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors continued Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Fixed Benefits may vary These voluntary benefits arrangements include Reviewed periodically relative to Voluntary dependent on the role the purchase of additional holiday and the ability themarket.
benefits of the individual and the to participate in allemployee share plans.
Variable Designed to focus The bonus scheme is based on a balanced Payment is typically made in June.
Annual Executives on the business scorecard that is comprised of financial and The Remuneration Committee retains performance priorities for the financial nonfinancial measures, which are reviewed the ability to exercise discretion to adjust bonus year ahead and to align the annually.
Such measures include Headline payments up or down in exceptional individuals remuneration GroupEBITDA, customer experience and circumstances where they feel this with the delivery of superior growth measures.
course of action is appropriate.
The measures and targets are set annually by The bonus scheme pays at the theRemuneration Committee to ensure they following levels: areappropriately stretching for the delivery of ontarget, stretch, super stretch and on target awards for Executive maximum performance.
Directors are equivalent to 50% ofbase pay: At least 40% of the balanced scorecard will be based on financial measures.
stretch awards for Executive Directors are equivalent to 100% ofbase pay: super stretch awards for Executive Directors are equivalent to 150% of base pay: and maximum awards for Executive Directors are equivalent to 200% ofbase pay.
Awards do not vest until the third Variable Designed to reward and Discretionary awards of nilcost options are Sharebased retain Executives over the granted over TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC shares.
anniversary of the date of grant and may have a deferral element.
incentive plans longer term whilst aligning Level of vesting is dependent on achievement of an individuals interests Discretionary performance targets, usually over a three year If employment ceases during the with those of shareholders.
Share Option performance period from the date of grant.
vesting period, awards will by default Plan DSOP lapse in full, unless the Remuneration Awards typically vest after three years from the Committee exercises its discretion.
60% of the total vested options The maximum level of award is a are typically exercisable in the third year, with the remaining 40% typically being eligible for 300% base pay multiple, unless the Board determines that exceptional exercise from the fourth year.
circumstances exist which justify There is no intention to award DSOP awards to exceeding this limit, in which case those Executive Directors participating in the options will not exceed 400% of Shareholder Value Plan SVP.
is included in the Remuneration Policy to give the Remuneration Committee flexibility to make an In line with the DSOP scheme rules award in the case of a new hire or new Executive approved by shareholders, the Director promotion.
Remuneration Committee has discretion over all aspects of the plan including but not limited to performance conditions, vesting conditions and levels and cancellation of the scheme.
1 See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for and explanation of APMs, nonHeadline items, and further details regarding the restatement of 2017 Headline results.
46 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Summary of remuneration components of Executive Directors continued Further detail on maximum opportunity Component Aim and link to strategy Description of operation and any performance measures andframework used to assess performance Variable Designed to reward and The SVP, awarded under the VES rules, is Awards are discretionary and are made Sharebased retain Executives over designed to enable participants to share in as a block award to last four years incentive plans thelonger term whilst theincremental value of the Group in excess rather than an annual award.
aligning an individuals ofan opening valuation, as determined by the SVP award under Each participant is entitled to purchase interests with those of Remuneration Committee.
Each award entitles the VES rules an agreed number of participation shareholders and in turn the participant to purchase a fixed number of shares, with no participant being delivering significant separate shares participation shares in the awarded more than 10% of the value shareholder value.
subsidiary company, TalkTalk Group Limited, ofthe pool created.
theholding company for the TalkTalk business.
60% of the award vests after three The number of TalkTalk shares issued to each years, with the remaining 40% of participant is determined by the incremental theaward vesting after four years.
value pool created above a hurdle and therefore return to shareholders.
Vesting may occur earlier if the Company was taken over, The vesting of awards will be subject to continued subject tothe discretion of the employment and the satisfaction of performance .
conditions and or other specified events as A cap on the total value of the awards determined by the Remuneration Committee.
that vest at the end of the four year The Committee has discretion to apply other period applies and total awards will appropriate performance conditions as it sees fit.
not result in a dilution of the issued share capital of the Company of more Participation shares that are purchased by participants are acquired at market value and than 2.75%.
participants are offered a loan from TalkTalk at In line with the VES rules approved acommercial rate of interest in order to fund by shareholders, the Remuneration such a purchase.
Committee has discretion over all When the awards vest the participation shares aspects of the plan including but not will have a value equal to the corresponding limited to performance conditions, percentage they represent of the incremental vesting conditions and levels and value if any of the TalkTalk businesses at the cancellation of the scheme.
time of vesting in excess of the applicable opening valuation and shall then be purchased by the Company for cash and or by the issue ortransfer of ordinary shares in the capital ofthe Company.
Any loan made to the participants to acquire participation shares will be required to be repaid at that time.
If the market value of the participation shares is less than the amount of the outstanding loan and any accrued interest then the participant may be required to repay a proportion of the loan up to 20%, the amount of which the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine.
Executive Directors will be required to hold 100% of any vested shares for a period of twelve months following vesting.
Other participants will usually be required to hold 50% of vested shares for a twelve month period.
Participation shares are generally forfeited to the value of the original loan plus accrued interest in the event that a participant leaves the Company prior to the vesting date.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 47 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration scenarios The charts below illustrate the level of total remuneration the current Executive Directors could receive under the Remuneration Policy based on three levels of performance to ensure alignment with returns, which are received by our shareholders at: minimum, on target andmaximum levels of performance.
The on target level of total remuneration represents performance in line with the Companys expectations and maximum is considered to be the maximum level of total remuneration in practice.
68 1.02 1.36 1.70 2.04 2.38 2.72 3.06 3.40 Base pay Benefits, pension and car allowance Annual bonus LTIP 1 Base pay is actual base pay for the year ended 31 March 2018.
2 Taxable benefits are at the level over the year ended 31 March 2018.
3 Pension is based on a 5% Company contribution cash for Tristia Harrison, Charles Bligh and Kate Ferry.
Sir Charles Dunstone does not participate in the pension scheme.
4 A nnual performance bonus is at 50% of base pay for target performance, 100% of base pay for stretch performance and 200% of base pay for maximum performance.
Sir Charles Dunstone does not participate in the annual performance bonus.
5 S VP outcomes include assumed share price increases over the four year performance term.
The minimum level represents the point above the CAGR hurdle at which the pool would be expected to begin to generate value for participants and the maximum level represents the point at which it is expected that the 2.75% scheme cap would be triggered.
The target level has been set at the mid point between the minimum and maximum levels.
Sir Charles Dunstone does not participate in any long term incentive plan.
6 As the SVP is a block award over a four year term rather than an annual award, we have annualised the potential pay-out over a four year period.
Other share-based remuneration The rules of the Plan allow an employee maximum contribution of TalkTalk Save-As-You-Earn SAYE Scheme 1,800 per annum, or in line with HMRC limits if these are increased.
The Company operates an allemployee, HMRCapproved SAYE The Remuneration Committee, at its discretion, may award Scheme, which all eligible employees and Executive Directors are matching and or free shares to eligible participants.
Matching shares able to participate in.
All eligible employees are invited to join the may be granted up to a maximum ratio of two matching shares for scheme on an annual basis, subject to maximum participation each partnership share purchased by a participant.
Free shares may levels, currently 500 per month, or in line with HMRC limits if these be awarded up to a maximum value of 3,600 tax free per annum, are increased in the future.
Details of current schemes can be found orin line with HMRC limits if these are increased.
in the Annual Report on Remuneration section of this report.
Currently the Company provides one matching share for each partnership share purchased by participating employees or TalkTalk Share Match Plan SMP The Company operates an allemployee, HMRCapproved Share Executive Directors.
The TTG Share Match Plan enables eligible employees topurchase market priced shares by entering into a partnership share agreement and holding such shares in trust for up to five years.
48 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Service contracts and remuneration packages The Remuneration Committee emphasises that such discretion Service contracts for Executive Directors would only ever be used in genuinely unforeseen and exceptional Under the Executive Directors service contracts both parties are events where it would be disproportionate to seek shareholder required to give twelve months notice of termination of employment.
The Remuneration Committee At the Companys discretion they may terminate the contract considers that in practice such events would arise highly infrequently, immediately and not require the Director to work their notice if at all, for the duration of the Remuneration Policy.
Where such an andinstead pay twelve months contractual pay plus benefits.
event arises, the Remuneration Committee will consult with major TheExecutive Directors service contracts also include a twelve shareholders and an explanation on how discretion has been exercised month noncompete period.
would be provided in the following years Remuneration Report.
These contracts are available for inspection at the Companys Relocation packages registered office.
There may be occasions when hiring a new Executive Director that a relocation package is awarded, where a candidate and or the candidates Recruitment policy for new hires immediate family relocate either on a temporary or permanent basis When hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee in order to fulfil their role for the best interests of the Company and will align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy its shareholders.
In such instances, the Remuneration Committee stated previously, including the maximum limits for each retains the right to compensate for reasonable and appropriate remuneration component.
The Remuneration Committee will take all relevant factors into Expatriate packages consideration when making a remuneration decision on a new On appointing a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee Executive hire to ensure that these decisions are being made in the may offer assistance where a candidate and or the candidates best interests of the Company and its shareholders, including, but immediate family is asked to relocate either on a temporary or not limited to: permanent basis, from an overseas location to the UK or from the quantum: UKto an overseas location.
In such instances, the Remuneration Committee retains the right to compensate for reasonable and type of remuneration being offered: appropriate relocation expenses.
the impact on existing remuneration arrangements for other Directors: Remuneration Policy for internal promotions the remuneration package of any exiting equivalent Director: and When an existing employee of the Company is promoted internally to the role of Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will the remuneration arrangements of the candidate in their align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy stated previousrole.
previously, including the factors it takes into account for new hires.
In hiring a new Executive Director, the Remuneration Committee may Any remuneration awarded prior to promotion to the role of Executive also make a buyout award to an external candidate in compensation Director will be retained and will be subject to the previous payment for any remuneration arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous terms.
The shareholders will be informed of any such remuneration employer.
In making such an award, the Committee will take into in the Directors Remuneration Report following promotion.
consideration relevant performance conditions, vesting periods andthe form in which the award was made.
It is usual that any Exit payments buyout awards will be made on a comparable basis.
In exceptional The Company operates the following policy in respect of exit payments: circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may make an exceptional Executive Directors have a twelve month notice period from the award under one of the Companys existing long term incentive Company and they in turn are asked to give the Company twelve plans in order to compensate a candidate for any remuneration months notice.
arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
Exit payments in relation to the service contract are limited to no The Remuneration Committee would only consider making such more than one years contractual pay plus other benefits, and any awards where the individual has lost an award as a result of joining contractual notice pay, unless determined otherwise by the Board the Group and awards will be subject to continued employment and in exceptional circumstances, or unless otherwise dictated by law.
Following the appointment of a new Executive Director the shareholders will be informed of the The Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to determine details as soon as practicable.
appropriate bonus amounts and the vesting of any sharebased award, taking into consideration the individual circumstances There may be exceptional and unforeseen circumstances where under which an Executive Director is leaving the Company.
theRemuneration Committee considers it appropriate to exercise discretion available under Listing Rule 9.4.
2R to grant an award to The default position is for annual bonus amounts and the vesting of facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director.
Where a variable sharebased awards for good leavers to be prorated for time served or performance related award is made under such circumstances, from the start date of the scheme to the individuals exit date and will the Remuneration Committee confirms that the award will be within be subject to the applicable rules of the scheme.
The Remuneration the limits specified in the Remuneration Policy table.
Committee will have sole discretion to determine the good leaver status of an Executive Director.
The Committee will determine on acase by case basis whether any vesting of a sharebased award isappropriate.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 49 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration Policy continued Service contracts and remuneration packages continued External appointments How the Remuneration Committee exercises discretion The Board supports Executive Directors holding NonExecutive The Committee has discretion relating to annual bonus, SVP and DSOP Directorships of other companies and believes that any such in line with their rules and according to the remuneration policy, and appointments are part of the continuing development of the below provides futher clarification on such discretion.
Executive Directors from which the Company will ultimately benefit.
The Board has reviewed all such appointments and those These include but are not limited to: appointments that the Board believes require disclosure pursuant timing of an award payment: to the Code are set out on page 56.
The Board has also agreed that the Directors may retain their fees from such appointments.
size of an award or bonus payment in line with the approved Remuneration Policy: performance and vesting conditions in line with the relevant scheme rules: cancellation of the scheme in line with the relevant scheme rules: dealing with a change of control: and treatment of leavers in line with the relevant scheme rules.
Any use of discretion within the policy framework will be explained inthe Annual Report on Remuneration.
There may be exceptional circumstances under which the Committee may use discretion or judgement in the interests of the business and its shareholders, which may be discussed with major shareholders on a casebycase basis.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors The NonExecutive Directors do not take part in discussions on their remuneration.
Each of the NonExecutive Directors has a letter of appointment substantially in the form suggested by the Code, and each has a three month notice period with no compensation for loss of office.
The Company has no age limit for Directors.
The dates of each contract are set out on page 56.
The fees for NonExecutive Directors are set out on page 55 of this report.
These fees are reviewed but not necessarily increased on an annual basis, taking into account the responsibilities of the role and their participation in the various Governance Committees of theCompany.
NonExecutive Directors are not entitled to participate in any annual or long term incentive plans, or any pension arrangements.
50 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration The following sections set out how the Companys Remuneration Policy was implemented in the year ended 31 March 2018 and how it will be implemented for the year ending 31 March 2019.
Single figure of remuneration To assist shareholders understanding and in line with the Regulations, the table below provides a single figure of remuneration for each Executive Director.
The information for NonExecutive Directors is included in the table on page 55.
Year ended 31 March 2018 Taxable Notice 2018 1 2 3 4 Base pay benefits Pension Bonuses payment total Executive Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 5,6 Dido Harding 67 2 7 675 751 7,8 Iain Torrens 213 8 21 45 4 291 9 Charles Dunstone 360 6 366 Charles Bligh 500 16 25 541 Tristia Harrison 500 16 25 541 10 Kate Ferry 192 7 8 207 Aggregate emoluments 1,832 55 86 45 679 2,697 1 Value of base pay received in the year.
2 Value of benefits received by the Director in the year.
The components of taxable benefits are as follows: car allowance cash amount received in the year: and private medical insurance cost to the Company in the year for the Executive Director and their family.
3 Value of pension contribution made or cash in lieu paid by the Company in the year.
4 Value of annual bonus payable in respect of the year and based on performance for the financial year.
5 Dido Harding stepped down from the Board and left employment with the Company on 10 May 2017.
6 T he notice payment includes payments in relation to base pay, car allowance and pension made in relation to contractual obligations on leaving the Company.
7 Iain Torrens stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2017.
His employment with the Company also ended on this date.
Notice payment figure shown reflects payment in lieu of holiday entitlement accrued but untaken by 30 September 2017.
8 T he Committee used the discretion allowed under the Policy to determine that Iain Torrens 20% loan liability due on SVP I would not be repayable and he was provided a bonus of 44,858 to settle such liability.
Further details of this can be found on page 53 of the report.
9 Charles Dunstone moved from being a NonExecutive Director to an Executive Director on 1 April 2017.
10 Kate Ferry was appointed to the Board on 9 October 2017.
5 V alue of LTIP vesting in the year.
This relates to the DSOP 2013, 20% of which vested in May 2016.
The remaining 80% of the award immediately lapsed on 12 May 2016.
Theshareprice on the date of vesting was 2.691.
6 Original DSOP 2013 award was made as a multiple of base pay.
At the time of the award, Charles Blighs base pay was 325,000 and Tristia Harrisons base pay was 300,000.
7 Dido Hardings base pay was increased from 550,000 to 600,000 effective 1 July 2016.
8 Charles Bligh and Tristia Harrisons base pay was increased from 375,000 to 400,000 effective 1 July 2016.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 51 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Appointments in the year ended 31 March 2018 Pension contributions Further to the Company announcement on 10 July 2017, Kate Ferry Year ended 31 March 2018 was appointed to the Board in the role of Chief Financial Officer During the course of the year, Executive Directors received Company on9October 2017.
Kate Ferrys base pay was set at 400,000 pension contributions in line with the Remuneration Policy.
There perannum, which represents 6% reduction in base pay of that of her were no Executive Directors who were members of a defined benefit predecessor.
Her bonus, car allowance, pension and other benefits pension scheme during the year.
were set in line with other Executive Directors of the Company and in Pension contributions for Tristia Harrison, Charles Bligh and Kate Ferry line with the approved Remuneration Policy.
No joining payments or were made by the Company at 5% of their base pay.
Charles Dunstone buyout awards were made to her.
does not participate in the Company Pension Scheme.
Nigel Langstaff was appointed as a NonExecutive Director and was In line with our approach in previous years, a cash payment in lieu of appointed to the Audit Committee on 15 November 2017. pension, equivalent to 10% of base pay, was made to both Dido Harding In line with the Remuneration Policy, the Committee considered both and Iain Torrens for the period of their employment in the year internal and external factors when setting the remuneration packages ended 31 March 2018. for the newly appointed Executive Director and NonExecutive The pension schemes provided for other employees of the Group Director, in order to ensure that the decisions taken were made are included in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements.
inthe best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Year ending 31 March 2019 Leavers in the year ended 31 March 2018 In the year ending 31 March 2019, pension payments for Tristia Harrison, As disclosed in last years report, Dido Harding stepped down from Charles Bligh and Kate Ferry will remain capped at 5% of base pay, the Board and her employment after seven years with the Company, inline with the Remuneration Policy.
It should be noted that pension on 10May 2017.
Further to the Company announcement made on payments for all other employees of the Company are also capped 10July 2017, Iain Torrens also stepped down from the Board and at 5% of base pay.
hisemployment with the Company ended on 30 September 2017.
Pension payments for Executive Directors and all other employees The DSOP award made to Iain Torrens on joining the Company in of the Company will be reviewed over the course of the year ending February 2015 lapsed in its entirety on 30 September 2017 when 31 March 2019, in line with increases to the statutory autoenrolment heleft employment.
Base pay Annual performance bonus Year ended 31 March 2018 Year ended 31 March 2018 There were no changes to base pay for any Executive Directors in For the year ended 31 March 2018, the annual performance the year ending 31 March 2018. bonuswas based on a balanced scorecard blend of financial and For the year ended 31 March 2018 average base pay increase for all nonfinancial measures as set out in the table below and, in line other employees was 2%.
withthe approved Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors had anincentive opportunity in the range of 0% to 200% of base pay.
Year ending 31 March 2019 The Remuneration Committee carefully considered performance It is not anticipated that there will be any changes to base pay for Executive Directors in the year ending 31 March 2019. against the annual bonus plan targets for the year ended 31 March 2018 taking into consideration the wider business performance in the year.
For the year ending 31 March 2019, average base pay increases for all Despite strong growth having been delivered through incremental other employees will be budgeted at 1% and any such increases will be netadds throughout the year coupled with ongoing improvements in applied in July 2018 and backdated to 1 April 2018.
In line with our approach customer experience, the Committee noted that due to the planned in prior years, there will be no allemployee increase applied and business investment in growth, the annual bonus plan hurdle of 270m units will have had complete discretion to apply their pay budget.
EBITDA had not been met and therefore determined that no bonus payment would be due to Executive Directors for 2018.
Within the 1% pay budget, adjustments have been made in order to ensure that no employee of the Company is in receipt of base pay lower than the Voluntary Living Wage, in line with the commitment made in prior years.
Achievement against the targets is presented in the table below: % base pay received in Target Stretch Maximum Actual Performance relation to Measure Weighting performance performance performance performance against target measure 1,2 Group net adds 30% 100 150 200 192 Between stretch 0% and super stretch 1,3 Group Headline EBITDA 25% 270 285 300 233 Miss 0% 3 Group free cash flow 25% 120 140 160 -23 Miss 0% 4 Customer experience 20% See note 4 below Target Target 0% 1 Two gates applied to the scheme of 270m EBITDA and 100,000 net adds.
Both gates would need to be triggered for any bonus payment to be made.
2 Group net adds are measured as the total number of on net broadband net adds at 31 March 2018.
3 See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for Headline EBITDA.
Free cash flow is defined as cash generated after net capital expenditure.
4 C ustomer experience is measured through security improvements, improvements to internal controls as determined by the Audit Committee, network performance and a measure of Ofcom complaints.
Network performance was measured through Sam Knows which is an external, independent measure of our network performance.
Measure is an average ranking, across eleven measures, for the year ended 31 March 2018.
52 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Annual performance bonus continued Dido Harding and Iain Torrens were treated as scheme leavers in line Year ending 31 March 2019 with the scheme rules when their employment ended.
A review of the annual bonus plan was conducted in the year ended Loans were outstanding to the following Executives in the year ended 31 March 2018 to ensure that the performance measures in the 31 March 2018 in relation to the remaining 40% of SVP I shares: balanced scorecard continue to be aligned to Company strategy.
2018 2018 The expected performance measures and their weightings for the 2018 Number of Outstanding year ending 31 March 2019 are set out below: % share participation loan and 1 Director of pool shares purchased interest Expected performance measure Expected weighting Tristia Harrison 5% 400,000 69 Financials 50% Charles Bligh 5% 400,000 69 Growth 35% Customer experience 15% 10% 800,000 138 1 Financials are expected to be measured through Headline EBITDA and cash flow metrics.
1 The figures relating to the remaining 20% loan liability for Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh are not included in this figure.
These amounts have been included in the SVP III 2 Growth is expected be measured through net adds and revenue growth.
3 Customer experience is expected to be measured through network performance, net promoter score NPS and Ofcom complaints.
The remaining percentage of allocated shares in the SVP pool is held The Board has determined that the disclosure of performance targets by other senior management of the Group.
for the year ending 31 March 2019 continues to be commercially Interest on outstanding loans was charged at 2.5% during the year.
sensitive and they are therefore not disclosed in this report.
These targets are determined within the context of a longer term business In line with the scheme rules, subject to meeting the relevant plan and the disclosure of these targets could give information to performance conditions, the remaining 40% of the scheme will TalkTalks competitors to the detriment of business performance.
On vesting, all shares must be held for twelve months from the vesting date for Executive Directors and The Committee will disclose targets and performance against all of 50% of shares for a minimum of twelve months from the vesting date these measures in next years Directors Remuneration Report.
If the market value of the participation shares is less than the amount of the outstanding loan and any accrued Share-based incentive plans interest, then the participant may be required to repay a proportion Year ended 31 March 2018 of the loan, the amount of which the Remuneration Committee may The single figure of remuneration includes amounts for the value use its discretion to determine, up to a maximum of 20%.
ofoptions to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to orheld by the Directors.
Details of the options for the Directors At the time of publication, the performance conditions are not whoserved during the year are as follows: expected to be met and the Company proposes to treat the remaining participation shares, loans and accrued interest in line The TalkTalk Group Shareholder Value Plan SVP with the scheme rules.
awarded under the Value Enhancement Scheme VES rules Further information relating to performance of the SVP will be detailed Participation shares were acquired in 2014 and loans were granted by the Company.
Interest is accrued on the loan on an annual basis.
A subsequent loan is provided to participants on an annual basis, SVP II until the scheme vests, at which point the loans plus accrued In light of the Company strategic reset last year, the Remuneration interest are repaid.
Committee reviewed all of the existing long term incentive plans, Further to the Company announcement on 28 June 2017, in line with including the SVP, to ensure that they were in line with the revised the scheme rules, Tranche 1 60% of the SVP reached its vesting at strategy of the Company.
Following this review, it was determined which point performance against the growth hurdle was calculated that the SVP II awards of H Shares made in 2016, having been set and it was determined that the performance conditions had not under the old strategy of the Company, would not meet the purpose been satisfied, with the TSR CAGR performance being 18% against for which those awards were originally granted.
Committee therefore exercised its discretion under the scheme rules and in line with the approved Remuneration Policy, to cancel In accordance with the scheme rules, on the return of 60% of their allof the SVP II awards for all participants.
participation shares to the Company, participants were required In cancelling the SVP II scheme, the Company acquired all of the torepay 20% of their outstanding loan and any accrued interest.
outstanding H Shares for an aggregate amount equal to the original The 20% loan liability outstanding on the returned shares of loan made to participants plus other loans made in respect of 20,216each was added to the starting loan of the SVP III award interest on the original loan and interest on those subsequent loans.
forTristia Harrison and Charles Bligh.
Details of the SVP III award The amount paid to participants for their H Shares was then canbe found on page 54 of this report.
Interest on this additional immediately used to repay all of their aggregate loans amount.
loan will accrue over the duration of the SVP III scheme in line with the scheme rules.
As a result of the cancellation of SVP II, Tristia Harrison and Charles Bligh transferred 100 H Shares each to the Company on 20 July 2017.
The Remuneration Committee, in line with the scheme rules, exercised its discretion in relation to the repayment of the remaining 20% loan There were no outstanding loans in relation to this scheme at 31March 2018. liability for Iain Torrens and provided him with a special oneoff bonus payment of 44,858 in order to settle such liability.
All associated tax and NI deductions were paid in relation to this bonus.
The details relating to this special oneoff bonus are shown in the single figure table on page 51 of this report.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 53 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Share-based incentive plans continued from the 2014 SVP would be deducted from any gain resulting Year ended 31 March 2018 continued from the SVP III award.
Loans were outstanding to the following SVP III Executives in the year ended 31 March 2018: In line with the disclosure made in last years report, participation shares 2018 were acquired at market value on 20 July 2017 for all participants Number of 2018 2018 participation Outstanding with the exception of Kate Ferry, whose participation shares were % share shares loan acquired on her joining the Company, and loans were granted by 2 Director of pool purchased and interest theCompany on the same basis as the SVP awarded in 2014.
1 Tristia Harrison 10% 200 138 Vesting of the plan is dependent on at least a 7% compound annual 1 Charles Bligh 10% 200 138 increase in the market capitalisation of TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC 3 Kate Ferry 7% 140 82 from the starting valuation over the following three and four year periods.
27% 540 358 As disclosed in last years report, subject to meeting the relevant performance conditions, the scheme would vest 60% in May 2020, 1 SVP III shares were acquired by participants on 20 July 2017. with the remaining 40% vesting twelve months later.
On vesting, all 2 The fair value of the award is equal to the outstanding loan and interest.
shares must be held for twelve months from the vesting date for 3 Kate Ferrys SVP III shares were acquired on 9 October 2017 on her start date with the Company.
Executive Directors and 50% of shares for a minimum of twelve months from the vesting date for other participants.
If the market The remaining percentage of allocated shares in the SVP pool is held value of the participation shares is less than the amount of the by other senior management of the Group.
outstanding loan and any accrued interest, then the participant may be required to repay a proportion of the loan, the amount There was no clawback in respect of SVP, SVP II or SVP III and no of which the Remuneration Committee may use its discretion to NonExecutive Directors participated in these schemes during determine, up to a maximum of 20%.
Interest is accrued on the loan on an annual basis, which is set by Year ending 31 March 2019 HMRC and was charged at 2.5% during the year.
A subsequent loan The TalkTalk Group Shareholder Value Plan SVP isprovided to participants on an annual basis, until the scheme The Company does not plan to make any awards in the year ending vests, at which point the loans plus accrued interest are repaid.
31 March 2019 to any Executive Directors already participating in There is no double benefit for any participant and any gain resulting thisscheme.
All-employee share plans TalkTalk Save-As-You-Earn SAYE Scheme The TalkTalk SAYE Scheme is a share option scheme and is approved by HMRC.
The SAYE scheme is administered by a duly authorised Committee of the Board.
All UK Executive Directors and employees of TalkTalk and participating companies within the Group are eligible toparticipate in the Sharesave Scheme as long as they have been employed for a qualifying period.
To participate in the scheme an eligible employee must enter into a Sharesave contract and agree to make monthly contributions between 5 and 500 for a specified period of three or five years.
Options granted to acquire TalkTalk shares under the scheme have an option price determined by the TalkTalk Board, which will be not less than the higher of 80% of the middle market quotation price or their nominal value.
No Executive Directors were awarded share options under the 2017Scheme.
No NonExecutive Directors participated in this scheme.
Further details of the features and operations of the SAYE Scheme can be found in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements.
All-employee Share Match Plan SMP In June 2014, the Company introduced an allemployee, HMRCapproved Share Match Plan, which had been approved by the Remuneration Committee during the previous financial year.
This enables eligible employees to purchase market priced shares by entering into a partnership share agreement and holding such shares in trust for up to a five year period.
Approval for the TTG Share Match Plan was granted by shareholders at the AGM on 24 July 2013.
Both Dido Harding and Iain Torrens received the following shares in respect of the Share Match Plan during the period ended 31 March 2018: Partnership Matching Dividend Total number shares shares shares of shares paid purchased allocated allocated into plan Dido Harding 88 88 176 Iain Torrens 259 159 309 727 In line with the scheme rules, Dido Harding and Iain Torrens forfeited 2,103 and 1,664 matching shares respectively when their employment with the Company ended.
No other Executive or NonExecutive Directors participated in this scheme.
54 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Additional information Shareholding requirements Executive Directors are required to build and retain a minimum shareholding in the Company, equivalent to 200% of base pay.
Currentshareholdings as at 31 March 2018 are set out below for Executive Directors: Holding Actual share requirement ownership as a % of Actual Requirement as a % of Director base pay holding satisfied base pay 1 Charles Dunstone 200% 326,769,676 Yes 105,111% Tristia Harrison 200% 1,762,282 Yes 408% 2 Charles Bligh 200% 859,516 No 199% 3 Kate Ferry 200% 139,835 No 40% 1 Share price on 31 March 2018 of 1.158 used for calculation.
2 Charles Bligh held shares equivalent to 362% base pay in the prior year.
Percentage change on last year is driven by a fall in share price despite 65,256 shares being purchased on8February 2018.
No ordinary shares have been disposed of.
3 Kate Ferry joined the Company in 2017 and has the opportunity to build up her shareholding over a number of years in line with the approved Remuneration Policy.
There have been no changes to the shareholdings of Executive Directors between 31 March 2018 and 24 May 2018.
Whilst there are no shareholding requirements for NonExecutive Directors, this is encouraged within the Company.
Ordinary shares of 0.1p Director 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Date of contract John Gildersleeve 291,866 246,000 20 January 2010 Ian West 364,714 346,023 8 February 2011 John Allwood 10,000 10,000 20 January 2010 Howard Stringer 56,000 10,000 26 July 2012 James Powell 1,000 1,000 26 July 2012 Roger Taylor 9,826,688 5,153,792 11 November 2015 Cath Keers 1 August 2016 1 Nigel Langstaff 299,736 n a 15 November 2017 1 Appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 15 November 2017.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors Remuneration for NonExecutive Directors is set by the Board, taking account of the commitments and responsibilities of the role and their participation in the various governance Committees of the Company.
The fees for NonExecutive Directors and their appointment dates are set out in the tables below.
NonExecutive Directors are not eligible to participate in annual bonus, LTIP and pension arrangements.
Taxable 2018 Taxable 2017 Fees benefits total Fees benefits total Non-Executive Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 John Gildersleeve 80 80 80 80 1 Ian West 80 80 67 67 John Allwood 69 69 65 65 Howard Stringer 50 50 50 50 James Powell 50 50 50 50 Roger Taylor 50 2 52 51 1 52 2 Cath Keers 171 171 43 43 3 Nigel Langstaff 19 19 Aggregate emoluments 569 2 571 406 1 407 1 TV Committee resumed from 1 April 2017 and the associated Committee Chair fees of 12,500 were reinstated from this point.
2 A fee of 118,936 was payable from 1 April 2017 to 31 December 2017 in respect of additional duties disclosed on page 42.
No such fees were payable from 1 January to 31 March 2018.
3 Appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 15 November 2017.
A Non-Executive Director fee of 45,000 per annum and Audit Committee fee of 5,000 per annum were set in line with other Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
There were no changes to fee levels for NonExecutive Directors in the year except where there are changes in the membership of the various Committees of the Board.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 55 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Additional information continued Payments to past Directors In the year ended 31 March 2018, there were no payments made to past Directors not disclosed elsewhere in the report.
Payments for loss of office In the year ended 31 March 2018, there were no payments made to Executive Directors, past or present, in compensation for loss of office other than payments in lieu of contractual notice set out elsewhere in the report.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Committees that NonExecutive Directors serve on and dates of appointment are set out below: Date first appointed Effective date of current Non-Executive Director Committee membership to the Board letter of appointment John Gildersleeve Remuneration, Nomination, Compliance 20 January 2010 1 April 2016 1 John Allwood Audit, Nomination, Remuneration 20 January 2010 1 April 2016 2 Ian West Audit, Nomination, Remuneration, TV 8 February 2011 16 May 2016 Sir Howard Stringer Nomination 26 July 2012 1 April 2016 3 James Powell Audit 26 July 2012 1 April 2016 Roger Taylor Remuneration 11 November 2015 11 November 2015 Cath Keers Audit, Ultrafast Fibre 1 August 2016 1 August 2016 4 Nigel Langstaff Audit 15 November 2017 15 November 2017 1 Appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 16 May 2017.
2 TV Committee resumed on 1 April 2017.
3 James Powell stepped down on 24 May 2018.
4 Appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 15 November 2017.
Fees for external appointments 2018 Director Organisation 000 1 Dido Harding Bank of England 2 1 Fees relate to the period up to 10 May 2017 when Dido Hardings employment with the Company ended.
Advice and services provided to the Remuneration Committee Except when matters concerning their own positions are being considered, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, theCompany Secretary and the Chief People Officer are normally invited to attend the meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
TheCommittee may discuss any matter affecting the Chairman without the Chairman being present.
Over the course of the year ended 31 March 2018, the Remuneration Committee was advised on matters relating to executive remuneration and gender pay reporting by Willis Towers Watson.
The Remuneration Committee deems the advisers to be independent from the Company and the advice it received during the year to be appropriate and objective.
Willis Towers Watson is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The fees paid for services are set out below: 2018 Company Nature of service 000 Willis Towers Watson Remuneration matters, long term incentive design and gender pay reporting 23 Relative importance of spend on pay The difference in actual expenditure between 2017 and 2018 on remuneration for all employees in comparison to distributions to shareholders by way of dividends is set out in the graphs below: Dividend paid m Total employee pay m 1 79m 16m 71 2018 2018 152 150 2017 2017 136 1 Year on year difference is due to increased annual bonus costs of 4m, fixed payroll cost increase of 5m resulting in increased pension and employee taxes, as well as a 3m increase in sharebased payment charge.
56 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 Additional information continued Comparing pay to performance The following tables and chart show a comparison of total pay for the CEO since the listing of the Company on 29 March 2010, with the remuneration of all other employees and with TSR.
2 It is not possible to show this value for the VES which vested in 2012 and 2013 as it did not have a maximum percentage of shares.
However, for information the 2010 DSOP award vested at 100% of the maximum in 2012.
3 Maximum annual bonus for Executive Directors was 200% base pay for the years ended 31 March 2011, 2012 and 2018.
It was 170% base pay in all other years.
4 Only the 50% relating to TSR measures of the DSOP 2012 vested in May 2015.
5 The Remuneration Committee determined that 20% of the DSOP 2013 should vest in May 2016.
6 The reduction in the single figure number in 2017 represents the lower DSOP percentage vesting and a reduction in the share price from the prior year.
7 The 2018 comparison relates to Tristia Harrison in the post of CEO where all prior years relate to Dido Harding in the post of CEO.
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration between 2017 and 2018 for the CEO and all other employees of the Group.
Base pay Taxable benefits Annual bonus % change % change % change 1,2 CEO -9% 0% -100% 3,4 Employees 2% 0% -62% 1 Year on year CEO comparison represents the annualised figure for Dido Harding for 2017 and Tristia Harrison for 2018.
2 There is no annual bonus payment due for Executive Directors for the year ending 31 March 2018.
3 Actual average increase for all other employees of the Company includes annual pay review and all increases related to role promotions.
4 Average annual employee bonus for 2017 was 132% of target compared to a payment of 50% of target for 2018.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018 57 Corporate governance Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Additional information continued TSR performance graph The graph below shows the Groups performance compared to the TSR performance of the FTSE 250 from the date of the Groups listing on 29 March 2010.
The FTSE 250 was selected as it is a broad market index of which the Group is a member.
400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC FTSE 250 0 29 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 This Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations issued under the Companies Act, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the GC100 and Investor Group Directors Remuneration Reporting Guidance and the Executive Remuneration Principles published by the Investment Association Principles in October 2016.
The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance withthe Code.
In framing its Remuneration Policy, the Committee has given full consideration to the matters set out in Schedule A of the Code and the Regulations.
As required by the Regulations, resolutions to approve the Directors Remuneration Report will be proposed at the 2018 AGM.
Voting regarding the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy was as follows: Votes for Votes against Votes withheld Total votes Remuneration Report 695,695,327 46,520,182 1,666,584 743,882,093 93.73% 6.27% Remuneration Policy 690,167,496 52,045,511 1,669,089 743,882,096 92.99% 7.01% John Gildersleeve Remuneration Committee Chairman 24 May 2018 58 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC Annual Report 2018
