Directors Remuneration Report Executive director succession has been a key focus for the Committee this year.
Anne Minto, Chair of the Remuneration Committee Dear shareholder As Chair of the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present Incentive outcomes for the year our Remuneration Report Report for the financial year ended The headline incentive outcomes for the year were as follows: 31 March 2018.
Annual bonus plan: awards for the year reflect good profit and This introduction provides context for the Committees decisions cash performance relative to stretching targets set at the start of which were taken during the year, and summarises key points the year.
Food & Beverage Solutions F&B Solutions sales volume from the Report, including performance and incentive plan is ahead of prior year, but below the stretching target we set at the outcomes, and Committee activities.
As a result, bonus awards for the year are between target and maximum levels.
Business performance context Performance Share Plan PSP : awards made in 2015 reached the As you will have read in the introductory statements in this Annual end of their three-year performance period.
Adjusted return on Report, we are pleased to report another year of progress, with capital employed in the year to 31 March 2018 of 17.5% exceeded good profit and cash delivery: the maximum vesting requirement and is well in excess of our 13% increase in adjusted profit before tax at constant currency cost of capital.
Earnings per share compound annual growth of with profit growth in all businesses 16.1% over the three-year period exceeds the maximum vesting 1 8% increase in Food & Beverage Solutions profit to 137 million, requirement.
Accordingly, the PSP awards made in 2015 will vest with good volume and New Products momentum in full.
1 5% increase in Sucralose profit to 55 million Total remuneration outcomes are above target but below 1 30% increase in Primary Products profit to 166 million, 11% maximum policy levels, which the Committee considers to 1 profit growth in main business, Commodities 24 million higher be consistent with the performance and financial health of 2 7% increase in earnings per share at constant currency the business.
53 million higher Group statutory profit before tax with Key Committee activities during the year improved trading and lower exceptional costs In addition to the responsibilities of the Committee which are Net debt 60 million lower, with adjusted free cash flow described in summary on page 79, the Committee spent significant 22 million higher at 196 million time on matters relating to the following key items during the year: Proposed final dividend increased by 0.5p to 20.3p per share: making a total dividend of 28.7p, up 2.5%.
Executive director appointments: the Committee carefully considered and approved remuneration terms in respect of the executive director appointments we have announced, operating within the Remuneration Policy Policy that shareholders approved in July 2017.
Nick Hampton, who has served as Chief Financial Officer CFO since September 2014, was appointed Chief Executive CEO with effect from 1 April 2018.
Javed Ahmed retired as CEO on 1 April 2018.
Imran Nawaz will join as CFO with effect from 1 August 2018.
Further details are provided in this Report and key terms are summarised on page 85.
1 Adjusted operating profit, percentage change in constant currency.
2 Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.
Note: Food & Beverage Solutions metrics relate to the reportable segment.
72 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 72 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Taking account of institutional shareholders views on the levels gender pay, as well as the actions taken in the business to drive of executive director pension provision, the Committee has taken gender balance.
As discussed in Our People report see page 43, the decision to reduce the level of pension contribution the we aim to attract a diverse workforce that reflects the communities Company will make for each role going forward: the CEO will in which we operate.
We firmly believe that all employees receive 25% of salary reflecting Nick Hamptons contractual contribute to the performance of the Group and should have equal commitment made on appointment in 2014, and the CFO will opportunity to develop according to their individual abilities.
receive 20% of salary contribution rates were previously 35% and Accelerating business performance 25%, respectively.
As a result of securing internal succession to The CEOs statement sets out a number of actions that have the CEO the Committee believes it has successfully lowered been initiated to accelerate business performance, in particular overall executive director remuneration going forward.
to sharpen our focus on our customers and key categories, Senior executive appointments: during the year, key accelerate portfolio development, and to simplify and drive appointments at Executive Committee level were made to productivity.
During the year ahead, the Committee expects to ensure we continue to have a strong balance of skills and review our current remuneration arrangements to ensure they experience across the broader executive team.
The Committee support these business goals.
At this stage, we expect any changes has carefully considered appropriate remuneration terms for to be within the scope of our existing Policy, and we will consult each of these appointments and transitions in turn.
with shareholders, as appropriate, later in the year with a view to Engaged with shareholders ahead of Policy renewal at last implementing any changes for the year ending 31 March 2020. years AGM: we renewed our Policy at the 2017 AGM, and although we were not making any material changes, we Remuneration Policy and shareholder approval maintained open lines of communication with our largest Our Policy was approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM with shareholders to ensure that the Committees decisions were 97% of votes in favour.
fully informed by shareholder views.
The Committee is satisfied that this Policy continues to provide Regulatory and governance developments: the Committee for a strong alignment between Group performance and the receives regular updates on regulatory, institutional shareholder and remuneration of executive directors and, as stated in this governance developments to ensure that the Committees decisions Report, we intend to continue to operate within this approved take Group strategy and the needs of the business into account, Policy during the financial year ending 31 March 2019. while reflecting investor and governance expectations around good practice.
In the spirit of engagement, and in support of good A resolution to approve the Report, which contains key information on the way in which our Policy has been implemented during the governance principles, the Committee input into the Companys response to the BEIS Corporate Governance consultation, and the year ended 31 March 2018, will be proposed at the AGM on 26 July 2018. subsequent FRC consultation recommendations on the Corporate Governance Code.
In closing, I would like to thank my fellow members of the Remuneration Committee for their diligence and engagement Engagement with workforce through the year, particularly with regard to the additional matters Pending the outcome from the FRC Corporate Governance we have considered in relation to our executive director consultation, the Board and Remuneration Committee have been appointments.
Additionally, I would like to personally thank our considering how our approach to engagement with the workforce advisors Deloitte and the members of the internal team for the may be further developed and broadened over time.
excellent support they have provided to the Committee.
Gender pay Although we employ a relatively small proportion of our people in the UK our two employing businesses in the UK are each below Anne Minto OBE the 250 employee threshold for reporting, the Committee has also Chair of the Remuneration Committee spent time reviewing the UK regulatory requirements relating to About this Report This Report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
 LLP have audited such content as required by the Act the information on pages 86 to 89 marked as audited.
Key sections of this Report are as follows: At a glance Directors Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration 74 Remuneration strategy and key 76 Directors Remuneration Policy 79 The Remuneration Committee principles statements 81 Directors salaries and fees 74 Overview of remuneration 77 Key components of Directors 81 Annual bonus framework remuneration 83 Long-term incentive Performance Share Plan 75 Performance highlights and 85 Executive director changes during the year incentive outcomes for the year 86 Single figure table and other audited disclosures 75 Remuneration Policy scenarios for 89 Directors shareholdings and share interests the year to which this Report relates www.
com 73 73 Directors Remuneration Report continued At a glance We received strong shareholder support for our Directors Remuneration Policy Policy at the 2017 AGM, and no changes are proposed for the year ahead.
Incentive pay outcomes reflect strong financial performance during the year leading to total executive director remuneration outcomes for the year at between target and stretch levels.
Remuneration strategy and key principles The Groups remuneration strategy and supporting principles, which apply consistently to employees, managers and executives, are summarised below: The Groups remuneration strategy is to provide competitive packages that enable the Group to recruit, retain and motivate high-calibre individuals in the markets in which we operate so that we may deliver superior operational performance and outstanding financial results Base pay and benefits are referenced to the comparative local Our approach is intended to be equitable and transparent and market, taking account of company size and operations operate across the Group, recognising that we recruit talented individuals and operate in an international market For all employees, our pay for performance framework All aspects of remuneration are designed to encourage a focus on provides for meaningful differentiation in salary progression and opportunities for career progression, based on each long-term, sustained performance and risk management.
Outcomes must be achieved in a way that is consistent with the Groups Values individuals contribution and Code of Ethics, and that foster sustainable, profitable growth Below executive level, key individuals who have a specific accountability for driving annual and longer-term performance Alignment with shareholders long-term interests is carefully may be selected to participate variously in our sales incentive preserved, for example, through: a significant proportion of senior plan, the annual bonus plan, and the Performance Share Plan executive pay being based on performance: effective governance around remuneration decisions: a considered approach to setting Incentive opportunities for eligible roles provide meaningful performance targets: the adoption of shareholding guidelines at rewards for superior performance and encourage the senior executive levels: and malus and claw back provisions on achievement of genuinely stretching short-term and incentive awards.
long-term objectives Overview of our executive director remuneration framework: no changes proposed for the year Base salary and employment benefits Market competitive elements to attract the right calibre of executives including health cover, car and defined contribution retirement benefits.
Retirement benefit levels are reduced: 25% for CEO previously 35% and 20% for CFO previously 25% 1 Annual bonus Rewards achievement against annual performance objectives: 2017-2018 metrics: Max cash bonus is 100% of salary Profit Max opportunity is 175% of salary F&B Solutions volume Any award over 100% is paid in shares, deferred for two years Cash flow Chief Executive target: 75% of salary Chief Financial Officer target: 50% of salary.
1 Performance Share Plan : Supports the Groups strategy to create shareholder value from profitable Food & Beverage Solutions-led growth and to motivate and retain senior talent: Group profit growth 25% Max award is 300% of salary F&B Solutions profit growth 25% 15% vesting at threshold Group ROCE 50% Awards since 2016 subject to a three-year performance period plus a two-year Pre 2016: EPS 50%, ROCE 50% post vesting holding period five years in total.
Shareholding requirements Chief Executive 4 times salary Chief Financial Officer 3 times salary Claw back and malus provisions Apply for two years after a bonus award or vesting of PSP awards Key: Number of years: Performance period Deferral holding period Ongoing requirements 1 Food & Beverage Solutions metrics relate to the reportable segment.
74 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 74 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Key Performance Indicators for financial year 2018 Our remuneration arrangements have a clear link to key performance indicators KPIs which are aligned with our business strategy.
Sales of Food & Adjusted profit Return on capital Adjusted operating 1 1 1 Beverage Solutions before tax employed cash flow 2% 13% 190bps 10% in constant currency in constant currency 1 Adjusted results and a number of other terms and performance measures used in this Annual Report are not defined within accounting standards.
For clarity, we have provided descriptions of the various metrics and their reconciliations to the most directly comparable measures reported in IFRS, and the calculations where relevant of any ratios, in Notes 1 and 4.
Performance highlights and incentive outcomes for the year Annual bonus 1 1 Metric Target Actual vs target Group adjusted profit before tax 297m 319m 7.4% 22m Food & Beverage Solutions volume 4% vs prior year 3% vs prior year -1% Adjusted operating cash flow 281m 321m 14.2% 40m Bonus award to Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: 72% of maximum 1 Bonus targets and actual performance are assessed at constant budget exchange rates.
See page 82 for more detail Targets Actual Performance Share Plan 2015 Award threshold-stretch 2015-2018 Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations 50% 6% 15% compound annual 16.1% above stretch growth over three years 2 Adjusted ROCE on continuing operations 50% 12.6% 15.6% at the end of the 17.5% above stretch performance period 100% of the award made in 2015 will vest, based on the combination of EPS and ROCE performance.
2 ROCE performance is shown under proportionate accounting, consistent with the basis on which the targets for the 2015 award were established.
See page 83 for more detail Remuneration Policy scenarios and actual outcome for the year Chief Executive 000s Javed Ahmed Chief Financial Officer 000s Nick Hampton Total 1 014 1 339 2 637 4 439 3 672 T otal 670 906 1 721 3 166 2 776 5m 5m 49% 4m 4m 48% 3m 3m 50% 52% 41% 28% 2m 2m 24% 46% 29% 21% 25% 24% 1m 1m 15% 100% 75% 38% 23% 28% 26% 100% 74% 39% 21% 24% 0m 0m Below Threshold Target Stretch Actual Below Threshold Target Stretch Actual threshold threshold Base and benefits Annual bonus Performance Share Plan www.
com 75 75 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy Policy was formally approved by shareholders at the AGM on 27 July 2017 with 97% of votes cast to support the resolution and it remains our intention that the Policy will apply for a period of three years from the date of that AGM.
We operate in an international context The charts below illustrate the international nature of our business.
Although we are UK-listed and headquartered in London, UK, a very significant proportion of our sales, employees and shareholders are based outside the UK.
Accordingly, it is important that our remuneration arrangements are competitive in that international context.
1 2 Our sales Our people Our shareholders United Kingdom 1% UK 6% UK 48% United States 70% Europe excluding UK, North America 26% Middle East and Africa 28% Other European countries 12% Other European countries 24% North America 51% Rest of world 17% Rest of world 2% Latin America 10% Asia Pacic 5% 1 Sales by destination from continuing operations as per Note 5.
2 Analysis of shareholder register as at 3 April 2018.
Consideration of shareholder views The remuneration strategy described here was largely established in 2010 following a review and extensive consultation with major shareholders.
Shareholders endorsed the continuing use of the Performance Share Plan as our long-term incentive at the AGM in 2016, and formally approved the Policy most recently at the AGM in 2017.
The Chair of the Remuneration Committee engages with our major institutional shareholders each year specifically on remuneration topics, alongside the Boards shareholder engagement programme.
The Committee also receives regular updates on investors views and corporate governance matters.
These lines of communication ensure that emerging best practice principles are factored into the Committees decision-making during the year.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions in the Group The principles on which we base remuneration decisions for executives as described on page 74 are broadly consistent with those on which we base remuneration decisions for all employees.
In particular, the Committee takes into account the general pay and employment conditions of other employees of the Group when making decisions on executive directors remuneration.
This includes considering the levels of base salary increase for employees below executive level, and ensuring that the same principles apply in setting performance targets for executives incentives as for other relevant employees of the Group.
The Committee also reviews information on bonus payments and share awards made to the broader management of the Group when determining awards and outcomes at executive director level.
As noted in the opening statement, pending the outcome from the FRC Corporate Governance Code review, the Board and Remuneration Committee have been considering how our approach to engagement with the workforce may be further developed and broadened over time.
Gender pay Although we employ a relatively small proportion of our people in the UK our two employing businesses in the UK are each below the 250 employee threshold for reporting, the Committee has also spent time reviewing the UK reporting requirements relating to gender pay, as well as the actions taken in the business to drive gender balance.
As discussed in Our People report see page 43, we aim to attract a diverse workforce that reflects the communities in which we operate.
We firmly believe that all employees contribute to the performance of the Group and should have equal opportunity to develop fully according to their individual abilities.
76 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 76 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Key components of Directors remuneration As a Committee, we believe that our approach to remuneration provides an effective overall framework that is aligned with long-term success and returns to shareholders.
Executive directors remuneration consists of base salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, and retirement and other benefits as described in the table below.
Malus and claw back provisions apply to incentive awards following release, and a strong alignment with shareholders interests is maintained through significant personal shareholding requirements imposed on each Director.
Remuneration framework summary Each component has a clear purpose, and the variable elements are driven by KPIs which have a clear link to strategy.
Providing market competitive fixed remuneration to attract the right calibre of executive Base salary decisions are referenced to the comparative local market taking account of company size and Base salary and operations and personal performance.
Increases are typically limited to the general increase for Group employment employees in the same local market benefits Retirement benefits are provided by way of defined contribution, or equivalent cash arrangements.
Contribution See page 81 levels are reduced from 1 April 2018: 25% for CEO previously 35% and 20% for CFO previously 25% Other benefits may include car or allowance, health insurance and life cover.
Supporting near-term growth goals by rewarding strong annual financial performance 1 Target bonus is 50% of salary for the CFO and 75% of salary for the CEO Annual bonus Key drivers: Maximum cash bonus is 100% of salary.
Maximum total bonus opportunity is 175% of salary, with any award Profit over 100% paid in shares, which are deferred for two years Metrics relate to profitability, Food & Beverage Solutions volume growth and cash flow.
Profit performance F&B Solutions is the most important of these metrics: no bonus is payable if performance is below a minimum level, volume regardless of performance against other metrics: and profit performance has the greatest impact on Cash flow.
See page 81 Supporting the Groups strategy by incentivising sustained profit growth and capital efficiency over successive three-year performance periods, and retaining senior executive talent The maximum award that may be made to executive directors is 300% of salary Performance 1 Share Plan If the threshold level of performance is achieved across all metrics, 15% of the award will vest.
Key drivers Awards made in 2015 and vesting in 2018 awards from 2016 : 50% relates to the ROCE performance achieved in the final year of the performance period: the threshold F&B Solutions requirement for ROCE performance is 12.6% and full vesting requires ROCE performance of 15.6%, both being adjusted operating in excess of our weighted average cost of capital profit 25% 50% relates to EPS growth over the three-year performance period: the threshold requirement is 6% compound Group adjusted growth p. a. and full vesting of that element requires 15% compound growth p. a. profit before tax Awards made from 2016 25% 25% relates to Food & Beverage Solutions adjusted operating profit, consistent with the desire to grow our Food Group adjusted & Beverage Solutions segment and investment case.
Threshold is 8% and full vesting requires 13% compound ROCE 50%.
See page 83 25% relates to Group adjusted operating profit, a key performance metric to drive sustainable long-term profitable growth.
Threshold is 5% and full vesting requires 10% compound growth p. a.
50% relates to Group adjusted ROCE, driving efficient investment for value-added returns from the total business.
Threshold is 12% and full vesting requires 16% in the final year of the performance period Executive directors will be required to hold shares for a two-year period after the end of the three-year performance period i. e. the combination of performance and holding period will be five years in total, demonstrating a strong long-term alignment with shareholder interests.
To focus on sustainable value creation over time and to strengthen long-term alignment of interests between senior executives and the Groups shareholders Shareholding Executive directors are subject to individual minimum share ownership requirements which must be retained requirements for the duration of employment: Chief Executive 4x salary : Chief Financial Officer 3x salary Claw back malus Share ownership requirements extend to Executive Committee members at three times base salary, and to a broader group of executives in senior leadership roles at a level equal to their base salary Overriding factors.
Claw back and malus provisions apply for two years following bonus awards or the vesting of PSP awards Safety and broader corporate responsibility matters are specific factors that the Committee may factor into decisions on pay and annual incentive plan outcomes.
1 Food & Beverage Solutions metrics relate to the reportable segment.
com 77 77 Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration Policy The Directors Remuneration Policy Policy was formally approved by shareholders at the AGM on 27 July 2017 with 97% of votes cast to support the resolution and it remains our intention that the Policy will apply for a period of three years from the date of that AGM.
No changes have been made to the Policy, and we intend to operate within this Policy during the financial year ending 31 March 2019.
The Policy is published on pages 78 to 85 of our Annual Report 2017, and is available on the Companys website www.
The Committee retains discretion on specific aspects of Policy and implementation, as described in the Policy, along with an overriding discretion to determine bonus outcomes and judge the level at which share awards vest, to ensure that payments are consistent with the underlying financial health and performance of the business, within the maximum opportunity stated in the policy tables.
The Committee may make minor changes to the Policy without seeking shareholder approval, for example, to benefit the administration arrangements, or to take account of changes in legislation.
Any such changes would be disclosed in the relevant Annual Report.
Service contracts The Groups policy regarding executive directors service contracts and appointment terms is to take account of market practice, and to ensure that provisions in relation to notice periods or termination payments are not excessive, as well as to ensure that contracts provide appropriate protection for the Group, for example, in relation to restrictions on competition, solicitation of customers or employees, and the protection of intellectual property.
Executive directors are employed under service contracts that provide for six months notice from the executive and 12 months notice from the Group.
The Chairman and non-executive directors have letters of appointment and do not have service contracts or notice periods.
Under the terms of their appointment, they are usually expected to serve on the Board for between three and nine years, subject to their re-election by shareholders.
The Chairman and non-executive directors receive a fee for their services, and do not participate in the Groups incentive or pension schemes, do not receive any other benefits, and have no right to compensation if their appointment is terminated.
Service contracts for executive directors and letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Executive directors external appointments The Board believes that the Group can benefit from executive directors holding external non-executive directorships.
Such appointments are subject to approval by the Board and are normally restricted to one position for each executive director.
Fees may be retained by the executive director concerned.
78 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 78 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Annual Report on Remuneration Statement of shareholder voting The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 27 July 2017.
The last Annual Report on Remuneration was approved by shareholders at the AGM on 27 July 2017.
The following voting outcomes were disclosed after the AGM: Votes 1 Total for Total against withheld number of number of number of Resolution votes % of vote votes % of vote votes 2 Directors Remuneration Policy 295 458 658 97.16 8 622 530 2.84 79 662 2 Annual Report on Remuneration 291 846 638 95.98 12 218 602 4.02 610 1 Votes withheld are not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for or against a resolution.
2 On 27 July 2017, there were 465,684,612 ordinary shares in issue, excluding treasury shares.
Implementation of the Remuneration Policy in the financial year ending 31 March 2019 The Committee intends that the Policy approved by the shareholders at the AGM on 27 July 2017, will apply for a period of three years from that date.
Resolution to approve the Annual Report on Remuneration at the 2018 AGM A resolution to approve this Annual Report on Remuneration will be proposed at the AGM on 26 July 2018.
The Remuneration Committee Meetings during the year The Remuneration Committee comprised the following independent non-executive directors during the year: Anne Minto Chair, Paul Forman, Lars Frederiksen, Jeanne Johns until 31 October 2017, and Dr Ajai Puri.
The Committee met seven times during the year.
Membership and attendance during the year are set out on page 60.
The Committee met twice after the end of the financial year, and before the signing of this Annual Report.
The Company Secretary serves as secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board: the Chief Executive: the Executive VP, Human Resources: the VP, Global Compensation and Benefits: and the Executive VP, General Counsel are normally invited to attend meetings to assist the Committee, although none is present or involved when his or her own remuneration is discussed.
The Committees external advisor Deloitte LLP attends each meeting to provide independent advice, and also provides regular updates to the Committee on relevant corporate governance and market-related developments.
Main responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee The Committee has a formal calendar of items for consideration.
The main responsibilities of the Committee include: Assessing the appropriateness of executive remuneration in Setting performance targets for awards made to senior the context of the Groups strategy and priorities as well as executives under the annual bonus plan and the long-term overall competitiveness, taking into account data from incentive plan, and reviewing performance outcomes independent, external sources Reviewing the broader operation of the annual bonus and Setting the detailed remuneration of the executive directors, Performance Share Plans, including participation and overall designated members of senior management, and the Company award levels Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive, including: Reviewing its own effectiveness each year.
base salary or fees: annual bonus: long-term incentives: benefits: and contractual terms The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, are available on the Companys website, www.
Committee advisor The Committee appointed Deloitte LLP to act as our external advisor following a review and competitive tender process during 2012.
As part of its annual processes, the Committee considered and confirmed that advice received during the year from Deloitte LLP was objective and independent.
Deloitte LLP is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct: this gives the Committee additional confidence that the advice received is objective and independent of conflicts of interest.
Fees charged by Deloitte LLP for the provision of remuneration advice to the Committee amounted to 51,700 for the year ended 31 March 2018, with fees being charged on a time incurred basis.
During the year ended 31 March 2018, Deloitte LLP also provided services to the rest of the Group on corporate finance, consulting, systems, tax compliance and accounting.
com 79 79 Directors Remuneration Report continued Chart showing total shareholder return and Chief Executives pay The chart illustrates the cumulative total shareholder return TSR performance of the Company against the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 Indices over the past nine years.
These Indices are considered to provide an appropriate comparison as they represent a broad equity market with constituents comparable in size and complexity to the Company over the period to which the chart relates.
The graph shows the value of 100 invested in each Index and the Company in the nine years from 31 March 2009.
Iain Ferguson was Chief Executive prior to 1 October 2009.
2 The total remuneration figure shown for the year ended 31 March 2012 includes one-off compensatory appointment awards.
Comparison of movement in Chief Executive and broader employee remuneration Value of 1 3 Change in value: year ended 31 March 2018 vs 31 March 2017 Base salary benefits Annual bonus Chief Executive 0% -2% -10% 2 Broader employee population 3% 8% -8% 1 No changes to benefit policies were made in respect of the Chief Executive or employees during the year.
The percentage change in the employee benefits figure is the result of differences in employee participation levels and changes in the cost of insured benefits, including healthcare.
2 The broader employee population refers to a global population of salaried employees for salary comparison and the UK employee population for the benefits comparison, reflecting the context in which executive directors salaries and benefits are determined.
For the bonus comparisons, it refers to the global group of participants in the annual bonus plan so that the combination of business performance across our divisions that contributes to the Groups results is appropriately represented.
3 Includes deferred shares where applicable.
Relative importance of spend on pay Year ended Year ended 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 % change Remuneration paid to or receivable by employees of the Group continuing operations 336m 328m 2.4% Distributions to shareholders by way of dividend and purchase of ordinary shares 158m 148m 6.8% The year-on-year variance in employee remuneration is attributable to factors including foreign exchange rate movements reflecting our significant US employee base as well as variable pay arrangements driven by Group financial performance.
See Notes 10, 14 and 22 for further information.
80 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 80 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Indexed value of 100 invested Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Directors salaries and fees Base salary Nick Hampton was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 1 April 2018 previously Chief Financial Officer.
As Chief Executive, Nick Hampton receives an annual salary of 665,000 from 1 April 2018.
Imran Nawaz has been appointed Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 August 2018 and will receive an annual salary of 470,000.
Executive directors external appointments Nick Hampton was appointed as a non-executive director of Great Portland Estates plc on 17 October 2016, and received fees of 69,350 in the year to 31 March 2018 which he is entitled to retain.
Chairmans and non-executive directors fees Fees are reviewed annually, in accordance with our stated Policy, by the Committee excluding the Chairman in respect of the Chairmans fee, and by the Chairman and the executive directors in respect of other non-executive directors fees.
At the 2018 review, taking into account the competitiveness of current fees against the comparable market position, and the time commitment required of each role and the level of increase applicable to UK employees, it was agreed that fees would be increased as summarised in the table below.
Fees per annum as at 1 April 2018 2017 % change Basic fees Non-executive director 68 000 66 350 2.5% Senior Independent Director 78 800 76 900 2.5% Supplemental fees per annum Chair of Audit Committee 18 050 17 600 2.5% Chair of Remuneration Committee 13 550 13 200 2.5% Chair of Research Advisory Group 25 200 24 600 2.5% Dr Gerry Murphy appointed Chairman on 1 April 2017 receives a total annual fee of 350,000 which will not be reviewed until 2019.
Annual bonus Overview The bonus is based on performance against three objectives: Group profitability: Food & Beverage Solutions volume growth: and Group operating cash flow.
Before any bonus is payable, a minimum level of Group profit must be achieved, regardless of performance against the other metrics.
For each performance metric, there is a corresponding multiplier, which varies between threshold, target and stretch levels of performance.
Once the minimum profit level is achieved, bonuses are calculated by applying the multipliers, which have the effect of increasing or decreasing the value of the bonus depending on performance against each metric in turn.
Target bonus Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Bonus achieved % of base salary as % of base Profitability F&B Solutions Operating cash salary Chief Executive multiplier once volume growth flow multiplier 75% minimum level is multiplier X X X achieved Chief Financial Officer 50% At target level of performance, the multiplier is one for each metric, so if performance is at target against each metric, the result is a target bonus outcome.
To achieve the maximum payout, performance against all three metrics must be at or above the stretch level.
Profit performance is the most important of the three metrics, so multipliers for the profitability factor are more heavily geared than for the other two metrics, that is, improvements in profitability have a significantly greater impact on bonus payments.
All multipliers and their weightings are agreed by the Committee when targets are set at the start of the year, reflecting the importance of each of the metrics in the context of the progress made against the Groups long-term business strategy.
The maximum bonus opportunity is 175%.
Above a certain level of performance, the bonus calculation for the Chief Executive is made on the basis that the bonus target is 50% rather than 75% of salary.
Malus and claw back provisions Both the cash and share elements are subject to malus and claw back provisions for a period of 24 months following the award.
This means that they may be recouped in whole or in part, at the discretion of the Committee, in the exceptional event that results were found to have been misstated or if an executive director commits an act of gross misconduct.
com 81 81 Directors Remuneration Report continued Deferral into shares The bonus amount up to 100% of base salary is paid in cash.
The excess above 100% of base salary is paid in the form of deferred shares.
The shares are released after two years subject to the executive director remaining in service with the Group, and carry the right to receive a payment in lieu of dividend between award and release.
Both the cash and share elements are subject to malus and claw back provisions, as set out above.
Overview for the year ended 31 March 2018 Awards are linked to stretching Bonus awards reflect strong underlying financial performance 13% increase in adjusted profit before tax at constant currency with profit growth financial targets set at the start of in all businesses the year against key metrics: 1 8% increase in Food & Beverage Solutions profit to 137 million, with good Group profit measures the underlying volume and New Products momentum profit generated by the total business and 1 5% increase in Sucralose profit to 55 million whether management is converting growth 1 1 30% increase in Primary Products profit to 166 million, 11% profit growth in into profit effectively main business, Commodities 24 million higher Food & Beverage Solutions volume 2 7% increase in earnings per share at constant currency measures whether management is growing the Food & Beverage Solutions segment 53 million higher Group statutory profit before tax with improved trading and Group operating cash flow provides a lower exceptional costs focus on managing working capital and Net debt 60 million lower, with adjusted free cash flow 22 million higher at converting profit into cash effectively.
Annual bonus for the year ended 31 March 2018 audited The table below provides further information on each metric, the targets set at the start of the year and actual performance for the year.
Bonus objective Profitability Growth Cash management Metric Adjusted profit before tax Food & Beverage Solutions volume Adjusted operating cash flow Definition Adjusted profit before tax, Volume targets are set relative to Adjusted group operating cash flow, exceptional items, amortisation and prior year performance based on the average of half-year and net retirement benefit interest full-year figures Rationale Measures the underlying profit Measures whether management is Measures effective management of performance of the total business growing the Food & Beverage working capital and effective Solutions business conversion of profit into cash Threshold 282m Equal to prior year 261m Target 297m 4% vs prior year 281m Stretch 310m 5% vs prior year 301m 1 Actual performance 319m 3% vs prior year 321m 1 Bonus targets are set and actual performance is assessed at constant budget exchange rates, reflecting consistent practice with prior years.
The Committee also considers the Groups safety and overall financial performance to ensure that the results are a true reflection of the underlying strength and performance of the Group.
On the basis of these performance outcomes, annual bonus awards of 72% of maximum, equivalent to 126% of base salary, were awarded by the Committee to the Chief Executive Javed Ahmed and the Chief Financial Officer Nick Hampton for the year ended 31 March 2018.
No discretion has been exercised by the Committee in relation to these awards.
The bonus amount up to 100% of base salary is paid in cash and the balance is paid in the form of deferred shares as described above.
Bonus arrangements for the coming year This overall framework will be retained for the year ahead the profit metric will be aligned with our corporate reporting, no longer adjusted for retirement benefit interest : the overall bonus framework gives the greatest weighting to the Group profit metric, and retains the requirement that a minimum level of profit must be achieved before any bonus is payable regardless of performance against other metrics.
The Board considers that bonus targets for the year ahead are commercially sensitive because they may reveal information about the business plan that may damage our competitive advantage, and accordingly does not disclose these on a prospective basis.
However, we continue our practice of reporting targets in full, and the level of performance actually achieved, for the year just ended.
As noted in my introductory statement, the Committee expects to review our current remuneration arrangements during the year ahead to ensure these support the business priorities established by Nick Hampton, Chief Executive.
At this stage, we expect any changes to be within the scope of our existing Policy, but we will consult with shareholders in respect of any material changes that are proposed for the subsequent financial year, as appropriate, later in the year.
82 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 82 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Long-term incentive Performance Share Plan PSP Overview The PSP provides a share-based incentive to closely align executive directors and senior executives interests with the strategy and with the interests of shareholders over the long term.
It is therefore an important component of the overall package.
Maximum award level Since the 2010 AGM, awards to executive directors and other senior executives have been granted at the discretion of the Committee, with flexibility for the Committee to make awards of up to 300% of base salary where necessary to ensure market competitiveness, while taking into account Group performance.
Individual awards made in any year are considered by the Committee on a case-by-case basis.
Performance conditions for awards made in 2015 The release of awards depends on the Groups performance during the three-year performance period beginning on 1 April in the year of the award.
For awards made in the years 2010 to 2015 inclusive, the performance conditions comprised two elements, explained in the table below.
These metrics were selected following the review and consultation with shareholders at that time, as they represented key drivers of shareholder value creation for the Group as a whole.
Metric Earnings per share EPS Return on capital employed ROCE Definition Compound annual growth rate CAGR of the Groups Adjusted ROCE on continuing operations achieved at the 1, 2 adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations over the end of the three-year performance period performance period Weighting 50% of the award depends on this metric 50% of the award depends on this metric Vesting schedule EPS performance CAGR Vesting outcome ROCE performance Vesting outcome % of maximum % of maximum Below 6% Nil Below 12.6% Nil 6% 15% 12.6% 15% Between 6% and 15% On a straight line between Between 12.6% and 15.6% On a straight line between 15% and 100% 15% and 100% At or above 15% 100% At or above 15.6% 100% 1 The ROCE outcome may be adjusted downward in the event of an asset impairment adding this back into capital employed : this is to encourage a prudent investment strategy.
In these circumstances, the ROCE figure for PSP purposes can be significantly lower than would otherwise be reported.
2 ROCE performance for awards made in 2015 is assessed on the basis of proportionate consolidation of joint ventures, consistent with the basis on which targets were set for these awards prior to their grant.
Before any shares are released, the Committee must also be satisfied that the level of vesting determined by performance against these targets is justified by the broader underlying financial performance of the Group.
2015 PSP awards vesting by reference to the period ended 31 March 2018 audited PSP awards made in 2015 were dependent on EPS growth and ROCE targets as described above, with each condition applicable to half of the award.
Performance against these conditions and the vesting outcome is indicated in the table below.
Performance Performance condition Threshold Stretch outcome Combined vesting outcome 1 1 Adjusted Group ROCE on continuing 12.6% 15.6% 17.5% As EPS and ROCE performance outcomes are operations 50% each above the corresponding stretch levels, Adjusted Group EPS CAGR from 6.0% 15.0% 16.1% the PSP awards made in 2015 will vest in full continuing operations 50% ROCE performance is shown under proportionate accounting consistent with the basis on which the targets for the 2015 award were established.
The performance period applicable to 2015 awards is 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2018.
Over this period, the business has maintained clear principles in relation to the disciplined use of capital, and ROCE performance of 17.5% under proportionate accounting will result in this element being paid at stretch.
Over the same period, the earnings per share performance of 16.1% will result in 100% of the total award being permitted to vest.
No discretion has been exercised by the Committee in relation to this outcome.
In confirming the vesting outcome, the Committee also considered the broader underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period, including the impact of impairments, to ensure that vesting results based on these performance outcomes are consistent with a broader view of the financial health and performance of the business.
com 83 83 Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance conditions for awards made in 2016 and 2017 The Performance framework was reviewed in 2016 to ensure continued alignment with the Group strategy and long-term growth plans following the structural changes in the business in 2015.
The metrics adopted aligned the PSP with our strategic priorities to deliver long-term value by: Incentivising overall growth in the value of the Group and above-market growth in our higher value Food & Beverage Solutions business half the award relates to Group and Food & Beverage Solutions profit growth metrics Incentivising the maintenance of a strong balance sheet and the efficient deployment of Group capital a ROCE metric applies to half the award.
Appropriate threshold and stretch targets for each of these metrics were considered carefully by the Committee taking into account a number of reference points, described in summary below.
Overall, performance at these levels requires our Food & Beverage Solutions and Sucralose and Primary Products PP businesses to perform strongly in their respective markets.
We consulted with a broad group of our largest shareholders on these proposals, which were met with high levels of support during that consultation, and were strongly endorsed by shareholders at the 2016 AGM.
See pages 74 and 75 of our 2016 Annual Report for more details.
Metrics for Awards Target range since 2016 weighting Rationale for metric threshold-stretch Rationale for target ranges F&B Solutions adjusted Consistent with the 8% 13% p. a. threeTargets above-market F&B Solutions growth and significant operating profit 25% year compound growth F&B Solutions growthNew Product sales led business strategy Value generative in the context of global market growth of and investment case 4-5% and our historic operating profit growth trend of c. 7%.
Group adjusted profit Key performance 5% 10% p. a.
Targets are consistent with execution of Group strategy: before tax 25% metric to drive three-year compound steady earnings from PP as described in 2016, with sustainable long-term growth profitable F&B Solutions growth ahead of the market profitable growth Targets aligned with our long-term plan and the realities of our operating model without growth investment in PP, and recognising US sweetener market is in structural decline.
Group adjusted ROCE Drives efficient 12% 16% in the final Reflects geographic footprint post exit from European 50% investment for valueyear of the three-year PP business added returns from the performance period Incentivises ROCE performance in excess of our cost of total business capital and progression over time.
Financial underpin Before any shares are released, the Committee must also be satisfied that the level of vesting determined by performance against these targets is justified by the broader underlying financial performance of the Group.
Recognising the importance of the dividend to our investors, the Committee retains a specific discretion to reduce PSP vesting if dividends paid by the Group over the performance period do not conform with our stated dividend policy.
Targets are set and performance is assessed at reported exchange rates.
The level of vesting at threshold is limited to 15% of the maximum for executive directors.
The Committee reviews the appropriateness of metrics and targets ahead of the grant of awards in any year to ensure they remain sufficiently stretching.
As noted in my introductory statement, we do not propose any changes to our arrangements for the year ahead.
During the coming year, the Committee expects to review our remuneration arrangements to ensure they support the business priorities established with Nick Hamptons succession as Chief Executive.
At this stage, we expect any changes to be within the scope of our existing Policy, and we will consult with shareholders, as appropriate, later in the year in respect of any changes that are proposed for the subsequent financial year ending 31 March 2020.
Post-vesting holding period For awards made in 2016 and subsequently, executive directors are required to hold shares for a two-year period after the end of the three-year performance period i. e. the combination of performance and holding period is five years in total.
This holding period sits alongside the existing personal shareholding requirements and claw back malus provisions, and demonstrates a strong long-term alignment with shareholder interests.
Malus and claw back provisions Awards made under the PSP from 1 April 2013 are subject to malus and claw back provisions for a period following the vesting date and extending to the fifth anniversary following the date of grant.
During this period, the Committee may determine that an award will lapse wholly or in part or may require that a participant shall repay up to 100% of the value of any award that has vested by virtue of performance, in the event of circumstances including the following: material misstatement of financial results: misconduct which justifies, or could justify, summary dismissal of the participant: or if information emerges which would have affected the value of the original award that was granted to a participant, or the level at which the performance conditions were judged to have been satisfied.
84 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 84 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Executive director changes during the year Nick Hampton appointed Chief Executive As announced on 16 January 2018, Nick will receive an annual salary of 665,000 from 1 April 2018, subject to annual review.
His pension allowance remains at 25% of salary, reflecting the contractual commitment made on appointment in 2014 and representing a reduction against the established policy for the CEO role of 35% of salary.
His maximum level of award under the annual bonus and PSP as a percentage of salary are not changing from those applicable to his role as CFO.
Target bonus opportunity is 75% of salary consistent with our Policy for the CEO role.
These arrangements provide fixed compensation that is circa 15% lower than the previous CEO.
Imran Nawaz appointed Chief Financial Officer Imran Nawaz was appointed Chief Financial Officer with effect from 1 August 2018 and his remuneration details were provided on the announcement of his appointment on 17 April 2018.
He will receive an annual salary of 470,000.
He will receive a company contribution to his pension plan of 20% of base salary being a reduction against the established policy level of 25% for the Chief Financial Officer role.
He will also be eligible for a bonus under Tate & Lyles discretionary bonus scheme 50% of salary at target and a maximum opportunity of 175% of salary, with bonus participation in the financial year ending 31 March 2019 being on a time pro-rated basis.
Imran will be eligible to participate in the PSP with annual awards at up to 300% of base salary, subject to performance conditions over a three-year period.
Consistent with our shareholder-approved Policy on the terms of directors appointment, we have made provision to compensate Imran for specific short-term and long-term incentives given up by him as a consequence of him leaving his former employer.
As announced, these compensatory awards comprised a one-off Restricted Stock Award RSA of 800,000 worth of shares in Tate & Lyle PLC subject to employment and subject to achievement of individual business performance conditions : and we have agreed that in 2018, he will receive a PSP award at 300% of his full annual salary subject to normal PSP performance conditions.
The RSA and 2018 PSP awards will be subject to forfeiture repayment if he ceases to be employed in the first 36 months of employment due to his resignation or dismissal for cause.
Imran will receive practical relocation assistance including a taxable allowance of 200,000 gross: being 106,000 estimated net within a 12-month period following appointment in line with the Companys relocation policy to mitigate the many expenses expected to be incurred on relocation from Zurich, including stamp duty and equivalent home sale and purchase fees, and taxes and estate agency fees.
Remuneration Policy scenarios for the year ahead The overall impact of these executive director appointments, and the reduction in pension provision against policy levels and the operation for our incentive plans for the year ahead, is that the total compensation opportunity for each of these roles has reduced year-on-year.
The charts below illustrate the value that may be delivered from each element of the package under different performance scenarios for the year ending 31 March 2019.
1 Chief Executive 000s Nick Hampton Chief Financial Officer 000s Imran Nawaz Total 848 1 210 2 345 4 007 Total 577 818 1 517 2 810 4m 4m 50% XX% 3m 3m XX% 50% 43% 2m 2m 29% 47% 21% 25% 29% 1m 1m 5% 26% 15% 4% 21% XX% 100% 70% 36% 100% 70% 38% 21% XX% 0m 0m Below Threshold Target Stretch Below Threshold Target Stretch threshold threshold Base and benefits Annual bonus Performance Share Plan 1 Imran Nawaz will join the Company on 1 August 2018: the illustration shows the full annualised value of the core remuneration package for comparison.
Javed Ahmed retires as Chief Executive As announced on 16 January 2018, Javed Ahmed retired as Chief Executive and ceased employment with the Company on 1 April 2018.
Arrangements relating to his departure were disclosed at the time and are set out on page 87. www.
2 Bonus includes the value of deferred shares based on the average share price over the period 1 January 31 March 2018.
The cash bonus award to Javed Ahmed was 721,000 and the cash bonus award to Nick Hampton was 526,000.
3 Javed Ahmed retired as Chief Executive following the end of the financial year on 1 April 2018 see page 87.
4 Nick Hampton served as Chief Financial Officer during the year, and was appointed Chief Executive following the end of the financial year on 1 April 2018 see page 85.
5 This is the PSP Award made in 2015.
PSP awards outcomes are discussed on page 83, and the value is included in the table above based on a share price of 5.98, being the closing share price on 21 May 2018 when the Remuneration Committee determined performance conditions were met.
For Nick Hampton, this also includes the value from SAYE awards on release from the 2014 SAYE scheme.
6 In accordance with the Groups expenses policies, non-executive directors receive reimbursement for their reasonable expenses for attending Board meetings.
In instances where those costs are treated by HMRC as taxable benefits, the Group also meets the associated tax cost to the non-executive director through a PAYE settlement agreement with HMRC.
Amounts are minimal and do not show in the table after rounding.
7 William Camp stepped down as Director on 31 March 2017 and Sir Peter Gershon stepped down as Chairman on 31 March 2017.
Liz Airey stepped down as a Director on 27 July 2017.
Jeanne Johns stepped down as a Director on 31 October 2017.
Total pension entitlements audited Directors participate in arrangements that are defined contribution in nature.
Contributions made to or in lieu of pension in respect of each director during the year are shown in the single figure table, and are equivalent to 35% of salary for Javed Ahmed as Chief Executive and 25% for Nick Hampton as Chief Financial Officer, reflecting contracts on appointment.
Nick Hampton was appointed Chief Executive effective 1 April 2018 and his pension contribution will remain at 25% of salary.
86 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 86 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Payments to past directors audited As announced on 16 January 2018, Javed Ahmed retired as Chief Executive and ceased employment with the Group on 1 April 2018.
His salary and other benefits all ceased with effect from this date.
As previously announced, and in keeping with our shareholder approved policy, the Committee determined that Javed would retain: An entitlement to bonus in relation to the year ending 31 March 2018, which was determined and will be paid in due course in line with full year performance as described on page 82 Deferred bonus awards, which were earned based on performance in the relevant year, may be released at the end of the relevant deferral period, in accordance with the applicable Scheme rules Rights to previously granted awards under the PSP, which remain subject to the relevant performance criteria, and may vest on the normal vesting dates, on a time pro-rated basis reflecting the proportion of the three-year vesting period during which he was employed, in accordance with the applicable Scheme rules.
The Committee has not exercised any discretion in relation to the assessment of any performance conditions or the timing of vesting, or the basis on which relevant awards will be pro-rated.
Payments for loss of office There have been no other payments to past directors other than as disclosed in this Report.
No loss of office payments have been made during the year.
Share awards made during the year ended 31 March 2018 audited % of Type of Number of Face value of Performance Performance vesting at Award award Date of grant shares award conditions period threshold 1 2 Javed Group Bonus Nil cost 23 May 2017 39 850 288 402 None Two-year n a Ahmed Plan 31 March option deferral 2017 Performance Nil cost 16 August 298 875 2 163 018 25% F&B Solutions Three financial 15% 3 Share Plan option 2017 adjusted operating years ending profit: 25% Group 31 March 2020 adjusted profit: plus two-year 50% adjusted holding period 4 ROCE 1 2 40 739 294 836 Nick Group Bonus Nil cost 23 May 2017 None Two-year n a Hampton Plan 31 March option deferral 2017 217 855 1 576 660 Performance Nil cost 16 August 25% F&B Solutions Three financial 15% 3 Share Plan option 2017 adjusted operating years ending profit: 25% Group 31 March 2020 adjusted profit: plus two-year 50% adjusted holding period 4 ROCE Sharesave Savings- 4 December 3 243 17 998 Continued Three years n a 5 Scheme related 2017 employment ending options SAYE 1 March 2021 1 Deferred shares are granted under the annual bonus plan as described on page 82.
The full value of these awards has been previously disclosed for each Director in the single figure table in last years Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2017 and is similarly included in the 2017 figure in the single figure table on page 86 of this Report.
The share allocation was made during the year ending 31 March 2018, and shown in the table above, based on the average share price over the last three months of the preceding financial year, being 723.72 pence per share for the 2017 award.
2 Deferred bonus awards were subject to performance conditions in the year ending 31 March 2017, and remain subject to continued employment in accordance with the Scheme rules.
3 Under the terms of the plan approved by shareholders, the number of shares comprising an award in any year is calculated based on the average share price over the last three months of the preceding financial year, being 723.72 pence per share for the 2017 award.
In 2017, the Committee approved awards of 300% of salary for the Chief Executive and 300% of salary for the Chief Financial Officer, which is within our approved Remuneration Policy.
4 Performance conditions applicable to PSP awards made in 2017 are described on page 83.
5 Savings-related share options are options granted under the HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan.
Options are granted on the same terms to all participating employees, are not subject to performance conditions, and are normally exercisable during the six-month period following the end of the relevant threeor five-year savings contract.
The exercise price per share for these shares under option is 555.00 pence, reflecting a 20% discount to market value as permitted under HMRC rules, and is applicable to all participants.
com 87 87 Directors Remuneration Report continued Historic awards under all-employee schemes audited The table below sets out the current position of options to subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company that were granted to executive directors in the years prior to the current reporting year.
Savings-related share options are options granted under the HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan.
The exercise price reflects a 20% discount to market value as permitted under HMRC rules, and is applicable to all participants.
Options Options Options As at As at vested exercised lapsed 31 March Exercise 1 April 2017 during year during year during year 2018 price Exercise number number number number number pence period Javed Ahmed 5 941 5 941 510.00 01 03 20 to 31 08 20 Savings-related options 2014 Nick Hampton 3 529 3 529 3 529 510.00 01 03 18 to 31 08 18 Savings-related options 2014 Share awards made in prior years audited The table below sets out the current position of share-based awards made to executive directors.
Market Market price on price on As at Awards Awards Awards As at date date 31 March vested lapsed exercised 31 March awards awards 2017 during year during year during year 2018 granted exercised 6 Vesting date number number number number number pence pence Javed Ahmed Share-incentive arrangements on recruitment: 1 Compensatory Award A 419 403 419 403 444.90 661.60 01 10 11 2, 3 Performance Share Plan : 2013 29 148 29 148 817.50 726.97 15 06 16 2014 305 584 152 792 152 792 152 792 707.83 726.97 15 06 17 4 2015 292 595 292 595 616.04 After 31 03 18 2016 374 124 374 124 578.15 After 31 03 19 Group Bonus Plan 2016 42 742 42 742 578.15 25 05 2018 Nick Hampton Share incentive arrangements on recruitment: 2015 Restricted Share 5 Award 121 781 121 781 121 781 574.80 726.97 15 06 17 2, 3 Performance Share Plan : 4 2015 241 251 241 251 616.04 After 31 03 18 2016 266 064 266 064 578.15 After 31 03 19 Group Bonus Plan: 2016 29 368 29 368 578.15 25 05 2018 1 This award, to compensate Javed Ahmed for certain long-term incentives given up by him as a consequence of leaving his former employer, was not subject to performance conditions.
The shares were available to exercise from 1 October 2011, being the second anniversary of Javed Ahmed joining the Group.
2 The three-year performance period for these awards began on the first day of the financial year in which the award was granted.
3 The performance conditions for PSP awards made in 2013, 2014 and 2015 are 50% adjusted diluted EPS and 50% adjusted ROCE, as described in this Report.
The performance conditions for the PSP awards made in 2016 are 25% Food & Beverage Solutions adjusted operating profit: 25% Group adjusted profit: 50% adjusted ROCE as described on page 84.
4 The PSP award made in 2015 will vest at 100%, following the Committees assessment of performance conditions as described on page 83.
5 This award, as described on page 71 of the 2015 Annual Report, was made to compensate Mr Hampton for incentives forfeited with his previous employer.
6 These awards are structured as nil cost options: awards were exercised with a nil exercise price.
88 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 88 Tate & Lyle PLC Annual Report 2018 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Useful Information Statement of Directors shareholding and share interests audited Personal share ownership requirements policy on executive share ownership The Committee and executive management believe that personal investment in Company shares is an important part of our overall remuneration framework.
Material personal investment in Company shares serves to strengthen the long-term alignment of interests between senior executives and shareholders.
Our executive shareholding requirements are more demanding and extend to a greater number of senior executives in the Group when compared with similar UK-listed companies.
The Chief Executive has a target share ownership requirement of four times base salary.
At 31 March 2018, Javed Ahmed held shares in accordance with this policy with a value just under 30 times base salary The Chief Financial Officer has a target shareholding of three times base salary, to be achieved within five years of appointment.
Nick Hampton joined the Group in September 2014, and at 31 March 2018, he held shares in accordance with the policy with a value of just under three times base salary as Chief Financial Officer Other Executive Committee members are subject to the share ownership policy, with target holdings at three times salary This policy extends to a broader group of executives who have senior leadership roles within the Group.
The shareholding target for this group is equal to their base salary.
Under the shareholding policy, the value of shareholdings is assessed net of tax, at the prevailing share price, and executives are expected to reach the required level of shareholding within five years of appointment.
The Committee monitors progress against the share ownership requirements annually.
Directors interests audited The interests held by each person who was a Director during the financial year in the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in the Company are shown below.
All these interests are beneficially held and no Director had interests in any other class of shares.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various share plans.
Nil cost options Shares not Options not Interest in conditional on conditional on conditional on Total as at Total as at 1 2 3 4 shares performance performance performance 31 March 2018 31 March 2017 Chairman Dr Gerry Murphy 20 000 20 000 10 000 Executive directors Javed Ahmed 3 431 568 965 594 82 592 5 941 4 485 695 4 568 387 Nick Hampton 190 032 725 170 70 107 3 243 988 552 784 154 Non-executive directors Paul Forman 10 000 10 000 10 000 Lars Frederiksen 15 000 15 000 15 000 Douglas Hurt 10 000 10 000 10 000 Anne Minto 8 600 8 600 8 600 Dr Ajai Puri 10 018 10 018 10 018 Sybella Stanley 4 983 4 983 3 983 Former directors 5 Liz Airey 26 000 26 000 26 000 5 Jeanne Johns 4 000 4 000 1 Includes shares owned by connected persons.
These awards were made as options with a nil exercise price.
3 Deferred share awards made under the Group Bonus Plan.
4 These are HMRC-approved Sharesave Plan awards.
5 As at the date they ceased to be a Director.
There were no changes in Directors interests in the period from 1 April 2018 to 23 May 2018.
On behalf of the Board Anne Minto OBE Chair of the Remuneration Committee 23 May 2018 www.
