REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS STATEMENT Principles of Remuneration The Remuneration Committee continues to ensure that the executive directors remuneration motivates performance and fosters the Groups strategic goals.
The following principles have been considered when determining executive directors remuneration: clarity and simplicitythe Remuneration Committee strives to ensure that performance measures are clear and straight-forward: risk - the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to reduce an executive directors variable remuneration if specific KPIs have not been met and any element of executive directors variable compensation is subject to the relevant malus and clawback provisions: predictability - the maximum possible value of the executive directors remuneration has been detailed in the Remuneration Report at section 2.2 below and in the Remuneration Policy: Dear shareholders, proportionality alignment with culture: the Remuneration Committee strives to ensure that performance As Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee the measures are aligned with the corporate culture of Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to present the the Group to foster the right behavior and deliver reDirectors Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 muneration packages that are proportionate in the cirDecember 2018. cumstances, by measuring executive directors remuThis is my first year report as Remuneration Committee neration against a mix of financial, non-financial and Chairman as I was appointed on 1st October 2018 and I personal KPIs.
would like to thank my predecessor, Stefano Marsaglia for Form of Remuneration his significant contribution during the past years.
The executive directors remuneration for 2018 is I would also like to thank shareholders for their active comprised of: engagement and strong support for the executive directors fixed compensation consisting of both cash-based and Remuneration Policy, which was approved at the 2018 AGM share-based payments: on 21 May 2018 and which has applied since 1 January annual bonus based on the level of achievement of one- 2019 the full policy is given in 2017 Annual Report, which year key performance indicators KPIs and consisting is available at our website at www.
We of share-based payments only.
firmly believe, that the new Remuneration Policy is closely aligned with Groups strategic priorities, provides fair The share-based payments in relation to the fixed reward and meets appropriate regulatory requirements and compensation and the annual bonuses are subject to year best practice standards as well as taking into consideration continued employment condition and holding period.
The the views of all stakeholders.
As we are committed to best employment and holding conditions are lifted for 10% corporate governance, the Remuneration Committee of the total number of shares awarded by the end of the will review annually both executive and non-executive first year, a further 10% by the end of the second year directors compensation and benchmarks to ensure that and the remaining 80% by the end of the third year.
This these are aligned with best market practice.
If any material approach ensures that the executive directors interests change is required, the Remuneration Committee intends are closely aligned with the Groups long-term strategy to consult with shareholders before any new proposal is and shareholders interests.
presented for approval at the annual general meeting.
The non-executive directors remuneration is in the form of I am looking forward to working with the Remuneration monthly fixed cash payments and is based on best practice Committee to further develop and improve remuneration and specifically FTSE 250 financial companies board practices of the executive directors and principals at TBC membership fees.
136 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 2018 Executive Directors KPI and Performance Looking ahead The Group recorded strong financial and operating results Given the changes to the board structure at TBC Bank in 2018 and successfully achieved its strategic objectives, Group PLC and JSC TBC Bank level, the compensation to which once again demonstrates the strong dedication and non-executive directors, particularly the Chairman and commitment of the management team led by CEO.
Deputy Chairman, will be changing from 4 April 2019.
For further details, please see page 147.
The Remuneration Committee has thoroughly assessed the executive directors performance against targets The Remuneration Committee will continue to review set at the beginning of the year and concluded that their the Remuneration Policy for both executive and nonperformance was above expectations.
The Remuneration executive directors on a regular basis to ensure that it is in Committee has also assessed the executive directors compliance with regulatory changes and evolving market performance against their non-financial and personal KPIs practices.
We will also actively engage with shareholders which take into account specific duties of each executive and other stakeholders to make sure that we take into director.
The detailed disclosure of KPIs and performance account their views.
Our ultimate goal is to ensure that assessment is given in section 2 of the Remuneration our Remuneration Policy strongly supports the Group in Report.
achieving its strategic objectives and continues to reward and attract the best talent.
As a result, the annual bonus awarded to the CEO and CFO represented 85% and 88% of the maximum opportunity in 2018 respectively.
The Remuneration Committee has determined that the level of remuneration awarded to the executive directors was appropriate in the circumstances Maria Luisa Cicognani for the reasons stated above.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2 April 2019 Changes to the Policy In the light of new regulatory requirements we have made the following changes to our Remuneration Policy: Awards granted to executive directors under the Groups long-term incentive plan LTIP approved by shareholders at the AGM of 21 May 2018 and effective from 1 January 2019 will be subject to a 5 year vesting and holding period 3 year vesting period and an additional 2 year holding and continued employment period after vesting, subject to malus and claw back: We have introduced post employment shareholding requirements for executive directors, which will require executive directors to continue to comply with the Shareholding Guidelines the full document is available at www.
com for a period of two 2 years after they have left the Company: We have given the Remuneration Committee the discretion to override the formulaic outcomes of the performance assessment in relation to annual bonus and LTIP.
It should be noted that the Remuneration Committee has never used upward discretion and intends to exercise this discretion only in exceptional cases where the Remuneration Committee considers that the executive directors remuneration has become excessive due to external factors.
Thus, it will be solely used for the benefit of shareholders.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 137 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 1.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Companys Remuneration Committee is responsible for establishing and overseeing the Groups Remuneration Policy principles and considering and approving remuneration arrangements of executive directors.
Full details of the Remuneration Committees responsibilities are set out in the Remuneration Committee terms of reference, which are available on our website at www.
The Remuneration Committee membership is comprised of solely independent non-executive directors from a wide variety of skills and backgrounds to provide the best input.
The membership of the Remuneration Committee changed during 2018 following changes in the composition of the Board.
From October 2018 and for the remaining period of the year the members of the Remuneration Committee were: Maria Luisa Cicognani chairman, Nikoloz Enukidze, Eric Rajendra and Nicholas Haag.
The attendance of members at the Remuneration Committee meetings during the year at the Company and the Bank levels are set out in the Directors Governance Statement on page 111.
1.1 Statement of voting at Annual General Meeting The currently followed Remuneration Policy was presented and approved at the AGM on 21 May 2018 The results were as follows: % of issued % of votes Votes % of votes Total share capital Votes No Resolution Votes For cast Against cast votes voted Withheld 1 To approve the directors' remuneration report 40,247,177 99.20 325,903 0.80 40,573,080 74.88% 5,974,890 2 To approve the directors' remuneration policy 44,987,517 99.95 21,969 0.05 45,009,486 83.07% 1,538,484 3 To approve the Company's Long Term Inventive Plan 44,947,517 99.86 61,969 0.14 45,009,486 83.07% 1,538,484 2.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION The tables below summarize the total remuneration earned by each director of the TBC Bank Group PLC hereinafter referred as the Company or TBCG PLC, in respect of their employment with the Companys Group defined as TBC Bank Group PLC and JSC TBC Bank, TBCG for the financial years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
Base salary paid in year to executive directors.
No additional fees were paid to executive directors.
Deferred share salary comprises of TBCG shares granted in respect of service in the relevant year.
The number of shares awarded as deferred share salary is linked to the base salary and its current level is fixed at an annual grant of 17,622 TBCG shares for Mr. Vakhtang Butskhrikidze and 8,811 TBCG shares for Mr. Giorgi Shagidze.
Deferred shares in relation to 2017 were awarded on 9 March 2018 and deferred shares in relation to 2018 were awarded on 21 March 2019.
Deferred share salaries are subject to a condition of continuous employment for 3 years and malus and clawback provisions.
These conditions are lifted as follows: 10% of the award on the first anniversary from the award date, a further 10%, on the second anniversary from award 138 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 date and the final 80% of the on the third anniversary from the award date.
For the purposes of this table, the 2017 award has been valued using the closing market value of the shares on 9 March 2018 GBP18.4 converted into US$ using the cross rate of the official exchange rates published by the NBG of 2.4462 for GEL US$ and 3.397 for GEL GBP on the same date and grossed up for directors income tax on share awards paid by the Company.
The 2018 award has been valued using the closing market value of the shares on 21 March 2019 GBP16.0 converted into US$ using the cross rate of the official exchange rates published by the NBG of 2.6816 for GEL US$ and 3.5499 for GEL GBP on the same date and grossed up for directors income tax on share awards paid by the Company.
Taxable benefits comprise medical insurance, company car allowances, and in the case of our CEO, security allowances.
The Group does not pay pension contributions to the executive directors.
None of the executive directors has a prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension.
A deferred share bonus award is granted as a result of the achievement of performance measures for the relevant financial year.
The award is 100% deferred and is subject to continuous employment and malus and clawback provisions.
These conditions are lifted as follows: 10% of the award on the first anniversary from the award date, a further 10% on the second anniversary from the award date and the final 80% of the on the third anniversary from the award date.
The value of the award is determined in line with the achievement of performance measures, as explained in detail in section 2.2 below.
Mr. Butskhrikidze and Mr. Shagidze were reimbursed for reasonable business expenses in accordance with the internal policy in force at the time.
Such reimbursements have not been included in the single figure table.
No money or other assets are received or receivable by the executive directors in respect of a period of more than one financial year where final vesting is determined by reference to the achievement of the performance measures or targets relating to a period ending in 2018 or 2017 as applicable.
The decrease of deferred share salary and deferred share bonus in 2018 as compared to 2017, is largely due to the decrease in share price.
A full explanation of the basis of the 2018 deferred share bonus awards is given at section 2.2 which highlights the link between strong company and executive performance for 2018.
2.2 Basis for determining executive directors deferred share bonus awards audited The 2018 deferred share bonus awards made to executive directors reflect the Remuneration Committees assessment of the extent to which corporate financial, non-financial and personal KPIs were achieved.
Such objectives were set by the Remuneration Committee and agreed by the Board at the beginning of the year.
The compensation is structured by reference to a set of stretch targets for each of the KPIs that is reviewed by the Remuneration Committee.
Each KPI has three thresholds: minimum, on target and maximum and is evaluated as follows: if the achievement is below minimum level, the evaluation is 0: if the achievement is at minimum level, the evaluation is 60%: if the achievement is on target, evaluation is 100%: the achievement at maximum means evaluation at 140%.
The final evaluation score for the Executive Director is made up of the weighted sum of the scores of all KPIs.
As a result, the evaluation of the Executive Director is capped at 140%.
If all KPIs are achieved on target, then the Executive Director will receive 100% of the target bonus.
The maximum bonus will be 140% of his targeted bonus.
While one KPI can be achieved at maximum level, achieving maximum level across all KPIs is extremely difficult and to date has never been achieved by the Executive Director.
Therefore, the maximum bonus has never been paid.
The Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor and implement challenging stretch goals for its executives on an annual basis.
The below table illustrates the performance measures set for Mr. Butskhrikidze in respect of 2018, as well as his performance against them.
The selected financial performance measures are vital for the long-term financial health of the Group and are also closely monitored by investors.
Non-financial measures including HR and customer experience are closely linked to our strategic priorities as described in our business model and strategy section, while TBC PLC share price performance against peer bank measures our relative performance against the closest competitor.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 139 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 2.
Each KPI is evaluated at: 60% where achievement falls into the minimum range, 100% where achievement falls into the target range and 140% where achievement falls into the maximum range.
The underlying ROE excludes the one-off costs in the amount of GEL 17.4 million, related to the reversal of deferred tax gain in Q2 due to change in legislation.
The cost of risk targets were increased in 2018 due to increased focus on higher yield, higher risk products during the year.
Engagement index for middle management and employee net promoters score were measured by an independent consultant.
Two indexes were evaluated: Best Service Company in Georgia in Retail in the following industries: banking, telecom, insurance and pharmacy, based on surveys conducted by independent research company IPM in December 2018 NPS in affluent segment, based on survey conducted by independent research company IPM in December 2018 6.
2018 Q4 average share price multiple of TBCG PLC compared with that of the peer bank according to the new policy, which came into force on 1st January 2019, the relative measures will not be used as part of the non-financial measures.
Leadership skills are assessed by remuneration committee and were regarded as good.
In line with our refreshed strategy and dedicated focus on customer service and HR, the weightings of financial and non-financial KPIs have been slightly changed compared to the previous year as follows: the weighting of cost of risk KPI was reduced by 4%, while HR and customer experience KPIs were increased by 2% each as they were deemed to be more important in 2018.
As a result, during 2018, the Remuneration Committee therefore considered Mr Butskhrikidzes performance excellent and determined the overall value of the deferred share bonus award of US$ 2,408,813 being the net value awarded of US$ 1,894,007 grossed up for directors income tax on deferred bonus share awards.
The actual deferred share bonus represented 85% of the maximum annual bonus, which could have been achieved if all the performance measures have been met.
The below table illustrates the performance measures set for Mr. Shagidze in respect of 2018, as well as his performance against them.
The personal KPIs represent the areas of the major focus for CFO due to its significant impact on the overall performance of the business.
Engagement for Middle Management and Employee Net Promoters Score were measured by an independent consultant.
2018 Q4 average share price multiple of TBCG PLC compared with that of the peer bank according to the new policy, which came into force on 1st January 2019, the relative discounted measures will not be used as part of the non-financial measures and personal KPIs.
Leadership skills are assessed by remuneration committee and were regarded as excellent.
The figures are based on the banks IFRS standalone numbers and envisages meeting certain level of income from foreign exchange operations and liquidly management.
Cost of IFI borrowed funds adjusted with currency, fund seniority, interest rate nature and Libor and Refinance rate change for the respective floating loans on daily basis.
The Remuneration Committee also considered Mr Shagidzes performance as excellent and determined the overall value of the deferred share bonus award of US$ 1,250,408 being the net value awarded of US$ 988,595 grossed up for directors income tax on deferred bonus share awards.
The actual deferred share bonus represented 88% of the maximum annual bonus, which could have been achieved if all the performance measures have been met.
According to Georgian tax code, a company is responsible for paying income tax for its employees.
As about 95% of the remuneration of CEO and CFO is subject to Georgian tax regulations, the Group pays income taxes for the CEO and CFO total remuneration.
2.3 Further details of fixed and discretionary deferred share compensation granted during 2018 audited The following table sets out further details of the share awards granted to Mr Butskhrikidze and Mr. Shagidze in 2018 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2017.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 141 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 2.
SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION CONTINUED Deferred share salary Deferred share bonus Type of interest Direct share award subject to Direct share award subject to restrictions.
Basis on which award was made As described in note 2 to the table at As described in the table and notes at 2.1 above.
1 Face value of awards made to Mr. US$ 573,449 US$ 3,037,701 Butskhrikidze 1 Face value of awards made to Mr. US$ 285,022 US$ 1,441,412 Shagidze Percentage of award receivable if Legal title to 100% of the shares are Legal title to 100% of the shares are minimum performance achieved registered in the name of participant registered in the name of participant on the date the award is made.
The on the date the award is made.
The participant has the right to receive participant has the right to receive dividends and to vote.
The deferred dividends and to vote.
The bonus shares, shares, however, are subject to however, are subject to continued continued employment conditions.
The condition condition on the deferred shares are on the deferred shares are lifted lifted 10% 10% 80% over the period of 10% 10% 80% over the period of three three years respectively.
The award is years respectively.
The performance part of the executive director's salary period is one calendar year.
set out in his service contract and is not subject to performance measures or conditions.
Continued employment condition The continued employment condition The continued employment condition over three years until 9 March 2021 over three years until 9 March 2021 subject to malus and clawback subject to malus and clawback requirement.
Performance measures None See section 2.2 above 2.4 Change in remuneration of the CEO compared with the wider employee population The table below sets out the increase in salary, benefits and bonus of the CEO compared with that of the wider employee population between 2017 and 2018 : Chief All Executive employees 1 2 Salary -9.6% 18.9% Cash bonus 0% -3.5% Taxable benefits -3.6% 38.3% 3 Pension-related benefits 0% -100% 4 Deferred share bonus award -20.7% -16.9% Total remuneration -17.8% -5.4% Notes to table: 1.
This includes cash and deferred share salary.
The CEOs cash salary increase is calculated in US dollars, the currency which is fixed for his cash salary 2.
The decrease in deferred share salary reflects the decrease in the share price.
The number of deferred shares awarded as salary has not changed between 2017 and 2018 3.
Due to the government's initiative to introduce the accumulated pension scheme, TBC Banks pension scheme was discontinued on 1st January 2018 and the employees were reimbursed.
As the government's scheme did not come into force until 1st January 2019, there were no pension costs during 2018.
The actual number of shares awarded to CEO as part of deferred shares bonus decreased from 93,348 shares in 2017 to 89,421 in 2018.
The decrease shown in the table also reflects the decrease in the share price as well as number of shares 1 Figures calculated as described in Notes 2 and 5 to the single total figure table at 2.1 above 142 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 2.5 Single total figure for non-executive directors audited The table below sets out the remuneration received by each non-executive director for the years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017.
The independent non-executive directors are remunerated based on the number of committees they serve on and chair.
Taxable benefits comprise medical insurance, car, and security allowance.
Stefano Marsaglia and Stephan Wilcke resigned from the Board in September 2018 and were replaced by Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia respectively.
The table below shows the detailed breakdown of annual fees paid to non-executive director in 2018 and 2017 in relation to different roles paid from both TBC Bank Group PLC and JSC TBC Bank: Fees paid in 2018 Fees paid in 2017 US$000 US$000 Non-executive director other than Chairman and Deputy Chairman 84 84 Senior Independent Director 20 14 Committee chairmanship 28 28 Committee membership 11 11 3.
REMUNERATION OF THE TOP MANAGEMENT OF JSC TBC BANK The table below summarizes the total remuneration earned by the top managers of the JSC TBC Bank for the financial years ended 31 December 2018 and 31 December 2017, except for the CEO and CFO as their remuneration information is disclosed in section 2 of this Report.
Deferred Taxable Deferred share Total 1 2 3 4 Base salary share salary benefits bonus award remuneration 5 Director Year US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 2018 1,490 1,666 15 5,887 9,058 Total for the top managers excluding CEO and CFO 2017 1,377 2,004 5 8,147 11,533 2018 248 278 2 981 1,510 Per Top manager excluding CEO and CFO average per 6 members 2017 229 334 1 1,358 1,922 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 143 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 3.
REMUNERATION OF THE TOP MANAGEMENT OF JSC TBC BANK CONTINUED Notes to table: 1.
Base salary paid in year for executive directors.
No fees were paid to executive directors.
The number of shares awarded as deferred share salary is linked to the Base salary.
Deferred share salaries are subject to a condition of continuous employment and malus and clawback provisions.
These conditions are lifted 10% of the award on the first anniversary from the award date, a further 10% on the second anniversary from award date and the final 80% of the award on the third anniversary from the award date.
Taxable benefits comprise medical insurance and company car allowances.
These conditions are lifted as follows: 10% of the award on the first anniversary from the award date, a further 10% on the second anniversary from the award date and the final 80% of the award on the third anniversary from the award date.
For the purposes of this table, the 2017 award has been valued using the market value of the shares on 9 March 2018 GBP18.4 converted into US$ using the cross rate of the official exchange rates published by the NBG of 2.4462 for GEL US$ and 3.397 for GEL GBP on the same date and grossed up for directors income tax on share awards paid by the Company.
The 2018 award has been valued using the market value of the shares on 21 March 2019 GBP16.0 converted into US$ using the cross rate of the official exchange rates published by the NBG of 2.6816 for GEL US$ and 3.5499 for GEL GBP on the same date and grossed up for directors income tax on share awards paid by the Company.
PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS AUDITED There were no payments made to past directors relating to 2018.
PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE AUDITED There were no payments made in relation to loss of office in 2018.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED The application of our remuneration structures naturally results in our executive directors holding a significant number of shares that are subject to continued employment conditions.
In addition, as described in section 10 below, the Company has implemented a new Minimum Shareholding Requirement for executive directors.
Deferred shares paid in relation to salary and annual bonus are subject to continuous employment and malus and clawback requirements but are not subject to specific performance conditions.
The following table sets out a summary of each directors shareholdings and share interests in the Company as at 31 December 2018.
Although not a Company requirement, some non-executive directors have chosen to become shareholders.
Number of shares held not Number of shares held subject subject to the continued to the continued employment 1 2 3 employment requirements requirements Total interests in shares Mamuka Khazaradze 7,343,936 0 7,343,936 Badri Japaridze 3,669,878 0 3,669,878 4 Vakhtang Butskhrikidze 696,124 294,702 990,826 4 Giorgi Shagidze 70,443 146,145 216,588 Nikoloz Enukidze 10,000 0 10,000 Stephan Wilcke 51,075 0 51,075 Notes to table: 1.
This figure includes all shares held which are no longer subject to any conditions or transfer restrictions.
This figure includes shares that are still subject to conditions, including transfer restrictions, a continuous employment condition and malus and clawback provisions.
The figure includes shares granted as deferred share compensation each year as a result of the achievement of performance measures for the relevant financial year and deferred share salary.
Details of these interests are described at sections 2.1 and 2.2.
Total interests in shares includes interests held directly and indirectly.
144 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 4.
21 March 2019, the Company has granted share awards to Mr Butskhrikidze and Mr. Shagidze, under the share based payment scheme, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018.
Mr Butskhrikidze has been granted 107,043 shares and Mr. Shagidze has been granted 55,485 shares.
These shares are subject to three years continued employment and malus and clawback provisions, and fully meet the conditions 21 March 2022 subject to continuous employment and malus and clawback requirement.
These have not been included in the above table.
All figures in the table reflect the position as at 31 December 2018.
As at 2 April 2019, Mr Butskhrikidze held 292,502 shares and Mr. Shagidze held 146,916 shares that were subject to continued employment conditions.
PERFORMANCE: TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The following graph compares the total shareholder return TSR of the Company for the period from the date when shares were listed on the premium segment of the London Stock Exchange 10 August 2016 to 31 December 2018, with the performance of the FTSE All-Share Index and FTSE 250 Index over the same time period.
These market indexes were selected because they are most comparable to the Company in terms of listing and relevant governance and transparency standards.
Further, the Company is included in the FTSE All-Share Index and FTSE 250 Index.
190% 180% TBC Bank Total Shareholder Return FTSE All-Share Total Return Index 170% FTSE 250 Total Return Index 160% 150% 140% 130% 120% 110% 100% 90% Aug - 16 Oct - 16 Dec - 16 Feb - 17 Apr - 17 Jun - 17 Aug - 17 Oct - 17 Dec - 17 Feb - 18 Apr - 18 Jun - 18 Aug - 18 Oct - 18 Dec - 18 Set out below is a table that contains details of Company CEO, Vakhtang Butskhrikidzes remuneration for each financial year in the relevant period: Single total figure Deferred share bonus as a percentage 1 2 Financial year of remuneration US$000 of maximum opportunity % 2018 3,356 85% 2017 4,084 88% 2016 3,017 85% Notes to table: 1.
Total remuneration includes base salary, deferred share salary, deferred share bonus award and taxable benefits as described in the single total figure table and notes at section 2.1 above.
For further details of the deferred share bonus please refer to section 2.2 above.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 145 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 8.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table illustrates the difference in spend on pay for all employees of the Group and the difference in dividend paid to the shareholders between 2018 and 2017.
Dividends paid to shareholders in 2018 for the year ended 31 December 2017 increased by 16% as compared to dividends paid to shareholders in 2017 for the year ended 31 December 2016.
Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 2018 2017 % change 1 Total spend on pay US$000 86,942 80,861 8% 2 Dividends paid to shareholders US$000 36,156 31,110 16% Notes to table: 1.
Total spend on pay includes total staff costs per Groups IFRS consolidated financial statements and is converted into US$ using average US$ GEL exchange rate for 2018 and 2017 respectively.
2. Dividend paid to shareholders are gross amounts converted into US$ using official exchange rate prevailing at the date of payment of the dividends, GEL 2.4579 and GEL 2.4047 for 2018 and 2017 respectively.
The dividend amount includes both cash and scrip dividend.
POLICY IMPLEMENTATION IN 2019 Remuneration policy for executive directors The new Remuneration Policy was developed with support of external consultants and KPMG and was approved by the shareholders on 21 May 2018 at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Policy is applicable starting from 1 January 2019 until the end of 2021 Non-executive director compensation See further details below on changes to the non-executive directors compensation.
These are in line with the policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
Statement of implementation In 2019, the Remuneration Committee intends to continue to provide remuneration in accordance with the policy tables set forth below as approved by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
Fees and salaries may be adjusted but in all cases will not exceed the maximums stated in the appropriate policy table as approved by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
New targets will be set for the deferred share bonuses.
The appropriate level of awards to be granted in 2019 is assessed by the Remuneration Committee but in all cases will remain within the maximums stated in the appropriate policy table as approved by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
146 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 From January 2019 the following will apply: Executive directors Base salary The cash and deferred share salaries are set out in the executive directors service cash and deferred shares contracts.
The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to agree changes to the base salary with the executive directors but no change will exceed the maximum stated in the policy approved by shareholders at the 2018 AGM.
The Remuneration Committees discretion will be exercised fairly and reasonably and with regard to appropriate comparable market practice and business strategy.
Annual bonus Performance measures and weightings: Performance measures for 2019 are summarized below: Corporate financial KPIs that are comprised of return on equity, cost to income, cost of risk and net interest margin Corporate non-financial KPIs that relate to strategic HR, agile transformation, customer experience and international expansion Personal KPIs that include leadership skills in the case of the CEO and in the case of the CFO, include leadership skills, IR function specific KPIs, treasury operations targets and targets related to international expansion in Uzbekistan 1 The corresponding weightings for 2019 are set as follows: CEO CFO Financial measures 50% 37% Non-financial measures 40% 33% Personal KPIs 10% 30% Total 100% 100% Performance targets: Specific performance targets are considered commercially sensitive as they will give our competitors information about our budget and strategy.
The targets will be disclosed in the Groups 2019 annual report.
Long term incentive plan Performance conditions and corresponding weightings for CEO and CFO for 2019 LTIP will include: KPI weight 40% Total shareholder return TSR for a period of 3 years 2019-2021 Average ROE for 3 years 2019-2021 40% Loan market share at the end of 2021 20% Performance targets: Specific performance targets are considered commercially sensitive as they will give our competitors information about our budget and strategy.
Non-Executive Directors Fees The fees paid to the non-executive directors will be within the Policy approved by shareholders at the 2017 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee has decided to revise the compensation for the non-executive directors starting from 4 April 2019.
Full details of the changes will be included in next years annual report, but these include: The Chairmans compensation will decrease from US$ 950,000 to 450,000 Deputy Chairmans compensation will decrease from US$ 800,000 to 400,000 This change is to reflect the recent restructuring of the board as the Chairman and Deputy Chairman have left the Board of JSC TBC Bank but continue as the Chairman and Deputy Chairman of TBC Bank Group PLC please see further information on page 68.
The compensation of Nikoloz Enukidze, Nicholas Haag, Maria Luisa Cicognani and Tsira Kemularia is increasing by US$ 8,750, US$ 19,000, US$ 19,000 and US$ 32,875 respectively, to reflect their increased duties.
1 The weightings of financial and non-financial KPIs have been changed slightly compared to 2018 in order to better align them with the refreshed strategy TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 147 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 10.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY This section describes the new Remuneration Policy for executive directors, which came into force on 1 January 2019 and will apply for 3 years until the end of 2021.
This Policy was approved on 21 May 2018 at the 2018 AGM meeting.
The full Policy is given in 2017 Annual Report, which is available at our website at www.
The summary of the Policy is given in section 10.1.
This year we have made the following amendments to the Policy in relation to shareholding requirements: Shareholder guidelines As reported in the 2017 Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee has introduced a minimum shareholding requirement.
Executive directors naturally build up a significant holding of shares in the Company.
In order to encourage this and set a standard position, the Company is introducing a minimum shareholding requirement of 200% base salary the Minimum Shareholding Requirement.
There is no set time during which the Minimum Shareholding Requirement must be met, but until it is met, executive directors are expected to hold shares acquired under this Policy.
Any deferred shares will count towards the Minimum Shareholding Requirement on a net of tax basis.
Once the Minimum Shareholding Requirement has been met, the executive directors must maintain the Minimum Shareholding Requirement for the duration of their employment with the Group.
Unless otherwise agreed by the Remuneration Committee, the Minimum Shareholding Requirement will also apply for two years post employment at a level equal to the lower of: 50% of the Minimum Shareholding Requirement immediately prior to departure: or the Executive Directors actual shareholding on departure.
Deferred shares paid in relation to salary and annual bonus and any vested awards from the LTIP shall count towards the Minimum Shareholding Requirement.
Unvested awards from the LTIP will not be counted.
Both of the Executive Directors have met the Minimum Shareholding Requirement.
Committee discretion The Policy gives discretion to the Remuneration Committee to override the formulaic outcomes of the performance assessment in relation to annual bonus and LTIP.
10.1 Summary of Remuneration policy for Chief Executive Director and Chief Financial Director Approved by the shareholders on 21 May 2018 at the 2018 Annual General Meeting AGM.
The Policy is applicable starting from 1 January 2019 until the end of 2021.
148 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 Purpose and Link to Performance Component Strategy of the Group Operation Maximum Opportunity Measures Fixed Pay Base Salary Salaries are determined based Both the cash and deferred Cash salary Not in the on market practice and provide share salaries are paid in part The maximum annual cash salary performance form of each executive director with under the executive directors for Chief Executive Director is based.
cash and a competitive fixed income to service contract with TBC JSC US$ 453,994. deferred efficiently retain and reward and in part under his service The maximum annual cash salary shares the director, based upon contract with TBC PLC, to for Chief Financial Director is each directors roles and reflect the executive directors US$ 227,004. responsibilities within the duties to each.
Deferred Share Salary Group and relative skills and Initial salaries are set by the The maximum annual value for experience.
Remuneration Committee the deferred share salary for Cash salary based on responsibilities and the Chief Executive Director is The cash part of the salary is market data and are set out in US$ 510,000.
The number of aimed to provide fixed cash an executive director's service shares is calculated based on the remuneration to reflect the contract with the Group.
average share price of the last complexity of the Group.
10 days preceding the committee An executive director may be decision date.
However, the Deferred share salary paid separate salaries for roles maximum is fixed by reference to Part of the salary is given in and responsibilities at different a cashamount.
the form of shares and despite entities within the TBC Group being salary is still intended to as set out in a separate service The maximum annual value for promote the long-term success contract with any relevant the deferred share salary for the of the Group by closely aligning entity.
Chief Financial Director is US$ executive directors and 255,000.
The number of shares is Deferred compensation is shareholders interests.
calculated based on the average subject to the Groups malus share price of the last 10 days Shares are usually delivered and clawback policies until preceding the committee decision during the first quarter of the the shares are vested and date..
However, the maximum second year i. e. the year after during the holding period.
If is fixed by reference to a cash the work is performed and the at any time after making the amount.
exact date is determined by the deferred compensation there 1 Remuneration Committee.
is a material misstatement in The bank pays income tax and the financial results for the other employee-related taxes Once shares are delivered, they year in respect of which the related to base salary, however, remain subject to continued compensation was formally taxes are included in the employment: 50% of the shares granted, the Remuneration maximum amounts.
for 1 year and the other 50% for Committee has the right 2 years from the delivery date.
These numbers include the to cause some or all of the salaries received from both JSC deferred compensation for Upon the delivery, whilst the TBC Bank and TBC Bank Group that year or any subsequent shares remain subject to PLC.
The executives do not receive financial year that is unvested the continued employment any additional salary from other or unpaid to lapse or not be condition, the shares are Group entities.
registered in the trustees name Salaries are reviewed and may as nominee for the participants be adjusted annually by the and the participants are entitled Remuneration Committee based to receive dividends.
on the available market data on compensation among a peer group sample selected by the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee must ensure that the total reward potentially available is not excessive from the standpoint of relevant employment data.
Any changes to salaries must be recommended by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
1 The proposed structure of paying income tax for the executives is due to the Georgian tax code, which requires a company to pay income tax on any benefit paid to the executives and does not allow for alternative arrangements.
However, the numbers disclosed include such income tax estimates TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 149 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 10.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and Link to Performance Component Strategy of the Group Operation Maximum Opportunity Measures Variable pay Annual To provide a strong motivational KPIs are set by the Remuneration The maximum value of the The KPIs bonus in tool to achieve the annual KPIs Committee at the beginning of annual bonus for the Chief consist of the form and to provide rewards to the each year in relation to that year Executive Director, under corporate of deferred extent those KPIs are achieved.
see more detail at 10.3 b of the the annual short-term and individual shares full Remuneration Policy.
To the incentive arrangements, performance The annual KPIs are chosen to extent that the KPIs are achieved, is US$ 1,301,760 135% of measures.
align our executive directors the Remuneration Committee may fixed salary.
The number interests with the short terms Corporate decide whether an award may of shares is calculated strategic objectives of the Group KPIs include be made and the amount of such based on the average share financial award.
price of the last 10 days The annual bonus is determined measures, and preceding the committee as to the extent that the annual The Group does not pay guaranteed non-financial decision date.
However, KPIs have been met.
measures the maximum is fixed by with long term Shares are usually delivered reference to a cash amount.
The nature of the KPIs but not focus.
during the first quarter of the necessarily their specific weightings The maximum value of the second year i. e. the year after will be disclosed in the annual report Individual annual bonus for the Chief the work is performed and the published in the performance year.
performance Financial Officer, under exact date is determined by the However, the precise targets are measures the annual short-term remuneration committee.
commercially sensitive and will be may include incentive arrangements, disclosed retrospectively.
individual Once shares are delivered, they is US$ 650,880 135% of strategic remain subject to continued fixed salary.
The number The Remuneration Committee may objectives employment: 50% of the shares of shares is calculated also adjust KPIs during the year to which vary per for 1 year and the other 50% for 2 based on the average share take account of material events, person.
years from the delivery date.
price of the last 10 days such as without limitation : material preceding the committee corporate events, changes in The Upon the delivery, whilst the decision date.
However, responsibilities of an individual and performance shares remain subject to the the maximum is fixed by or currency exchange rates.
period is one continued employment condition reference to a cash amount.
the shares are registered in the Awards are subject to the Groups 1 trustees name as the nominee The bank pays income tax malus and clawback policies until The for the participants and the and other employee-related the shares are vested and during the Remuneration participants are entitled to taxes related to the award, holding period.
If at any time after Committee receive dividends.
however, taxes are included making the award there is a material may decide in the maximum amounts.
misstatement in the financial results to make no for the year in respect of which awards where the award was formally granted, KPIs have not the Remuneration Committee been met.
has the right to cause some or all of the award for that year or any subsequent financial year that is unvested or unpaid to lapse or not be paid.
However, the numbers disclosed include such income tax estimates 2 This element has been added to the remuneration policy to extend the long term outlook of the Policy beyond, but in addition to, the annual bonus plan 150 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 Purpose and Link to Performance Component Strategy of the Group Operation Maximum Opportunity Measures Long Term To provide a strong The awards may be granted in the form The maximum value The performance Incentive Plan motivational tool of conditional share awards, options or of the award for conditions for the LTIP to achieve longrestricted share awards.
the Chief Executive award are set by term performance Director in any given the Committee Performance Conditions are set by the conditions and to year, under the each year.
The Remuneration Committee for a period of 3 provide rewards to long-term incentive Remuneration years.
see more detail at 10.3 c of the full the extent those arrangements, to Committees Remuneration Policy.
The Remuneration performance be awarded is US$ current view is Committee determines the level of award at conditions are 1,554,240 161% of that performance 2 the end of the performance period, based achieved.
The conditions will on the extent to which the performance number of shares is include: Performance conditions have been met.
calculated based on conditions are a measure of the average share The performance conditions and respective chosen to align our efficiency e. g. price during the targets will be disclosed in the annual report executive directors ROE 10 days after the published in the year of the award.
interests with a measure of preliminary annual strategic objectives share price The Remuneration Committee may also results of the year of the Group over performance adjust performance conditions during the preceding the year multi-year periods e. g. EPS TSR performance period to take account of of each grant is and encourage a a measure material events, such as without limitation : announced.
of customer material corporate events, changes in The maximum value experience responsibilities of an individual and or In order for the of the award for currency exchange rates.
shares to be Weightings of these the Chief Financial delivered, the measures may vary Awards are subject to the Groups malus Officer in any given executive directors year-on-year.
and clawback policies until three years year, under the need to meet after the shares are delivered.
If at any time long-term incentive The performance performance after making the award the award holder arrangements, to period is three year.
conditions over the deliberately mislead the Company or the be awarded is US$ 3 year performance Bank in relation to the financial performance, 777,120 161% of period.
there is a material misstatement or material fixed salary.
The error in the financial statements of the number of shares is Share are usually Company or the Bank, the award holders calculated based on delivered during unit has suffered a material downturn in its the average share the first quarter of financial performance caused by the award price during the the fourth year i. e. holder, there is misconduct on the part of 10 days after the the year after the the award holder that caused material harm preliminary annual performance period to the Companys or the Banks reputation results of the year ends and the exact or there is misconduct on the part of the preceding the year date is determined award holder that caused failure of the risk of each grant is by the remuneration management resulting in a material loss to announced.
the Company or the Bank, the Remuneration The bank pays Once shares are Committee has the right to cause some or all 1 income tax and other delivered, they of the award for that year or any subsequent employee-related remain subject to 2 financial year that is unvested or unpaid to taxes related to the year holding period lapse or not be paid and to clawback any award, however, taxes and continued amount that has already been paid.
are included in the employment For newly issued and treasury shares, the maximum amounts.
LTIP is limited to using 10% in 10 years Awards may benefit for employee plans and 5% in 10 years for from dividend discretionary plans.
No These limits will exclude shares under dividend equivalents awards that have been renounced, forfeited, will be paid on any released, lapsed or cancelled or awards that awards or part were granted prior to the Companys IPO or thereof that lapse on awards that the Remuneration Committee or before vesting.
decide will be satisfied by existing shares.
The plan will be administered by the Remuneration Committee.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 151 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 10.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Purpose and Link to Performance Component Strategy of the Group Operation Maximum Opportunity Measures Pension To assist our The Group may introduce a defined The maximum Not performance employees in contribution pension scheme taking into employer contribution based.
providing for their account any pension reform or practice will not exceed 3% of retirement and to in Georgia.
The operation of the pension annual salary.
maintain a market would be considered by the Remuneration competitive benefits Committee fairly and reasonably and with package to attract regard to best market practice.
and retain executive If introduced, there will be no provision for directors the clawback or withholding of pension payments.
Benefits Benefits are in Benefits available to executive directors The policy is framed Not performance line with Georgian consist of insurance such as medical, by the nature of based.
market practice and life and disability insurance, physical the benefits that 1 are designed to be examinations, tax gross ups, directors the Remuneration sufficient to attract and officers liability insurance, a car Committee is willing and retain high service, personal security arrangements to provide to executive calibre talent.
and assistance with filling out tax returns, directors.
maximum amount payable depends on Executive directors are reimbursed for the cost of providing reasonable business expenses incurred such benefits to in the course of carrying out duties under an employee in the their service contracts, on provision of valid location at which the receipts.
A tax equalisation payment may be paid to an executive director if any part of his Shareholders should remuneration becomes subject to double note that the cost of taxation.
providing comparable benefits in different jurisdictions may vary widely.
Disclosure of amounts paid will be provided in the implementation report and will be explained where the cost of benefits is significant.
1 According to Georgian tax code, the company is responsible for paying income tax for the participants.
As about 95% of the remuneration of CEO and CFO is subject to Georgian tax regulations, the Company pays respective taxes on the relevant portion 152 TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 11.
REMUNERATION THROUGHOUT THE GROUP Remuneration of other top management members of JSC TBC Bank is similar to that of the executive members of the Company.
Other senior and middle management across the Group including material risk takers as well as some other key employees receive their entire salary in cash and are also eligible to cash and share bonus compensation.
The share bonuses granted are subject to 2-3 years of continued employment condition and holding period gradually lifting the conditions.
All other employees within the Group receive cash salaries and may be eligible to receive cash bonuses.
Executive director and employee pay is studied and determined through the use of appropriate market data usually with input from a compensation consultant.
All employees receive a competitive benefit package in line with Georgian market practice and are entitled to participate in the pension scheme on a voluntary basis.
POLICY TABLE: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS In the same way as the executives, the non-executive directors receive their compensation both from the Company and the main subsidiary, JSC TBC Bank, proportionate to the time spent working on the respective entitys Boards and committees.
Starting from 1 January 2018 until the end of 2021, the compensation for the non-executive directors is as follows: Purpose and Component Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Fees To provide appropriate The Group pays fees to non-executive directors.
The fees The maximum annual compensation for a non-executive are determined by the Remuneration Committee and the fees that may be paid director of the Group, sufficient current level of fees include the following: to the chairman and to attract, retain and motivate The annual fees for the chairman are US$950,000 deputy chairman high-calibre individuals with the The annual fees for the deputy chairman are are US$950,000 relevant skills, knowledge and US$800,000 and US$800,000 experience to further the Groups The annual fees for acting as a non-executive director respectively.
other than for chairman and deputy chairman range The maximum annual between US$84,375 - US$94,553 In addition, for the chairman and fee paid to the Senior The annual fees for acting as Senior Independent deputy chairman, the Groups Independent Director Director, in addition to the fees received for acting as a remuneration policy reflects the is US$175,000.
non-executive director are US$20,000 importance and unique role each The annual fees for relevant committee memberships The maximum annual of them has within the Group.
range between US$10,882 - US$11,250 fee paid for acting The annual fees for committee chairman positions as a non-executive range between US$27,206 - US$28,125 director other than for chairman, deputy The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to chairman and Senior structure the non-executive directors fees differently in Independent Director its absolute discretion.
The Remuneration Committees is US$165,000.
discretion will be exercised fairly and reasonably and with regard to appropriate comparable market practice and business strategy.
Fees are generally paid monthly in cash.
However, the Remuneration Committee reserves the right to pay the fees on a different basis.
Fees are periodically reviewed and adjusted by the Remuneration Committee, having regard to external comparators such as the Groups peer group, the chair or committee roles and responsibilities and other market factors.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 153 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED 12.
POLICY TABLE: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Purpose and Component Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Expenses To compensate non-executive The Group may reimburse non-executive directors for their The policy is framed directors for expenses incurred in expenses incurred in connection with the performance by the nature of connection with the performance of their duties including attending Board and committee the expenses that of their non-executive director meetings such as, for example, travel, accommodation, the Remuneration duties and to ensure the Group other subsistence expenses and personal security Committee is willing has the appropriate non-executive arrangements, Board committee dinners and functions, to provide to nondirector input as and when Board training sessions, directors and officers liability executive directors.
insurance, advice in respect of professional duties and The maximum corporate hospitality events or the Group may pay such amount payable expenses directly.
depends on the cost of providing such For the Chairman and Deputy Chairman, JSC TBC expenses in the Bank provides insurance, company car service, and a location at which security service for the Chairman only which is a legacy the non-executive arrangement and widely establish practice in Georgian director is based.
Shareholders should note that the cost of providing comparable expenses in different jurisdictions may vary widely.
12.1 Non-executive directors Since non-executive directors are not employees, they do not receive compensation or benefits reserved only for employees such as company paid subsidised insurance or paid holiday.
The non-executive directors are not eligible for performance-based share awards.
They do not currently receive pension or other equivalent benefits except for the chairman and deputy chairman who are compensated for and provided with car service expenses.
Awards with performance conditions are not part of the non-executive remuneration package as we do not wish the non-executive directors to be driven by short-term Group performance so as to maintain their independence as advisors to the Group.
The non-executive directors are entitled to broad indemnification by the Group pursuant to a deed of indemnity entered into with each director and are covered by the Groups Directors & Officers Liability Insurance Policy.
ILLUSTRATION OF APPLICATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY The following graphs illustrate the levels of remuneration that each executive director could earn in 2019 under the new Policy.
Directors compensation consists of cash salary, deferred share salary, annual bonus and LTIP.
Cash salary and deferred share salary are the same in each performance scenario.
No pension contributions have been included in the performance scenarios as we assume no pension contributions will be paid.
The below bonus threshold chart reflects a scenario where KPI achievement falls below 60% and so no bonuses would be awarded.
If KPIs are fulfilled at minimum, on target or maximum ranges the evaluation and subsequent bonus award will be 60%, 100% and 135-137% respectively.
The maximum remuneration receivable for CEO and CFO in case of share price appreciation of 50% during the relevant performance period under LTIP would be US$ 2,331,360 and US$ 1,165,680 respectively.
The calculation is based on the number of share granted to CEO and CFO under LTIP of 104,172 and 52,086 respectively using the average share price GBP 14.92 during the 10-day period after the preliminary annual results of 2018 were issued on 21 February 2019.
SERVICE CONTRACTS The service contracts of Vakhtang Butskhrikidze and Giorgi Shagidze who serve as CEO and CFO respectively and the letters of appointment of each non-executive director are kept at TBC Bank head office a the following address: 7 Marjanishvili street, Tbilisi, 0102, Georgia.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYMENT CONDITIONS WITHIN THE GROUP In accordance with prevailing commercial practice, the Remuneration Committee evaluates the compensation and conditions of employees of the Group in determining the Policy with respect to executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee may engage external advisors to assist in analysing remuneration in the Group.
Each year the Remuneration Committee approves the overall percentage pay out for compensation and material changes to employee benefit plans.
Consistent with practice in the industry in which the Group operates, it is not the Groups policy to consult with staff on the pay of its directors.
MINOR CHANGES The Remuneration Committee may make, without the need for shareholder approval, minor amendments to the Policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of changes in legislation.
TBC BANK annual report and accounts 2018 155
