96 Remuneration Committee report 2018 remuneration at a glance What are the key elements of our remuneration policy?
Policy elements Award timeline Purpose Key features Fixed Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Base salary To recruit and reward executives of Salaries reviewed annually although no automatic a suitable calibre for the role and entitlement to an increase duties required Benefits To provide a competitive package of Benefits include: company-provided car or a benefits to assist with recruitment and cash allowance, provision of a fuel card, life retention of staff assurance, private medical insurance Pension To provide competitive retirement benefits Provided through one or more of the following that represent an appropriate level of cost arrangements: defined contributions, defined benefit and risk for the Groups shareholders arrangements: or a cash allowance Variable Executive Incentive To reward the achievement of stretching Maximum EIS opportunity is 150% of basesalary Scheme Annual objectives that support the Companys Target performance is 75% of base salary bonus EIS annualand strategic goals One-third of any EIS payable is deferred into shares for three years Long Term To assist with retention and the incentivisation Maximum award is 200% of base salary Incentive Plan and motivation of senior executives to deliver Threshold performance is 40% of base salary PSP long term returns to shareholders Three year performance period Two year holding period post vesting Performance period Deferral holding periods Which metrics determine variable pay and how did we perform against them in 2018?
In order to standardise disclosure across the EIS and PSP, the EBIT measure will now be referred to in this report and in future reports as Operating Profit: PBIT margin will be referred to as Operating Profit Margin: and ROCE will be referred to as RONOA.
There is no change in how the metrics are defined or calculated.
2018 Annual bonus EIS 2016 PSP Award measuring performance over 3 years to FY 2018 Measure Weighting Outcome Link to strategic objectives Measure Weighting Outcome Link to strategic objectives Operating Profit 40% 40% Increase profit sustainably for the TSR v Peer group 30% 0% Deliver long term stock market long term to support growth and returns to our shareholders which TSR v FTSE100 20% 0% dividend payments are higher than can be earned by investing in other listed Cash Conversion 20% 20% High conversion of operating profit housebuilders and other FTSE 100 into operating cash flow companies generally RONOA in 2018 25% 25% Deliver at least 15% return through RONOA 20% 20% Deliver at least 15% return through the housing cycle and 30% over the the housing cycle and 30% over the period 2016-2018 period 2016-2018 Cash Conversion 25% 25% High conversion of operating profit Customer Service 20% 13% Deliver exceptional customer 2016-2018 into operating cash flow service and strive to improve our customer satisfaction scores Overall Vesting 50% Overall Result 93% Executive Directors remuneration scenarios 2018actual remuneration v 2018 on-target potential Pete Redfern 2018 35% 38% 27% 3,152 Actual Chief Executive 2018 53% 31% 16% 2,093 on target Chris Carney 2018 Appointed to Board on 20 April 2018 40% 45% 15% 942 Actual Group Finance Director See page 109 for single gure of remuneration 2018 57% 34% 9% 663 on target James Jordan 2018 37% 37% 26% 1,493 Actual Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 2018 54% 30% 16% 1,001 on target Jennie Daly 2018 Appointed to Board on 20 April 2018 42% 47% 11% 642 Actual See page 109 for single gure of remuneration Group Operations Director 2018 59% 35% 6% 461 on target Ryan Mangold 2018 Stepped down from Board on 20 April 2018 34% 39% 27% 466 Actual See page 109 for single gure of remuneration Former Group Finance Director 2018 52% 31% 17% 307 on target 000s 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 1,400 1,600 1,800 2,000 2,200 2,400 2,600 2,800 3,000 3,200 Fixed salary, benefits, pension EIS PSP Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 97 Remuneration Committee The Committee is also aware and supportive Company needs to put in place with regard to of the changes introduced by the 2018 UK post employment shareholding requirements in Corporate Governance Code 2018 Code order to meet TheInvestment Associations which applies to listed companies with effect from Principles of Remuneration and similarly with 1 January 2019.
The changes include the actual regard to Executive Director pension contributions.
setting of remuneration for senior management by the Committee in addition to Executive Shareholder engagement Directors as opposed to recommending and The Committee has continued its much-valued monitoring under previous Codes.
In addition, and long-established practice of engaging the Committee now also has the responsibility and consulting with its key institutional investors to review workforce remuneration and related and with shareholder representative bodies polices and for the alignment of incentives and Glass Lewis, ISS and The Investment rewards with culture, taking these into account Association about Executive Director when setting the policy for Executive Directors.
As in previous years, the Although the Committee was doing a lot of this Committee has taken account of all the feedback Kate Barker DBE already as part of its existing processes, we will which it has received including on the Chair of the Remuneration Committee be focusing on embedding the 2018 Code into remuneration for our two new Executive our processes during 2019 as we head into the Directors appointed during the year and is, review of the Remuneration Policy which will be Dear Shareholder asever, very grateful for the constructive presented for shareholder approval in 2020.
We engagement that has taken place with regard to On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to have already reviewed the Committees terms the 2018 outcomes and remuneration proposals present the 2018 Directors Remuneration of reference to ensure that they meet best for 2019.
We look forward to consulting further, Report for Taylor Wimpey.
practice and to also ensure that the Committee ahead of submitting a new Remuneration Policy considers all relevant matters as part of its wider for approval at the 2020 AGM.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee remit and responsibilities under the 2018 Code remains mindful of the increasing interest in goingforward.
Board changes executive remuneration and the importance of considering remuneration from both a wider Shareholders approved the current Remuneration The Committee very carefully considered the workforce and wider societal perspective.
Policy the Policy, as set out in full on pages remuneration arrangements in relation to the Accordingly, the Committee looks to ensure 101 to 103 of this Report, at the 2017 Annual Executive Director changes that were announced that the remuneration policies and practices at General Meeting AGM.
TheCommittee is of by the Company in April 2018.
These included Taylor Wimpey drive behaviour that is appropriate the view that the Policy continues to remain the appointments of Chris Carney as Group and in the long term interests of the Company, appropriate and should therefore continue Finance Director and Jennie Daly as Group our shareholders and our wider stakeholders.
to operate until its planned renewal at next Operations Director and the leaving years AGM.
As part of our Policy review the arrangements put in place for Ryan Mangold.
Committee will be considering what else the Remuneration Committee Main objective 2019 objectives The Committee is chaired by Kate Barker.
The To establish and maintain formal and Review and adopt updated Terms of Committee consisted of three Independent transparent procedures for developing policy Reference in line with the 2018 Code.
Non Executive Directors as required by the on executive remuneration to deliver the To review the existing Policy and to develop Code and also the Chair of the Board.
Its Companys strategy and value for a new Remuneration Policy for members are set out in the table below shareholders: to agree, monitor and report on consideration by shareholders at the 2020 the remuneration of individual Directors and AGM which continues to deliver the senior executives: and to review wider Members Companys strategic objectives, workforce remuneration and other policies in Meetings and value for shareholders.
Committee members attended accordance with the 2018 Code.
To continue to embed ways in which Kate Barker Chair 3 3 employee views are taken into account Kevin Beeston 3 3 2018 activities in relation to pay at Board and Senior Angela Knight 3 3 Management level and to incorporate the 2018 Approved remuneration packages for two a Gwyn Burr 3 3 Code and other governance developments newly appointed Executive Directors and b into our remuneration processes.
Rob Rowley former Director 1 2 agreed the leaving arrangements for the To continue to increase the alignment with outgoing Group Finance Director.
a Appointed to the Committee on 1 February 2018 our shareholders across all of our Continued to increase alignment with b Stood down from the Board on 26 April 2018. businesses including through encouraging shareholders through increased participation Seeexplanation on page 80. participation in our all-employee share plans.
in our all-employee share plans.
In line with corporate governance developments, reviewed the ways in which employee views will be taken into account in relation to pay at Board level.
98 Remuneration Committee report continued Details of the leaving arrangements for Ryan The average annual salary increase being CEO pay ratio can be found on page 108 of this report.
proposed throughout the Company for 2019 is The Committee believes that the introduction 2% and will apply with effect from 1 April 2019. of the CEO pay ratio will become a useful tool in It is pleasing that both Chris and Jennie were This increase will also apply to Pete Redfern, assessing Executive Directors remuneration.
internal appointments and they were both Chris Carney and James Jordan as well as Whilst it is not compulsory to disclose the ratio promoted on terms which fall within our to the wider senior management team.
for 2018, the Committee has opted to publish Remuneration Policy.
Details of their remuneration JennieDalys next salary review will not take the information in this Report, and further detail are set out in this Report, including salary on page place until April 2020 and will then usually be in and narrative can be found on page 113.
The Board is very impressed with the line with that of the general workforce from progress that both Chris and Jennie have made that point.
Post employment shareholding since they were appointed.
With regard to Jennie, requirements as we explain later, due to the newness of the Wider workforce remuneration and role, the Committee determined that a more Our current policy for post cessation employee engagement cautious, staged approach should be taken on shareholdings is that if an executive ceases The Taylor Wimpey National Employee Forum her base salary progression.
Accordingly, on employment as a good leaver, unvested PSP the NEF which the Company set up in 2017 promotion to the Board her salary was and deferred EIS share awards in the case of in order to further enhance its employee voice increased from 287,000 to 310,000, which Executive Directors would generally vest at the and communication initiatives, continued to was the first stage of the increase to the normal time after the relevant performance operate throughout 2018.
I was pleased to intended full salary for the role, as it became period.
For all leavers the two year post vesting attend an NEF meeting in November in my fully developed.
Due to Jennies outstanding holding requirement for PSP awards would capacity as Chair of the Remuneration continued personal performance and cognisant continue unaffected.
Onthis basis, there should Committee.
During the meeting we discussed of the significant increased development of the be an interest in shares for any good leaver the general make-up and approach to executive role, since her initial appointment which has post employment.
As mentioned earlier, we will pay and how this aligns more generally to that included taking over the Chair of the Group be reviewing our post employment shareholding of the workforce.
We very much welcome the Operation Team, assuming formal responsibilities requirement, taking into account the latest opportunity that this direct engagement with the for agreeing key land acquisitions and broader investor guidance and market developments, wider workforce will bring to the Committees responsibility alongside the Chief Executive for as part of the Remuneration Policy review discussions and the Committee is looking Group performance including signing off the during 2019. forward to engaging and working further with annual Group budget for 2019, the second and the NEF during 2019. final staged increase for this new role to 400,000 took effect from 1 January 2019.
Executive Directors total remuneration The chart below compares the 2018 single figure for total remuneration for each of the Executive Directors with the equivalentfigure for 2017.
Executive Single total remuneration gure 000 Director Pete Redfern 2018 35% 38% 27% 3,152 Chief Executive 2017 30% 22% 48% 3,697 Chris Carney Appointed to Board on 20 April 2018 2018 40% 45% 15% 942 Group Finance Director See page 109 for single gure of remuneration 2017 James Jordan 2018 37% 37% 26% 1,493 Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 2017 31% 22% 47% 1,748 Jennie Daly Appointed to Board on 20 April 2018 2018 42% 47% 11% 642 Group Operations See page 109 for single gure of remuneration Director 2017 Ryan Mangold Stepped down from Board on 20 April 2018 2018 34% 39% 27% 466 Former Group See page 109 for single gure of remuneration Finance Director 2017 30% 24% 46% 1,766 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 0 Fixed salary, benets, pension EIS PSP Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 99 As outlined earlier in this Annual Report, 2018 We believe that the remuneration payable to the Performance in 2018 has been a pivotal year in developing and Executive Directors for 2018 is appropriate, The EIS and PSP operate with clearly defined setting the future strategic direction of Taylor linked to performance delivered and has taken performance measures set at the start of each Wimpey as announced at the Companys account of the broader circumstances within financial year.
Capital Markets Day in May 2018.
As such, which incentive payments should be made.
following shareholder consultation, and in order Our trading performance during 2018 was very I very much hope that you will again be able to to meet the Companys new strategy, the strong and as a result the EIS outturn for 2018 Committee has made some modifications to the support the level of remuneration paid with was 93% with achievement against the range of respect to 2018 and how we will implement our performance conditions for the 2019 EIS.
Group challenging targets set for the year, based on Operating Profit, RONOA and Customer Service policy for 2019. the following measures: Operating Profit 40% will continue to be performance measures weighting, Cash Conversion 20% and Return during 2019: however, Cash Conversion will be on Net Operating Assets RONOA 20%.
removed from the EIS and will be replaced by The Company also partially met the challenging two new measures Order Book and Build Customer Service target.
Further details of the Quality.
The Order Book measure will provide 2018 EIS outcome are set out on page 111.
Kate Barker DBE greater direct emphasis on sales volume and Chair of the Remuneration Committee will require improvement over the 2018 full year The PSP award granted in 2016, which outturn.
The Build Quality measure will be used measured performance over the three years to to underpin our goal to deliver high quality the end of 2018, vested in part.
Our strong homes and to reduce the number of instances trading performance resulted in full vesting in requiring remediation.
Improvement in relation to 50% of the award which was based performance against both of these new measures on RONOA and Cash Conversion.
For the is expected to generate improvements in remaining 50% of the award, which is based on financial performance and shareholder value.
Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to the FTSE 100 and our Peer Group, our TSR over The performance measures for the PSP will three years was -4.2%, which resulted in 0% remain unchanged from 2018, based on vesting against both TSR measures.
On this Operating Profit Margin 15%, Cash Conversion basis, the performance across the four 15%, RONOA 20% and relative TSR performance measures led to an overall vesting measured against a housebuilder group 30% of 50% of the 2016 PSP award.
The TSR measures continue to reflect the delivery of Full details of the performance targets and the value to shareholders across the longer term relative achievement against each measure are and the three financial measures are directly set out on page 110. linked to the Companys KPIs see pages 24 to 25 for further information onKPIs.
Overall, the Committee is satisfied that the formula driven outturn from our incentive plans In addition to encouraging employee share has delivered appropriate remuneration for the ownership across the business, the Committee year under review and that there is no reason to firmly believes in ensuring a strong alignment apply any discretion.
between its Executive Directors and senior management with the interests of the 2019 remuneration alignment Companys shareholders.
Executive Directors tostrategy interests continue to be aligned with those The Committee regularly considers the of the Companys shareholders in three performance measures of our incentive plans to principal ways: ensure that they remain relevant and directly linked to the achievement of the Taylor Wimpey Through the share ownership requirements in Taylor Wimpey which the Committee keeps strategy as set out on page 26.
This is to ensure that any payments in relation to these under regular review : incentive plans are aligned with progress made Via the requirement to defer each year towards achieving the strategy.
one-third of their annual cash bonus into shares, which are then required to be held in trust for three years described in more detail on pages 102 and 107 : Through the requirement to retain for two years after vesting the net post-tax shares deriving from any vesting of the PSP award.
100 Remuneration Committee report continued Committee activities during 2018 February April December Reviewed feedback from key institutional Agreed the remuneration packages for the Agreed the communication to key institutional shareholders and shareholder representative newly appointed Executive Directors shareholders and shareholder representative bodies on the remuneration consultation bodies around the Companys remuneration Agreed the leaving arrangements for conducted in December 2017 around the proposals for 2019 Ryan Mangold Companys remuneration proposals for 2018 and Considered the draft Remuneration Report for the Remuneration Policy which was approved by inclusion in the Companys 2018 Annual Report shareholders at the Companys 2017 AGM Considered reports from Korn Ferry on executive Considered and approved the salary review benchmarking proposals for 2018 for the Executive Directors Considered a general governance update from and the wider executive team in light of KornFerry on remuneration considerations, including Company proposals for the wider workforce post-employment shareholding requirements Considered and approved the outcome of the Preliminary discussion on salary proposals for 2019: EIS for 2018 and of the PSP vesting in 2018 projected outcomes of the 2018 EIS and PSP awards Reviewed the draft Remuneration Report for Discussed CEO Pay Ratio reporting the Companys 2017 Annual Report parts have been properly prepared in accordance deliver the Companys strategic objectives within a Introduction with the requirements.
The Remuneration Policy framework which is aligned with the long term This Report has been prepared to comply with Report, which describes the Committees current interests of the Companys shareholders.
This the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and alignment is achieved through a combination of other applicable legislation, including the Large which has applied since its approval by deferral into shares of a percentage of the EIS: a and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups shareholders on 27 April 2017, contains unaudited two-year retention period for vested PSP awards: Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as information.
Some elements of the Annual Report and share ownership guidelines which require amended Regulations, and has also been on Remuneration, which describes how the executives to build up holdings of Taylor Wimpey prepared in line with the recommendations of Committee has implemented its existing policy in shares, either directly or by retaining vested PSP The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code 2018, contain audited information.
These guidelines, which the and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
Committee regularly reviews, require Executive Directors to put in place a plan to accumulate a Remuneration Policy Report This Report has been prepared by the holding in the Company equivalent to their basic Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board.
Unaudited information salary within five years of appointment, followed by a The Companys Remuneration Policy was subject holding equal to twice their basic salary within a The 2018 Remuneration Report includes to a binding shareholder vote at the 2017 AGM of specified period to be individually agreed with the disclosures which reflect in full the Regulations on the Company and was approved by 98% of Chair of the Board.
remuneration reporting, divided into two sections: shareholders who voted.
The Committees Remuneration Policy ensures that a Remuneration Policy Report: this sets out the The Policy is designed to ensure that the significant percentage of the overall remuneration Remuneration Policy adopted by shareholders at remuneration framework will support and drive the package of Executive Directors and senior the 2017 AGM, describing the framework within Taylor Wimpey strategy forward by both management is subject to performance.
With all which the Company remunerates its Directors.
challenging and motivating the Executive Directors packages for Executive Directors substantially geared The Policy applies for a period of three years and the senior management team to deliver it and towards meeting challenging targets set under the EIS from the date of the 2017 AGM or until a revised drive value for our shareholders whilst having due and PSP, the Committee believes that the pay and Policy is approved by shareholders if sooner.
regard to our other stakeholders.
The Policy is set benets of its Executive Directors and senior Annual Report on Remuneration: this sets out out on pages 101 to 103 and is also available to management adequately take account of reward how the Companys Remuneration Policy was view on the Companys website at www.
applied during 2018 and how it is proposed taylorwimpey.
co. uk corporate investor-relations that it be applied during 2019.
The Annual corporate-governance In line with best practice the Committee ensures Report on Remuneration will be subject to an that the incentive structure for Executive Directors advisory resolution at the AGM on Policy overview and senior management will not raise 25 April 2019.
Details of the resolution and its environmental, social or governance ESG risks by A key part of the Committees role is to ensure status as an advisory vote are set out in the inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
that the remuneration of Executive Directors and Notes to the Notice of Meeting on page 187.
More generally, the Committee under its terms of senior management is aligned to the Companys reference may, where it considers appropriate, take strategic objectives.
It is, of course, key that the The Regulations require that the Companys ESG matters into account when considering the Company is able to attract and retain leaders who auditors report to shareholders on certain parts of overall remuneration structure and as part of its are focused and also appropriately incentivised to this Report and state whether in their opinion those overall discretion.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 101 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Salary To recruit and reward Salaries are normally reviewed annually to The maximum annual salary increase will not Company and individual executives of a suitable ensure that they remain competitive with normally exceed the average increase which performance are factors calibre for the role and duties external market practices and are competitive applies across the wider workforce.
when measured against FTSE peers other larger increases may be awarded in certain reviewing salaries.
non-financial companies of a similar size in circumstances including but not limited to: terms of market capitalisation and other large Increase in scope or responsibilities of UK housebuilders.
There is no automatic therole.
entitlement to an increase each year.
To apply salary progression for a newly Takes into account the following: recently appointed Director.
The performance, role and responsibility of Where the Directors salary has fallen each individual Director.
significantly below the market positioning.
The economic climate, general market conditions and the performance of the Company.
The level of pay awards across the rest of the business.
Salary levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Chair of The Chairs and Fees consist of a single consolidated fee for the Aggregate annual limit of 1 million imposed by N A the Board NonExecutive Directors Chair plus the payment of a cash amount to the Articles.
1 and Non fees should be in line with cover his office expenses, an annual fee for the Executive recognised best practice and other Non Executives and additional fees for the Director fees be sufficient to attract and Chair of the Audit Committee and of the retain high calibre Remuneration Committee.
An additional fee is nonexecutives.
also paid to the Senior Independent Director in recognition of the responsibilities of that role.
Set by reference to the responsibilities undertaken by the non executive, taking into account that each Non Executive Director is expected to be a member of the Nomination Committee and or the Audit Committee and or Remuneration Committee.
Reviewed periodically but generally annually and at least every other year.
Takes into account levels in comparably-sized companies and other major housebuilders.
Fees are paid monthly in cash.
Non Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive, share scheme, benefits-in-kind or pension arrangements.
The Chair is entitled to participate in the Companys private medical insurance scheme.
Any reasonable business-related expenses including tax thereon which are determined to be a taxable benefit can be reimbursed.
Other Provides a competitive The main benefits offered: Life assurance of up to four times basic salary N A benefits, package of benets to and a pension of up to two-thirds of the Company-provided car or a cash allowance including assist with recruitment and members entitlement for a spouse on death inlieu.
in service, or in retirement, are provided, Provision of a fuel card.
in-kind together with a childrens allowance of up to Life assurance.
100% of the dependants pension for three Private medical insurance.
The cost of these A 5% discount on the price of a new home benefits is not predetermined.
acquired from the Group in the UK or Spain.
The value of a company-provided car or a cash Benets-in-kind are not pensionable.
allowance in lieu is of a level appropriate to the individuals role and is subject to review from time to time.
The fuel card covers the cost of all fuel, for both business and personal use.
For home purchases, the price discount is calculated at the plot release price less the average discount to third party buyers for that house type on that development, less a further 5% employee discount.
No more than one home per annum can be acquired at a discount under the scheme.
102 Remuneration Committee report continued Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets Annual Rewards the achievement of EIS awards are determined by the Committee The maximum EIS opportunity for Executive The EIS measures are Bonus stretching objectives that after the year end, based on annual Directors is set at 150% of base salary.
Target is based on a scorecard of Scheme support the Companys performance against targets set at the beginning set at 75% of salary and threshold at 0%.
designated key annual EIS annual and strategic goals.
financial, operational and environmental measures Compulsory deferral in shares One-third of any EIS payable is deferred into and the measures for 2019 is designed to further align shares for three years and held in trust.
are described in the Annual the interests of Directors with Nofurther performance conditions apply.
Dividends or other distributions will accrue in The Committee may vary favour of participants during the three year deferral the metrics and weightings period and will be received with any shares that from year to year according vest after the applicable deferral period.
to strategy and the market, A malus and clawback mechanism applies however financial measures to all participants in the event of a material will normally have the most misstatement of the Groups accounts and also significant weighting.
The period of the clawback is three years from the date of payment.
No element of the EIS is pensionable.
Long Term Annual grants of share-based Executive Directors and other designated The maximum award currently in performance The targets and weightings Incentive long term incentives assist senior executives can receive annual awards shares is normally over shares with a face for 2019 are described in Plan PSP with retention and the of PSP shares.
In exceptional the Annual Report on incentivisation and motivation circumstances this can be increased up to 300%.
Awards of PSP shares provide alignment with of senior executives to shareholders as they deliver subject to meeting The Committee may vary achieve returns for performance conditions the full value of the the measures that are shareholders through the shares, which can increase and decrease over included in the plan and the inclusion of relative Total the three year performance period.
weightings between the Shareholder Return TSR as measures from year to Dividends or other distributions will accrue for a measure, driving further UK year.
Any changes to the Directors during the performance and holding operating margin progression metrics would be subject to periods and will be received with any shares that and improving return on prior consultation with the vest in favour of participants after the applicable net operating assets through Companys major performance period.
Performance measures are currently measured shares and a post-vesting Awards vest 20% for shareholding period helps over three financial years.
threshold performance and align the interests of senior A malus and clawback mechanism applies 100% for maximum executives with those of the to all participants in the event of a material performance with straight Companys shareholders.
misstatement of the Groups accounts and also line vesting in between.
Pension The Company aims to Pension benets for Executive Directors are Pete Redfern: cash allowances of 20% of salary N A provide competitive provided through one or more of the following up to a scheme specific cap and 25% of salary retirement benets that arrangements: above the cap.
represent an appropriate level 4 Personal Choice Plan : James Jordan: cash allowances of 20% of of cost and risk for the 5 salary up to a scheme specific cap and 28% of Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme : 3 Groups shareholders.
Chris Carney and Jennie Daly: 20% of salary.
Company contributions to any pension scheme in respect of the recruitment of a new Executive Director will not exceed 20% of base salary per annum, which is the Company contribution rate for senior management.
A Salary Exchange Arrangement is available, allowing the sacrifice of a portion of salary, to be paid into a pension scheme as a Company contribution.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 103 Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum Performance targets All-employee All employees including The Sharesave plan and SIP have standard Sharesave: Employees can elect for a savings N A share Executive Directors are terms under which all UK employees with at contract of either three or five years, with a schemes encouraged to become least three months service can participate.
maximum monthly saving set by legislation or by shareholders through the HMRC.
Options can be exercised during the six operation of all-employee months following the end of the contract.
share plans such as the SIP: Employees can elect to contribute an HMRC tax-advantaged amount per month orper tax year by one or Sharesave plan and a Share more lumpsums.
The maximum saving or contribution level is set by legislation or Government from time to time and the Committee reserves the right to increase contribution levels toreflect any approved Government legislative changes.
Shareholding Encourages greater levels of Executive Directors and senior executives are Executive Directors: 200% of salary 100% N A guidelines shareholding and aligns expected to achieve and maintain a holding of within five years of appointment and balance by 2 employees interests with the Companys shares at least equal to a agreement with the Chair those of shareholders.
significant proportion of their respective salary.
The Company no longer makes a contribution to the Chairs office-related expenses.
In addition to the two-year holding period in respect of the PSP, until the 200% target is achieved, an Executive Director will be required to retain in shares at least 50% of the net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the PSP or other share based long term incentive plan.
Taylor Wimpey Pension Schemes The Group has two principal UK pension schemes: Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan and Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS.
The latter was created on 7 March 2013 and all members of the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme and the Taylor Woodrow Group Pension & Life Assurance Fund, the two legacy defined benefit schemes, were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013.
Two Directors are members of the TWPS, which is closed to future accrual.
Taylor Wimpey Personal Choice Plan PCP The PCP was introduced on 1 April 2002.
It is a defined contribution stakeholder pension scheme, which all new eligible UK employees are invited to join.
All active members of the two legacy defined benefit arrangements were invited to join the PCP when those arrangements closed to future accrual.
Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS Pete Redfern and James Jordan are members of the Executive section of the TWPS.
They have a Normal Retirement Age under the TWPS of 62.
Illustration of the Remuneration Policy for 2019 The charts below illustrate the level and mix of remuneration based on the Remuneration Policy depending on the achievement of below target, target and maximum for the Executive Directors under the policy.
Salary is 874,161, 438,600, 405,861 and 400,000 for Pete Redfern, Chris Carney, James Jordan and Jennie Daly, respectively with effect from 1 April 2019 with the exception of Jennie Daly which was with effect from 1 January 2019.
See page 107 for further details.
Benefits are 56,000, 29,000, 53,000 and 18,000 for Pete Redfern, Chris Carney, James Jordan and Jennie Daly, respectively.
Pension is 209,226, 87,290, 99,896 and 80,000 for Pete Redfern, Chris Carney, James Jordan and Jennie Daly, respectively.
For the EIS the target and maximum award is 75% and 150% of base salary, respectively.
For the PSP the target assumed for these purposes to be at threshold performance and maximum are 40% and 200% of base salary, respectively.
000s 104 Remuneration Committee report continued via the regular attendance at NEF meetings of Committee discretion How shareholder views are taken the Group Legal Director and Company into account The Committee recognises that the exercise of Secretary, Group Human Resources Director discretion must be undertaken in a careful and The Remuneration Committee appreciates and and other Group Management Team members considered way as it is an area that will quite considers very seriously all shareholder as appropriate.
rightly come under scrutiny from shareholders and feedback received in relation to remuneration other stakeholders.
It is, however, also important each year and guidance from shareholder How performance measures for the Committee to retain some discretion to representative bodies more generally.
werechosen make payments outside of its Remuneration Shareholder views are key inputs when shaping Policy in exceptional circumstances.
The the Remuneration Policy and the Committee The performance metrics that are used for each of Committee confirms that any exercise of welcomes any comment or feedback on any the short and long term incentive plans have been discretion in such circumstances would be within aspects of remuneration and will always selected to reflect the Groups key strategic goals the available discretions set out in this Report and consider and respond.
and are designed to align the Directors interests that the maximum levels available under any with those of the Companys shareholders.
relevant plans would not be exceeded.
The Committee regularly engages with its largest shareholders and shareholder representative The EIS performance metrics include a mix of As disclosed in the 2017 Annual Report and bodies regarding the ongoing Remuneration financial and non-financial metrics reflecting the Accounts, the Committee decided that it was Policy and implementation, and will take into key annual priorities of the Group.
The financial appropriate to exercise its discretion to scale back account any feedback when determining any metrics will generally determine at least 50% of the EIS entitlement of the three Executive Directors changes that might apply.
The last such the EIS and include operating profit as this in post at that time.
The decision was made to consultation took place in December 2018 and reflects the Companys strategic objective to reduce the entitlement by 20% of the EIS maximum included the proposed performance targets and increase profit sustainably.
The other financial which equated to 30% of salary to take into weightings of both the EIS and PSP: the salary metrics, selected on an annual basis, will be account the impact of the leasehold provision.
proposals for 2019: and the terms of Pete measurable and will ensure that executives are Redferns proposed purchase of an apartment motivated to deliver across a scorecard of key With regard to both the EIS and the PSP, the from the Company under the standard staff 5% objectives.
The improvement of customer Committee, consistent with market practice, discount house purchase scheme.
Details of service remains an area of ongoing focus and retains discretion over a number of areas this proposed transaction which will require the Committee has therefore retained it as a relating to the operation and administration of shareholder approval are set out in the Notes challenging measure.
The Committee has made these plans but in all cases within the applicable to the Notice of Annual Meeting on page 188. some modifications to the performance scheme rules.
These include but are not limited conditions for the 2019 EIS.
Cash Conversion to the following matters with the maximum The Committee follows the principles of good will be replaced by two new measures Order level of award restricted as set out in the Policy governance relating to Directors remuneration Book and Build Quality.
Further details of these table on pages 101 to 103 : as set out in the Main Principles, Supporting two new measures can be found on page 107.
Principles and Provisions of the Code.
The Who participates in the plans.
Committee reviews and takes into account The performance conditions applicable to the PSP The timing of grant of award and or payment.
governance related developments and guidance were selected by the Committee as they are that arise, on an ongoing basis.
consistent with the overall longer term success The size of an award and or a payment, subject to the limits of the rules.
TSR provides an external assessment of the Companys performance in How our employees voice is taken Discretion relating to the measurement of two ways.
Firstly, against its competitors via an performance in the event of a change of intoaccount industry peer group and secondly, relative TSR control or reconstruction.
The Committee supports and welcomes the measured against an appropriate sector of the Determination of a good leaver in addition to introduction of the employee voice initiative.
The latter has progressed over recent any specified categories for incentive plan The Taylor Wimpey National Employee Forum years, in line with the improvement in the purposes based on the rules of each plan the NEF was established in 2017 and Companys share price and capitalisation, and the appropriate treatment chosen.
continues to work with members of the Group from the FTSE 250, via a mixture of ranking Discretion to dis-apply time pro-rating in the Management Team and build upon the existing companies, to the FTSE 100 which applied for event of a change of control or good leaver business wide regional Employee Consultation 2016 and subsequent awards.
It also aligns the circumstances.
Since it was established in rewards received by executives with the returns Adjustments required in certain late 2017, the NEF has met on six occasions received by shareholders.
The RONOA and circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate and received updates and provided feedback Cash Conversion targets ensure that returns to restructuring, acquisition, divestment, change and input into numerous and varied topics such shareholders and the generation of cash to fund of control, special dividend or a change in as the development and implementation of the them are the result of long term sustainable prevailing market conditions.
Companys strategy, customer service and financial performance.
Operating Profit Margin is a other important operational matters including The ability to adjust existing performance key indicator for investors and for the Companys remuneration.
The Chair of the Board and the conditions for exceptional events so that they strategy of driving margin improvement.
Remuneration Committee Chair attended the can still fulfil their original purpose.
NEF meeting in November 2018 and discussed Discretion to allow participants to sell, The Committee will review the choice of the general make-up and approach to executive transfer, assign or dispose of some or all of performance measures and the appropriateness pay and how this aligns more generally to that their shares in exceptional circumstances of the performance targets each year.
Directors and other executives before the end of the holding period, subject are set based on a sliding scale that takes will attend meetings of the NEF from time to to such additional terms and conditions as account of internal planning and external time and also seek feedback on specific topics the Committee may specify.
market expectations for the Company.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 105 Maximum rewards require substantial The Company also offers both Sharesave and In the case of an internal hire including a out-performance of our challenging plans Share Incentive schemes to all eligible UK promotion, as previously reported, the Company approved at the start of each year, with a employees with more than three months will honour any commitments entered into prior significantly lower level of rewards for delivering service and is delighted with the level of to their appointment to the Board even where it threshold performance levels.
participation from across the business.
is not consistent with the Policy prevailing at the time such commitment is fulfilled.
There were no such commitments with regard to either Chris External Non Executive Director Remuneration Policy on recruitment Carney or Jennie Daly when they were appointed positions or promotion to the Board in April 2018, as Group Finance Subject to Board approval and provided that Base salary levels will be set in accordance with Director and Group Operations Director such appointments fall within the general the Remuneration Policy, taking into account the respectively.
Details of their remuneration on requirements of the Code and do not give rise experience and calibre of the individual.
Where appointment are set out on page 108. to any conflict issues which cannot be managed appropriate, the Company may offer a below by the Board and the Executive Director, market salary initially with a view to making Directors contracts Executive Directors are permitted to take on above market and workforce increases over a It is the Companys policy that Executive non executive positions with other companies.
number of years to reach the desired salary Directors should have contracts of employment Executive Directors are permitted to retain their positioning, subject to individual and Company providing for a maximum of one years notice fees in respect of such positions.
Benefits and pension will be either way.
This meets the requirements of the appointments would be the subject of an provided in line with those offered to other Code.
Service contracts for all Executive announcement to the London Stock Exchange Executive Directors, with relocation expenses Directors and letters of appointment for all Non as appropriate.
Tax equalisation may Executive Directors are available for inspection also be considered if an executive is adversely at the Companys Registered Office during Pete Redfern is an independent non executive affected by taxation due to their employment normal business hours and at the AGM.
director on the Board of Travis Perkins plc where with the Company.
Legal fees and other costs he also serves on its Remuneration Committee incurred by the individual may also be paid by Each of the Executive Directors service and chairs its Stay Safe Committee.
His current the Company, if considered appropriate and contracts provides for: fees total 68,000 per annum 2017: 68,000, reasonable to do so.
The payment of a base salary details of The variable pay elements that may be offered which are set out on page 107. will be subject to the maximum levels described Remuneration Policy for An expensed company car or a cash in the policy table on pages 101 to 103.
The the wider workforce allowance in lieu: a fuel allowance: life Company may also consider applying different When setting the policy for Executive Directors, assurance: and private medical insurance performance measures if it feels these appropriately the Committee is made fully aware of pay details of which are set out on page 101. meet the strategic objectives and aims of the structures across the workforce.
In addition, the Company whilst incentivising the new appointee.
Employers contribution to a pension scheme Committee will conduct a formal review of details of which are set out on page 102. relevant elements of remuneration across the In the case of an external hire, the Company A notice period by either side of 12 months.
Group and for all levels of employee at least may choose to buy-out any incentive pay or A provision requiring a Director to mitigate every three years as part of its Remuneration benefit arrangements which would be forfeited losses on termination.
The most recent such review took on leaving the previous employer.
This will only The service contract for each of Pete Redfern place in 2017 and its findings, which included occur where the Company feels that it is a and James Jordan additionally provides for a data in preparation for the publication of gender necessary requirement to aid the recruitment.
pay gap information in April 2018, were that The replacement value would be provided for, there were no inherent issues or evidence of taking into account the form cash or shares, Each service contract contains the following inequalities on base pay, bonus and car timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of performance-related provisions: benefits.
Pension arrangements have been meeting any existing performance criteria more closely aligned across the workforce and of the remuneration being forfeited.
will be reviewed further during 2019 as part of Replacementshare awards, if used, will be Participation in one or more long term the Remuneration Policy review ahead of the granted using Taylor Wimpeys existing share incentive plan.
2020 AGM and to take into account the recent plans wherever and to the extent possible, governance guidelines from The Investment although in exceptional circumstances awards The Company has the right to terminate contracts Association referred to earlier in the Report.
may also be granted outside of these schemes by making a payment in lieu of notice.
Any such if necessary and as permitted under the Listing payment will typically reflect the individuals salary, Virtually all of the Companys employees Rules.
To ensure alignment from the outset with bonus entitlement, benefits in kind and pension participate in incentive arrangements.
shareholders, malus and clawback provisions entitlements.
The Company will be mindful, on Many of our employees can elect to take their may also apply where appropriate and the termination of an Executive Directors employment, performance-related payment in Taylor Wimpey Committee may require new directors to acquire of the need to mitigate costs and phase shares rather than in cash, further enhancing Company shares up to a pre-agreed level.
payments, which cease when the individual the link and alignment between shareholder value Shareholders will be informed of any buy-out obtains an alternative role.
There are no change and employee reward throughout the Company, payments at the time of appointment.
of control provisions that apply in relation to the which both the Company and the Committee service contract of any Executive Director.
For further details see employee involvement on pages 120 to 121.
106 Remuneration Committee report continued Other than in certain good leaver circumstances All Executive Directors are proposed for During 2018, the Committee comprised three which could include by way of example re-election and election in the case of Independent Non Executive Directors and also redundancy, ill-health or retirement, no payment ChrisCarney and Jennie Daly, at the 2019 the Chair of the Board.
Kate Barker is the would usually be due under the EIS unless the AGM and each will have at that date an Committee Chair and the other members of the individual remains employed and is not under unexpired service contract term of one year.
Committee were Kevin Beeston, Angela Knight notice at the payment date.
Any payment to a and Gwyn Burr.
Rob Rowley was also a good leaver under the EIS would be based on member of the Committee until he stood Legacy arrangements an assessment of their and the Companys down from the Board immediately following the Any commitment which is consistent with the performance over the applicable period and AGM on 26 April 2018.
Membership of the approved Remuneration Policy in force at the pro-rated for the proportion of the EIS year worked.
Committee is, and was throughout 2018, time that the commitment was made will be in line with the Code.
honoured, even where it is not consistent with Where an Executive Director is considered by the policy prevailing at the time such the Committee to be a good leaver, deferred Details of attendance at Committee meetings commitment is fulfilled.
EIS awards shares would vest.
In other held during 2018 appear on page 97. circumstances, awards would lapse.
Annual Report on Remuneration No Director or other executive is involved With regard to long term incentive plan awards, This Annual Report on Remuneration will be put in any decisions about his or her own the rules of the PSP provide that, other than in specic remuneration.
to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2019 certain good leaver circumstances, awards lapse AGM.
The information in the Implementation of on cessation of employment.
Where an individual the Remuneration Policy during 2018 section on Advice to the Committee is a good leaver, the Committees normal policy pages 109 to 111 has been audited.
The Committee keeps itself fully informed on is for the award to vest on cessation of developments and best practice in the eld of employment following the application of Remuneration Committee remuneration and it seeks advice from external performance targets no later than the normal advisers when appropriate.
The role of the Remuneration Committee is to vesting date of the award and a pro-rata recommend to the Board a strategy and reduction to take account of the proportion of The Committee appoints its own independent framework for remuneration for Executive the applicable performance period outstanding remuneration advisers and during the year it Directors and Senior Management in order to post the cessation.
The Committee has continued to retain the services of Korn Ferry.
attract and retain leaders who are focused and discretion to deem an individual to be a good incentivised to deliver the Companys strategic leaver.
The Committee also has discretion for Korn Ferry is a member of the Remuneration business priorities within a remuneration both early vesting and reducing the impact of Consultants Group and signatory to its Code framework which is aligned with the interests of pro-rating.
In doing so, it will take account of the of Conduct.
During 2018 Korn Ferry also our shareholders and thus designed to promote reason for the departure and the performance of provided other ad hoc remuneration services the long term success of the Company.
the individual through to the time of departure.
outside the scope of the Committee to the Company.
The Committee reviews the Following the publication of the 2018 Code, In situations where an Executive Director is performance and independence of its advisers the Committee has taken the opportunity dismissed, the Committee reserves the right to on an annual basis and is satisfied that the to review and update its dened terms of make additional exit payments where such advice provided is objective and independent.
These updated terms of reference payments are made in good faith: are available on the Companys website at The Committee also receives legal advice from www.
co. uk corporate in discharge of an existing legal obligation Slaughter and May, the Companys solicitors, investor-relations corporate-governance.
or by way of damages for breach of such as and when necessary.
This generally relates TheCommittees main responsibilities are to: an obligation : to technical advice on share schemes and also by way of settlement or compromise of any with regard to any senior appointments and Establish and maintain formal and transparent claim arising in connection with the termination arrangements.
The Committee is procedures for developing policy on executive termination of a Directors office or satisfied that the advice provided by Slaughter remuneration and for determining the employment: or and May is objective and independent.
remuneration packages of individual to contribute towards the individuals legal Directors, and to monitor and report on them.
fees and fees for outplacement services.
The fees paid to the Committees advisers in Determine the remuneration, including pension 2018 were: Korn Ferry 115,280 on a time and arrangements, of the Executive Directors.
The terms of engagement of the Chair of the materials basis 2017:38,000 for the period Monitor and make recommendations in Board and the Non Executive Directors are from 20 July 2017.
No significant amount of respect of remuneration for the tier of Senior regulated by letters of appointment over a term advice was sought from Slaughter and May Management one level below that of the Board.
of three years, which are reviewed annually.
Approve annual and long term incentive Both the Company and the aforementioned arrangements together with their targets and Directors have a notice period of six months Pete Redfern the Chief Executive, James levels of awards.
and the Directors are not entitled to Jordan the Group Legal Director and Company Determine the level of fees for the Chair of the compensation on termination other than for the Secretary, and the Group Human Resources Board.
normal notice period if not worked out.
Director each attend Committee meetings by Select and appoint the external advisers to invitation only but are not present for any the Committee.
discussions that relate directly to their Review wider workforce remuneration and own remuneration.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 107 Clawback and malus provisions have been updated in line with the 2018 How the Remuneration Policy will be applied in 2019 Code requirements and the Committee is satisfied that they remain fully Base Salary enforceable if ever needed.
The Committee reviewed the Executive Directors salaries in February 2019 and decided to award increases of 2% to Pete Redfern, Chris Carney and Long Term Incentive Plan James Jordan, with effect from 1 April 2019, in line with the general In accordance with the Remuneration Policy, long term incentives workforce increase.
As explained on pages 98 and 108, Jennie Daly comprise a Performance Share Plan PSP award with a maximum received a final planned staged increase of salary based on her award of 200% of base salary face value of shares at date of award.
The proposed 2% 2019 general salary The annual awards granted to Executive Directors in 2019 will be subject increase referred to above, will not apply to her.
to the following performance conditions: The salaries of the Executive Directors effective from 1 April 2019 will be Weighting % of total Below threshold Threshold Maximum as follows: Measure award 0% vesting 20% vesting 100% vesting Salary at TSR v Peer Group 30% Less than Median Upper 1 April 2018 or date of Salary at median quartile a Name appointment 1 April 2019 Increase TSR v FTSE 100 20% Less than Median Upper Pete Redfern 857,020 874,161 2% median quartile Chris Carney 430,000 438,600 2% RONOA in 2021 20% Less than 26% 33% James Jordan 397,902 405,861 2% 26% Jennie Daly 310,000 400,000 29% Operating Profit 15% Less than 19% 23% Margin in2021 19% a In the case of Jennie Daly, her increase was with effect from 1 January 2019 as Cash Conversion 15% Less than 70% 80% explained earlier in this Report as part of a planned staged increase based on performance.
2019-2021 70% Pension and Benefits Awards vest on a straight line basis between the above threshold and Pension and benefits will remain in line with practice in 2018 with maximum vesting levels.
The Direct Peer Group Index of housebuilders is ChrisCarney and Jennie Daly receiving pension of 20% of salary.
an unweighted index comprised of Barratt Developments, Bellway, Berkeley Homes, Bovis Homes Group, Countryside Properties, Crest Nicholson, Annual Bonus Scheme Galliford Try, Persimmon and Redrow.
The Executive Incentive Scheme EIS performance metrics and their The performance measures for 2019 are unchanged from those weightings for 2019 are shown in the table below.
The precise details of established for the 2017 and 2018 awards.
However, the targets for the the targets themselves are deemed to be commercially sensitive as they three financial performance measures have changed to ensure that they relate to the current financial year.
However, detailed retrospective continue to remain stretching and appropriate in the present market disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be provided in outlook for the medium term.
next years Remuneration Report in the usual way.
Measure Weighting An underlying requirement for any vesting under the current share based Group Operating Profit 40% incentive plans is that at the time of approving the vesting, the Committee must be satisfied with the overall financial performance of the Group.
RONOA 20% Thiswill include inter alia the Companys RONOA and Operating Profit Customer Service 20% Margin performance.
Build Quality 10% Order Book 10% The Committee also retains the right as part of its overall discretion to reduce the vesting of the award if it considers that volumes i. e. the The metrics and weightings have changed in light of the updated business number of homes sold have not been satisfactory during the relevant strategy highlighted at the Companys Capital Markets Day held in May performance period and there is a broad discretion to adjust payments 2018, to ensure that the EIS continues to remain in line with our business where necessary.
Clawback and malus provisions have been updated in priorities and market expectations, whilst maintaining a structure that has line with the new 2018 Code.
a weighting of 70% linked directly to financial targets.
Since 2018, all PSP awards are subject to a two year post vesting The Order Book measure will provide greater direct emphasis on sales holding period.
volume and will require improvement over the 2018 full year outturn, whilst the Build Quality measure will be used to underpin our goal to deliver high Dividend equivalents and other distributions will accrue on vested awards quality homes and to reduce the number of instances requiring remediation.
and continue to accrue to the extent awards remain unexercised post Both new measures are expected to lead to improvements in our financial vesting.
In line with best practice, from 2020 it is intended that all accrued performance and improve shareholder value.
dividends will be paid via shares rather than in cash and will be subject to the aforementioned two year post vesting holding period.
The Committee may use discretion to adjust payments where necessary.
One third of any bonus will be deferred in shares for three years without any matching element.
108 Remuneration Committee report continued Payments for loss of office to former Directors audited Remuneration arrangements for Directors promoted during 2018 As announced, Ryan Mangold left his role as Group Finance Director and stepped down as a Director of the Company on 20 April 2018.
He When Chris Carney and Jennie Daly were appointed to the Board in continued to have an active role in the business until 31 December 2018, April2018, as Group Finance Director and Group Operations Director before going on garden leave for the remainder of his notice period until respectively, the Committee considered carefully the structures to be put 19 April 2019.
The following arrangements applied in respect of Ryan in place for each of them and in particular on the appropriate level of Mangolds remuneration.
These arrangements comply with the salary.
The Committee took into account a number of internal and external Companys remuneration policy as approved by shareholders at the factors, which included both internal and external market benchmarking, Companys 2017 AGM.
historic increases made to the individual, overall Company performance and the remuneration of other executives.
The amounts disclosed in the single figure table on page 109 relate to the period Ryan was an Executive Director between 1 January 2018 With regard to Chris Carney, who was promoted from his role as and 20 April 2018 when he stepped down from the Board.
As noted Chair of the London and South East Division, his salary was increased above, Ryan continued to have an active role in the business until on appointment from 365,000 to 430,000 per annum which is below 31 December 2018 during which time he continued to receive salary, that of his predecessor and positioned between lower quartile and median benefits and pension, in accordance with his contractual entitlements of comparable market data.
The Committee intends to keep Chriss salary which totalled 374,331 for 20 April to 31 December 2018.
In addition, under periodic review as he develops further into the role.
as he was in active employment for the full year, Ryan was eligible to participate in the 2018 EIS arrangements for the full year.
The amount of With regard to Jennie Daly, as this was an appointment into a newly bonus payable to him under the EIS was determined in the normal way created and evolving role, the Committee determined that a more subject to the performance measures being met, as determined by the cautious, staged approach should be taken on her base salary Remuneration Committee in February 2019.
The EIS amount in respect of progression.
Accordingly, her salary was increased on appointment, the period between 20 April and 31 December 2018 totalled 421,447 from 287,000 to 310,000 per annum, which was the first stage of which is payable in cash at the normal payment date.
the increase to the intended full salary for the role, as it became fully developed.
Due to Jennies outstanding continued personal performance Ryans incentivisation before leaving and alignment with shareholders post and cognisant of the significant increased development of the role, since departure has been created by the tail of PSP awards up to circa her initial appointment to the Board, which has included taking over the 0.5 million shares linked to applicable performance periods followed by Chair of the Group Operation Team, assuming formal responsibilities for the two year post vesting holding periods.
The Committee took this into agreeing key land acquisitions and broader responsibility alongside the account when structuring his leaving arrangements.
Chief Executive for Group performance including signing off the annual Group budget for 2019, the second and final staged increase for this new The Committee determined he should receive good leaver treatment for role to 400,000 took effect from 1 January 2019.
Whilst this role is more the shares deferred under the EIS and for his outstanding PSP awards.
difficult to benchmark relative to others in the sector and to the market Asannounced, Ryans unvested deferred EIS awards will vest early on generally, the Committee considers that this level of salary and overall pay cessation of employment.
His outstanding PSP awards will be pro-rated level is still between lower quartile and median in external terms.
Jennies based on time employed see page 112, subject to performance next salary review will not take place until April 2020 and is expected to be measured over the relevant three-year performance period and subject to in line with that of the general workforce from that point.
The 2% increase the holding period.
As set out on page 110, the 2016 PSP award vested in line with the general workforce to be paid with effect from 1 April 2019 at 50% of maximum and as such the total pre-tax value of shares vested will apply to Chris Carney, but will not apply to Jennie Daly following her to Ryan following the publication of this Report is 424,030 based on a final planned staged increase of salary on 1 January 2019, as outlined above.
share price of 148.88p being the 3 month average over October to December 2018 part of which relates to the period he was an Executive Non Executive Directors and Chair of the Boards fees Director and is included in the single figure table.
These shares will be Following a review, the Chair of the Boards fee was increased from required to be held for the two year holding period referred to above.
295,000 to 320,000 per annum with effect from 1 July 2018, which represented the first increase in three years.
The Non Executive Directors Ryan ceased active employment on 31 December 2018 and will be paid fees were also reviewed with no changes proposed other than an 162,556 in respect of his contractual salary, pension and benefits for the increase in the fee paid to the Senior Independent Director and, the fees remainder of his notice period until 19 April 2019. for chairing the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee to reflect the importance and significant responsibility of these roles.
The increases As previously disclosed on announcement of Ryans departure, the were with effect from 1 July 2018 and are as set out below: Company agreed to pay legal fees incurred by Ryan in relation to his leaving arrangements capped at a value of 6,000 exclusive of VAT and Annual Fees as at Annual Fees as at in addition, in line with normal practice of the Company, he was provided 1 April 2019 1 April 2018 with outplacement services capped at a value of 30,000 exclusive Chair of the Board 320,000 295,000 of VAT.
Basic Non Executive Director 60,000 60,000 Senior Independent Director 17,500 10,000 There were no payments made to other former Directors.
Audit Committee Chair 17,500 15,000 Remuneration Committee Chair 17,500 15,000 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 109 Chair of the Board and Non Executive Directors The terms of engagement of the Chair of the Board and the Non Executive Directors are regulated by letters of appointment as follows: Notice period by Notice period by Name Date of appointment as a Director Term of appointment Company months Director months Kevin Beeston 1 July 2010 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Kate Barker 21 April 2011 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Gwyn Burr 1 February 2018 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Angela Knight 1 November 2016 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Humphrey Singer 9 December 2015 3 years, reviewed annually 6 6 Implementation of the Remuneration Policy during 2018 Audited information Director emoluments All employee a b c d e 000 Year Fees & Salary Benefits EIS PSP Pension schemes Total Executive Pete Redfern 2018 852 54 1,195 844 205 2 3,152 2017 832 53 828 1,773 200 11 3,697 f Chris Carney appointed 20 April 2018 2018 300 21 416 144 60 1 942 2017 James Jordan 2018 395 51 555 392 98 2 1,493 2017 386 48 384 823 96 11 1,748 f Jennie Daly appointed 20 April 2018 2018 216 12 298 72 43 1 642 2017 f Ryan Mangold stood down 20 April 2018 2018 128 7 178 127 26 466 2017 418 21 416 816 84 11 1,766 Non Executive Kevin Beeston 2018 308 1 309 2017 295 1 296 Kate Barker 2018 87 87 2017 75 75 Gwyn Burr appointed 1 February 2018 2018 55 55 2017 Mike Hussey stood down 19 July 2018 2018 33 33 2017 60 60 Angela Knight 2018 60 60 2017 60 60 Rob Rowley stood down 26 April 2018 2018 23 23 2017 85 85 Humphrey Singer 2018 73 73 2017 60 60 Total 2018 2,530 146 2,642 1,579 432 6 7,335 2017 2,271 123 1,628 3,412 380 33 7,847 a The taxable benefits included are a complete list consistent with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
Benets comprise non-cash payments to Pete Redfern, James Jordan, Chris Carney and Jennie Daly for private medical insurance, life assurance and company car provision 39,129 and 38,594 respectively for Pete Redfern and James Jordan and a cash fuel allowance, and for Ryan Mangold, a non-cash payment for private medical insurance and a cash payment of a car allowance taken in lieu of a company car.
Kevin Beestons benefit relates to the provision of private medical insurance.
b The 2017 figures are the scaled back amounts following the exercise of the Committees discretion in relation to the provision as referred to on page 104. c This column shows the vesting during 2018 and 2017 of the PSP as set out in the tables at the top of page 110 and includes the value of dividends accrued during the performance period and payable on vesting.
The 2017 totals have been restated to reflect the share price at vesting of 186.0 pence as stated in the PSP award 2015 table on page 110.
The 2018 figures for Chris Carney, Jennie Daly and Ryan Mangold have been pro-rated.
None of the value received in 2018 relates to a share price increase, however there was a 24.2% increase in the share price from the date of Award and date of vesting of the Award shown for 2017. d For Pete Redfern and James Jordan these figures represent the cash allowances payable as described in the Remuneration Policy Pension section.
For Chris Carney, Jennie Daly and Ryan Mangold these figures represent pension contributions to the amount permissible under HMRC rules and cash allowances.
e These figures represent the value of the 20% discount on the Sharesave option price, matching shares under the Share Incentive Plan and the payment of Special Dividend accrued on Sharesave Options exercised by Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan during 2017 and grossed-up for Income Tax and National Insurance.
f The 2018 figures for Chris Carney, Jennie Daly and Ryan Mangold have been pro-rated to reflect the time they were an Executive Director.
110 Remuneration Committee report continued Performance Share Plan PSP awards included in the 2017 total remuneration figure overall vesting: 77.71% % Vesting Date of end of Share price PSP Award Performance target Weighting max 100% performance period Date of vesting at vesting a a 2015 PSP TSR FTSE 20% 100% 31 12 2017 28 02 2018 186.00 a TSR Peer Group 30% 25.7% 31 12 2017 28 02 2018 186.00 a RONOA 25% 100% 31 12 2017 28 02 2018 186.00 a Cash Conversion 25% 100% 31 12 2017 28 02 2018 186.00 a The share price shown is the closing middle market share price on the date of vesting 28 February 2018.
PSP awards included in the 2018 total remuneration figure overall vesting: 50.00% % Vesting Date of end of Share price PSP Award Performance target Weighting max 100% performance period Date of vesting at vesting a b 2016 PSP TSR FTSE 100 20% 0% 31 12 2018 27 02 2019 149.88 b TSR Peer Group 30% 0% 31 12 2018 27 02 2019 149.88 b RONOA 25% 100% 31 12 2018 27 02 2019 149.88 b Cash Conversion 25% 100% 31 12 2018 27 02 2019 149.88 a The share price shown is the average of the share prices for the dealing days in the last three months October to December 2018 and will be restated in next years Annual Report and Accounts to reflect the actual share price on vesting on 27 February 2019. b On exercise, an equivalent proportion of cash accrued in lieu of dividends paid during the performance period, will also be paid net of Income Tax and NI.
Vesting of PSP awards in 2018 The performance period for all elements of the 2016 PSP award ended on 31 December 2018 and the final measurement was undertaken based on this date, with the performance outcome being independently calculated by Korn Ferry and as part of the overall audit process.
The outcomes were as follows: Vesting scale Performance % overall Award Measure Weighting No vesting 20% vesting 100% vesting achieved award vesting 7 March 2016 TSR FTSE 100 20% Below Median Median Upper quartile or above Below median 0% TSR Peer Index TSR 8% p. a. TW TSR: -4.2% 0% Group 30% Below index TSR Index TSR multiplicative or above Index TSR: 10.9% RONOA in 2018 25% Below 18% RONOA 18% RONOA 26% RONOA or above 33.4% 25% Cash Below 65% cash 65% cash 70% cash conversion 86.4% 25% Conversion 25% conversion conversion or above averaged over 2016-2018 Total 100% 50% In deciding whether, and to what extent, any vesting of awards should take place under any PSP, the Committee also considers the overall financial performance of the Company during the period.
The Committee has determined that the overall financial performance of the Company has been strong in respect of the performance periods of the above PSP award and therefore determined that the 2016 PSP awards should vest at 50.00% based on the achievement of two performance measures in full, as set out in the table above.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 111 Directors PSP awards granted during the year Performance awards were made in March 2018 as summarised below: % vesting at Face value threshold a Award Type Number of shares % of salary Performance conditions Performance period performance Pete Redfern PSP Nil cost 898,423 1,672,236 200% 20% on RONOA: 01 01 2018 20% options 15% on Cash Conversion: 31 12 2020 15% on Operating Profit Margin: 20% on TSR v FTSE 100: 30% on TSR v Peer Group index b Chris Carney PSP Nil cost 294,149 547,500 150% As above As above As above options James Jordan PSP Nil cost 417,125 776,396 200% As above As above As above options b Jennie Daly PSP Nil cost 225,648 420,000 150% As above As above As above options c Ryan Mangold PSP Nil cost 451,555 840,480 200% As above As above As above options a Calculated using the share price of 186.1 pence being the average of the closing prices for 1, 2 and 5 March 2018. b Chris Carney and Jennie Daly received a PSP Award in 2018 prior to them being appointed to the Board on 20 April 2018.
These figures represent the Awards they received in March 2018. c Ryan Mangold received a PSP during the year prior to standing down from the Board on 20 April 2018.
This award has been pro-rated upon him leaving the company.
Further details on his leaving arrangements can be found on page 108.
EIS in respect of 2018 For 2018, the Committee measured performance against each individual performance target, which is directly linked to the achievement of the Companys strategy, as described in more detail on page 26, as follows: Summary of targets % of % of maximum % of maximum deferred in Measure Strategic Objective Weighting Entry 10% vesting Target 50% vesting Stretch 100% vesting Result maximum paid in cash shares Operating Profit To increase 40% 830m 850m 880m 880.2m 40 26.67 13.33 aggregate profit Cash Driving increased 20% 70% 75% 80% 92.6% 20 13.33 6.67 Conversion cash generation and retention as a proportion of PBIT RONOA Driving capital 20% 29% 30% 32% 33.4% 20 13.33 6.67 efficiency Customer Improving and 10% 72% 86% 89% 83.7% 4 2.67 1.33 Service: delivering customer 8 week survey service based on key National Customer 10% 68% 70% 71% 70.7% 9 6.00 3.00 House-Building Service: Council performance 9 month survey standards Total 100% 93% 62.00% 31.00% The amounts paid to the Executive Directors in respect of 2018 are set out in the remuneration table on page 109.
The vesting of the PSP is subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for outstanding share awards during the financial year.
The market price of the ordinary shares on 31 December was 136.25 pence and the range during the year was 129.3 pence to 211.3 pence.
Details of any share awards made to the Executive Directors during 2019 will be included in the 2019 Remuneration Report.
Ryan Mangold stood down from the Board on 20 April 2018 and will be leaving the Company on 19 April 2019.
Details of his leaving arrangements are set out on page 107.
His outstanding Performance Share Plan awards were pro-rated for time held on leaving.
For transparency, these lapses are shown in the Lapsed during the year column.
The Directors do not hold any vested but unexercised share options.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 113 Performance graph unaudited The graph below shows by way of total shareholder return, the value by 31 December 2018 of 100 invested in Taylor Wimpey plc on 1 January 2009 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 and in the average of the housebuilder index introduced for the 2012 Performance Share Plan awards onwards and as varied subsequently for the 2014 and 2016 awards.
These benchmarks have been chosen as Taylor Wimpey is a constituent of both.
Total shareholder return 3,000 2,500 2,000 1,500 1,000 500 0 1 Jan 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 2009 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Taylor Wimpey Housebuilders Index FTSE 350 Chief Executive historic remuneration unaudited The table below shows the total remuneration figure for the Chief Executive over the same ten year period as is reflected in the TSR graph above.
The total remuneration figure includes the EIS and PSP awards which vested based on performance in those years.
The EIS and PSP percentages show the payout for each year as a percentage of the maximum award that could have been paid or received.
Year ending 31 December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total Remuneration 000 1,657 1,542 1,674 3,009 6,724 6,250 6,888 4,072 3,697 3,152 EIS % 100 85 82 95 90 90 78 80 66 93 PSP Vesting % 0 0 0 40 85 94 100 81 78 50 CEO Pay Ratios unaudited Year Method CEO single figure All UK employees Lower quartile Median Upper quartile Ratio 103:1 77:1 41:1 2018 Option B 3,151,748 Total pay 30,745 41,135 76,575 Salary 26,412 26,873 52,458 Our CEO pay ratios have been calculated using option B which is to use the gender pay data to identify the three employees that represent the lower quartile, the median, and the upper quartile.
We believe this provides us with a clear methodology involving less adjustments to impute Full-time Equivalent earnings.
Therefore, we believe this option is more likely to produce more robust data year on year.
The Committee has reviewed the results of the calculations and is satisfied that they are representative of the respective quartiles and that there would be little difference if calculated on any other basis.
More generally the Committee considers that there is a good level of consistency in relation to pay policies throughout Taylor Wimpey, although noting that an in depth review will be undertaken as part of our review of our Directors remuneration policy in 2019.
Value rebased 114 Remuneration Committee report continued Change in Chief Executive pay compared to Taylor Wimpey employees unaudited 2018 The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between 2017 and 2018 for the ChiefExecutive and compared to the average percentage year-on-year change of Taylor Wimpey employees during the year.
Annual Bonus a Salary Benefits Scheme Pete Redfern 2% 2% 43% Average pay of Taylor Wimpey employees 3% 2% 1% a As stated on page 104 the Committee used its discretion to scale back the EIS bonus payments to Pete Redfern, Ryan Mangold and James Jordan for 2017 performance by an amount equivalent in each case to 20% of the EIS i. e. equivalent to 30% of each Directors annual salary in recognition of the leasehold provision created during 2017.
Had the 2017 EIS payment for Pete Redfern not been scaled back, the year-on-year change for the Annual Bonus Scheme would have been 11% rather than 43% as referred to above.
Change in Company performance relative to change in remuneration unaudited a 2018 2017 Change % Profit before tax, interest and exceptional items 880.2m 844.1m 4.1% Dividends proposed or paid per ordinary share 16.64p 13.94p 19.4% interim 2018 interim 2017 2.44p 2.30p final 2018 final 2017 3.80p 2.44p special 2018 special 2017 10.4p 9.2p Employee pay in aggregate see Note 7 to the financial statements 270.4m 245.6m 10.1% Employee pay average per employee see Note 7 to the financial statements 49,688 49,169 1.1% a The 2017 profit before tax, interest and exceptional items has been restated following the adoption of IFRS 9 Financial Instruments.
See Note 32 to the financial statements for further information.
Directors interests in shares of the Company Share ownership guidelines The Taylor Wimpey share ownership guidelines are designed to encourage shareholding in Taylor Wimpey plc by executives at various levels within the Company for the purpose of alignment with the Companys shareholders which the Committee strongly believes is very important.
The guidelines cover the Executive Directors and those executives who participate in long term incentive plans with all participating executives required to build up shareholdings through the retention of shares vesting under the Companys share plans.
The level of required shareholding for Executive Directors to attain is two times base salary.
Executive Directors are expected to achieve a holding equivalent to one times base salary within five years of their appointment and although there will be no set time limit for achieving a two times salary holding, each Executive Director is required to agree a personal plan with the Chair on the target to be achieved within an agreed time frame.
Executive Directors are also required to retain at least 50% of their net of taxes gain arising from any shares vesting or acquired pursuant to the Companys Long Term Incentive Plans, until such time as the guidelines have been met.
Beneficially owned shares count toward the guidelines, together with the portion of the annual bonus EIS deferred into shares on a net of tax basis.
The Committee keeps the guidelines under regular review.
As mentioned earlier in this Report, any shares that vest under the 2015 and later PSP awards must, as a standard requirement, be retained by executives for at least 24 months.
The Chair and the Non Executive Directors are also encouraged to hold shares in the Company in order to align their interests with those of shareholders.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Directors report: governance Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 115 Directors interests in shares of the Company audited Share interests expressed Beneficially owned Outstanding interests in share plans as a % of salary at 31 12 18 Value of shares including at 01 01 18 or date stood down from EIS deferred shares on a or date of appointment the Board EIS deferred shares net basis a b c Director ordinary shares ordinary shares gross PSP Sharesave as at 31 12 18 d Kevin Beeston 1,155,562 718,432 Pete Redfern 1,678,456 2,993,706 563,443 2,675,251 18,863 523% Chris Carney 189,178 190,606 771,087 20,891 60% James Jordan 672,395 937,858 261,595 1,242,079 12,534 368% Jennie Daly 51,679 67,477 467,244 22,921 30% Kate Barker 60,000 60,000 Gwyn Burr Angela Knight 5,000 10,000 Humphrey Singer 25,000 25,000 e Ryan Mangold 971,496 1,232,710 260,804 1,344,602 29,410 617% f Mike Hussey 100,000 100,000 g Rob Rowley 200,000 200,000 a Or date of appointment.
b Vesting is subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
c This has been calculated on the basis of beneficially owned shares and the net amount of EIS shares.
d Some of Kevin Beestons shares are held by a connected person.
e Ryan Mangold stood down from the Board on 20 April 2018.
The closing share price on 20 April 2018 has been used to calculate the value of Ryans shares on the date he stood down from the Board.
f Mike Hussey stood down from the Board on 19 July 2018. g Rob Rowley stood down from the Board on 26 April 2018.
The only changes to the Directors interests as set out above during the period between 31 December 2018 and 27 February 2019 were the regular monthly purchases of shares and 1:1 matching by the Company under the Share Incentive Plan by Pete Redfern 396 shares, Chris Carney 398shares, James Jordan 396 shares and Jennie Daly 396 shares.
Directors pension entitlements audited Dened benefit schemes The Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme Pete Redfern and James Jordan are members of the Taylor Wimpey Pension Scheme TWPS.
The following table sets out the transfer value of their accrued benets under the TWPS calculated in a manner consistent with The Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 2008.
Increase decrease in transfer value from Increase in accrued Transfer value gross of Transfer value gross of 31 12 17 to 31 12 18 Accrued pension as at pension from 31 12 17 Accrued pension as at Directors contributions Directors contributions less Directors a b b c Director Normal retirement age 31 12 17 to 31 12 18 31 12 18 at 31 12 18 at 31 12 17 contributions Pete Redfern 62 14,809 446 15,255 313,150 321,906 8,756 James Jordan 62 27,395 825 28,220 712,473 730,136 17,663 a The pension benefits are based on service up to 31 August 2010 when the George Wimpey Staff Pension Scheme GWSPS closed to future accrual.
Members of the GWSPS were transferred into the TWPS on 1 October 2013 and there was no change to members benefit entitlement.
Pension benets include a two thirds spouses pension.
Pensions accrued up to 5 April 2006 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with ination limited each year to 5%.
Pensions accrued after 5 April 2006 are guaranteed to increase in payment in line with ination limited each year to 2.5%.
Pensions accrued up to 5 April 2009 will revalue in deferment in line with ination subject to an overall cap of 5% per annum.
Pensions accrued after 5 April 2009 will revalue in deferment in line with ination subject to an overall cap of 2.5% per annum.
The Company has only taken into account dened benets accrued over the period to 31 August 2010 and has not included any Dened Contribution pension benets accrued after this date.
b Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with The Occupational Pension Schemes Transfer Value Regulations 2008. c The transfer value includes the effect of uctuations due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as financial market movements.
Note: Pete Redfern and James Jordan received cash allowances of 204,991 2017: 200,340 and 98,001 2017: 95,898 respectively in lieu of Company pension contributions.
There was no change to benets during the year and consequently no difference between the changes to any Directors pension benets in comparison with those of other employees.
116 Remuneration Committee report continued Non-Group pension arrangements 2018 2017 a Ryan Mangold 3,028 10,000 b Chris Carney 6,985 b Jennie Daly 6,981 a Pro-rated from 1 January 2018 to 20 April 2018 b Pro-rated from 20 April 2018 to 31 December 2018 Notes: Ryan Mangold, Chris Carney and Jennie Daly also received a pension allowance of 22,531 2017: 73,636, 52,592 2017: nil and 36,114 2017: nil respectively in lieu of Company pension contributions over the Tapered Annual Allowance limit introduced in April 2016.
Statement of shareholder voting unaudited At the 2018 AGM, the result of the shareholders vote on the Companys Remuneration Report for 2017 was: 2018 Votes For 1.9 billion 98% Against 35 million 2% Withheld 20,041,676 At the 2017 AGM, the result of the shareholders vote on the Company Remuneration Policy was: 2017 Votes For 1.9 billion 98% Against 38 million 2% Withheld 1,502,137 Approval This Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2019 and signed on its behalf by the Remuneration Committee Chair: Kate Barker DBE 26 February 2019 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018
