Corporate governance Directors remuneration report Annual statement from the Remuneration Committee Chair.
Tesco aims to be more competitive The key features of the new policy are: for customers, simpler for Annual bonus No change to the quantum and the financial metrics remain colleagues and a better partner for its sales growth and Group operating profit before exceptional items, with a suppliers, while continuing to create Group operating profit before exceptional items underpin.
Having reviewed long-term value for shareholders.
the weighting applied to each metric, the Committee concluded that while Tescos reward principles directly the combined weightings of the two financial metrics should remain at 80% align to these objectives.
of bonus maximum they should be split evenly, with each representing 40% Deanna Oppenheimer of bonus maximum previously sales growth 50% and Group operating profit Remuneration Committee Chair before exceptional items 30%.
The final 20% will be driven by outcomes against strategic objectives, including key stakeholder measures relating Remuneration Committee attendance to customers, suppliers and colleagues.
Half of the bonus awarded will Number of scheduled Meetings continue to be deferred into Tesco shares for three years.
Member meetings eligible to attend attended Deanna Oppenheimer Chair 4 4 Performance Share Plan No change is proposed to the quantum of John Allan 4 4 awards.
The Committee has reviewed the PSP performance metrics and Steve Golsby from 2 October 2017 2 2 simplified them from three to two, providing clear line of sight to the delivery Byron Grote 4 4 of the strategic plan.
The proposed performance metrics are: Mikael Olsson 4 4 an earnings per share EPS metric, representing 50% of an award, which Alison Platt 4 4 replaces the current total shareholder return TSR metric.
The EPS measure will ensure management are better aligned with the delivery Remuneration Committee responsibilities of the Groups operating margin target of 3.5% to 4%: and The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee include: a free cash flow metric, representing the remaining 50% of an award, determining and recommending to the Board a framework for executive which replaces the current cumulative operating cash flow metric, to remuneration that is fair and balanced and ensures the most talented help ensure balance sheet discipline is maintained as earnings grow and leaders are recruited, retained and motivated: management are aligned with the targets to generate 9bn of retail cash determining the terms of employment and remuneration for Executive from operations and reduce operating costs by 1.5bn.
Directors and senior managers, including recruitment and termination As set out above, stakeholder metrics will in future feature in the annual arrangements: bonus so they can be tailored to the responsibility of each executive.
approving the design, targets and outturns of the annual bonus plan for Executive Directors and senior managers: and During its consultation on the new Remuneration Policy the Committee heard agreeing the design, targets and annual awards for share incentive plans, differing views on TSR as a performance metric.
What became clear was that and the subsequent achievement of targets.
no decision on inclusion or exclusion would satisfy everyone.
The decision taken by the Committee is therefore the one that it believes is right for Tesco The Committees terms of reference are available at www.
com and will be understood and supported by the vast majority of its shareholders.
Dear Shareholder The reasons for moving away from TSR as a metric are: I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for 2017 18. key competitors for Tesco are now either market disruptors for whom Three years after the current Remuneration Policy was approved by 96.5% retail is a small proportion of their business or not listed companies.
of shareholders and following a thorough review, the Committee will be In addition, with the completion of the Booker merger, the constituents proposing a new Remuneration Policy for the next three years at the 2018 of the primary part of the TSR peer index group has reduced to four Annual General Meeting.
The revised policy has been subject to consultation companies which is too concentrated: with major investors and proxy voting advisers.
EPS and free cash flow measures are relevant, readily understood Strategic remuneration review metrics aligned directly to Tescos strategy.
TSR does not provide this The underlying principle applied to the review was that remuneration should clear line of sight: and align with, and incentivise delivery of, Tescos strategic plan in a relevant alignment with shareholders, often mentioned as the reason for including and simple way.
Tesco has previously shared its intent to reduce costs by TSR, is maintained in the proposed Remuneration Policy through significant 1.5bn, generate 9bn of retail cash from operations and improve operating shareholding requirements, the newly introduced holding period on PSP margins to between 3.5% and 4.0% by 2019 20.
As a result, Tesco will deliver vested shares and stretching goals for annual bonus and PSP targets.
In significant free cash flow which will improve shareholder returns, strengthen addition, the Committee will retain its discretion to make adjustments to the balance sheet and allow reinvestment in the business.
This will create vesting levels should there be significant divergence between variable pay long-term, sustainable performance and increase shareholder value.
The Committee was satisfied that the current remuneration structure Holding period From the 2018 grant onwards, PSP awards will be subject remained appropriate and the review focused on ensuring performance to a two-year holding period post vesting.
The earliest an executive could sell metrics were aligned with the next phase of the strategy.
This includes a PSP shares, other than to satisfy tax obligations, would be five years after grant.
strengthened focus on profit and cash flow, while continuing to support Pension Pension provision will reduce to 15% of base salary from 25% Tescos volume-led recovery and stakeholder focus.
for new Executive Directors and Executive Committee members.
The Committee has also taken account of changes in regulation and shareholder Shareholding requirement Current levels of shareholding requirement expectations since the last Remuneration Policy was approved.
This has led will remain in place, see page 52 for further details.
However, the way of to the introduction of a post-vesting holding period and reduction in pension meeting this requirement will change, so that senior management will need contribution for new hires.
The Committee is also mindful of their to retain all shares that vest to them, net of any tax liabilities, until the responsibility to ensure prudent management of executive remuneration requirement is satisfied.
The Committee believes this is a more demanding and the need for fair employment practices for the whole workforce.
but fairer approach as it reflects shares earned by senior management.
Good leaver treatment under the PSP Tescos practice on PSP good leavers will be aligned to wider market practice.
From the 2018 grant onwards, any subsisting PSPs will vest based on performance over the relevant performance period and will then be pro-rated for the portion of the performance period worked.
Under the current policy, the 2017 PSP award would lapse and the other two in flight awards would vest at their usual vesting date, taking into account current performance levels.
Phasing and mitigation Explicit requirements on phasing and mitigation of notice periods and any non-statutory payments on departure will be introduced for new joiners at the most senior grades approximately the top 300 executives.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 45 Directors remuneration report continued Annual statement from the Remuneration Committee Chair continued New appointments to the Board These outcomes are between the target and stretch performance levels.
Following the completion of the merger with Booker Group plc on 5 March This was a strong performance in a challenging external environment and 2018, Charles Wilson, former CEO of Booker, joined the Tesco Board as an was delivered against a background of intense competition.
The Committee Executive Director and Stewart Gilliland, former Chairman of Booker, joined also reviewed the performance of the Executive Directors against their as a Non-executive Director.
As a result, the Committee determined that 72.8% and 73.9% of the maximum bonus opportunity should be awarded for Dave Lewis The remuneration arrangements for both of them were approved by the and Alan Stewart, respectively.
A summary break-down of the targets and Committee and are in line with the approved Remuneration Policy.
The key performance assessments is provided in At a glance on page 48. elements of Charles Wilsons remuneration package are detailed on page 49.
Stewart Gilliland will receive a fee in accordance with his role as a member The 2015 PSP was the first award in which Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart of the Board, which is set out on page 62. participated.
The performance period ran to the end of the 2017 18 financial year.
Performance was measured against two metrics, with 70% subject Overview of performance in 2017 18 to Tescos relative TSR performance and the remaining 30% subject to During the year, Tesco continued to make strong progress against the six cumulative cash generated from operations.
Performance was as follows: strategic drivers: Tescos TSR ranked below median in the bespoke comparator group.
brand health strengthened further and Tesco was voted Britains favourite This element vested at nil.
The Committee noted that the below-median supermarket for the third consecutive year: outcome was driven by the inclusion of global FMCG companies, Unilever, cost savings of 594m were achieved in the year generating a total of 820m Diageo and Reckitt Benckiser, in the peer group and that performance was towards the 1.5bn medium-term target: above median against the retail comparators.
However, the Committee did 2.8bn of retail operating cash was generated: not consider it appropriate to exercise any discretion in this regard: and operating margins improved to 2.9%, remaining on track to achieve between cumulative cash generated from operations over three years of 7.9bn was 3.5% and 4.0% by 2019 20: ahead of stretch performance of 7.3bn.
This element vested in full.
a further 290m of value was released from properties, with 109 properties sold and 1.1m sq.
ft. of space repurposed: and The approved vesting level was therefore 30% of the maximum potential innovation continued, with contactless Clubcard, Tesco Pay, nationwide for Executive Directors and senior managers.
roll-out of the same-day delivery service and the start of the roll-out of As reported previously, buyout awards were made to Alan Stewart to our new Own Brand range of products.
compensate him for awards forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
The way in which the current Remuneration Policy aligns with and supports The buyout award due to vest in July 2017 lapsed in its entirety as the award Tescos strategy and delivery of the Big 6 KPIs is set out below and further it replaced did not vest.
The final tranche of Alan Stewarts buyout awards information is available on page 11. are due to vest in July 2018.
Big 6 KPIs Implementation of remuneration in 2018 19 For 2018 19, other than the changes to policy described overleaf, the Annual Year-onbonus PSP Committee intends to implement remuneration arrangements for the year performance performance Executive Directors, in line with previous years.
In particular: 2017 18 2016 17 change measure measure a no salary increases will be made to Executive Directors in 2018 19: Group sales 51.0bn 49.9bn 2.3% the maximum annual bonus opportunity will continue to be 250% of base Group operating 1,644m 1,280m 28.4% salary for the Group Chief Executive, 225% of base salary for the Chief profit before b exceptional items Financial Officer and 200% of base salary for the CEO, UK & ROI, with 50% of any bonus awarded deferred into shares for three years.
From 2018, the Retail cash generated 2.8bn 2.3bn 21.7% b from operations sales growth and Group operating profit metrics will each be weighted 40% of bonus maximum.
Full details of the targets set by the Committee, and Customers 12pts 7pts 5pts recommend us performance against these will be disclosed in next years Directors and come back remuneration report: time and again the maximum annual PSP opportunity will continue to be 275% of base salary Colleagues for the Group Chief Executive, 250% of base salary for the Chief Financial recommend us as a: Officer and 225% of base salary for the CEO, UK & ROI.
From 2018, Great place to work 83% 83% Nil subject to shareholder approval, the new PSP performance measures, Great place to shop 49pts 48pts 1pt EPS 50% and free cash flow 50%, will apply: and malus and clawback will continue to apply to both the annual bonus Supplier satisfaction 75% 77% 2 % and PSP awards.
These measures and other measures in this section are defined in the alternative performance measures section of the Annual Report on pages 150 to 152.
Gender diversity a Reported on a continuing operations basis at actual exchange rates, excluding fuel.
Throughout the year, the Committee considered the Groups approach to b Reported on a continuing operations basis at actual exchange rates.
gender pay and the reporting of such information.
Details of Tescos gender pay report for the year to April 2017 and actions to reduce the gender pay 2017 18 incentive outcomes gap are set out opposite.
Tescos annual bonus and PSP plans reward achievement of Group, stakeholder and personal targets, provided performance is delivered within Shareholder engagement the Companys risk framework and appetite.
The Committee scrutinises The Committee is committed to an open and transparent dialogue with performance targets, which are based on the Board approved Long Term Plan, shareholders on executive remuneration and considers these engagements to ensure they are sufficiently challenging.
Stretching performance ranges are vital to ensuring its remuneration strategy remains aligned with the then agreed by the Committee at the start of the performance period.
long-term interests of Tescos shareholders.
Annual bonus outcomes for 2017 18 have been determined based on Tescos I have appreciated the time major shareholders and proxy voting advisers performance over the year in sales growth 50% weighting, Group operating have given to help the Committee develop the proposed Remuneration profit before exceptional items 30% weighting and Individual Objectives Policy.
Together with the rest of the Board, I look forward to hearing your 20% weighting.
For consistency, sales and operating profit are translated views on the proposed policy and would ask for your support at the at constant exchange rates, resulting in sales of 50.1bn and operating profit forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Deanna Oppenheimer Remuneration Committee Chair 46 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Reward principles.
The principles of a fair workplace Gender pay At Tesco our purpose is to serve shoppers a little better every day.
To Tesco has a long-standing commitment to transparency on gender pay live up to that purpose our colleagues need to reflect and represent the and has monitored the interaction between gender and pay since 2002. communities we serve.
Tesco wants to be a place where colleagues can get Tescos gender pay report for the year to April 2017, published in February on, as they wish, no matter what their background.
We are proud of our long 2018, showed a median gender pay gap across Tescos UK retail business of history of helping people develop their careers from the shop floor to the 8.7% substantially below the UK median gender pay gap of 18.4%, and a leadership team.
A key reason for the gap is the different work pattern choices colleagues are making.
Male colleagues are choosing to work To continue building an inclusive culture where everyone feels welcome it premium hours Sundays, bank holidays and night work, which attract higher is important that colleagues feel fairly rewarded.
We have clear principles rates of pay, more often than female colleagues.
If these premium hour against which we measure ourselves.
When we are successful Tesco payments were to be removed from the calculation, Tescos median gender colleagues can expect: pay gap would reduce to just 2.7%.
a total reward package that provides flexibility and choice, and is Tesco believes in offering colleagues opportunity, choice and flexibility competitive in the markets in which Tesco operates and from which it and will continue to support them in choosing work patterns that best suit recruits for talent: their personal situation and preferences.
At the same time, we will work to to share in Tescos success through variable pay that is transparent and identify and remove any gender-related barriers to making those choices.
rewards performance: the opportunity to plan and save for the future: So more remains to be done, including building more gender-balanced to make wellbeing and lifestyle choices, having access to a range of benefits senior teams, where female participation is lower than we would wish.
and flexibility over working hours and place of work: Further information on what Tesco is doing to address the gender pay to have access to career opportunities and accredited training to develop gap is set out in the Little Helps Plan on page 20 and online at to their potential whatever their age or background: and www.
through Tescos consultative forums and trade union partnerships to have their voice heard and represented at all levels, and access to information about what is happening in the business.
Rewarding our colleagues We provide colleagues across the Group with a competitive reward package.
In Tescos UK business at Work Levels 1-5 colleagues receive the following reward and benefits package and we want all colleagues to have the potential to earn upper quartile reward against the relevant pay benchmark.
Grade Salary Annual PSP Benefits Pension bonus Executive Committee Work Levels 4-5 Work Levels 1-3 Over the last year Tesco has continued to focus on building a fair workplace, providing colleagues with the flexibility, skills and reward to get on.
This has included: Investing in pay In June 2017, Tesco announced its biggest investment in UK store pay for colleagues for a decade.
Pay is being increased by 10.5% over two years for hourly paid store colleagues.
Investing in training Last year a new apprenticeship scheme was introduced offering UK colleagues across stores, distribution and the office, 2,500 new apprenticeship places in skill areas such as HGV driving, project management and technology.
Investing in flexibility As part of our commitment to flexible working, a new app has been trialled in the UK allowing colleagues to see their shifts, manage overtime, request holiday and see how much they will be paid.
This app will be rolled out in the UK first before being introduced to all international markets.
A start has been made in Asia where a simplified version of the app with similar functionality has been introduced.
Investing in healthier living In May last year our first ever health event for colleagues and customers was held.
For colleagues, this included making fruit available for free, mental health awareness training and working to help our national charity partners, with over 1m raised.
Our investment in healthier lives for colleagues and customers will continue.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 47 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration at a glance.
This part of the report and the Annual report on remuneration, which together form the Annual Report on Remuneration, have been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and Rule 9.8.
The Annual Report on Remuneration and the Annual statement from the Remuneration Committee Chair will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting on 15 June 2018.
What our Executive Directors earned in 2017 18 Single total figure of remuneration Executive Directors audited The following table provides a summary single total figure of remuneration for 2017 18 and 2016 17 for the Executive Directors.
Further details are set out in the Annual report on remuneration on pages 56 and 57.
Long-term Performance Share Base salary Benefits Pension Short-term annual Plan Total Year 000 000 000 bonus 000 000 000 Dave Lewis 2017 18 1,250 65 313 2,275 971 4,874 2016 17 1,250 223 313 2,361 4,147 Alan Stewart 2017 18 750 53 188 1,248 530 2,769 2016 17 750 46 188 1,252 2,236 Annual bonus outcomes audited The Committee assessed each discrete element of the annual bonus separately to form a rounded assessment of performance of the Executive Directors at the end of the financial year.
This resulted in 72.8% and 73.9% of the maximum bonus opportunity being awarded to Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart, respectively.
Performance against each of the objectives for 2017 18 was assessed as follows: Financial performance in 2017 18 80% of bonus maximum Performance targets Vesting level Actual Payout Measures % maximum Underpin Threshold Target Stretch Threshold Target Stretch performance % maximum a Sales growth 50% n a 49,556m 50,057m 50,559m 30% 50% 100% 50,149m 29.6 Group operating profit before 1,280m 1,280m 1,472m 1,663m 0% 50% 100% 1,611m 26.0 a exceptional items 30% a Reported on a continuing operations basis at constant exchange rates.
Performance for the financial elements of the annual bonus has been strong, with sales growth and Group operating profit before exceptional items performance being between target and stretch.
Individual performance in 2017 18 20% of bonus maximum audited The Committee carefully reviewed the performance of the Executive Directors against their Individual Objectives set at the beginning of the financial year.
Details of how their performance towards these objectives was assessed is set out in the table below.
Further details are provide on page 57.
Individual Objective Weighting Actual achievement Payout Dave Lewis Obtain CMA clearance of the Booker Merger on the best terms 6.67% 6.67% 17.2% Complete service model process and organisation changes 6.67% 5.00% Accelerate cost reduction programme 6.67% 5.55% Alan Stewart Obtain CMA clearance of the Booker Merger on the best terms 6.67% 6.67% 18.3% Reduce net interest payable 6.67% 6.67% Delivery of the Finance Transformation Programme and reduce costs of 6.67% 5.00% Goods Not For Resale PSP vesting audited The PSP award granted in 2015 will vest in July 2018 based on performance up to and including the 2017 18 financial year.
The performance outcome was as follows: b Performance targets Vesting level Number of shares to vest Actual Payout Measures % maximum Threshold Target Stretch Threshold Target Stretch Performance % maximum Dave Lewis Alan Stewart a Relative TSR 70% Median Upper 25% Straight-line 100% Below 0% performance quartile vesting between median performance threshold and stretch Cash generation 30% 6.6bn 7.0bn 7.3bn 25% 50% 100% 7.9bn 30% 472,621 257,793 a TSR was assessed against a bespoke group of FTSE 100 consumer business and services companies comprising Associated British Foods, Compass, Diageo, Dixons Carphone, Kingfisher, M&S, Morrisons, Next, Reckitt Benckiser, J Sainsbury, Unilever and Whitbread.
b For the equivalent value in cash see the Single total figure of remuneration table above.
48 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Directors remuneration policy at a glance.
This part of the report and the Directors remuneration policy section commencing on page 50 set out the Remuneration Policy and have been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013.
What are the key elements of remuneration packages for 2018 19 Summary of key elements of 2018 19 remuneration packages A summary of the proposed 2018 19 remuneration packages for the Executive Directors is set out below.
Element of remuneration Dave Lewis Alan Stewart Charles Wilson Base salary 1,250,000 750,000 575,000 Pension Cash allowance in lieu of pension Cash allowance in lieu of pension Cash allowance in lieu of pension of 25% of base salary of 25% of base salary of 20% of base salary Annual bonus Maximum of 250% Maximum of 225% Maximum of 200% of base salary of base salary of base salary Annual bonus deferral 50% of bonus awarded deferred into Tesco shares for three years Performance Share Plan PSP Maximum of 275% Maximum of 250% Maximum of 225% of base salary of base salary of base salary PSP term Three year performance period and two year post-vest holding period Shareholding requirement 400% 300% 200% How our proposed Remuneration Policy differs from our current policy Summary of Remuneration Policy and proposed amendments A summary of the proposed Remuneration Policy and its changes is shown below.
The full policy is set on pages 50 to 55.
Base salary Benefits Pension Annual bonus Performance Share Plan PSP Shareholding requirements Main features of proposed policy Executive Executive Executive Executive Directors Executive Directors can The Group Chief Directors receive a Directors receive Directors receive can be awarded an participate in a PSP with a Executive, Chief base salary based a number of core a cash allowance annual bonus of up maximum grant value of 350% Financial Officer and on the size and benefits such as in lieu of pension, to 250% of base salary.
of base salary 2018 19 grants CEO, UK & ROI are scope of their company car, life the maximum 50% of any bonus are 275% for the Group Chief subject to a minimum responsibilities and assurance and opportunity is 25% earned is deferred Executive, 250% for the Chief shareholding their experience.
health care of base salary for into Tesco shares Financial Officer and 225% for requirement of 400%, Salaries are insurance.
current Executive for three years.
300% and 200% normally reviewed Directors and 15% Performance is Performance is measured of base salary, annually, with for new joiners.
measured against against financial metrics and respectively.
changes being financial metrics and non-financial metrics over a effective from non-financial metrics.
Clawback and malus A subsequent two-year holding Pay decisions are provisions apply.
informed, but not Clawback and malus driven, by external provisions apply.
Key changes from previous policy No change.
Performance measures have The Executive allowance in lieu been simplified and may Directors will now of pension has comprise a balance of financial be required to retain been reduced to and non-financial measures.
all shares that vest 15% of base salary Stakeholder measures have to them until the for new joiners.
been removed from the PSP, but shareholding included in the annual bonus.
A two-year post-vesting holding period has been introduced.
Key Fixed annual remuneration salary benefits pension Short-term annual bonus Long-term incentive plan Shareholding requirements Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 49 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy.
Policy report The policy has been developed taking account of the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
The Committee also takes significant account of guidelines issued by the Investment Association, ISS, Glass Lewis and other shareholder bodies when setting the remuneration framework.
It also seeks to maintain an active and constructive dialogue with investors on developments in the remuneration aspects of corporate governance generally and any changes to the Companys executive pay arrangements in particular.
The proposed Remuneration Policy will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting on 15 June 2018 and, subject to receiving majority shareholder support, the policy will operate from the date of approval and is intended to remain applicable for the following three years.
Information on how the Company intends to implement the proposed Remuneration Policy for the current financial year is set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Remuneration policy and strategy The Committees underlying principle is that remuneration should align with, and incentivise delivery of, the strategic plan, which aims to create long-term, sustainable performance and increased shareholder value.
The proposed Remuneration Policy aligns to the strategic plan, particularly in terms of the targets chosen to incentivise management in the annual bonus and PSP and the weighting of those targets.
It builds on arrangements put in place in 2015 that clearly link to, and have helped to incentivise delivery of, Tescos turnaround plan.
The limited changes to the current Remuneration Policy now proposed are intended to enhance further the link between strategic delivery and remuneration outcomes.
Tesco needs to pay competitively, allowing it to attract and retain the talent capable of delivering its strategy and providing clear leadership.
There is also a strong link between pay and performance, and consideration is given to environmental, social and governance risks when determining Director remuneration.
Base salaries are normally set taking into account market median practice, while colleagues have the potential to earn total compensation at a market upper quartile level where sustained business and personal outperformance can be demonstrated.
Equally, where performance does not meet business and personal targets then variable pay outcomes will be reduced, ultimately to zero.
Further details of our Reward principles are set out on page 47.
Policy table The following sets out the proposed Remuneration Policy.
Base salary Purpose The role of base salary is to support the recruitment and retention of Executive Directors of the calibre required to develop and deliver the strategy.
Base salary provides fixed remuneration for the role, which reflects the size and scope of the Executive Directors responsibilities and their experience.
Operation The Committee sets base salary taking into account: the individuals skills and experience and their performance: salary levels at leading FTSE companies and other large consumer business companies in the UK and internationally: and pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
Base salary is normally reviewed annually with changes effective from 1 July, but may be reviewed more frequently if the Committee determines this is appropriate.
Maximum Executive Directors salary increases will normally be in line with the typical level of increase awarded to other employees in the Group.
Increases may be above this level in certain circumstances such as: where a new Executive Director has been appointed to the Board at a lower than typical market salary to allow for growth in the role, then larger increases may be awarded to move salary positioning closer to typical market level as the Executive Director gains experience: or where an Executive Director has been promoted or has had a change in responsibilities, salary increases in excess of the above limit may be awarded.
Measure n a Change No change from previous policy.
Benefits Purpose To provide a market-competitive level of benefits for Executive Directors and to assist them in the performance of their roles.
Operation The Committee sets benefit provision at an appropriate market-competitive level taking into account the individuals home jurisdiction, the jurisdiction in which the individual is based, typical practice and the level of benefits provided for other employees in the Group.
Core benefits Benefits currently include car benefits, security costs, health insurance and life assurance.
Other appropriate benefits may be provided from time to time but will not be significant.
Executive Directors shall be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses and the Company may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
All-employee share plans Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all-employee share schemes on the same terms as other colleagues.
Mobility policy Where an Executive Director is required to relocate to perform their role, they may be offered appropriate relocation allowances and international transfer-related benefits where required.
Maximum The overall level of benefits will depend on the cost of providing individual items and the individuals circumstances and therefore there is no maximum level of benefit.
Pension Purpose To provide an appropriate level of retirement benefits as a part of a holistic benefit package.
Operation Executive Directors receive a cash allowance in lieu of pension or a contribution into a Defined Contribution scheme.
Maximum Maximum cash in lieu of pension or contribution of 15% of base salary for any newly hired Executive Director.
Maximum cash in lieu of pension or contribution of 25% of base salary for Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart and 20% of base salary for Charles Wilson under previous arrangements.
Measure n a Change The policy has been amended to reflect the fact that new Executive Directors receive a maximum of 15% of base salary as contribution and or cash in lieu of pension.
50 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Annual bonus Purpose To reward Executive Directors for the delivery of Tescos annual financial, operational and strategic goals.
Deferral into Tesco PLC shares provides alignment with shareholders.
Operation The annual bonus is normally delivered: 50% in cash: and 50% in shares which are deferred for three years.
Performance is assessed over a financial year.
The Committee determines the level of bonus taking into account performance against targets and the underlying performance of the business.
Maximum Maximum annual bonus opportunity of 250% of base salary.
For details of award levels for 2017 18 see the Annual report on remuneration on pages 56 and 57.
Measures The annual bonus may be based on a mix of financial, operational, strategic and individual performance measures.
At least 70% of the bonus will be based on financial performance.
Payment of the annual bonus will be subject to meeting a financial underpin.
The Committee determines the exact metrics each year depending on the key goals for the forthcoming year.
Normally around 30% of the bonus is paid for threshold performance, around 50% of the bonus is paid if target levels of performance are delivered with the full bonus being paid for delivering stretching levels of performance.
These vesting levels may vary each year depending on the stretch of targets set.
The Committee sets bonus targets each year to ensure that they are appropriately stretching in the context of the business plan.
Change No change from previous policy.
Performance Share Plan Purpose To reward Executive Directors for achieving Tescos long-term strategy and creating sustainable shareholder value aligning the economic interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
Operation Awards normally vest based on performance over a period of not less than three years unless the Committee determines otherwise.
The Committee has the discretion to amend the final vesting level if it does not consider that it reflects the underlying performance of the Company.
All vested shares, net of any tax liabilities, will be subject to a further two-year holding period after the vesting date.
Maximum The maximum annual award that can be granted under the PSP is 350% of base salary.
For details of award levels for 2018 19 see the Annual report on remuneration on page 58.
Measures Awards vest based on financial or strategic performance conditions the satisfaction of which is determined by the Committee.
At least 50% of the PSP will be based on financial metrics.
The current measures are diluted EPS from continuing operations 50% and free cash flow 50% as set out on page 58.
Any substantial or significant change to measures will be subject to shareholder consultation.
For threshold levels of performance up to 25% of the award vests, increasing to 100% of the award for stretching performance.
The Committee sets targets each year so that targets are stretching and represent value creation for shareholders while remaining motivational for management.
Change The policy has been amended to introduce diluted EPS as a performance measure for the PSP instead of relative TSR, free cash flow has been introduced as a performance measure instead of retail cash generated from operations and stakeholder metrics have been removed and incorporated into the annual bonus.
The policy has been amended to add a two-year holding period to the PSP post vesting.
Executive Directors may sell sufficient shares to satisfy the tax liability on exercise, but must retain the net number of shares until the end of the two-year period.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 51 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued Information supporting the policy table Shareholding guidelines Tesco operates shareholding guidelines of 400% of base salary for the Group Chief Executive, 300% for the Chief Financial Officer, and 200% for the CEO, UK & ROI and members of the Executive Committee.
Executive Directors are required to retain all shares that vest to them, net of any tax liability, whether from the annual bonus or the PSP, until the relevant shareholding guideline is satisfied.
The Committee may waive this requirement for certain exceptional personal circumstances.
Dividend equivalents Dividend equivalents are payable on deferred annual bonus and PSP awards that vest.
Clawback and malus provisions The Committee has the discretion to scale back deferred share awards and PSP awards prior to the satisfaction of such awards in the event that results are materially misstated or the participant has contributed to serious reputational damage of the Company or one of its business units or their conduct has amounted to serious misconduct or fraud.
Where PSP awards are settled prior to the fifth anniversary of the grant of the award, the Committee shall have the discretion to clawback awards up to the fifth anniversary of the grant of awards in the circumstance described above.
Cash bonus payments can also be clawed back in the circumstances described above up to the third anniversary of payment.
Timing of target disclosure Targets for the PSP are disclosed on or before the grant date of the award.
Targets and performance against these for the annual bonus are disclosed in the year following the start of the performance period.
Terms of share awards The Committee may amend the terms of awards or the rules of share plans within the scope defined in the rules of the plans.
For share awards, in the event of a variation of the Companys share capital or a demerger, delisting, special dividend, rights issue or other event, which may, in the Committees opinion affect the current or future value of awards, the number of shares subject to an award may be adjusted.
The Committee may amend performance targets in accordance with the terms of an award or if a transaction or event occurs which causes the Committee to consider taking into account the interest of shareholders that an amended performance condition would be more appropriate and would continue to achieve the original purpose and be no less challenging to achieve.
Payments outside policy The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the proposed Remuneration Policy set out in this report where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration, and an award over shares is agreed at the time the award is granted.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to hold one approved non-executive directorship of another company and to retain the fees earned from such appointment.
Minor changes The Committee may make minor changes to this policy for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without seeking shareholder approval for that amendment.
Remuneration outcomes in different performance scenarios The total remuneration opportunity for Executive Directors is strongly performance based and weighted to the long term.
The charts below illustrate the total remuneration of Executive Directors under three assumed performance scenarios: Group Chief Executive Dave Lewis Chief Financial Officer Alan Stewart CEO, UK & ROI Charles Wilson 8,190k 42% 4,909k 4,560k 35% 41% 3,193k 38% 2,772k 41% 32% 1,971k 34% 1,628k 37% 33% 30% 991k 36% 749k 29% 100% 33% 20% 100% 36% 22% 100% 38% 23% Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentive 52 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Performance scenarios Group Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer CEO, UK & ROI Annual bonus % of base salary 250 225 200 PSP % of base salary 275 250 225 Minimum No annual bonus payout No vesting under the Performance Share Plan On-target performance 50% annual bonus payout 50% Performance Share Plan vesting Maximum performance 100% annual bonus payout 100% Performance Share Plan vesting No share price growth or the payment of dividend equivalents has been assumed.
Potential benefits under all employee share schemes have not been included.
Fixed pay is based on current values as set out in the table below: a Base salary Benefits Pension Total fixed pay b Group Chief Executive Dave Lewis 000 1,250 65 313 1,628 b Chief Financial Officer Alan Stewart 000 750 53 188 991 c CEO, UK & ROI Charles Wilson 000 575 59 115 749 a Benefits for Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart are as set out in Single total figure of remuneration on page 48 and for Charles Wilson are an average of Dave Lewis and Alan Stewarts figures.
Remuneration policy for new hires When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration package with the Remuneration Policy outlined in this section.
The Committee will set base salary taking into account all relevant factors including the experience and calibre of the candidate, the candidates current reward opportunity and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited from.
Incentive opportunity will be in line with the policy maximums i. e. total maximum incentive opportunity of 600% of base salary.
The Committee may make additional awards when appointing an Executive Director to buy out remuneration terms forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
The Committee will look to do so on a like-for-like basis with the awards forfeited, taking account of relevant factors including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted e. g. cash or shares and the time over which they would have vested.
To facilitate buyout awards in the event of recruitment, the Committee may grant awards to a new Executive Director under Listing Rule 9.4.
2, which allows for the granting of awards, to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of an Executive Director, or under other relevant company incentive plans.
The Company will pay legal fees incurred by any new Executive Directors in respect of their appointment.
In the event that an internal candidate were to be promoted to the Board, legacy terms and conditions would normally be honoured, including pension entitlements and any outstanding incentive awards.
In the event of the appointment of a new Chair or Non-executive Director, remuneration arrangements will reflect the policy outlined on page 55.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 53 Directors remuneration report continued Directors remuneration policy continued Executive Director service agreements and policy on Executive Directors leaving Tesco When determining leaving arrangements for an Executive Director, the Committee takes into account any contractual agreements, including the provisions of any incentive arrangements, typical market practice and the performance and conduct of the individual.
The following table summarises Tescos policy in relation to Executive Director service agreements and payments in the event of loss of office.
Provision Current service agreements Notice period Up to 12 months notice by the Company and by the Executive Director.
For new appointments, the Committee reserves the right to vary this period to 24 months for the initial period of appointment and for the notice period to then revert to up to 12 months after the initial 12 months of employment.
Expiry date Dave Lewis, Alan Stewart and Charles Wilson entered into service agreements with Tesco PLC on 19 July 2014, 9 July 2014 and 5 March 2018, respectively.
These are rolling service agreements with no fixed expiry date.
Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart are entitled to 12 months notice and Charles Wilson six months notice by the Company, and are themselves required to give six months notice.
Termination payments does not apply If the Company terminates an Executive Directors agreement without full notice or it is terminated by an Executive if notice is provided, as per the service Director in response to a serious contractual breach by the Company, then the Executive Director has the right to agreement, or for termination by reason a termination payment to reflect the unexpired term of the notice.
of resignation or unacceptable Any termination payment in lieu of notice will be based on base salary and benefits only, plus any statutory rights.
performance or conduct Termination payments will normally be subject to mitigation and paid in instalments.
The Companys obligation to continue making phased termination payments will cease when the Executive Director commences alternative employment.
Other information The Committee may require an Executive Director to work during their notice period, or may choose to place him or her on garden leave.
The Committee may determine that an Executive Director may remain eligible to receive a pro-rata bonus for the financial year in respect of the period he or she worked.
The Committee will determine the level of bonus taking into account time in active employment and performance.
The Company may reimburse for reasonable legal expenses in the event the Executive Director leaves by mutual consent.
Directors and Officers insurance for a specified period following the Executive Director termination date may be provided.
Where an Executive Director has been recruited from overseas, the Company may pay for repatriation.
Service agreements of the Executive Directors are available to shareholders to view at the Companys registered office.
Share plan rules leaver provisions The treatment of outstanding share awards in the event that an Executive Director leaves is governed by the relevant share plan rules.
The following table summarises leaver provisions under the executive share plans for good leavers, all awards will normally lapse except for good leavers.
In specific circumstances, the Committee may exercise its discretion to modify the policy outlined to the extent that the rules of the share plan allow such discretion.
The Committee will not exercise discretion to allow awards to vest where the participant is dismissed for gross misconduct.
Where an Executive Director leaves as a result of summary dismissal, they will forfeit outstanding share incentive awards.
Good leavers are those who have left the Company due to injury, ill-health or disability, death, redundancy, retirement, the entity which employs the Executive ceasing to be part of the Group or any other reason determined by the Committee taking into account the circumstances of departure and performance.
Share plan Good leavers as determined by the Committee in accordance with the plan rules Executive Incentive Plan 2014 Unvested awards vest at cessation.
Committee has discretion to defer vesting to the normal vesting date.
deferred bonus shares Performance Share Plan 2011 Unvested awards normally vest on the normal date, pro-rated for time, and will take into account performance achieved.
Shares in the holding period will continue to be held until the end of the two-year holding period or the second anniversary of the departure date, whichever is sooner, with the exception of death, in which case shares will be released to the estate.
All-employee share plans Leaver provisions under all-employee share plans are determined in accordance with HMRC approved provisions.
Other vesting circumstances Awards may also vest early to the extent determined by the Committee if: 1.
A participant is transferred to a country, as a result of which the participant will suffer a tax disadvantage or become subject to restrictions on his or her award under the PSP and Executive Incentive Plan 2014 : or 2.
In the event of a takeover, winding-up or other corporate event affecting the Company, which may affect the value of share awards such as a demerger or dividend in specie.
The number of shares under an award which vest in these circumstances will be determined by the Committee.
In the case of the PSP, when determining the level of vesting the Committee will consider performance and the time elapsed since grant.
In the case of the deferred bonus shares under the Executive Incentive Plan 2014 awards will vest in full.
54 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items Fees for the Non-executive Chairman and Non-executive Director fees policy is to pay: The Non-executive Directors are not entitled to Non-executive Directors are set at an appropriate a basic fee for membership of the Board: participate in the annual bonus or Performance level to recruit and retain Directors of a sufficient an additional fee for the Chair of a Committee Share Plan.
calibre to guide and influence Board level decision and the Senior Independent Director to take into The Non-executive Directors have the benefit making without paying more than is necessary.
account the additional responsibilities and time of Directors and Officers liability insurance and Fees are set taking into account the following factors: commitment of the role: and provision of an indemnity and staff discount on the the time commitment required to fulfil the an additional fee for membership of a Committee same basis as other employees.
The Board may role: and to take into account the additional responsibilities introduce additional benefits for Non-executive typical practice at other companies of a similar and time commitment of the role.
Directors if it is considered appropriate to do so.
size and complexity to Tesco.
Additional fees may be paid to reflect additional The Non-executive Chairman may have the benefit Non-executive Directors fees are set by the Board Board or Committee responsibilities as appropriate.
of a company car and driver, home security, staff and the Chairmans fee is set by the Committee Non-executive Directors may also serve on the discount and healthcare for himself and his the Chairman does not take part in any discussion board of Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited.
The Committee may introduce additional about his fees.
Such Non-executive Directors also receive a basic benefits for the Chairman if it is considered Fees are reviewed by the Board and the Committee fee for serving on this board and additional fees appropriate to do so.
for Committee membership in line with other The Company may reimburse the Non-executive Fees paid to the Non-executive Chairman and members of this board.
Fees for membership Chairman and Non-executive Directors for Non-executive Directors may not exceed the of the board of Tesco Personal Finance Group reasonable expenses in performing their duties aggregate limit of 2m set out in the Companys Limited are determined by the board of Tesco and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
Personal Finance Group Limited and are reviewed The Company will pay reasonable legal fees at appropriate intervals.
for advice in relation to terms of engagement.
The Non-executive Chairman receives an If a Non-executive Director is based overseas all-inclusive fee for the role.
then the Company would meet travel and Where significant travel is required to attend Board accommodation expenditure as required to meetings, additional fees may be paid to reflect fulfil non-executive duties and may settle any this additional time commitment.
tax incurred in relation to these.
Non-executive Director letters of appointment Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment setting out their duties and the time commitment expected.
Appointments are for an initial period of three years after which they are reviewed.
The unexpired term of Non-executive Directors appointments can be found on page 62.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Non-executive Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders every year at the Annual General Meeting.
All Non-executive Directors appointments can be terminated by either party without notice.
Non-executive Directors have no entitlement to compensation on termination.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for shareholders to view at the Companys registered office.
Considering colleagues views While the Committee has not consulted colleagues directly when developing the proposed Remuneration Policy, a significant portion of colleagues are shareholders so are able to express their views in the same way as other shareholders.
The Company undertakes an employee engagement survey, which occurs annually across Tescos global operations and semi-annually for colleagues in the UK.
This survey asks for feedback and comments on many aspects of employment with Tesco, including employee reward and benefits.
This insight, combined with feedback gleaned from social media channels, forms a key part of shaping future plans and taking action to improve.
The Committee reviews information regarding the typical remuneration structure and reward levels for other UK-based employees to provide context when determining the proposed Remuneration Policy.
Considering shareholders views The Committee believes that it is very important to maintain an open dialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
The Committee regularly consults major shareholders regarding potential changes to remuneration arrangements and the views of shareholders are important in determining any final changes.
Going forward, the Committee will continue to liaise with shareholders regarding remuneration matters more generally and Tesco arrangements as appropriate.
It is the Committees intention to consult major shareholders in advance of making any material changes to remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 55 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration.
The following pages and the At a glance section, which together form the Annual Report on Remuneration, have been prepared in accordance with Part 3 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and Rule 9.8.
The Annual Report on Remuneration and the Annual Statement from the Remuneration Committee Chair will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting on 15 June 2018.
Fixed remuneration Salary The Committee considered the Group Chief Executives and Chief Financial Officers base salaries during 2017 18 taking into account pay review budgets across the Group.
As a result, the Committee determined that the base salaries for Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart would remain unchanged in 2018 19.
The base salaries of Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart have remained unchanged since their dates of appointment in 2014.
Dave Lewis Alan Stewart Base salary 2018 19 2017 18 2018 19 2017 18 Increase in year % Nil Nil Nil Nil Annual base salary 000 1,250 1,250 750 750 Base salary received in year 000 1,250 1,250 750 750 Benefits Each Executive Director received a car or cash allowance and the benefit of a driver.
The Company also provided health insurance and life assurance, and security costs to Dave Lewis.
In 2016 17 Dave Lewis received relocation support of 142,000 2017 18: nil.
Details of benefits paid in 2017 18 are set out in At a glance on page 48.
Pension Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart received a cash allowance in lieu of pension of 25% of base salary.
Dave Lewis Alan Stewart Pension 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 Annual cash allowance in lieu of pension % of base salary 25% 25% 25% 25% Annual cash allowance in lieu of pension 000 313 313 188 188 2017 18 variable remuneration 2017 18 annual bonus payouts for the Executive Directors In determining the final level of bonus payable, the Committee considered the wider performance of the Group and noted that management were continuing to make fundamental improvements in the way we serve customers, made strong progress against the six strategic drivers, completed the merger with Booker and reinstated the dividend.
On this basis, the annual bonus will pay out at 72.8% of the maximum for Dave Lewis and 73.9% of the maximum for Alan Stewart.
In accordance with the approved Remuneration Policy, 50% of the payouts will be deferred into Tesco shares for three years, subject to continued employment.
Executive Directors Total annual bonus payout in 2017 18 audited Dave Lewis Alan Stewart Stretch bonus opportunity % of base salary 250% 225% Actual bonus % of maximum 72.8% 73.9% Actual bonus % of base salary 182% 166% Actual bonus 000 2,275 1,247 Deferred into shares 50% of actual bonus 000 1,137.5 623.5 56 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance 2017 18 achievement of individual objectives Executive Director Booker Organisation changes Costs Dave Lewis In December 2017, the Booker merger Action taken this year to simplify the During the year, cost savings of 594m were received clearance from the Competition business included moving to a new service generated towards the 1.5bn medium-term and Markets Authority CMA.
Clearance model in our offices in the UK followed by target.
This was above target of 557m but from the CMA, which was the measure similar changes in Central Europe and the below stretch of 613m, and resulted for this element of bonus, was achieved successful organisation restructure in stores, in a payout of 5.55%.
As a result of this engagement centres and Head Office.
The performance the maximum payout completion of these changes was ahead of was achieved of 6.67%.
target of completion by December 2017 but below stretch of completion by September 2017, and led to a payout of 5.00%.
Executive Director Booker Balance sheet Financials Alan Stewart As above, maximum payout of 6.67%.
During the year, an annual interest saving The Finance Transformation programme of 50.5m was generated primarily through remains on track, with costs below budget.
the early repayment of bonds.
This was This element resulted in performance ahead of target of 30m and stretch of between target and stretch.
50m, and resulted in a maximum payout Cost savings generated from Goods Not of 6.67%.
For Resale of 136m were slightly below stretch of 141m, but above target of 120m.
Payout between target and stretch was achieved of 5.00%.
a Details of the outturn of the financial performance metrics for the 2017 18 annual bonus are set out in At a glance on page 48.
2017 PSP award grant audited The following summarises the PSP awards made to Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart in 2017 18.
Threshold Stretch vesting a Gross number Face value Face value vesting % of face End of Type of award Date of award of shares % of base salary % of face value value vesting period Dave Lewis Nil cost options subject to 11 05 17 1,909,722 275% 3,437,500 20% 100% 11 05 20 performance conditions and continued employment Alan Stewart Nil cost options subject to 11 05 17 1,041,666 250% 1,874,999 20% 100% 11 05 20 performance conditions and continued employment a The face value has been calculated using the closing price on grant of 180p 11 May 2017.
The range of the Companys share price for the year was 166p to 214p.
b The table shows the maximum number of shares that could be released if awards were to vest in full.
c Details of the performance measures and targets applying to the awards were set out in last years annual report.
Implementation of policy in 2018 19 2018 19 salary The base salaries of Dave Lewis, Alan Stewart and Charles Wilson will remain unchanged in 2018 19 at 1,250,000, 750,000 and 575,000, respectively.
2018 19 annual bonus awards The maximum annual bonus opportunity and performance measures for each of the Executive Directors for 2018 19 are as follows: Executive Director Maximum opportunity Dave Lewis 250% Alan Stewart 225% Charles Wilson 200% Measures Weighting Sales growth 40% Group operating profit before exceptional items 40% Strategic Objectives, including stakeholder measures 20% Group operating profit before exceptional items Underpin The strategic objectives for Dave Lewis, Alan Stewart and Charles Wilson include stakeholder measures relating to colleagues, customers and suppliers.
Bonus targets are considered by the Board to be commercially sensitive as they could inform Tescos competitors of its budgeting.
Therefore, we do not publish details of the targets on a prospective basis.
However, we will provide full and transparent disclosure of the targets and the performance against these targets on a retrospective basis in next years Annual Report at the same time that the bonus outcome is reported.
In relation to exchange rates, the 2018 19 targets were set based on 2017 18 average actual foreign exchange rates.
Performance against these targets will be measured based on the same rates in order to ensure consistent treatment of foreign exchange in both targets and actual performance.
To ensure that Executive Directors are not incentivised to grow sales at the expense of satisfactory profitability, a Group operating profit underpin will continue to be applied to the annual bonus below which no portion of the bonus will be paid.
The impact of the merger with Booker Group on the Groups performance has been incorporated into the 2018 19 annual bonus targets.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 57 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued 2018 PSP award grant As set out in the proposed Remuneration Policy commencing on page 50, the value of the PSP awards to be granted to each Executive Director in 2018 and corresponding performance measures are as follows: Executive Director Maximum opportunity Dave Lewis 275% Alan Stewart 250% Charles Wilson 225% Performance measure Definition of measure EPS Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before exceptional items, net pension finance costs and fair value remeasurements on financial instruments.
Free cash flow Free cash flow includes all cash flows from operating and investing activities, and the market purchase of shares in relation to share schemes.
The following items are excluded: investing cash flows that increase decrease items within Group net debt, and cash flows from major corporate acquisitions and disposals.
This measure reflects the cash available to shareholders.
Both financial measures are defined in the same manner as the reported alternative performance measures as set out on pages 150 to 152.
The corresponding incentive targets over the three-year performance period are: Threshold Target Stretch Performance Performance Vesting Performance Performance measure Weighting Vesting level required Vesting level required level required EPS 50% 25% 18.0p 50% 21.2p 100% 24.4p Free cash flow 50% 25% 3.7bn 50% 4.6bn 100% 5.5bn Performance targets are set taking into account internal budget forecasts, the Long Term Plan, external expectations and the need to ensure that targets remain motivational.
The impact of the merger with Booker Group on the Groups performance has been incorporated into the 2018 PSP targets.
2018 PSP award grant Awards made to Dave Lewis, Alan Stewart and Charles Wilson in 2018 will be reported in next years Annual Report.
Dividend equivalents Awards will incorporate the right in cash or shares to receive the value of dividends between grant and exercise in respect of the number of shares that vest.
The calculation of dividend equivalents will assume reinvestment of those dividends in Company shares on a cumulative basis.
Outstanding PSP awards Following completion of the merger with Booker Group on 5 March 2018, the Committee will consider amendments to the targets of outstanding PSP awards to reflect the impact of the merger on the Tesco business going forward and to ensure targets remain suitably stretching.
58 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Performance graph The following chart illustrates the performance of Tesco measured by Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus dividends paid against the FTSE 100, which is a broad market index of which Tesco is a constituent, over a period of nine years.
An additional line to illustrate the Companys performance compared with the FTSE 350 Food and Drug Retailers index over the previous nine years is also included.
TSR performance graph Value of hypothetical 100 investment 300 264 254 250 225 214 191 200 205 172 168 145 150 135 131 130 130 111 110 129 130 107 100 125 100 121 91 100 106 93 78 69 72 50 0 02 2009 02 2010 02 2011 02 2012 02 2013 02 2014 02 2015 02 2016 02 2017 02 2018 Tesco FTSE 350 Food & Drug FTSE 100 Source: Datastream While Total Shareholder Returns have been increasing for Tesco in recent years, the period covered by the chart reflects a period of significant corporate change, including the decision to make a significant reinvestment in our customer offer and withdraw the dividend in 2015, in order to focus on improving the competitiveness of the core UK business and protecting and strengthening the balance sheet.
The sector more broadly has faced a number of challenges in recent years, including consumer uncertainty, significant price competition and cost inflation.
Tesco is in a strong position to deal with these challenges and, reflecting improving performance and confidence in the future prospects for the Company, the Board reinstated the dividend during the current financial year.
Managing executive pay Tesco focuses on executive pay in the context of the overall spend on remuneration across the Group.
The table below sets out a key trend since the current Executive Directors joined the business in 2014, reflecting both a reduction in the numbers of those serving on the Executive Committee and a focus on costs.
Executive remuneration and all colleague costs Indexed change over time 120 100 80 60 01 07 2014 28 02 2015 28 02 2016 28 02 2017 28 02 2018 Average cost of total reward all colleagues Executive Committee base salaries as a % of total Group wage costs The table shows that over the period from July 2014 to the end of February 2018: Executive Committee base salary costs as a proportion of the total Group spend on remuneration fell by a third from 0.18% to 0.12%: and the average total reward package for each colleague across the Group, inclusive of variable pay outcomes, rose by around 1.5%.
Tesco will continue to focus on the relationship between executive pay and the wider workforce in the period ahead and we intend to develop further our disclosure on this topic.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 59 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Executive Directors interests in shares and shareholding guidelines audited The table below sets out shares held by the Executive Directors and their connected persons including beneficial interests and a summary of outstanding share awards.
Unvested Vested but deferred unexercised Ordinary Ordinary annual bonus Unvested PSP nil cost Unvested nil shares shares options awards options, not cost options Current Shareholding beneficially beneficially subject to subject to subject to not subject to shareholding requirement owned owned continued performance performance performance % of base % of base Executive Director at 25 02 17 at 24 02 18 employment conditions conditions conditions salary salary Dave Lewis 101,870 103,346 1,604,104 5,668,394 2,151,647 344% 400% Alan Stewart 51,813 53,033 859,948 3,091,849 838,158 57,255 269% 300% a Value of Executive Directors shareholdings based on the three-month average share price to 24 February 2018 of 205p.
b Vested and unvested options include dividend equivalents added since the date of grant.
c Shares used to determine the shareholding guideline are shares beneficially owned and shares held in plans which are not subject to performance conditions on a net of tax basis.
d Between 25 February and 10 April 2018, Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart both acquired 68 partnership shares under the all-employee Share Incentive Plan.
No other changes in Executive Director share interests occurred in the period.
In accordance with the approved shareholding guidelines, Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart have five years to meet the guidelines i. e. until 1 September and 23 September 2019, respectively.
Since appointment, Dave Lewis and Alan Stewart have made material progress towards meeting the guidelines and are expected to meet them within the allotted time period.
Under the proposed Remuneration Policy, Executive Directors will be required to retain all shares that vest, net of any tax liabilities, until the requirement is met.
Executive Committee members are required to build up a shareholding of 200% of base salary in Tesco shares within five years of appointment to the Executive Committee.
As at the date of this report, this had been met by all Executive Committee members, except Jane Lawrie, Alessandra Bellini and Matt Simister who were appointed on 10 October 2016, 1 March 2017 and 1 April 2017, respectively.
In line with the Executive Directors, under the proposed Remuneration Policy, Executive Committee members will be required to retain all shares that vest until the requirement is met.
As at 10 April 2018, Charles Wilson held 113,675,542 Tesco shares significantly exceeding his shareholding guideline of 200% of base salary.
In accordance with the terms of his Lock-up Agreement these shares will be held by him for five years from 5 March 2018.
Executive Directors interests in share awards Financial year awards vesting in 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 2018 19 2019 20 2020 21 Dave Lewis Vested awards 454,694 611,205 613,365 472,383 Options subject to service 939,720 655,815 Options subject to performance and service PSP 1,566,987 2,161,405 1,909,722 SAYE options exercise price 1.51 11,920 Alan Stewart Vested awards 254,231 328,841 255,086 Options subject to service 56,950 507,449 347,906 Options subject to performance and service PSP 854,720 1,178,948 1,041,666 SAYE options exercise price 1.51 11,920 a No options lapsed or were exercised by Dave Lewis in 2017 18. b 308,543 nil cost options granted to Alan Stewart on 24 October 2014 as part of a buy out agreement for share options forfeited on leaving his previous employer lapsed in 2017 18.
No options were exercised by him in 2017 18. c All options lapse 10 years after grant.
d Vested awards include dividend equivalents added since the date of grant.
Change in Group Chief Executive remuneration compared with changes in colleague remuneration In the UK, the total reward package for a typical customer assistant is ahead of the voluntary Living Wage on a national basis and the same hourly rate is paid to all colleagues regardless of age.
The Company is committed to rewarding colleagues with a total reward package that provides them with choice and that they really value.
The table below shows the percentage change in remuneration for the Group Chief Executive and the average UK colleague from 2016 17 to 2017 18.
The Committee decided to use UK colleagues as the appropriate comparator group as pay changes across the Group depending on local market conditions, UK colleagues constitute the majority of Tescos colleagues and the Group Chief Executive is predominantly based in the UK, albeit with a global role and responsibilities.
Salary Benefits Bonus % change from % change from % change from 2016 17 to 2017 18 2016 17 to 2017 18 2016 17 to 2017 18 Group Chief Executive 0% 71 % 3.6 % Average UK colleague 5.25% 0% 13 % Bonuses for 2017 18 for UK eligible colleagues paid out on average at 69% of the maximum bonus opportunity 2016 17: 82%.
60 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Group Chief Executive remuneration history 2009 10 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 16 2016 17 2017 18 Sir Terry Sir Terry Philip Philip Philip Philip Dave Dave Dave Dave b Leahy Leahy Clarke Clarke Clarke Clarke Lewis Lewis Lewis Lewis Group Chief Executive single 7,100 7,150 4,595 1,280 1,634 764 4,133 4,632 4,147 4,874 figure of remuneration 000 a Annual bonus outturn 89% 75% 0% 0% 0% 0% n a 96% 76% 73% % of maximum award PSP vest % of maximum award 83% 75% 46.5% 0% 0% 0% n a n a n a 30% Share option vesting 100% 100% 100% 0% n a n a n a n a n a n a % of maximum award a Philip Clarke elected not to take a bonus for 2011 12 and left the Board on 1 September 2014. b The single figure total for 2014 15 includes one-off buyout awards made to Dave Lewis to compensate him for awards forfeited from his previous employer.
The awards were made based on the expected value of the awards forfeited, taking into account performance at his previous employer and delivered in restricted shares which vest subject to continued employment by Tesco.
Since these were awards related to previous employment, and not subject to Tesco performance conditions, there is no direct alignment with Tescos performance in 2014 15.
The awards had no impact on the single figure for 2015 16 or any future years.
Relative importance of spend on pay The chart shows total colleague pay compared with distributions to shareholders and for further context, Group operating profit before exceptional items.
Tescos colleagues are essential to how the Company does business and meets the needs of its customers.
In 2017 18, Tesco employed, on average, 448,988 colleagues across the Group 2016 17: 464,520. m 7,362 7,233 1,644 1,280 82 0 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 2016 17 2017 18 Total Distributions Group operating profit employee pay to shareholders before exceptional items Total employee pay includes wages and salaries, social security, pension and share-based costs at actual exchange rates 7,233m in 2017 18 and 7,362m in 2016 17 see Note 3 of the financial statements.
Distributions to shareholders include interim and final dividends paid in respect of each financial year nil in 2016 17 and 82m in 2017 18 see Note 8 of the financial statements.
There were no share buy-backs in 2016 17 or 2017 18.
Further information on remuneration in 2017 18 Payments to former Directors and for loss of office audited There were no payments made to former Directors that exceeded the fide minimis threshold of 10,000 set by the Company.
There were no payments for loss of office made to Directors in the year.
Risk management When developing the remuneration structures, the Committee considered whether any aspect of these might encourage risk taking or inappropriate behaviours that are incompatible with Tescos values and the long-term interests of shareholders.
If necessary, the Committee would take appropriate steps to address this.
The Committee also has the discretion to apply malus and clawback in certain circumstances.
Outside appointments In 2017 18, Alan Stewart received 92,000 2016 17: 92,000 in fees and a product allowance of 1,250 as a non-executive director of Diageo plc.
He does not receive any fees as a Director of Tesco Personal Finance Group Limited Tesco Bank.
Funding of equity awards Executive Director incentive arrangements are funded by a mix of newly issued shares and shares purchased in the market.
Where shares are newly issued, the Company complies with Investment Association dilution guidelines on their issue.
The current dilution usage of discretionary plans is 2.6% of shares in issue.
Where shares are purchased in the market, these may be held by Tesco Employees Share Scheme Trustees Limited or Tesco International Employee Benefit Trust in which case the voting rights relating to the shares are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
At 24 February 2018, the Trusts held 13,311,503 shares.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 61 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Implementation of remuneration policy for Non-executive Directors in 2017 18 Non-executive Directors dates of appointment Appointment end date in accordance Director Date of appointment Notice period with letter of appointment John Allan 1 March 2015 None AGM 2018 Mark Armour 2 September 2013 None AGM 2018 Stewart Gilliland 5 March 2018 None AGM 2018 Steve Golsby 1 October 2016 None AGM 2018 Byron Grote 1 May 2015 None AGM 2018 Mikael Olsson 1 November 2014 None AGM 2018 Deanna Oppenheimer 1 March 2012 None AGM 2018 Simon Patterson 1 April 2016 None AGM 2018 Alison Platt 1 April 2016 None AGM 2018 Lindsey Pownall 1 April 2016 None AGM 2018 Non-executive Director fees Non-executive Director fees are reviewed periodically by the Board, with the last increase taking effect from 1 March 2017.
Non-executive Director fees will be reviewed in 2018 19, with any changes taking effect from 1 March 2019.
The structure of fees paid to Non-executive Directors in 2018 19 will remain unchanged from the prior year as set out below.
Additional fees: Senior Independent Director 27,000 p. a.
Chairs of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility or Remuneration Committees 31,000 p. a.
Membership of Audit, Corporate Responsibility, Nominations and Governance or Remuneration Committees 12,500 p. a. for each Committee The Company reimburses the Directors for reasonable expenses in performing their duties and may settle any tax incurred in relation to these.
The Company will pay reasonable legal fees for advice in relation to terms of engagement.
For Non-executive Directors based overseas the Company meets travel and accommodation expenditure as required to fulfil their duties.
Chairmans fee John Allan was appointed as Non-executive Chairman with effect from 1 March 2015.
He receives a fee of 650,000 p. a. inclusive of all Board fees, which was fixed for a period of three years and will be reviewed in 2018 19.
He may have the benefit of home security, colleague discount and healthcare for himself and his partner.
Fees paid during 2017 18 audited The following table sets out the fees paid to the Non-executive Directors for the year ended 24 February 2018.
Non-executive Directors are not paid a pension and do not participate in any of the Companys variable incentive schemes.
The Non-executive Directors taxable expenses comprised travel, hotel and subsistence expenses related to their role and have been grossed up for tax, where applicable.
b Steve Golsby joined the Board on 1 October 2016.
62 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Corporate governance Beneficial share ownership audited The table below outlines the current share interests of the Non-executive Directors.
Shareholdings include shares held by connected persons.
Non-executive Directors are subject to the same share dealing policy as Executive Directors and there were no changes to their share interests between 25 February and 10 April 2018.
Non-executive Director Ordinary shares held at 24 February 2018 Ordinary shares held at 25 February 2017 a John Allan 284,082 224,349 Mark Armour 50,000 25,000 Steve Golsby 42,296 b Byron Grote 243,000 173,700 Mikael Olsson 20,101 5,000 b Deanna Oppenheimer 109,041 103,500 Simon Patterson 100,000 Alison Platt 11,242 Lindsey Pownall 20,000 a John Allan also held 398,000 bonds in the Company at 24 February 2018 298,000 bonds at 25 February 2017. b Byron Grote and Deanna Oppenheimer held their shares in the form of American Depositary Receipts.
Each ADR is equivalent to three Ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company.
c On his appointment to the Board on 5 March 2018, Stewart Gilliland held 43,050 Ordinary shares.
The Remuneration Committee in 2017 18 Operation of the Remuneration Committee The Committee schedules meetings two years in advance.
During the year, it held four scheduled meetings and three ad hoc meetings.
Ad hoc meetings were convened to consider matters in relation to the Booker merger and the Remuneration Policy.
The Directors biographies can be found on pages 28 and 29.
No member of the Committee has any personal financial interest in the matters being decided, other than as a shareholder, nor any day-to-day involvement in running the business of Tesco.
Steve Golsby joined the Committee on 2 October 2017.
Steve has attended all scheduled meetings subsequent to his appointment.
Robert Welch, Group Company Secretary, is Secretary to the Committee and the Group Chief Executive attends meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
The Group Chief Executive is not present when his own remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee is supported by Alison Horner Chief People Officer as well as the Reward, Corporate Secretariat and Finance functions.
Relations with Tesco Bank As required by the Financial Conduct Authority, Tesco Bank has a separate, independent remuneration committee.
The Committee is consulted on, and makes recommendations in relation to, the remuneration arrangements for Tesco Bank colleagues, with the aim of encouraging consistency with Group remuneration policy, but it does not make decisions in relation to, or direct, how remuneration is managed within Tesco Bank.
Remuneration Committee activities 2017 18 The following provides a summary of the key areas of focus of the Committee during the year: Strategy and policy Assessed the external environment in respect of the Companys current remuneration arrangements.
Reviewed remuneration arrangements below Board level.
Reviewed external market developments and best practice in remuneration.
Appointments and cessations Approved the remuneration of Charles Wilson, CEO, UK & ROI.
Approved cessation terms for Matt Davies.
Pay Reviewed Executive Directors and senior managers base salaries.
Short-term incentives Reviewed performance against targets and determined annual bonus outturn.
Considered the design, metrics and approach to targets for the 2017 18 annual bonus.
Long-term incentives Reviewed performance against targets and determined 2014 PSP outturn.
Considered the approach to be taken for the 2018 PSP award.
Monitored performance of outstanding PSP awards against targets.
Governance and other matters Consulted with leading shareholders and representative bodies on the proposed Remuneration Policy.
Reviewed shareholder feedback on 2017 Annual Report.
Considered institutional investors guidelines on executive remuneration.
Reviewed shareholding guidelines and progress of Executive Directors and Executive Committee members.
Approved the 2016 17 Directors remuneration report.
Received report from Tesco Bank remuneration committee.
Reviewed the Committees performance and terms of reference.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 63 Directors remuneration report continued Annual report on remuneration continued Committee advisers The Committee has authority to obtain the advice of external independent remuneration consultants.
It is solely responsible for their appointment, retention and termination and for approval of the basis of their fees and other terms.
PwC was appointed adviser to the Committee in 2015 following a comprehensive selection process.
The Chair of the Committee agrees the protocols under which PwC provides advice.
PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and adheres to this Code in its dealings with the Committee.
Willis Towers Watson also provided the Committee with benchmarking data and assessments during the year and fees for this were 41,000 2016 17: 49,000.
During the year, PwC provided independent advice and commentary on a range of topics including remuneration trends, corporate governance, review of the Remuneration Policy and consulting with major shareholders.
PwC fees for advice provided to the Committee were 166,000 2016 17: 155,000.
Fees are charged on a time and materials basis.
PwC also provided general consultancy services to management during the year.
Separate teams within PwC provided unrelated advisory services in respect of corporate tax compliance, technology consulting and internal audit services during the year.
However, the Committee is satisfied that these activities do not compromise the independence or objectivity of the advice it has received from PwC.
Compliance In carrying out its duties, the Committee gives full consideration to best practice, including investor guidelines.
The Committee was constituted and operated throughout the period in accordance with the principles outlined in the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority.
The auditors report, set out on pages 68 to 73, covers the disclosures referred to in this report that are specified for audit by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Shareholder voting Tesco remains committed to ongoing shareholder dialogue and carefully reviews voting outcomes on remuneration matters.
In the event of a substantial vote against a resolution in relation to Directors remuneration, Tesco would seek to understand the reasons for any such vote, and would detail any actions taken in response in the next Directors remuneration report.
Voting outcome for 2016 17 Remuneration Report AGM resolution % of votes For Against a Remuneration Report 90.6% 9.4% a 6,358,332 votes were withheld.
Votes withheld are not counted in the votes for or against a resolution but would be considered by the Committee in the event of a significant number of votes being withheld.
Voting outcome for Remuneration Policy at 2015 AGM when the current policy was approved AGM resolution % of votes For Against a Remuneration Policy 96.5% 3.5% a 473,362,689 votes were withheld.
Approved by the Board 10 April 2018 Deanna Oppenheimer Remuneration Committee Chair 64 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018
