Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION ANNUAL STATEMENT REPORT BY CHAIR OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE DEAR SHAREHOLDERS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present our Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 30 September 2018.
OUR PERFORMANCE IN FY18 As noted elsewhere, 2018 was a year of mixed fortunes for Thomas Cook.
The Tour Operator business in particular was impacted by a prolonged period of hot weather across our source markets in the critical last few months of the year.
This resulted in reduced revenue, which when combined with increased spend on transformation activities, impacted both EBIT and Unlevered Free Cash Flow.
CHAIRMAN Despite the disappointing year-end result, the business made good Warren Tucker strategic progress through the year which positions us well to drive performance improvement.
Delivery of strategic goals included the OTHER MEMBERS launch of our alliance with Expedia in the first five markets, the Dawn Airey, Annet Aris, Paul Edgecliffe-Johnson and Lesley Knox.
launch of our hotel investment fund and the opening of twelve own-brand hotels including the first Cooks Club in Crete.
COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE All members of the Committee are Independent The long-term sustainability of the business is based on the delivery Non-Executive Directors.
of a very clear strategy to transform Thomas Cook into a more streamlined business that puts the Customer at our Heart.
We believe DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES that this strategy continues to be the right one to distinguish us from See pages 64 to 66 our competition and create real value for our customers.
Our Remuneration Policy the Policy directly links Executive Directors MEETINGS ALSO ATTENDED BY: pay to the achievement of stretching performance targets which The Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors, Peter underpin this strategy.
The Committee ensures that the performance Fankhauser CEO, Alice Marsden Group General Counsel & measures in the incentive plans reflect the Key Performance Company Secretary, Pete Smith Mercer and members of the Indicators KPIs of the business and therefore align the interests HR Leadership Team as required, being Julie Armstrong Group ofthe Executive Directors to those of our Shareholders.
HR Director, Caroline Forsyth Group Reward Director and Emily Hallett Head of Executive Remuneration.
All attendees are by PAY PHILOSOPHY invitation only.
Our approach is always to ensure that our Policy is aligned with our strategy, with outcomes that are fair and have a strong link SCHEDULED MEETINGS to the delivery of good performance.
This remains our priority as Six a Committee.
As set out in the Policy, fixed pay is set at median levels against the market, and the provision of benefits set by the local market in which the Executive Director operates.
Variable remuneration is a This report is set out in the following key sections: combination of both short and long-term incentives which are linked to the execution of the strategy.
ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF THE REMUNER ATIONCOMMIT TEE We set stretching targets to incentivise and reward profitable See pages 88 to 90 growth, disciplined cash management, great customer service, high levels of colleague engagement and long-term value creation for our DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Shareholders.
The diagram below shows the alignment between See pages 91 to 99 ourstrategy as set out on pages 2 to 9 and KPIs as set out on page32.
ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION See pages 100 to 109 88 Governance Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 LINKING PAY WITH PERFORMANCE HOW EACH KPI IS REFLECTED IN INCENTIVES OUR VISION KPIS WE USE TO AND STRATEGY MEASURE PERFORMANCE Annual Bonus Performance Share Plan PSP 1 Underlying EBIT Core Measure Interests are further aligned withShareholders through Total Our vision is to be the most Earnings Per Share EPS Core Measure Shareholder Return lovedholiday company.
TSR as a Core Customerat our Heart sits Measure firmlyat the centre of our Unlevered Free Cash Flow Core Measure visionand our strategy for sustainable growth Net Promoter Score NPS Core Measure Our key performance indicators, measure the successof our strategy Role-specific measure Colleague Engagement See more on page 32 Leadership Note: 1 Any reference to underlying EBIT in the Directors Remuneration Report is stated in line with the definition explained in Appendix 1 in the Financial Review Use of Alternative Performance Measures onpage 54.
CFO Departure REMUNERATION OUTCOMES IN FY18 As has been announced, Bill Scott will be leaving Thomas Cook on Short-term incentives 31 May 2019 having stepped down from the Board with effect from We continue to make progress against our strategic objectives, 30 November 2018.
The Committee agreed Bills leaving arrangements achieving a number of important milestones over the year which are in line with the Policy and the details were also disclosed at the shown in the strategic projects outcomes for the FY18 Bonus Plan on time on our website.
Full details of the arrangements are set out pages 102 and 103.
However, following challenging trading conditions onpage107.
in the summer, we did not achieve our financial targets nor our performance hurdles and in accordance with the FY18 Bonus Plan In order to ensure continuity, we are pleased that Sten Daugaard, rules no bonusis payable.
who has served as a Non-Executive Director on the Board of our German subsidiary, has assumed the CFO role on an interim basis Targets and outcomes for the year are fully disclosed on page 102. until a permanent successor is appointed.
Stens knowledge and Long-term incentives experience will be a valuable addition as we continue to deliver our business transformation.
The PSP award made in FY16 granted in December 2015 is subject to the achievement of performance conditions relating to FY18.
This was Committee activities the first award made under the new performance conditions of EPS Committee activities during the year included: and TSR.
As performance against the targets have not been achieved, awards held by Executive Directors will lapse on the third anniversary ongoing dialogue with Shareholders: ofthe grant date in December 2018.
The targets and outcomes under deciding the salary increase for the CEO for April 2018, this award are shown on page 103. resulting in an increase of two per cent, in line with the overall employee population: Overall variable pay compared to the maximum available determining performance against the targets set under the FY18 Financial outcomes reflect the challenging trading conditions of Annual Bonus Plan: summer 2018 and additionally the Group NPS score for the year deciding on the continued operation of the terms of the Annual showed a slight decline.
This is clearly disappointing as it fails to Bonus Plan and setting targets for the FY19 Plan: reflect the considerable progress management has made to transform determining award levels under the PSP for the grant to be made in the business for sustainable growth.
As was the case last year, the PSP award will only vest subject year reflect these results and are shown below compared with the to challenging Relative TSR and EPS targets described more fully on maximum available: page 106: approving the exit arrangements for Bill Scott: approving the remuneration of Sten Daugaard in line with the Policy: CEO Considering the adjustment to prior year accounts and whether 1.02m 2.6m there should be any impact on deferred remuneration: actual maximum taking into consideration gender pay gap, employee terms and conditions and corporate governance developments throughout the CFO year and: performing annual governance checks: including the review of 0.39m 0.95m dilution limits, shareholding levels against the Policy, and reviewing actual maximum risks associated with executive remuneration.
Base salary Benefits incl pension Bonus PSP 89 Thomas Cook Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 ANNUAL STATEMENT BY CHAIR OF REMUNERATION COMMITTEE CONTINUED FY18 APPROACH FOR FY19 Role Chief Chief Chief Salary reviews Executive Financial Financial Officer Officer Officer Salary reviews are undertaken annually in April of each year.
Bill Scott Michael Overall salary increases for the Group for 2019 have not yet been Healy considered, with the exception that any increase that is awarded Bonus % of base salary 0% 0% 0% toExecutive Directors in April 2019 will not exceed the increase payment provided to the general employee population.
0 0 0 LTIP awards % of maximum None None None Short-term incentives vesting award vesting Three years ago, we reviewed our bonus plan the Plan to align it to in the year our Customer at our Heart strategy.
The Plan was rolled out to all Number of vested None None None shares bonusable roles across the Group, where possible, and continues to be operated consistently across the Group.
The FY19 Plan will Note: have more emphasis on operating profit, which takes account of Michael Healy was eligible for a FY18 bonus payment for the period 1 October 2017 to 31 March 2018, however, in accordance with calculated outcomes, no bonus is payable.
spend on separately disclosed items, and more focus on free cash flow generation.
There will be full retrospective disclosure of targets ENGAGING WITH COLLEAGUES and performance against these targets in next years Directors We are conscious of recent corporate governance developments, Remuneration Report.
The annual bonus opportunity will remain the reporting of which will apply to us from 1 January 2019 and we at 150per cent of base salary with one third of any payment being are working towards implementing and reporting against them.
As the Chairman explained in his Corporate Governance Statement Long-term incentives on page 62, we are looking at ways we can give the Remuneration The Committee intends to grant PSP awards in early January 2019.
Committee better visibility of colleague pay across the Group Due to the fall in the share price, the Committee decided that at the including introducing a new workforce dashboard into Remuneration present time FY19 PSP Awards should be scaled back by 50%, although Committee packs and inviting the new Colleague Advisory NED to if there is a material change to the share price this may be adjusted attend Remuneration Committee meetings, so that the Committee to reflect the share price at the time of award.
The performance can better consider colleague pay and views and provide for the best conditions for the award will be Relative TSR and Basic EPS, the target possible alignment with Executive pay.
range of which is disclosed on page 106.
CLOSING REMARKS REMUNERATION AT A GLANCE As a Committee, we believe that our approach to remuneration The table below shows the remuneration arrangements for Executive closely aligns the interests of Executive Directors to the interests of Directors for FY19 and provides a high-level summary of the outcomes our Shareholders.
In the coming months, we will begin work on our forthe year: Directors Remuneration Policy to be put to a Shareholder vote at our AGM in February 2020 and we will be consulting with you in respect of FY19 this next year.
Our aim remains to ensure a clear link between pay and Name Peter Fankhauser Bill Scott performance and we will continue to operate in accordance with our Annual salary 732,100 420,000 Policy that rewards for the execution of our Customer at our Heart strategy, and the delivery of long-term Shareholder value.
Maximum bonus 150% of base salary 150% of base salary opportunity one-third WARREN TUCKER tobe prorated for deferred into shares timeserved CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE for two years PSP award subject to 75% of base salary No award performance 28 November 2018 90
