Overview Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors Remuneration report In the interests of succinct reporting, the Directors Remuneration Policy, which remains unchanged, is not Annual statement by the Chairman reproduced in full in this report.
An overview of the Policy as of the Remuneration Committee well as how it was implemented in 2018 and how it will be implemented in 2019 follows this letter.
The Policy can be found in full in our 2017 Annual Report, on our website tifluidsystems.
CFO transition In January 2019, the Company announced that Timothy Knutson had informed the Group of his intention to step down from the Board.
It was agreed that Timothy would remain as the Chief Financial Officer while the Group completes an orderly transition to a suitable replacement.
The transition is expected to be Neil Carson completed by the end of 2019.
Remuneration Committee Chairman Corporate Governance In advance of the Companys Admission, the Remuneration Committee undertook a review of the Remuneration Policy to ensure that it was fit for purpose for the Company going forward.
Dear Shareholder, This included ensuring that it was entirely consistent with the As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and best present the TI Fluid Systems Directors Remuneration Report.
market practice at that time.
TI Fluid Systems, a global business, is unique relative to other During the year the Committee reviewed our remuneration FTSE 250 companies, where its management team is based in arrangements in-light of the revised UK Corporate Governance the United States along with several other competing tier one Code to ensure our continued compliance.
As a result of the automotive supplier management teams.
Given that TI Fluid changes to the Code, the Committee identified a number of Systems is the only automotive supply company on the FTSE areas for consideration including the development of a post- 250, there is not a significant pool of comparable executives in employment shareholding guideline.
These are currently under the United Kingdom with a deep understanding and experience review and will be published in next years Remuneration Report.
in the automotive industry: which are key success factors.
Neil Carson When the Company was listed, the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee recognised and complied with UK remuneration structure 19 March 2019 standards while balancing incentive compensation arrangements to reflect the competitive US market in which our Executive Directors operate.
We believe this approach balances the compliance and regulatory requirements of a FTSE 250 company while attempting to attract, motivate and retain top automotive expertise to the Company.
When TI Fluid Systems became a UK listed company, variable compensation was reduced and salaries were not increased.
We also introduced UK best practice provisions from a UK governance perspective: with bonus deferral, a holding period on the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, structuring the LTIP with solely performance based conditional share awards, shareholding guidelines at 300% of salary and malus and clawback triggers.
These elements are not usual US practice and impact the competitiveness of our compensation package to our US management.
Furthermore, we have not enhanced the Executive Directors pension and health care provisions to be consistent with the more generous UK norms.
We have continued to monitor the policy and have engaged with some of our major shareholders and proxy voting bodies over the last year to further explain our rationale for the current structure and why we believe it is fit for purpose.
TI Fluid Systems plc Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53
