REMUNERATION REPORT ANNUAL STATEMENT ON REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee is focused on ensuring Executive Directors are rewarded for promoting the longtermsustainable success of the Company and deliveringon its strategy rather than shortterm returns.
DEAR SHAREHOLDER On behalf of the Board, I am presenting the Remuneration Committees report for 2018 on Directors remuneration.
Thereport is divided intothree main sections: our Annual Statement, which provides a summary of the year under review and the Committees intentions going forward: the Directors Remuneration Policy Report, which was formally approved by shareholders atthe 2017 Annual General Meeting AGM on 26April 2017 and sets out the forwardlooking threeyear Directors Remuneration Policy for the Company which commenced 1 January 2017: and the 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration, which provides details of the remuneration earned by Directors in the year ended 31 December 2018.
2018 Board changes During 2018, Tullow announced a number ofchanges to its Board, notably: the appointment of Dorothy Thompson as The Remuneration Committee aligns independent nonexecutive Director and reward with the Companys Values ChairDesignate of Tullow with effect from the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 25 April 2018, and long-term strategy.
and her appointment as Chair at the conclusion Tutu Agyare, Chair of the  of the Board meeting on 20 July 2018.
On her appointment as a nonexecutive Director, Dorothy joined Tullows Environment, Health and Safety EHS Committee and the Nominations Committee, becoming Chair of the Nominations Committee atthe conclusion of the Board meeting on 20July2018: Aidan Heavey, former Chairman of Tullow Oil plc, retired from the Board following the conclusion of the Board meeting on 20 July 2018: and Anne Drinkwater also stepped down from the Board following the conclusion of the AGM on 25April 2018 when Mike Daly became Chair of the EHS Committee and Tutu Agyare was appointed asa member of the Audit Committee.
com 83 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 2017 Remuneration Policy onits strategic, financial and operational targets, The Policy is based on a structure linking the which resulted in a final score of 38.4 per cent Groups ongoing strategy and business goals to outof 50 per cent.
Set out below are the main features continued to focus on the deleveraging of the balance of the 2017 Policy which are explained in greater sheet and the generation of free cash flow.
The detail in the Remuneration Policy Report.
Jubilee Turret Remediation Project was successfully completed.
2018 also saw an improvement in Total Tullow Incentive Plan TIP Shareholder Return with performance against our The maximum annual award opportunity peer group contributing to the corporate scorecard is400per cent of base salary.
achievement of 21.9 per cent out of 50 per cent.
Fulldetails of performance against the KPIs is Full vesting of the TSR performance shown on pages 94 to 96. conditiontobe triggered at upper quartile 75thpercentile performance.
Shareholder dialogue and stakeholder engagement Discretion to settle any portion of the annual Your views of remuneration are important to cash bonus component of a TIP award in theBoard and for that reason the Committee deferred shares.
consulted with shareholders on the 2017 Policy inlate 2016 and early 2017 and regularly offers The Committee believes that the Policy at these levels tomeet and discuss policy with shareholders.
aligns interests of management and shareholders TheCommittee will do the same in 2019 as the and incentivises, motivates and retains our valued Committee prepares to review the Directors Executive Directors.
Further details are shown Remuneration Policy ahead of the AGM in 2020. inthe Directors Remuneration Policy Report.
During 2018, I and fellow members of the Committee Performance and reward for 2018 engaged with staff during visits to the Groups offices The Committee continues to monitor Executive and operations, including in Ghana, Kenyaand base salaries in an effort to remain competitive South Africa, such visits help the Board to gain and appropriately placed in the international oil insight into the culture of the organisation and and gas industry.
hear the employees views firsthand.
In 2019, we will continue to do this but the Committee will also As part of the annual salary review process for benefit fromreceiving the views of the workforce 2018, the Committee used the approved 2017 on remuneration arrangements via the Groups Policy and salaries for the Executive Directors were workforce advisory panels.
adjusted to take into account Tullows market position and benchmark data for the international Finally, on behalf of the Committee, I would like oil and gas sector.
tothank shareholders for their vote approving the2018 Annual Statement and Annual Report The overall impact of this change was an increase onRemuneration at the last AGM and lookforward of 3 per cent in CEO, CFO and Exploration Director to your continued support over the coming year.
salaries, which was consistent with the wider decisions made regarding employee pay: If you have any comments or questions on any PaulMcDades salary was increased to 746,750: element of the report, please email me at LesWoods salary was increased to 448,050: and remunerationchair@tullowoil.
AngusMcCoss salary was increased to 422,300.
For 2019, in view of UK inflation, salary inflation and benchmarking data, the Committee has decided toincrease the salaries of the Executive Directors by 3 per cent and, again, this decision Tutu Agyare took into account and is consistent with the Chair of the Remuneration Committee widerdecisions made regarding workforce pay andarrangements.
12 February 2019 In addition, with effect from 1 January 2019, the Chairs fee is 300,000 and the base nonexecutive Directors fee is set at 65,000.
This is following arecent review of benchmark data and in the context of a previous reduction of nonexecutive Director fees.
NoDirector was involved in deciding their own remuneration outcome.
The performance targets set for 2018 in respect ofthe TIP awards to be granted in 2019 were challenging.
However, the Group performed well 84 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Preparation of this report COMPONENTS OF REMUNERATION This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Large and FIXED PAY Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Amendment Regulations 2013, which came into force on BASE SALARY 1October 2013 and which set out the reporting requirements in respect of Directors remuneration, and the Listing Rules.
The legislation requires the external auditor to state whether, in its opinion, the parts of the report that are subject to audit have been properly prepared in accordance with the relevant legislation and these parts have been highlighted.
PENSION AND BENEFITS Pension DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Benefits Medical insurance REPORT VOLUNTARY DISCLOSURE Permanent health insurance Although Tullow is not required to present the current Life assurance Remuneration Policy Report this year, nor to submit the Remuneration Policy to a binding vote, in line with best practice on corporate reporting, we have included for reference on the following pages the Remuneration Policy forthe Company which commenced 1 January 2017 and became formally effective following approval from shareholders PERFORMANCE through a binding vote at the 2017 AGM.
This section also RELATED explains how the Remuneration Policy will be operated TULLOW INCENTIVE PLAN during2019.
Annual award of cash up to 100 per cent of salary Policy overview Balance awarded in shares The principles of the Remuneration Committee are to ensure up to 300 per cent of salary that remuneration is linked toTullows strategy and promote the attraction, motivation andretention of the highest quality executives who are key todelivering sustainable longterm value growth and substantial returns to shareholders.
Consideration of shareholders views The Committee considers shareholder feedback received atthe AGM each year and, more generally, guidance from TOTAL REMUNERATION shareholder representative bodies.
This feedback, plus any additional feedback received during any meetings from time to time, is considered as part of the Companys annual review of the continuing appropriateness of the Remuneration Policy.
Glossary Employment conditions elsewhere in the Group AGM Annual General Meeting In setting the Remuneration Policy and remuneration levels for Executive Directors, the Committee is cognisant of the Capex Capital expenditure approach to rewarding employees in the Group and levels of DSBP Deferred Share Bonus Plan pay increases generally.
The Committee does not currently formally consult directly with employees on the Executive pay EHS Environment, health and safety policy, but it does receive regular updates from Claire Hawkings, Executive Vice President, Organisational Strategy & Company ESOS 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme Performance EVP OS&CP.
HMRC Her Majestys Revenue and Customs The following differences exist between the Companys policy for the remuneration of Executive Directors, as detailed in the Opex Operating expenses summary table overleaf, and its approach to the payment of employees generally: PSP Performance Share Plan benefits offered to other employees generally include a SIP UK Share Incentive Plan performance bonus award of up to 35 per cent of salary: TIP Tullow Incentive Plan TSR Total Shareholder Return www.
com 85 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Employment conditions elsewhere in the Group continued The choice of the performance metrics applicable to the TIP, pension provision of a payment of 10 per cent of salary which are set by the Committee at the start of the relevant intoour Company defined contribution plan, increasing financial year, reflects the Committees belief that any to15 per cent of salary for employees over 50: and incentive compensation should be appropriately challenging and tied to the delivery of stretching financial, operational and participation in the TIP is limited to the Executive Directors TSRrelated objectives, explicitly linked to the achievement of and Senior Management according to their role and Tullows longterm strategy.
All other employees are eligible to participate in the Companys below Boardlevel sharebased plans.
In addition to the TIP, Executive Directors are also eligible toparticipate in the UK SIP on the same terms as other In general, these differences exist to ensure that remuneration employees.
Allemployee share plans do not operate arrangements are market competitive for all levels of role in performance conditions.
Whilst there is a performance link to remuneration for all employees, in the case of the Executive Directors and Calculation of TIP awards Senior Management, a greater emphasis tends to be placed In addition to base salary and other benefits described in on variable pay given their opportunity to impact directly upon theRemuneration Policy, each Executive Director shall be Company performance.
eligible to receive an award issued under the rules of the TIP a TIP award.
The TIP combines short and longterm Summary of Directors Remuneration Policy incentivebased pay and includes a cash bonus component The table on pages 87 to 89 sets out a summary of each and a deferred share award component.
element of the Directors remuneration packages, their link to the Companys strategy, the policy for how these are operated, At the beginning of each financial year, the Committee will the maximum opportunity and the performance framework.
determine a multiple of base salary, subject to the limits Although not part of the Remuneration Policy Report, the established under this Policy, to apply to a TIP award.
At the column to the right of the table also sets out how the same time the Committee will also determine a balanced Committee intends to apply the Policy for 2019. corporate scorecard of performance metrics applicable to anyTIP award.
The choice of the performance metrics and the Operation of share plans weightings given to them, which are set by the Committee at The Committee will operate the TIP and legacy plans the start of the relevant financial year, reflect the Committees according to their respective rules and in accordance with belief that any incentive compensation should be appropriately theListing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant.
challenging and tied to the delivery of stretching financial, operational and Total Shareholder Return TSR related The Committee, consistent with market practice, retains objectives, explicitly linked to the achievement of Tullows discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and longterm strategy.
administration of the plans in relation to Senior Management, including Executive Directors.
These include but are not Following completion of the financial year, the Committee limited to the following albeit with the level of award willreview the Companys performance against the corporate restricted as set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy : scorecard resulting in a percentage score.
The multiple set bythe Committee is then applied to the percentage score to who participates: determine the total TIP award amount.
A TIP award is divided the timing of grant of awards and or payment: equally between cash bonus and deferred shares up to the first 200 per cent of base salary.
Any portion of a TIP award the size of awards and or payment: above 200 per cent of base salary shall be satisfied in deferred discretion relating to the measurement of performance shares only.
Deferred shares forming part of a TIP award are inthe event of a change of control or reconstruction: normally deferred for five years and are subject to malus and clawback.
In its discretion, the Committee may elect to satisfy determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified any portion of the cash bonus element of a TIP award in deferred categories for incentive plan purposes and a good shares which will be deferred for a period determined by the leaverstreatment: Committee, being not less than one year from the date of adjustments to awards required in certain circumstances grant.
Deferred shares issued in lieu of any portion of the e. g. Rights Issues, corporate restructuring and special cash bonus component of a TIP award shall be subject to dividends : and malus, clawback and the minimum shareholding requirements set out on page 89 of this report.
the ability to adjust existing performance conditions forexceptional events so that they can still fulfil their Legacy remuneration original purpose.
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority was given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
86 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Summary Directors Remuneration Policy BASE SALARY Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity To provide an appropriate level Generally reviewed annually with increases Any increases to current Executive Director of fixed cash income.
Base salaries salaries, presented in the Application of Policy will be set by theCommittee taking into account: in 2019 column below this Policy table, will To attract and retain individuals not normally exceed the average increase with the personal attributes, the scale, scope and responsibility ofthe role: awarded to other UKbased employees.
skills and experience required to the skills and experience of the individual: Increases may be above this level in certain deliver ourstrategy.
circumstances, forinstance if there is an the base salary of other employees, including increase in the scale, scope or responsibility increases awarded to the wider population: and of the role ortoallow the base salary of newly the base salary of individuals undertaking appointed Executives to move towards market similar roles in companies of comparable size normsas their experience and and complexity.
oil and gas sector companies or a broader group of FTSElisted organisations.
Application of Policy in 2019 this forms part of the Annual Report on Remuneration and not part of the Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery of sums paid payable Policy Report A broad assessment of individual and business performance is used as part of the salary Current Executive Director base salaries: review.
2019 Paul McDade 769,155 Angus McCoss 434,970 Les Wood 461,495 PENSION AND BENEFITS Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity To attract and retain individuals Defined contribution pension scheme or salary Pension: 25 per cent of base salary.
with the personal attributes, supplement in lieu of pension.
The Company does Benefits: The range of benefits that may be skills and experience required not operate or have any legacy defined benefit provided is set by the Committee after taking todeliver ourstrategy.
into account local market practice in the Medical insurance, income protection and life country where the Executive is based.
Additional benefits may be provided monetary maximum is given for benefits asappropriate.
provided to the Executive Directors as the cost will depend on individual circumstances.
Executive Directors may participate in the Tullow UK Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Benefit values vary yearonyear depending on premiums and the maximum potential value is the cost of the provision of thesebenefits.
Tullow UK SIP: Up to HM Revenue & Customs HMRC limits, currently 150 per month.
Maximum participation levels and matching levels for all staff, including Executive Directors, are set by reference to the rules ofthe plan and relevant legislation.
Application of Policy in 2019 this forms part of the Annual Report on Remuneration and not part of the Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery of sums paid payable Policy Report Not applicable.
com 87 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary Directors Remuneration Policy continued TULLOW INCENTIVE PLAN TIP Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity To provide a simple, competitive, An annual TIP award consisting of up to 400 per cent The maximum amount of any award shall performancelinked incentive of base salary which is divided evenly between cash beestablished by the Committee at the plan that: and deferred shares up to the first 200 per cent of beginning of each year of this Policy, provided base salary.
Any amount above 200 per cent of base it shall not exceed 400 per cent of salary for aligns the interests 1 salary is awarded entirely in deferred shares.
ofmanagement Dividend equivalents will accrue on TIP andshareholders: Deferred shares are normally subject for deferral until the fifth anniversary of grant, normally subject deferred shares over the vesting period.
promotes the longterm to continued service.
In the event that Tullow is a member of the success of the Company: TIP awards are nonpensionable and will be made FTSE 100 index for a full financial year during provides a real incentive in line with the Committees assessment of the term of this Remuneration Policy, the toachieve our strategic performance targets.
Committee reserves the discretion to increase objectives and deliver the maximum TIP award opportunity from 400 At the discretion of the Committee, any portion of superior shareholder per cent of base salary to 500 per cent of base the cash component of a TIP award can be satisfied returns:and salary should the Committee determine it by granting deferred shares with a vesting date set will attract, retain and appropriate to do so in thecircumstances.
by the Committee being not earlier than the first motivate individuals with the anniversary of grant.
required personal attributes, skills andexperience.
Application of Policy in 2019 this forms part of the Annual Report on Remuneration and not part of the Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery of sums paid payable Policy Report The corporate scorecard for 2019 will consist of: A balanced scorecard of stretching financial and operational objectives, linked to the achievement of Tullows longterm strategy will be used to assess TIP outcomes.
50 per cent based on relative TSR, over the Specific targets and their weighting will vary from year to year in accordance with strategic threeyear period prior to grant, against a priorities but may include targets relating to: relative or absolute Total Shareholder Return comparator group of oil and gas exploration TSR : earnings per share EPS : environmental, health and safety EHS : financial: production: companies with a threshold 25per cent of operations: project: exploration: or specific strategic and personal objectives.
At the end of the award vesting at median performance each year the Committee will determine a performance score against each of the components and a maximum 100per cent vesting at of the corporate scorecard which will result in an aggregate performance score out of 100 per upper quartileperformance: cent KPI score.
At least 50 per cent of any TIP award will be based on financial measures 15 per cent based on quantitative business including TSR.
delivery measures including EHS, Production, Performance will typically be measured over one year for all measures apart from TSR and financing and operational measures: EPS, which, if adopted, will normally be measured over the three financial years prior to grant.
20 per cent based on key growth measures For relative TSR, no more than 25 per cent of the maximum TIP opportunity will be payable for defined for each BDT: and threshold performance with 100 per cent payable on delivering upper quartile performance.
15 per cent based on measures related to NonTSR targets will normally be based on a challenging sliding scale with20 per cent of pursuing our vision, under the categories themaximum opportunity payable for threshold performance through to a maximum of of: Progressive: Sustainable: and 100per cent payable for delivering stretch performance.
The Committee reserves the right to exercise its discretion in the event of exceptional and The Committee has set specific targets for the unforeseen positive or negative developments during the performance period.
In addition, the above KPIs that are stretching and that are Committee reserves the right to reduce the TIP payment where the Committee considers that explicitly linked to the achievement of Tullows the level of payment is not commensurate with overall corporate performance and returns longterm strategy.
delivered to shareholders over the performance period.
The Committee is of the opinion that, given the The Committee will review performance measures annually, in terms of the range of targets, commercial sensitivity of Tullows nonTSR the measures themselves and weightings applied to each element of the TIP.
Any revisions to related KPIs, disclosing in advance precise the measures and or weightings will only take place if it is necessary because of developments targets for the TIP would not be in shareholders in the Groups strategy and, where these are material, following appropriate consultation interests.
Except in circumstances where withshareholders.
elements remain commercially sensitive, TIP awards are subject to malus and clawback.
The Committee retains discretion to apply actual targets, performance achieved and malus and clawback to both the cash and deferred share elements of the TIP during the awards made will be published at the end of fiveyear vesting period in the event of a material adverse restatement of the financial accounts the performance periods so shareholders can or reserves or a catastrophic failure of operational, EHS and risk management.
fully assess the basis for any payouts.
Details of actual performance against KPIs will be given retrospectively in the 2019 AnnualReport.
Under the rules of the TIP, deferred shares may be awarded in the form of conditional shares, forfeitable shares or nilcost options.
88 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts MINIMUM SHAREHOLDING REQUIREMENT Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity To align the interests of Executive Directors are required to retain at least Not applicable.
management and shareholders 50 per cent of posttax share awards until a and promote a longterm minimum shareholding equivalent to 300 per cent approach to performance and of base salary is achieved in owned shares.
Unvested TIP shares will not count towards the minimum shareholding requirement.
Shares included in this calculation are those held beneficially by the Executive Director and his or her spouse civil partner.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity To provide an appropriate fee The Chairman is paid an annual fee and the non Nonexecutive Director remuneration is level to attract individuals with executive Directors are paid a base fee and determined within the limits set by the the necessary experience and additional responsibility fees for the role of Senior Articles of Association.
ability to make a significant Independent Director or for chairing a Board There is no maximum prescribed fee increase contribution to the Groups Committee.
although fee increases for nonexecutive activities while also reflecting Fees are normally reviewed annually.
Directors will not normally exceed the average the time commitment and increase awarded to Executive Directors.
Each nonexecutive Director is also entitled to a responsibility of therole.
Increases may be above this level if there is an reimbursement of necessary travel and other increase in the scale, scope or responsibility expenses.
Nonexecutive Directors do not participate in any share scheme or annual bonus scheme and are not eligible to join the Groups pension schemes.
Current nonexecutive Director fees: 3 2019 2018 Chairman 300,000 280,000 Nonexecutive base fee 65,000 60,000 Senior Independent 2 Director 15,000 10,000 Audit Committee Chair 20,000 20,000 Remuneration Committee Chair 15,000 20,000 EHS Committee Chair 15,000 15,000 2.
Senior Independent Directors base fee was reduced from 40,000 to 10,000 effective from the conclusion of the Board meeting on 20 July 2018.
All changes to fees effective 1 January 2019 were made following required approval and in consultation with relevant NED fee benchmark data.
com 89 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration scenarios for Executive Directors The Executive Directors service agreements and the The charts below show how the composition of the Executive appointment letters of the nonexecutive Directors are Directors remuneration packages varies at different levels of available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys performance under the Remuneration Policy, as a percentage registered office.
of total remuneration opportunity and as a total value: External appointments In 2018 the Board introduced a formal policy in relation to the Fixed external directorships that an Executive Director may hold.
Paul Target Whilst the policy does not prescribe a maximum number of McDade external appointments, it sets out guidance that an Executive Maximum Director should not hold more than one nonexecutive director position in a FTSE 350 company.
During 2018, Angus McCoss Fixed sought the Boards permission, which was agreed, to take upthe role as senior independent director at Providence Les Target Wood Resources plc where he was already in a nonexecutive director Maximum role.
Inthis, and other requests from Executive Directors totake up external appointments, the Board considers the individuals aggregate time commitment anticipated by Fixed thenew role against their current commitments to Tullow.
Angus Inrespect of Angus appointment, the Board agreed that Target McCoss hewould retain his fee of 45,000 per annum.
Maximum Policy for new appointments m 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 Base salary levels will take into account market data for the Fixed pay TIP cash TIP deferred shares relevant role, internal relativities, the individuals experience and their current base salary.
Where an individual is recruited 1.
Base salaries are those effective as at 1 January 2019. at below market norms, they may be realigned over time 2.
Fixed pay includes pensions which are based on a 25 per cent e. g. two to three years, subject to performance in the role.
Benefits will generally be in accordance with the approved policy.
The target TIP award is taken to be 50 per cent of the maximum annual opportunity for 2019 200 per cent of salary for all Individuals will participate in the TIP up to the normal annual ExecutiveDirectors.
limit subject to: i award levels in the year of appointment 4.
The maximum value of the TIP is taken to be 400 per cent of salary being prorated to reflect the proportion of the financial year i. e. the maximum annual opportunity for 2019. worked: and ii where a performance metric is measured over 5.
No share price appreciation has been assumed.
more than one year, the proportion of awards based on that 6.
The Committee is aware of the new regulations requiring an indication metric will normally be reduced to reflect the proportion of the impact of 50 per cent share price appreciation on the maximum ofthe performance period worked.
The Committee may scenario in the chart above.
Given that TSR performance is measured considerbuying out incentive awards which an individual over three years prior to grant of award, share price appreciation would forfeit upon leaving their current employer although overthe performance period would not impact on the value of the any compensation would be consistent with respect to maximum award.
currency i. e. cash for cash, equity for equity, vesting periods i. e. there would be no acceleration of payments, expected Service agreements values and the use of performance targets.
Each Executive Director entered into a new service agreement with Tullow Group Services Limited in 2017.
Each service For an internal Executive Director appointment, any variable agreement sets out restrictions on the ability of the Director pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be to participate in businesses competing with those of the allowed to pay out according to its terms, adjusted as relevant Group or to entice or solicit away from the Group any senior to take account of the appointment.
In addition, any other employees in the six months after ceasing employment.
The ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment above reflects the Committees policy that service contracts may continue.
For external and internal appointments, the should be structured to reflect the interests of the Group and Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain the individuals concerned, while also taking due account of relocation and or incidental expenses as appropriate.
Fee levels for nonexecutive Director appointments will take The term of each service contract is not fixed.
Each agreement into account the expected time commitment of the role and is terminable by the Director on six months notice and by the the current fee structure in place at that time.
employing company on 12 months notice.
90 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Policy for loss of office disability, redundancy, retirement, his office or employment Executive Directors service contracts are terminable by the being either a company which ceases to be a Group member Director on six months notice and by the relevant employing or relating to a business or part of a business which is company on 12 months notice.
There are no specific provisions transferred to a person who is not a Group member or any under which Executive Directors are entitled to receive other reason the Committee so decides.
For a good leaver, compensation upon early termination, other than in unvested awards will normally vest at cessation of employment accordance with the notice period.
unless the Committee decides they should vestat the normal vesting date.
On termination of an Executive Directors service contract, theCommittee will take into account the departing Directors Any unvested awards held under the Tullow Oil 2005 PSP duty to mitigate his loss when determining the amount of any thelast awards were granted to Executive Directors in 2013 compensation.
Disbursements such as legal and outplacement will lapse at cessation of employment unless the individual costs and incidental expenses may be payable where appropriate.
isa good leaver defined as per the DSBP.
For a good leaver, unvested awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date Any unvested awards held under the Tullow Oil 2005 DSBP unless the Committee decides they should vest at cessation the last awards were granted to Executive Directors in 2013 of employment subject to performance conditions and time will lapse at cessation of employment unless the individual prorating unless the Committee decides that the application isa good leaver defined under the plan as death, injury or of time prorating is inappropriate.
The Committees policy in respect of the treatment of Executive Directors leaving Tullow following the introduction of the TIP is described below: Cessation of employment due to death, injury, disability, retirement, redundancy, the participants employing company or business for which they work being sold out of the Cessation of employment due to other Companys Group or in other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee reasons e. g. termination for cause Cessation during a financial year, or after the year but prior to the normal TIP No entitlement to the cash part TIP award date, may, at the discretion of the Committee, result in the cash part of of the TIP following the date cash the TIP being paid following the date of cessation prorated for the proportion notice is served.
Cessation during a financial year, or after the year but prior to the normal TIP Unvested TIP shares lapse.
TIP award date, may, at the discretion of the Committee, result in an award of Noentitlement to the deferred deferred shares deferred shares being made prorated for the proportion of the year worked.
share element of the TIP following the date notice Unvested TIP shares generally vest at the normal vesting date except on death isserved.
or retirement see below unless the Committee determines they should vest atcessation.
On death, TIP shares generally vest immediately unless the Committee determines that they should vest at the normal vesting date.
On retirement as evidenced to the satisfaction of the Committee, TIP shares will vest at the earlier of the normal vesting date and three years from retirement unless the Committee determines they should vest at cessation.
Non-executive Director terms of appointment Number of Date of complete current Year years on engagement Expiry of Nonexecutive Director appointed the Board commenced current term Dorothy Thompson 2018 0 25.04.18 24.04.21 Tutu Agyare 2010 8 24.08.16 23.08.19 Mike Daly 2014 4 31.05.17 30.05.20 Steve Lucas 2012 6 13.03.18 13.03.21 Jeremy Wilson 2013 5 21.10.16 20.10.19 In each case, the appointment is renewable thereafter if agreed by the Director and the Board.
The appointment of any nonexecutive Director may be terminated by either party on three months notice.
There are no arrangements under which any nonexecutive Director is entitled to receive compensation upon the early termination of his or her appointment.
com 91 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Committees advisers ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION The Committee invites individuals to attend meetings to This part of the report provides details of the operation of the provide advice so as to ensure that the Committees decisions Remuneration Committee, how the Remuneration Policy was are informed and take account of pay and conditions in the implemented in 2018 including payment and awards in Group as a whole.
Sources of advice include: respect of incentive arrangements and how shareholders voted at the 2018 AGM.
Dorothy Thompson, Chair: Paul McDade, Chief Executive Officer: Remuneration Committee membership and meetings The Committee currently comprises three nonexecutive Claire Hawkings, EVP OS&CP: and Directors and is chaired by Tutu Agyare.
The membership and further to a formal tender process, including consideration attendance of members at Committee meetings held in 2018 of its independence and objectivity, PwC LLP was appointed are shown below.
as adviser to the Remuneration Committee in June 2016 for Committee member Meetings attended the purpose of advising on the Companys 2017 Directors Remuneration Policy.
Tutu Agyare Chair 4 4 Mike Daly 4 4 The total fees paid to PwC in respect of the advice provided for 2018 totalled 25,000 excluding VAT and related to the review Jeremy Wilson 4 4 of the 2017 Directors Remuneration Report, benchmarking and related issues.
PwC LLP is a member of the Committees main responsibilities Remuneration Consultants Group and as such voluntarily Determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive policy for the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, remuneration consulting in the UK.
PwC LLP also provided Executive Directors and Senior Executives.
tax and consulting services to Tullow during the year.
Reviewing progress made against performance targets and The Committee has access to the Company Secretary at all agreeing incentive awards.
times, who advises as necessary and, where appropriate, makes arrangements for the Committee to receive independent Reviewing the design of share incentive plans for approval legal advice at the request of the Committee Chair.
by the Board and shareholders and determining the policy on annual awards to Executive Directors and Senior The Committee also consults with the Companys major Executives under existing plans.
investors and investor representative groups as appropriate.
No Director takes part in any decision directly affecting his or Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the her own remuneration.
The Company Chair also absents remainder of the remuneration packages principally herself during discussion relating to her own fees.
comprising salary and pension for each Executive Director and Senior Executive.
Looking forward to 2019 Monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for The Committee will review the suitability of the Directors Senior Management.
Remuneration Policy ahead of the shareholders vote at the AGM in 2020.
Reviewing and noting the remuneration trends across theGroup.
The Committee will consult with major shareholders on thesuitability of the current Directors Remuneration Policy The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually andany proposed changes to it ahead of the AGM in 2020. and can be viewed on the Companys website.
The Committee will continue to review the remuneration arrangements of the wider workforce when considering arrangements for Executives and Senior Management.
Base salaries of the Executive Directors have been rounded up to the nearest 10 for payment purposes, in line with established policy.
None of the Executive Directors have a prospective entitlement to a defined benefit pension by reference to qualifying services.
Taxable benefits comprise private medical insurance for all Executive Directors and any other taxable expenses.
Travel and subsistence benefits provided to Executive Directors and NEDs have also been included on a grossedup basis as Tullow meets the UK tax liability on their behalf.
TIP cash figures have been calculated based on total base salary receivable in FY18 taking into account all pay changes agreed and implemented for Executive Directors in 2018.
These figures represent that part of the TIP award required to be deferred into shares.
The Committee is aware of the new regulations requiring disclosure of the impact of the share price appreciation on the value of vesting of multiple year incentives.
Given that the TSR performance for the TIPis measured prior to grant of awards, the value disclosed in the single figure table 2013 onwards is the value on grant.
For this reason it is not applicable to show the impact of share price appreciation on vesting and no discretion was applied as a result of the share price.
Aidan Heavey stepped down from the Board as Chairman following the Board meeting on 20 July 2018.
Dorothy Thompson was appointed Chair following this meeting effective 21 July 2018.
Mike Daly was appointed as Chair of the EHS Committee following the AGM on 25 April 2018.
Anne Drinkwater stepped down from the Board following the AGM on 25 April 2018.
Effective 21 July 2018, the SID fee paid to Jeremy was reduced to 10,000 per annum: previously the SID fee was40,000.
com 93 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Material contracts There have been no other contracts or arrangements during the financial year in which a Director of the Company was materially interested and or which were significant in relation to the Groups business.
Payments to past Directors As previously reported, the Remuneration Committee awarded Ian Springett a TIP award over 245,381 in cash and a deferred share award to the same cash value for his service to the Company in 2017.
The cash bonus payment and grant of deferred share award were made in February 2018.
A cash bonus of 585,968 and a share award to the same cash value was also awarded to Aidan Heavey in February 2018, as previously reported.
Payments for loss of office No payments for loss of office where made to Executive Directors in 2018.
Details of variable pay earned in the year Determination of 2019 TIP award based on performance to 31 December 2018 audited The Groups progress against its corporate scorecard is tracked during the year to assess its performance against its strategy.
Thecorporate scorecard is made up of a collection of key performance indicators KPIs which indicate the Companys overall health and performance across a range of operational, financial and nonfinancial measures.
The corporate scorecard is central toTullows approach to performance management and the 2018 indicators were agreed with the Board and focus on targets that were deemed important for the year.
Each KPI measured has a percentage weighting and financial indicators have trigger, base and stretch performance targets.
Following the end of the 2018 financial year, the corporate scorecard KPI performance was 60.3 per cent of the maximum and the Committee awarded Executive Directors a total TIP award equating to 241.2 per cent of base salary.
Anamount equal to 100 per cent of base salary will be payable as a cash bonus and the remainder in shares deferred for five years i. e. vesting in 2024.
Details of the performance targets which operated and performance against those targets are as follows: % of award % of salary Performance metric Performance maximum Actual Financing our Ensuring sufficient liquidity to deliver the business plan was achieved by having a debt facilities 5% 5% business headroom and free cash in excess of $1 billion.
20% 20% Key targets relating to An $800 million sevenyear highyield bond was successfully issued with a 7 per cent coupon.
ensuring sufficient The proceeds were used to refinance the existing $650 million 2020 Bond and repay liquidity and executing $150million of drawings under the Reserves Based Lending facility.
The gearing target was a longterm strategic ahead of target at 1.9x debt:EBITDAX.
solution to deleverage As part of the review of our strategic financing targets, the Board considered our capital and rebase the structure, scale of funding, timing and related costs before arriving at a score of 5 per cent.
balance sheet Safe and efficient Production 22% 18.9% business operations 88% 75.6% Production Trigger target Base target Stretch target 2018 performance Targets relating to mboepd 72.1 77.5 82.9 81.4 production, opex, net G&A and capex, Payout 0% 50% 100% 86% operational projects, The above production numbers exclude the lost production covered by business interruption organisation insurance.
Including the impact of insured barrels from the Jubilee field, Group working effectiveness and interest production is 90,000 boepd.
These targets focused on Opex boe delivering business activities and Opex boe Trigger target Base target Stretch target 2018 performance projects safely $ boe 11.9 11.1 10.3 10 whilst minimising Payout 0% 50% 100% 100% environmental impacts and The operating costs are net of insurance proceeds.
delivering sustainable benefits Net G&A Net G&A Trigger target Base target Stretch target 2018 performance Net G&A $ 109 100 95 90 Payout 0% 50% 100% 100% Capex Capex Trigger target Base target Stretch target 2018 performance Capex 490 458 426 423 Payout 0% 50% 100% 100% The capex numbers have been adjusted to remove Uganda.
Decommissioning capex is not included above and is $99 million budget: $101 million.
94 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts % of award % of salary Performance metric Performance maximum Actual SSEA Tullows SSEA targets are focused on reducing process safety events, making improvements to our occupational health and safety and ensuring sustainability.
In 2018 there were no Tier 1 process safety incidents.
Tullows LTIF rate dropped to 0.28 due to reporting three lost time injuries compared to four in 2017.
There were no serious malaria cases reported.
Tullows ESIA obligations were met and there were no significant environment regulatory noncompliances.
We met our local content expenditure targets in Ghana, Kenya and Uganda.
In view of the above performance the Committee determined a 3.5 per cent achievement out of a maximum 5 per cent allocation.
Delivery of operational projects The Jubilee turret was successfully stabilised in July 2018.
The final rotation was achieved in December and the final spreads mooring solution is on schedule for completion in Q1 2019.
New Ventures wildcat drilling programme in Namibia Cormorant was delivered safely and to budget but unfortunately did not encounter oil.
Ghana delivered a second rig and the Ghana drilling programme successfully drilled five wells.
Kenya First Oil was trucked out of Turkana on 3 June 2018.
After shutdown for a few weeks due to community grievances, the trucking has continued after the Government of Kenya gazetted the Turkana Grievance Management Committee and InterMinisterial Committee, operations have been stable and 58,000 bbls were trucked in December 2018.
In view of the performance the Committee determined an allocation of 5 per cent out of a maximum allocation of 5 per cent.
Organisation effectiveness An inclusion and diversity workshop was held with the new Executive Team to endorse the forward plan of management and a new Executive subgroup was established to promote the inclusion and diversity aims.
Some positive progress has been made on improving workforce diversity.
The biennial employee survey had a 90 per cent participation rate and showed improvement in the target areas of Talent and Development, Communication and Engagement and Policies and Procedures.
Senior Management showed improvement, but still needs further addressing.
Trust continues to be an area of concern.
100 per cent compliance was achieved when all employees completed the Code of Ethical Conduct online course and our Code Certification process was achieved.
There were four breaches of compliance regarding the Companys ExPo Standard.
Information security has shown an improvement in awareness through intensive training andtesting.
In view of this the Committee determined an allocation of 3.1 per cent out of amaximum allocation of 4 per cent.
Growing our The business development and growth targets reflect the portfolio and longterm growth 18.0% 11.0% business strategy of the Company.
They focus on value creation and seeking opportunities.
72.0% 44.0% KPI Outcome Target 2018 West Africa growth West Africa Drilling operations resumed in Ghana in March 2018.
6.0% 4.0% A second rig was added later in October 2018 to Accelerate Ghana further accelerate production growth.
production rampup At Jubilee, these operations brought online two Secure material value production wells and an additional water injector growth opportunities in in 2018.
A production well was also brought online West Africa core area at TEN, with another due online early in the new year.
These activities contributed to a growth in 2018 TEN gross production of c. 8,500Kbopd, and will deliver material additional production from both fields from 2019.
Across the nonoperated portfolio, 12.5 MMboe were added to 2P reserves, representing 160 per cent reserves replacement.
2C resources also grew by c. 25 MMboe in 2018. www.
com 95 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Details of variable pay earned in the year continued Determination of 2019 TIP award based on performance to 31 December 2018 audited continued % of award % of salary Performance metric Performance maximum Actual Growing our KPI Outcome Target 2018 business continued East Africa growth East Africa In Kenya, successful completion of the Select 6.0% 3.0% toDefine Gate took place and the ESIAs for the Commercialise Kenya upstream and midstream projects are ongoing, investment inparallel with the FEEDs.
Both the upstream Complete SPA and FID andmidstream Phase 1 FEEDs are complete, Uganda development withFEED Phase 2 due for completion by the endof Q12019.
In Uganda, we continue to work with our Joint Venture Partners to facilitate the closure of the Sales and Purchase Agreement.
FID is targeted forthe first half of 2019.
New Ventures New Ventures New licences in Cte dIvoire and Suriname.
6.0% 4.0% growth Increase equity in licences in Guyana and Access and portfolio Suriname.
management and effective proceeds Tullow has exited Greenland and Ethiopia and is progressing the Pakistan exit.
Inventory progress and Over $45 million of value has been generated for planning for 2019 the Group through farmdown deals entered into Exploration outcome in2018, attracting quality partners.
Excellent progress was made in prospects in Guyana.
The Cormorant well Namibia was delivered safety and to budget, but did not encounter any hydrocarbons.
Discretionary based The purpose of this performance element is to consider the effectiveness of the Executive 5.0% 3.5% on leadership Leadership of Tullow which shall include: effectiveness of Executive Team: Executive Team 20.0% 14% effectiveness cohesion: demonstration of leadership: and management of unforeseen matters throughout including the year.
The below were taken into consideration in the scoring of the discretionary element.
management of The continued focus of the Executive Team on aligning our workforce on clarity of purpose: unforeseen events setting the right tone: reinforcing the importance of Tullow Values: and prioritising employee engagement.
The role of the Executive in ensuring appropriate preparation e. g. stakeholder management plan, resource allocation and messaging for the Seadrill case.
Tullow lost, with the ICC ruling in favour of Kosmos which was subsequently not liable for its share of disputed costs.
Stakeholder relationships in Ghana and Kenya.
Relative TSR Performance against a bespoke group of listed exploration and production companies 50.0% 21.9% TotalShareholder measured over three years to 31 December 2018 25 per cent is payable at median, 200.0% 87.6% 1 Return increasing to 100 per cent payable at upper quartile.
The TSR comparator group for the 2018 TIP award was as follows: Apache, Anadarko Petroleum, Cairn Energy, Canadian Natural Resources, Cobalt Energy, Conoco Phillips, Hess, Kosmos Energy, Lundin Petroleum, Marathon Oil, Noble Energy, Oil Search, Ophir Energy, Premier Oil, Santos, SOCO International and Woodside Petroleum.
Further information on Tullow Groups performance against the corporate scorecard is shown on pages 19 to 23 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
TIP awards granted in 2018 audited The fifth set of TIP awards were granted to Executive Directors on 8 February 2018, based on the performance period ended 31December 2017, as follows: Number of TIP Face value of awards at Normal vesting dates Pregrant 1 Executive shares awarded grant date end of exercise window performance period Paul McDade 278,628 519,641 01.01.2017 to 31.12.2017 Angus McCoss 197,082 367,557 08.02.2023 TSR 01.01.2015 to 31.12.2017 Les Wood 148,802 277,516 1.
Awards are made in the form of nilcost options, the face value of the awards is equal to the TIP cash bonus awarded for the year ended 31 December 2017 and the number of shares awarded is calculated using the price on the day preceding the grant date which on 7 February 2018 was 186.5p.
96 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts UK SIP shares awarded in 2018 audited The UK SIP is a taxfavoured allemployee plan that enables UK employees to save out of pretax salary.
Quarterly contributions are used by the plan trustee to buy Tullow Oil plc shares partnership shares.
The Group funds an award of an equal number of shares matching shares.
The current maximum contribution is 150 per month.
Details of shares purchased and awarded to Executive Directors under the UK SIP are as follows: SIP shares that Partnership Matching became Total unrestricted Shares held shares acquired shares awarded Total shares held unrestricted shares held at 1 Director 01.01.18 in year in year 31.12.18 in year 31.12.18 Paul McDade 15,691 881 881 17,453 314 9,305 Angus McCoss 9,752 881 881 11,514 314 3,366 Les Wood 1,659 881 881 3,421 1.
Unrestricted shares which are included in the total shares held at 31 December 2018 are those which no longer attract a tax liability if they are withdrawn from the plan.
CEO total pay versus TSR For 2018 the CEO total pay is based on an annualised summation of base pay, pension, benefits and TIP cash bonus and share award equivalent value for Paul McDade.
The values indicated in the graph above show the share price growth plus reinvested dividends for the period 2008 to 2018 from a 100 hypothetical holding of ordinary shares in Tullow Oil plc and in the two indices.
The total remuneration figures for the Chief Executive during each of the last nine financial years are shown in the tables overleaf.
For 2017, total remuneration figures are shown for Aidan Heavey based on the period he held the office of Chief Executive Officer and for the transition period up to31 October 2017 and for Paul McDade from 27 April 2017 when he commenced in his office of Chief Executive.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus based on that years performance 2010 to 2018, PSP awards based on threeyear performance periods ending in the relevant year 2010 to 2012 and the value of TIP awards based on the performance period ending in the relevant year 2013 to 2018.
The annual bonus payout, PSP vesting level and TIP award, asapercentage of the maximum opportunity, are also shown for each of these years.
com 97 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Comparison of overall performance and pay continued Year ending in Aidan Heavey 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total remuneration 3,558,698 4,688,541 2,623,116 2,750,273 2,378,316 2,835,709 2,893,232 1,717,276 Annual bonus 58% 80% 70% PSP vesting 100% 100% 23% TIP 30% 23% 38% 39% 40% Year ending in Paul McDade 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total remuneration n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 1,416,281 2,759,684 Annual bonus n a n a n a n a n a n a n a PSP vesting n a n a n a TIP n a n a n a n a 40% 60.3% Percentage change in Chief Executives remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in the Chief Executives total remuneration excluding the value of any pension benefits receivable in the year between the financial year ended 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018, compared to thatofthe average for all employees of the Group.
Base pay and bonus for Paul McDade for 2017 have been annualised for calculation purposes.
% change from 2017 to 2018 Salary Benefits Bonus Chief Executive 3% 138.9% 30% Average employees 6.2% 0% 20.7% This significant increase was driven by the addition of a taxable travel expense incurred in FY18.
CEO pay ratio 2018 25th percentile Median 75th percentile Year Method pay ratio pay ratio pay ratio 2018 A 23:1 15:1 10:1 In response to the CEO pay ratio requirements established by the Companies Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018, Tullow has undertaken to adopt the calculation of a CEO pay ratio to compare the single total figure of remuneration STFR for the CEO to the STFR of all UK employees.
This has been calculated using the methodology described as Option A in the Regulations, as Tullow recognises that this is the most statistically accurate form of calculation.
For the CEO and each UK employee the STFR has been calculated as a summation of base pay, benefits, employer pension contributions receivable during the year ended 31 December 2018 and cash bonus payable and value of share awards to be granted for the performance year ending 31 December 2018.
All STFRs have been based on a fulltime equivalent and annualised to provide a dataset for the full year ending 31 December 2018.
Tullow wouldlike to build on this reporting in future years by looking at the same datasets for employees globally to determine a global CEO pay ratio.
The STFR at 25th percentile is 119,642, 186,222 at median and 278,605 at 75th percentile.
The wages component at 25th percentile is 76,390, 120,230 at median and 161,900 at 75th percentile.
In setting both our CEO remuneration and the remuneration structures for the wider UK workforce, Tullow has adopted aremuneration structure which includes the same core components for employees at all levels base pay, benefits, pension, cash bonus and share awards.
Whilst all employees receive a base salary commensurate to our position in the market, the differences exist in the quantum of variable pay achievable by our Executives and Senior Management: at these levels there is agreater emphasis placed on variable pay given their opportunity to impact directly on Company performance.
Based on this distinction, the Company believes that the median pay ratio is consistent with our wider pay, reward and progression policies impacting our UK employees.
98 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Relative importance of spend on pay The following table shows the Groups actual spend on pay for all employees relative to tax and retained profits.
Staff costs have been compared to tax expense, and retained profits in order to provide a measure of their scale compared to other key elements of the Groups financial metrics.
50 per cent of the 2014 award vests on 19 February 2017 and 50 per cent vests on 19 February 2018: 50 per cent of the 2015 award vests on 18February 2019 and 50 per cent vests on 18 February 2020.
Les Wood TIP awards granted prior to appointment as an Executive Director have a threeyear vesting period.
In addition to the TIP awards, at1January 2018 Les Wood had outstanding Employee Share Award Plan ESAP awards totalling 82,601: these were exercised on 30 August 2018. www.
com 99 GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Summary of past 2005 Performance Share Plan PSP Details of shares granted to Executive Directors for nil consideration under the PSP: Earliest date Latest date Award grant Share price on Exercised shares can be shares can be Director date grant date As at 01.01.18 during year As at 31.12.18 acquired acquired Paul McDade 18.03.09 778p 115,392 115,392 18.03.12 18.03.19 17.03.10 1,281p 16,392 16,392 17.03.13 17.03.20 131,784 131,784 All of the PSP awards listed are based on relative threeyear TSR performance and the Committee considering that both the Groups underlying financial performance and its performance against other key factors e. g. health and safety over the relevant period are satisfactory.
50 per cent of awards are were measured against an international oil sector comparator group see past Remuneration Reports for details of specific companies and 50 per cent of awards are were measured against the FTSE 100.
All outstanding awards under PSP have been granted as, or converted into, nil exercise price options.
To the extent that they vest, they are normally exercisable from three to 10 years from grant.
Summary of past Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP awards Details of nil exercise cost options granted to Executive Directors for nil consideration under the DSBP: Earliest date Latest date Award grant Exercised shares can be shares can be Director date As at 01.01.18 during year As at 31.12.18 acquired acquired Paul McDade 18.03.09 33,289 33,289 01.01.12 18.03.19 17.03.10 18,702 18,702 01.01.13 17.03.20 18.03.11 13,266 13,266 01.01.14 18.03.21 21.03.12 30,291 30,291 01.01.15 21.03.22 22.02.13 30,287 30,287 01.01.16 22.02.23 125,835 125,835 All outstanding awards under the DSBP were granted as, or have been converted into, nil exercise price options.
To the extent that they vest, they are exercisable from three to 10 years from grant.
Share price range During 2018, the highest midmarket price of the Companys shares was 276p and the lowest was 165.15p.
100 Tullow Oil plc 2018 Annual Report and Accounts Directors interests in the share capital of the Company audited The interests of the Directors all of which were beneficial, who held office at 31 December 2018 or during FY 2018, are set out in the table below: % of salary under 2018 Remuneration Policy Ordinary shares held TIP awards PSP awards DSBP awards SIP Total shareholding 1 01.01.18 31.12.18 guidelines Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Unvested Vested Restricted Unrestricted 31.12.18 Paul McDade 520,738 520,738 125 982,076 68,334 131,784 125,835 8,148 9,305 1,846,220 Angus McCoss 324,703 360,839 153 900,530 8,148 3,366 1,272,883 Les Wood 60,280 24 410,104 3,421 473,805 Non-executive Directors Tutu Agyare 2,930 2,930 2,930 Mike Daly 4,795 4,795 4,795 Anne 2 Drinkwater 7,000 7,000 7,000 Aidan 3 Heavey 7,000,000 7,000,000 n a 1,363,750 120,832 8,484,582 Steve Lucas 720 720 720 Dorothy Thompson 68,148 68,148 Jeremy Wilson 67,959 67,959 67,959 1.
Calculated using share price of 179.01p at year end.
Under the Companys shareholding guidelines, each Executive Director is required to build up their shareholdings in the Companys shares to at least 300 per cent of their salary.
Further details of the minimum shareholding requirement are set out in the Remuneration Policy Report.
Holdings for Anne Drinkwater as at date of cessation as a nonexecutive Director of the Company following the AGM on 25 April 2018.
Holdings for Aidan Heavey as at date of cessation as Chairman of the Company following the conclusion of the Board meeting on 20 July 2018.
On 7 January 2019 Angus McCoss, Paul McDade and Les Wood were each awarded 452 SIP shares, all of which are restricted.
Accounting for certain restricted SIP shares becoming unrestricted SIP shares in the period between 1 January 2019 and the date of this report, Angus McCoss holds 8,496 restricted SIP shares and 3,470 unrestricted SIP shares total 11,966, Paul McDade holds8,496 restricted SIP shares and 9,409 unrestricted SIP shares total 17,905 and Les Wood holds 3,873 restricted SIP shares and 0unrestricted SIP shares total 3,873.
There have been no other changes in the interests of any Director between 1 January 2019 and the date of this report.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 12 February 2019 and signed on its behalf by: Tutu Agyare Chairman of the Remuneration Committee www.
