Governance 95 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration Overview on incentive outcomes, but required the EPS targets for the Dear Shareholder, Annual Incentive Plan and the Groups EPS for the base year of the On behalf of the Remuneration performance period for awards under the Vesuvius Share plan to be retranslated, to ensure that the effects of this decision were Committee, I am pleased to present the neutralised as performance was evaluated.
The targets set out Directors Remuneration Report for 2018, below for the Annual Incentive are the adjusted targets.
which sets out details of the pay received In 2018, our retranslated headline EPS of 52.6 pence was above the maximum adjusted Annual Incentive target of 43.0 pence.
by Directors in 2018 and how we intend The Groups 2018 working capital to sales ratio was between the to apply our Remuneration Policy in 2019. threshold of 24.5% and the target of 23.5%.
This results in awards This report will be subject to an advisory of 75% and 7.5% of base salary respectively, being 82.5% in total for the Executive Directors in respect of the financial performance shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
In addition, we assessed each Executive Directors achievement of the personal objectives they were set for 2018, The existing Remuneration Policy was approved by Shareholders awarding Mr Andr and Mr Young 21.53% and 17.65% at the 2017 AGM, in line with legislative requirements a new respectively of their maximum entitlements of 25%.
As a result, Remuneration Policy will be tabled for shareholder approval at the overall Annual Incentives payable to Messrs Andr and Young the 2020 AGM.
All payments received by Directors in 2018 were for 2018 are 104.03% and 100.15% of base salary respectively in line with our Remuneration Policy.
I have set out details below against maximum bonus opportunities of 125%.
of the key decisions made by the Committee during 2018.
More details about these are included in the Annual Report on The performance period for the awards made under the Vesuvius Directors Remuneration on pages 105 to 115.
Share Plan VSP in 2016 matured at the end of December 2018.
Performance was measured equally by reference to Total Performance in 2018 Shareholder Return TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts and headline EPS growth over the three-year As described in the Strategic Report, 2018 was a year of excellent period adjusted as above.
Relative TSR performance was above progress for the Group with revenue growth of 6.8%, on a upper quintile: as a result 50% of Performance Share awards will reported basis and a 19.1% increase in reported trading profit.
vest under the TSR element out of a maximum 50%.
The annual In addition, our cash generation remained robust, despite the compound headline EPS growth for the period was 26.5%, growth in our turnover and increased capital investment during exceeding the maximum annual compound headline EPS growth the year, but we recognise there is more to do on this front.
As a result, 50% of Performance Share awards will A global strategy review was conducted by the Board in 2018, vest under the EPS performance element out of a maximum which led to the confirmation of our five key execution priorities.
It also highlighted opportunities to accelerate the delivery of results from this strategy by: reinforcing our presence in the The Committee considered whether to exercise its discretion when high-end, high-quality segments of the steel and foundry confirming the vesting of the Performance Shares, and reviewed markets: increasing our efforts to optimise our manufacturing the underlying performance of the Company to satisfy itself that cost base: and driving changes with a team of skillful, motivated the outcome was justified.
Awards will vest in April 2019. and talented people.
The Remuneration Committee continues to work to support these strategic initiatives.
Other key decisions made by the Committee in 2018 In 2018, Annual Incentive awards for the Executive Directors The Committee reviewed the salary for Patrick Andr, noting were based 60% on Group headline earnings per share EPS, that he was appointed Chief Executive in September 2017 on 20% on the Groups working capital to sales ratio based on the a salary of 525,000 per annum.
This salary was 11% lower 12-month moving average and 20% on specified personal than his predecessors salary of 590,000.
33% of the Annual Incentive earned will be deferred committed to review his salary annually for the first three years into awards over shares for three years.
of his appointment January 2019, 2020 and 2021, to allow the Committee the flexibility to adjust Mr Andrs salary In 2018, the Board resolved to adjust the accounting treatment to an appropriate level for an established Chief Executive, for the Groups US Deferred Tax Asset.
This change was entirely subject to the Board being satisfied with his performance in unrelated to Group financial performance and had no bearing Remuneration Strategic Alignment Deliver growth Maintain strong cash Provide a safe Be at the forefront of Run top-quality, Foster talent, Generate sustainable generation and an working environment innovation cost-efficient skill and motivation profitability and efficient capital for our people and sustainable in our people create shareholder structure operations value Annual Incentive Plan Vesuvius Share Plan Vesuvius plc 96 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Remuneration Overview continued the role.
At the end of 2018, the Board discussed Mr Andrs resolved that share awards granted under the Vesuvius performance to date as Chief Executive.
The overwhelming Share Plan from 2019 onwards would also be subject to consensus was that he has developed quickly into a highly post-employment termination holding requirements for effective and high-performing Chief Executive.
In light of this, the duration of the above holding period noting that a the Committee concluded that it was an appropriate time formal policy on this would be developed as part of the to adjust his salary on a commensurate basis.
Accordingly, Remuneration Policy to be submitted for shareholder Mr Andrs salary was increased by 14% to 600,000 per approval in 2020 annum with effect from 1 January 2019. reviewed the terms of the existing discretion applicable to The Committee also reviewed the Chairmans fee.
These fees determination of the vesting of awards under the Vesuvius were set on demerger in 2012 and were last reviewed in Share Plan and updated this to align with the principles set 2015 when no changes were made.
Having considered the out in the New Code Chairmans performance, dedication to his role and the time reviewed the existing malus and clawback circumstances commitment, the Remuneration Committee approved an 11% currently specified by the Company as set out on page 99 increase in the Chairmans fee to 205,000 with effect from of the Remuneration Policy and concluded that they 1 January 2019. remained appropriate.
The Committee considered the structure of performance The Remuneration Committee will undertake further work on measures for incentives in 2019.
Having reviewed the existing remuneration structure and disclosure and compliance in 2019, arrangements, the Committee intends to use the same with the intention of ensuring that the Company is fully compliant framework for performance measures in 2019 that was used with all its obligations in this regard by the end of the year.
in 2018 for Executive Directors incentive awards.
Thus, these measures reward: Non-executive Directors fees Growth: through the EPS measure used in the Annual The Committee noted that the Board resolved to increase the fees Incentive and the Vesuvius Share Plan of Non-executive Directors during the year.
With effect from Effective working capital management: through a target 1 January 2019 the basic fee paid to Non-executive Directors has of the Groups working capital to sales ratio based on the increased by 5,000 to 50,000 p. a.
No changes were made to 12-month moving average to be used in the Annual Incentive the supplementary fees paid to the Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director.
Delivery of shareholder value: through the TSR measure used in the Vesuvius Share Plan Shareholders views In addition, the Committee took decisions about the grant and The Committee encourages dialogue with its major shareholders.
vesting of Share Plan awards in 2018 and the Annual Incentive It is satisfied that the current Remuneration Policy is designed to Plan payments made in 2018 in respect of 2017. promote the long-term success of the Company, and that the Following the publication of the new 2018 UK Corporate performance-related elements of remuneration, which are kept Governance Code the New Code and The Companies under review, are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018, the Committee I remain keen to hear shareholders views on remuneration considered the changes that would need to be made to the matters and look forward to an ongoing dialogue with Committees role and responsibilities, and to the structure of the shareholders and their continued support for our Directors Groups remuneration going forward to ensure full compliance Remuneration Report resolution at the AGM.
with the New Code and these new Regulations.
As a result of this the Committee: Yours sincerely recommended to the Board appropriate changes to the Jane Hinkley Committees terms of reference, to incorporate the New Chairman, Remuneration Committee Code requirements regarding such items as: the prior 27 February 2019 experience of the Remuneration Committee Chairman: the Committees review of workforce remuneration and related policies: and the alignment of incentives and rewards with culture: share incentive plans promoting long-term shareholdings by Executive Directors: remuneration schemes and policies enabling the use of discretion to override formulaic outcomes: and post-employment shareholding requirements for Executive Directors reviewed its activities on understanding workforce related remuneration policies resolved to implement an additional two-year holding period for Performance Share awards that are granted under the Vesuvius Share Plan from 2019 onwards, such that these awards will be subject to a three-year vesting period, followed by a two-year holding period
