GOVERNANCE 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DEAR SHAREHOLDER OUR REMUNERATION POLICY We chose to set out our proposed On behalf of the Board I am very pleased to REMUNERATION remuneration policy in the Prospectus to present our first Directors Remuneration allow investors the opportunity to understand Report DRR, following the IPO in May 2018. how we pay our leadership team.
The Policy In line with regulatory requirements and best COMMITTEE is based on the principles that we laid out in practice this report is set out in two parts: thatdocument, being that: 1.
Policy Report This sets out our pay will reflect the role and responsibilities Remuneration Policy Policy for all Directors of the individual and will be determined of the Group, which will determine Director inthe context of the relevant market: remuneration for the future and is subject to a as a Company committed to growth binding shareholder vote at our 2019 AGM.
our emphasis will be on pay for 2.
Annual Report on Remuneration performance, to incentivise management Thissets out how our Directors were paid in todeliver the Companys business goals 2018andhow we will applyour Policy in 2019. andcreatelong-term shareholder value: The DRR other than the Directors the pay framework will be set with Remuneration Policy will be subject to an reference to best practice in the FTSE 350 advisory shareholder vote at our 2019 AGM.
and similar Oil & Gas retailing companies: We have also chosen to provide details of there will be important links to good thelegacy arrangements that arose as a corporate governance, health and safety resultof the IPO.
andrisk management practice: and the pay, philosophy and remuneration OUR APPROACH TO REMUNERATION for the wider employee population will This has been a remarkable year for Vivo COMMITTEE CHAIR be considered when making decisions Energy.
We started the year as a privately CAROL ARROWSMITH onremuneration for senior executives.
owned company and completed our listing on the London Stock Exchange in May.
We are committed to active engagement As well as delivering the IPO, we finalised the and so we have consulted with our major agreement to acquire Engens international shareholders and the leading investor bodies business in mostcountries, made a good start on the proposed policy and have taken their on upgrading our technology infrastructure views into consideration in finalising our anddelivered year-on-year growth.
Throughout this period of transition and The Committee believes that the proposed development our vision to be the most Policy provides a well balanced remuneration respected energy company in Africa has not package that will continue to attract and retain changed.
We adopt the same high standards individuals of the right calibre to take our as apply in the worlds most tightly regulated business forward and incentivise our Directors downstream markets.
Our focus on good and senior management to achieve the shortgovernance, and commitment to the principles and long-term goals of the business and deliver of openness and transparency flows through shareholder value.
into how the Remuneration Committee has It is a simple structure, with remuneration for established and applied our new Remuneration the Executive Directors comprising base salary, Policy and how we plan to operate annual bonus and an LTIP.
It also includes best going forward.
practice features such as holding post-vesting A coherent pay for Ahead of the IPO, a review of remuneration periods on the LTIP, malus clawback provisions across the Company was undertaken, to performance ethos has been and pension benefits aligned to the rest of the ensurethat the historically strong pay for UK workforce.
central to the Vivo Energy performance ethos, which has been a key feature of the VivoEnergy operating model operating model and we are formany years, was maintained and built keen to maintain this culture uponin the new Policy.
76 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PAY AND PERFORMANCE IN 2018 LEGACY INCENTIVES & IPO AWARDS PRIORITIES FOR 2019 Base salaries were set at the time of As we have moved from being a privately In the coming year, the Committee will the IPOand have remained unchanged held business to a listed company there are a focus on: throughoutthe year.
number of legacy pay arrangements that were Reviewing the remuneration policies triggered by that change and some transitional ofthewider workforce.
In line with our policy, financial performance elements to ensure a measured transition.
Approving the vesting level of the determined 70% of the bonus and 30% was Executive Directors and some senior managers IPOShare Awards.
assessed against a range of strategic and participated in Legacy IPO incentive awards.
We delivered EBITDA Reviewing of any issues raised by These were all granted in advance of, or in of$400 million resulting in a bonus of shareholders in relation to remuneration connection with, the IPO and are as detailed 42%ofmaximum for the financial element.
Disclosures of theseawards Non-financial metrics were put in place to Continuing to monitor our remuneration have been made in this Report on a voluntary reflect Vivo Energys transition to fully listed arrangements in light of changes in basis, in the interests of transparency status, align with our high standards, retain corporate governance and ongoing and openness.
focus on our strategic goals including securing market developments to ensure that the Engen transaction and also strengthening our arrangements remain relevant to REMUNERATION FOR 2019 our IT infrastructure.
These non-financial the Companys goals, congruent with In line with the proposed Policy, the Committee goals were delivered in fulland so the full 30% shareholder interests and reflecting the best has made the following decisions with respect bonus was earned bythe Executive Directors.
practice principles in an appropriate form.
to remuneration for the Executive Directors Overall, therefore the bonus earned was in 2019: The Committee believes that the 72%of the maximum opportunity.
Base Pay the base salaries for the Remuneration Policy, as detailed in this Report, During the year, the Committee also Executive Directors will remain unchanged how we have applied that Policy in 2018 and considered the terms of the Companys for 2019. our plans for 2019 are aligned to our principles, Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, adopted Annual bonus 2019 the maximum and will appropriately reward our Executive atthe IPO.
The first awards were made in opportunity remains unchanged at 200% Directors for the delivery of value for our August 2018.
The Committee determined for the CEO and 150% for the CFO, with shareholders.
Shareholders will have the that these 2018 awards to senior executives, the performance measures weighted opportunity to vote on both the Remuneration including the Executive Directors, would 70% on financial and 30% on non-financial Policy and the Annual Report on Remuneration be based on strategic performance metrics.
EBITDA, weighted at 40% remains at the AGM on 7 May 2019.
If the Policy is measures of EPS, ROACE and TSR.
a key financial performance measure, approved at the 2019 AGM it is intended that Subject to the achievement of the relevant withdelivery of profitable growth a prime itwill remain in place until the 2022 AGM.
targets, these awards may vest in 2021 after component of our strategy.
The inclusion I hope we can enjoy your support for theannouncement of the financial results of gross cash profit, weighted 30% reflects these resolutions.
Although the shares would not the importance of cash generation within normallybe available for a further two years.
Details of the targets will be CAROL ARROWSMITH Full details of the awards are disclosed in the disclosed retrospectively in next years COMMITTEE CHAIR Annual Report on Remuneration.
report as theyare commercially sensitive.
LTIP 2019 Further awards were 5 MARCH 2019 made under the LTIP Plan in early 2019.
Full detailsof the awards are disclosed intheAnnual Report on Remuneration.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 77 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT SUMMARY OF OUR APPROACH OUR STRATEGY OUR REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES WE HAVE FIVE Our approach to remuneration is intended to KEY STRATEGIC reflectourcorevalues and remain consistent with OBJECTIVES: ourobjective tobethemost respected energy businessinAfrica.
Maintain a highly Reward for 1 To remain a responsible andrespected business performance executionof strategy inthe communities in which weoperate: drivenculture and align pay with 2 To preserve our lean organisational structure   culture: 3 To maximise the value of our existing assets: Reflect our values Commitment notably onrisk, toopenness 4 To pursue growth: and HSSE and good and transparency businesspractice 5 To maintain attractive and sustainable returns through disciplined financial management.
PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Strong performance sustained following IPO with continued investment in the future growth.
Shell in Africa New executives Fuel Convenience Lubricants New 15-year SVL IPO Engen since early 1900s and organisational station growth retail and QSR optimisation brand licence acquisition acquisition structure CAPEX plan re-design agreed and expansion 2,200 2,100 2,100 2,000 1,900 1,900 1,829 1,800 1,726 1,700 1,628 1,600 1,494 1,500 1,384 1,400 1,303 1,269 1,300 1,200 1,100 1,000 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 78 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 Number of sites OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DELIVERED ANOTHER YEAR OF ADJUSTED EBITDA GROWTH KPIs ADJUSTED EBITDA $ in millions VOLUME GROWTH 400 400 376 4% 51 21% 42 350 14% 302 300 ADJUSTED EBITDA 122 32 107 240 250 6% 22 82 0% 200 76 150 NET INCOME 227 227 100 188 13% 142 50 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 Retail Commercial Lubricants REMUNERATION PACKAGE FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FORWARD LOOKING POLICY Simple forward-looking remuneration structure aligned with mainstream FTSE 350 practice.
PAY ELEMENT APPROACH KEY DECISIONS No changes to base salaries for 2019: BASE SALARY CEO: 640,000 Fixed pay levels set CFO: 450,000 atcompetitive levels Base salaries unchanged since IPO with role-appropriate Benefits package includes private medical care cover and life assurance BENEFITS benefits arrangements Pensions capped at 10% of salary 2019 BONUS Maximum opportunity: CEO: 200% of salary CFO: 150% of salary Adjusted EBITDA 40% ANNUAL Incentive linked to Gross Cash Profit 30% BONUS short-term targets Strategic goals 30% Maximum opportunity: 2018 AND 2019 LTIP AWARDS CEO: 250% of salary EPS 40% CFO: 200% of salary Three-year performance period Incentive linked to two-year holding period LTIP long-term priorities ROACE 40% Relative TSR 20% ADDITIONAL SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS DISCRETION AND JUDGEMENT MALUS AND CLAWBACK SAFEGUARDS Align with shareholders Ensure pay reflects performance Prevent payments for failure VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 79 PAY LINKED TO PERFORMANCE FIXED PAY GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES MEMBERSHIP ADVISERS TO THE OFTHECOMMITTEE All members of the Committee are REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee operates independent NonExecutive Directors Following a competitive tender process, withadelegated authority from the Board asdefined by the Code.
theCommittee appointed Deloitte to provide andis responsible for: independent advice on executive remuneration Committee members post the IPO.
Deloitte are members of the Determining and agreeing with the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, Board the Remuneration Policy for the All members were appointed in May 2018, voluntarily operate under the code of conduct Executive Directors.
unless otherwise stated: in relation to executive remuneration consulting Setting individual remuneration packages Carol Arrowsmith Chair in the UK.
Total fees received by Deloitte in and terms and conditions for the Executive relation to the remuneration advice provided John Daly Directors and other senior executives.
to the Committee since Admission amounted Thembalihle Hixonia Nyasulu Reviewing and noting the remuneration to 39,350 fees are based on hours spent.
Christopher Rogers trends and practices across the Company During the year, the Committee reviewed the and taking these into account when Gawad Abaza appointed December 2018 advice provided by Deloitte and consider it has reachingany decisions.
Biographies of all members can be found Evaluating the achievement of performance onpage 62 and 63.
During 2018, the Committee also received conditions under the annual bonus and LTIP.
support from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer Determining the Chairmans remuneration, MEETINGS LLP in relation to the Legacy and IPO awards.
though the Board itself determines The Committee has met four times Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP also the levels of fees for the Nonsince Admission.
Details of attendance by provides legal advice to the Company.
members atCommittee meetings can be found on page66.
The Committee normally No individual is present when his or her invites the Chief Executive Officer, the remuneration is being determined.
Company Secretary and the Chief of Staff As noted elsewhere in the Governance Report, to attend appropriate elements of the the Company is reviewing practices in response scheduled meetings.
to the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code During 2018 the Committee was primarily which comes into effect for 2019.
This process focused on determining the new Remuneration of review will continue over the coming months Policy, agreeing the targets for the annual bonus and a further update will be provided in the plan and making the first awards under the LTIP.
Going forward the Committee will develop a calendar of standard items for discussion, which will be supplemented by indepth discussions on specific topics.
80 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This Directors Remuneration Report DRR has been prepared on behalf of the Board by the Committee in accordance with the relevant requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the 2013 Regulations.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY The following sections set out our Directors Remuneration Policy Policy, which will be put forward for a binding shareholder vote at the 2019AGM.
Subject to shareholder approval, the Policy will take effect from the date of the AGM and is intended to remain in place for three years.
POLICY TABLE FIXED PAY BASE SALARY Purpose and link Provides the fixed element of the remuneration package.
Set at competitive levels against the market in order to to strategy attract and retain the calibre of executives required to execute the strategy.
Operation Base salaries are normally reviewed annually.
The Committee will consider various factors when determining salary levels, including individual contribution, business performance, role scope, practice in relevant talent markets and the range of salary increases applying across the Group.
Maximum opportunity There is no maximum salary.
However, salary increases for Executive Directors will normally be within the range ofincreases for the general employee population over the period of this Policy.
Increases in excess of those for the wider employee population may be awarded in certain circumstances including instances of sustained strong individual performance, if there is a material change in the responsibility, size or complexity of the role, or if an individual was intentionally appointed on a below-market salary.
In such circumstances, the Committee will provide the rationale for the increase in the relevant years Annual Report on Remuneration.
Details of current salary levels for Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
BENEFITS Purpose and link Benefits to be competitive in the market in which the individual is employed.
to strategy Operation Can include Company benefits such as permanent health insurance, healthcare and life insurance.
The Committee retains the ability to approve additional role appropriate benefits in certain circumstances e. g. participation in all-employee share incentives, relocation allowances and expenses, expatriation allowances etc.. Benefits in respect of the year under review are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Maximum opportunity There is no maximum limit.
However, role appropriate benefits are capped at a suitable level reflecting the local market and jurisdiction.
RETIREMENT BENEFITS Purpose and link Provides benefits which enable executives to plan for retirement.
Retirement benefits are designed to be to strategy cost-effective and competitive in the market in which the individual is employed.
Operation Defined contribution scheme and or a cash allowance in lieu thereof.
Maximum opportunity The maximum defined contribution or cash in lieu thereof will be 10% of base salary.
This is currently in line withretirement benefits provided to the rest of the UK employee population.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 81 GOVERNANCE 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED VARIABLE PAY ANNUAL BONUS Purpose and link Incentivises the achievement of specific goals over the short-term that are also aligned to the long-term to strategy businessstrategy.
Operation Performance measures are set by the Committee and are weighted to reflect a balance of financial, strategic and individual objectives.
Following the end of the year the Committee reviews performance and determines the extent to which objectives have been achieved in order to determine the pay-out level.
Executive Directors will normally be required to defer up to 50% of any resulting annual bonus into shares until theExecutive Director meets the relevant shareholding requirement.
The remaining balance of the annual bonus ispaid incash.
Where bonuses are deferred into shares, dividend equivalents may accrue.
Cash and share bonuses awarded for annual bonuses will be subject to malus and clawback.
Further details of our Malus and Clawback Policy are set out on page 83.
Maximum opportunity Maximum opportunity of 200% of salary.
Currently a maximum opportunity of 200% of base salary applies to the CEO and 150% of base salary for the CFO.
The pay-out for threshold performance may vary year on year depending on the nature and stretch ofthetarget, butwill normally not exceed 25% of the maximum opportunity.
Performance metrics Bonuses for the Executive Directors may be based on a combination of financial and non-financial measures.
Theexact performance measures and targets for each financial year may be varied to reflect the priorities for thebusiness.
Financial measures will represent at least 50% of any award.
Further details regarding bonuses for 2018 and 2019 are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP Purpose and link Aligns the interests of executives and shareholders by delivering shares to Executive Directors and other senior to strategy executives as a reward for delivery of long-term performance objectives aligned to the strategy.
Operation The Committee has the authority to grant awards under the LTIP to Executive Directors.
Typically they will do this every year.
Awards are normally conditional on achievement of performance conditions assessed over three years.
Awards to Executive Directors will normally also be subject to a holding period of two years post vesting.
Details of the performance period and holding period will be disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration for the year in which the relevant award is made.
Dividend equivalents may accrue on any shares that vest.
Awards are subject to malus and or clawback for a period of five years from the date of grant.
Further details oftheMalus and Clawback Policy are set out on page 83.
Maximum opportunity The LTIP provides for a conditional award of shares or economic equivalent up to an annual limit of 250% of base salary.
Under the plan rules an award of up to 300% of base salary can be granted in exceptional circumstances.
The grant value of awards to the CEO and CFO for 2018 and 2019 are 250% and 200% of base salary respectively.
The vesting level for the threshold performance hurdle may vary year on year depending on the nature and stretch ofthe target, but will normally not exceed 25% of the maximum opportunity.
Performance metrics The vesting of awards is usually subject to continued employment and the Groups performance over the performance period.
The Remuneration Committee will set the performance targets for each award in light of the appropriate business priorities at the relevant time.
For the 2018 and 2019 award, the criteria is based on a combination of relative total shareholder return 20%, earnings per share 40%, and return on average capital employed 40%.
The Committee may vary the performance measures, targets and weightings as well as the periodofassessment for future awards to ensure that they continue to align with the Groups strategy.
SHAREHOLDING GUIDELINES Purpose and link to strategy Alignment of Executive Directors with shareholders.
Operation Guidelines are 200% of base salary for all Executive Directors.
Shareholdings are expected to be built up and maintained over the course of tenure.
Directors are also expected to maintain an interest in Company shares afterthey leave the Company.
Further detail regarding the guideline and current holdings are shown on page 94 oftheAnnual Report on Remuneration.
82 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE CRITERIA FOR MALUS AND CLAWBACK ILLUSTRATION OF THE INCENTIVES SELECTING REMUNERATION POLICY Prior to vesting, the Committee may cancel MEASURES, TARGET SETTING or reduce cash or the shares resulting from The Executive Directors remuneration AND ASSESSMENT the annual bonus, LTIP and IPO Share Awards arrangements have been designed to ensure Performance criteria for annual bonus and ifcertain events occur.
Such events include, that a significant proportion of pay is dependent LTIPawards are designed to support the butare not limited to: on the delivery of stretching short-term and execution of the short-term and long-term long-term performance targets, aligned with material misstatement of the Companys business strategy and to provide alignment with the creation of sustainable shareholder value financial accounts: our shareholders interests.
The combination and the delivery of the Groups objectives.
a material failure of risk management by of financial, strategic and individual objectives The Committee considers the level of theCompany or any Group company: enables the Committee to achieve a balanced remuneration that may be received under an error in calculation of any awards based assessment of performance.
different performance outcomes ensures on false or misleading information: that this is appropriate in the context of the Performance targets for each award are gross misconduct by the relevant participant: performance delivered and the value added intended to be suitably challenging, taking for shareholders.
any action or omission on the part of a intoaccount internal and external forecasts, participant resulting in serious reputational as well as market conditions and the strategic The charts that follow provide illustrative values damage to the Company, any member ambitions and risk appetite of the Group.
of the ongoing annual remuneration package ofthe Group: and Outcomes at the maximum level are intended for Executive Directors in 2019 under three a serious breach or non-observance of to represent exceptional performance.
any code of conduct, policy or procedure Further details of the current performance These charts are for illustrative purposes operated by the Group.
measures and targets for bonus and only and actual outcomes may differ from LTIPawards are set out in the Annual Report those shown.
Consistent with best practice, the Remuneration Committee will seek to ensure that outcomes from incentive plans suitably reflect performance.
As well as exercising suitable judgement when assessing performance, the Committee may exercise discretion and make adjustments to any formulaic results, if the outcome is not considered to be appropriate or is not reflective of overall performance over the relevant period.
When making this judgement, the Committee has scope to consider any such factors as it deems relevant in the circumstances.
To ensure that awards continue to operate in the manner intended, the Committee may also adjust the targets for awards or the calculation of performance measures and vesting outcomes for certain events e. g. major acquisition.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 83 GOVERNANCE 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED ILLUSTRATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY CHRISTIAN CHAMMAS JOHAN DEPRAETERE 4,000 4,000 3,591 3,500 3,500 3,000 3,000 45% 2,500 2,500 2,151 2,080 2,000 2,000 37% 43% 1,500 1,500 1,293 35% 35% 1,000 1,000 30% 33% 711 26% 505 500 500 100% 33% 20% 100% 39% 24% 0 0 Fixed pay Mid Maximum Fixed pay Mid Maximum Fixed pay Annual bonus LTIP Notes The charts have been prepared using the following assumptions: Component Minimum Mid Maximum Base salary Base salary as at 1 January 2019 Fixed pay Pension 10% of base salary Benefits Annualised benefits provided in 2018 50% of maximum 100% of maximum Annual bonus NIL CEO: 100% of salary: CEO: 200% of salary: CFO: 75% of salary CFO: 150% of salary Variable pay 50% of maximum 100% of maximum LTIP NIL CEO: 125% of salary: CEO: 250% of salary: CFO: 100% of salary CFO: 200% of salary Note: The illustrations are based on ongoing future remuneration arrangements during the life of the Remuneration Policy and therefore do not include arrangements adopted prior to IPO.
Impact of share price increase As LTIP awards are granted in shares, the value of the award can vary significantly depending on the extent to which the performance criteria areachieved and the movement of the share price over the relevant vesting and holding period.
For example, if the share price increased by 50%overthe relevant vesting and holding period, the maximum values shown in the charts above would increase to 4.4 million for ChristianChammas and 2.8 million for Johan Depraetere.
Similarly, if the share price was to fall by 50%, the maximum values shown in thechartsabove wouldreduce to 2.5 million for Christian Chammas and 1.6 million forJohan Depraetere.
84 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RECRUITMENT POLICY The Committee may consider buying out remuneration forfeited by an executive When determining remuneration for a on joining the Company.
Any such buy-out new Executive Director, the Remuneration will be of comparable commercial value to Committee will consider the requirements of the arrangements forfeited and capped as the role, the needs of the business, the relevant appropriate.
When determining the terms of skills and experience of the individual and the the buy-out award, the Committee may tailor external talent market relevant to the role.
the terms, taking into account the structure, Normally the Committee would seek to align time horizons, value and performance targets the new Executive Directors remuneration associated with arrangements forfeited.
package to the remuneration policy.
The Committee may also require the Base salary and benefits including pension appointee to purchase shares in the Company willbe determined in accordance with the in accordance with its shareholding policy.
If an individual is appointed The Committee would subsequently provide on a base salary below the desired market suitable disclosure regarding any such award positioning, the Committee retains the ability granted on recruitment to the Board.
to re-align the base salary over time, reflecting Where an individual is appointed to the Board development in the role, which may result as a result of internal promotion or following inahigher rate of annual increase.
a corporate transaction e. g. following an Where necessary, additional benefits may acquisition, the Committee retains the ability also be provided e. g. relocation support, tohonour any legacy arrangements agreed tax equalisation.
In addition for an overseas prior to the individuals appointment to appointment, the Committee may offer the Board.
cost-effective benefits and pension provisions, On the appointment of a new Non-Executive which reflect local market practice and Chairman or Non-Executive Director, the relevant legislation.
terms and fees will normally be consistent Notice periods in service contracts for withthe fee policy.
any newappointment would not exceed 12 months.
Incentive opportunities excluding any buy-out will be consistent with the policy.
As noted in the LTIP policy table, in exceptional circumstances a maximum LTIP award of upto 300% of base salary may be granted in accordance with the LTIP rules.
The Company would provide clear disclosure regarding any such awards.
The Committee may tailor the targets for initial incentive awards to reflect thecircumstances on recruitment.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 85 GOVERNANCE 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: SERVICE CONTRACTS AND LOSS OF OFFICE PROVISIONS Notice Period Six months notice from the Company or the Executive Director.
Termination Payments The Company will also be entitled to terminate an Executive Directors service agreement with immediate effect bymaking a payment in lieu of notice, equal to i the base salary that would have been payable, and ii the cost that would have been incurred in providing the Executive Director with the contractual benefits which the Executive Director would have been entitled to receive during the notice period.
The Company can alternatively, in its sole discretion, continue to provide such contractual benefits instead of paying asum representing their cost.
The payment in lieu of notice may be subject to mitigation and therefore payable in equal monthly instalments over the notice period, conditional on the relevant Executive Director making reasonable efforts to secure alternative employment or engagements.
Certain benefits in connection with departure e. g. legal costs, outplacement costs may be payable in certaincircumstances.
Incentive Awards The treatment of incentive awards will depend on the circumstances of departure.
Normally no bonus is payable if, on the date on which any bonus is paid, the Executive Director has i left the Company, ii given or received notice of termination, or is iii under suspension for disciplinary matters which could result in dismissal.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that a departing executive will retain theability to earn a bonus award subject to performance and time pro-rating to reflect the period employed.
Any bonus deferred into shares will normally be released at the end of the deferral period, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Unvested long-term incentive awards will normally lapse on termination, unless the Committee determines that an Executive Director is deemed to be a good leaver.
For good leavers, any unvested awards may run until the normal vesting date, with any vesting normally on a time apportioned basis and subject to the achievement of the performance conditions.
If the Committee thinks there are circumstances that justify it, the Committee may release shares early, having regard to performance achieved to the date of leaving, if applicable.
Restrictive Covenants Executive Directors will be subject to a confidentiality undertaking without limitation in time, and non-solicitation andnon-compete restrictive covenants for a period of 12 months after the termination of their employment.
Change of Control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of change of control.
External Appointments Executive Directors may accept up to one position as a non-executive director of another publicly listed company, subject to prior approval from with Board.
Executive Directors are not entitled to accept a position as an executive director in any company that is not a Group Company.
Any fees from such an appointment may be retained by the Executive Director.
86 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Executive Directors service contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
LEGACY INCENTIVES AND IPO AWARDS Details of legacy arrangements for the Executive Directors and other senior managers agreed prior to IPO were included in the Prospectus on Admission and are also detailed in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
For the avoidance of doubt, they do not form part of this forward-looking Remuneration Policy and no further awards will be granted under these plans.
IPO CASH AWARDS Operation In recognition of the significant contribution made prior to Admission, cash bonuses were paid to Executive Directors shortly prior to Admission the IPO Bonuses.
The IPO Bonuses were conditional upon each of the Executive Directors using the after-tax amount to subscribe forshares at the Offer Price shortly following Admission.
The Executive Directors subscribed for shares accordingly.
The shares are subject to a no-sale agreement of a maximum of three years from the date of Admission, with one third of the shares being released from the agreement on each of the first, second and third anniversaries of the dateof Admission.
No further awards will be granted to Executive Directors under this plan.
IPO SHARE AWARDS Operation Prior to IPO it was agreed that one-off awards would be granted under the 2018 IPO Plan as soon as practicable after Admission the IPO Share Awards.
The IPO Share Awards were formally granted as nil-cost options over shares which will vest, subject to achievement of specified performance conditions.
The performance targets relate to consolidated gross cash profit and adjusted net income.
Awards are scheduled to vest in three equal tranches on the first, second and thirdanniversary of Admission.
Dividend equivalents may accrue on any vested shares.
Further details are set out in the Annual Report onRemuneration.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 87 GOVERNANCE 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR REMUNERATION Purpose and link To attract and retain high calibre individuals by offering market competitive fee arrangements.
to strategy Operation Non-Executive Directors receive a basic fee in respect of their Board duties.
Additional fees are paid to Non-Executive Directors for additional Board responsibilities, including Chairmanship of Board Committees.
The Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee for the role.
The Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration of the Chairman, whilst the Board as a whole is responsible fordetermining Non-Executive Director fees.
Fees are typically reviewed annually.
Where appropriate role-appropriate benefits may be provided.
This may include travel and other expenses incurred in the performance of Non-Executive duties for the Company, which may be reimbursed or paid for directly by the Company, as appropriate, including any tax due on the benefits.
Maximum Opportunity Fee levels are capped in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Current fee levels can be found on page 89.
Fees are set at a level, which is considered appropriate to attract and retain the calibre of individual required by the Company.
These fees are the sole element of Non-Executive remuneration and they are not eligible for participation in Groupincentive awards, nor do they receive any retirement benefits.
The Chairmans appointment may be terminated at any time by either side by giving six months written notice or in accordance with the articles.
The Non-Executive Directors appointments may be terminated at any time by either side, giving one months written notice or in accordance with the articles.
The Chairmans appointment and Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
DETAILED PROVISIONS The Committee may adjust or amend incentive awards only in accordance with the provisions of the relevant plan rules.
This includes making adjustments to awards to reflect one-off corporate events, such as a change in the Companys capital structure.
In accordance with the plan rules, awards may be settled in cash rather than shares, where the Committee considers this appropriate e. g. to comply with local securities law.
For theavoidance of doubt, the Company intends to settle LTIP awards in shares in the normal course of events and would clearly explain the reasonsfor anycash settlement.
The Committee may approve payments to satisfy commitments agreed prior to the implementation of this Policy.
This includes previous incentive awards that are currently outstanding and unvested e. g. IPO Share Awards.
The Committee may also approve payments outside of this Policy, inorder to satisfy any legacy arrangements made to a Director prior to and not in contemplation of promotion to the Board of Directors.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Remuneration Policy to aid its operation or implementation without seeking shareholder approvals e. g. for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation provided that any suchchange is not to the material advantage of the Board of Directors.
REMUNERATION POLICY FOR WIDER WORK FORCE Historically a key feature of the Companys operating model has been a strong pay for performance ethos, which runs through the entire organisation, from the CEO to every employee in the Group.
The Committee endorses this approach to remuneration and will support the Executive Directors and senior executives in ensuring this remains in place.
The Committee will be annually updated on how this model is operating and has oversight ofthe budget, its distribution for annual pay increases and how incentive plans are assessed and pay-outs determined.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Company places significant value on engagement with our major shareholders and we seek to ensure that shareholders clearly understand key decisions relating to executive pay.
Details of pay arrangements for Executive Directors were discussed with major shareholders ahead of the IPO and disclosed in the Admission documentation.
In addition, prior to end of the year, the Remuneration Committee engaged with major shareholders and the leading investor bodies regarding our approach to pay to ensure that their feedback could be taken into account before this Remuneration Policy was finalised.
Shareholders taking part in the consultation process were generally supportive of the proposed approach.
The Remuneration Committee did not directly engage with the workforce prior to determining the Directors Remuneration Policy.
However, the Company does place significant value on the views of employees and there are a number of mechanisms in place to obtain feedback.
The Company undertakes regular employee engagement surveys which cover a range of topics including HR matters.
During the year the Remuneration Committee was also provided with various briefings related to pay and reward practices across the wider business.
88 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL REPORT ON REMUNERATION This section of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out how the Policy has been applied in the year and how it will be applied in the coming year.
In accordance with the legislative requirements, this report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2019 AGM.
Sections of this report that are subject to audit in line with disclosure regulations have been flagged below.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2019 The following table summarises how remuneration arrangements will be operated for 2019.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Salary and benefits The Committee has determined that salaries for the Executive Directors will remain unchanged for 2019 Salary Increase Christian Chammas 640,000 NIL Johan Depraetere 450,000 NIL The Company contributes an amount equal to 10% of salary to a defined contribution scheme.
There are no changes to benefits or retirement benefits for 2019.
Annual Bonus The maximum opportunity remains unchanged at 200% of base salary for the CEO and 150% for the CFO.
The performance targets will remain weighted 70% on financial performance and 30% on non-financial performance.
As the targets are financially sensitive they are not disclosed at this time, but the Company will look to provide full disclosure in next years Remuneration Report, unless these remain commercially sensitive.
Under the Remuneration Policy, up to 50% of any bonus achieved will be deferred in shares until the Executive Director achieves their shareholding requirement.
LTIP LTIP awards for 2019 will remain unchanged at 250% of base salary for the CEO and 200% for the CFO.
Performance will be measured over the three-year period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2021.
Awards will also be subject to a two-year holding period.
Awards will remain conditional on achievement of stretching performance targets based on EPS, ROACE and TSR.
20% of 50% of 100% of 2019 awards NIL element vests element vests element vests EPS 40% Less than 6% 6% 8% 12% Compound annual growth per annum per annum per annum per annum ROACE 40% Less than Weighted average over 16% 18% 20% 16% performance period Relative TSR 20% Below v. FTSE 350 excluding Median Upper-quartile Median financial services NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Fee policy The fees for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors remain unchanged for 2019: Role Fee Chairman 275,000 Basic fee for Non-Executive Directors 62,500 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 15,000 Additional fee for Chair of a Board Committee 15,000 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 89 GOVERNANCE 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The following table sets out the total remuneration for the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2018.
The Company listed in May 2018 and therefore, consistent with the legislative requirements, the single figure disclosure for 2018 covers the periodfrom Admission, being the date from which Vivo Energy plc became the Parent Company of the Group.
For transparency, the notes to thetable include details of the bonus for the full year, including the bonus relating to the period prior to Admission.
The first awards under the LTIPweregranted in August 2018 and will vest in 2021, therefore no value is shown for the current financial year.
In addition to the above, the table also includes details of certain legacy arrangements agreed prior to Admission.
Although these awards have been included in the single figure for the year, they do not form part of the forward looking package.
Further details of all legacy arrangements were set out in the Prospectus on Admission and have also been detailed on page 94.
As the Company was a newly listed company during 2018, there is no disclosure of prior year information.
Christian Chammas Johan Depraetere FY18 000s FY18 000s 1 Salary 423 299 1 Benefits 4 7 1 Retirement benefits 42 30 2 Annual bonus 609 323 3 Long-Term Incentive Plan 4 Legacy incentives: IPO Share Award 467 328 Total including Legacy incentives 1,545 987 Less: Legacy incentives 467 328 Total 1,078 659 1 Base salaries, benefits and retirement benefits are shown from 10 May 2018.
2 Annual bonus is for the period from 10 May 2018.
The full bonuses for 2018 including the period 1 January to 9 May 2018 were as follows: Christian Chammas: 826,993 and JohanDepraetere: 466,822.
These bonuses will be paid wholly in cash as the shareholding requirement has already been met.
3 No awards vested under the Long-Term Incentive Plan in 2018.
4 The first tranche of this legacy award will vest in May 2019.
An estimated value of the first tranche of this award has been shown based on the average share price over the fourthquarterof 2018 117 pence.
Further details are set out below.
Additional notes to the table Salary On Admission the salary for the Chief Executive Officer was 640,000 and the Chief Financial Officer was 450,000.
As noted above, salaries for Executive Directors will remain unchanged for 2019.
Benefits The benefits consist of private medical cover.
Directors also receive life assurance.
Retirement benefits The retirement benefits represents the Companys contribution to the Executive Directors retirement planning at a rate of 10% of base salary.
Thisbenefit level is consistent with the level provided to other UK employees.
Annual Bonus 2018 The Executive Directors annual bonus targets for 2018 were set against a combination of financial and non-financial performance measures.
The measure for financial performance was Adjusted EBITDA and was weighted at 70% of the bonus opportunity.
The remaining 30% was based onanumber of non-financial objectives.
Details of the performance targets and the outcomes are set out on the next page.
90 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 70% OF THE AWARD 0% payment 42% payment 70% payment Achieved Outcome Adjusted EBITDA $376m $400m $425m $400m 42% STRATEGIC AND INDIVIDUAL OBJECTIVES 30% OF THE AWARD CHRISTIAN CHAMMAS FINAL ACHIEVEMENT: 30% Area Focus Outcome HSSE Demonstrate focus on and personal leadership oftheHSSEagenda.
TRCF: Target 0.7 TRCF: Actual 0.192 Spills 100kg: Target 6 Spills 100kg: Actual 2 Governance and Demonstrate that regulators and shareholders have Required governance and LSE and JSE standards in place.
Compliance, Regulatory confidence that the Company is properly governed and Shareholder andmanagedpost IPO.
relationships IPO Deliver IPO, leading transition to plc.
Delivered successful IPO, necessary governance of the Company in accordance with premium listed LSEstandards.
Engen Deliver Engen deal and carve-out of DRC.
Engen integration with five scheduled for 1March 2019.
Human capital Lead the development of succession plans for the next Succession plans in place for senior roles.
For roles below levels of management and leadership, so that the Board have Directors, plans reviewed on a six months cycle by the clearvisibility and plans for succession to all senior roles.
Personal development Fulfil new role as CEO of a plc.
Excellent transition to the CEO role of a UK listed plc post IPO, delivering the planned results in a tough business environment, whilst also delivering the IPO.
JOHAN DEPRAETERE FINAL ACHIEVEMENT: 30% Area Focus Outcome Leadership of the Lead the finance function through the IPO and ensure Successfully and accurately completed, withinthe Financefunction thatthe transition of all the sections from pre to post settimeframes.
IPO were delivered in a timely and accurate way.
This encompassed internal and external reporting, treasury andcash flow management, credit management, CAPEX, tax and internal control frameworks.
IPO Deliver IPO including the linked financingRCF.
Prepare the Prospectus and Equity story.
Prospectus and Equity story delivered atahigh standard.
PLC reporting Deliver post IPO plc reporting deliverables for both On time & effective delivery.
interimand full year: account closing, results preparation andthe .
Company development Develop the Investor relations function.
Successfully established and resourced withhigh calibreindividual.
Engen Plan and getting ready the Engen finance and ITintegration.
All in ready state for March go-live.
DRCcarved out Deliver the DRC carve-outnegotiation.
Personal Development Fulfil new role as Executive Director of a plc and Meeting all expectations.
OVERALL OUTCOME Outcome Christian Chammas maximum 200% of salary 72% Johan Depraetere maximum 150% of salary 72% As the Group delivered an adjusted EBITDA outcome of $400 million this element paid out at 42% of maximum.
As detailed above the remaining 30% of the bonus for 2018was focused on a number of key strategic, operational and leadership priorities.
The performance factors considered bythe Committee as partof their assessment are summarised in the table above.
Based on the Committees assessment, it was determined that thiselement should payout in full.
The Committee is satisfied that the outcome for the year represents a fair reflection of overall performance.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 91 GOVERNANCE 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN LTIP No awards vested under the LTIP in 2018 and consequently no figure is shown in the single figure table on page 90.
LTIP AWARDS GRANTED IN 2018 The first awards under the LTIP were made during 2018.
These awards were granted in the form of nil cost options over Vivo Energy plc shares, withthe number of shares that may vest conditional upon performance to the end of the 2020 financial year.
Awards to Executive Directors will alsobe subject to an additional two-year holding period.
The 2018 LTIP awards are subject to performance targets based on Earnings per Share EPS, Return on Adjusted Capital Employed ROACE andRelative Total Shareholder Return Relative TSR.
The Committee determined that this mix of performance measures ensured focus on delivery of strategic and operational goals, management of capital within the business, which is a key strategic focus and alignment with shareholder value creation.
Details of the performance measures with their weightings and targets are shown below: 20% of element 50% of element 100% of element 2018 2020 Weighting NIL vests vests vests EPS Less than 6% 6% 8% 12% 40% Compound annual growth per annum per annum per annum per annum ROACE 40% Less than 16% 16% 18% 20% Weighted average over performance period Relative TSR 20% Below Median Median Upper-quartile v. FTSE 350 exc.
financial services Note: There is straight line vesting between the points shown in the table.
The following table provides details of the awards made on 8 August 2018: Number of Shares Face value at grant End of performance Name Awarded 000s period Christian Chammas 1,081,081 1,600 31 December 2020 Johan Depraetere 608,108 900 31 December 2020 Notes: The number of shares under award was based on a share price of 148 pence.
For the 2018 year, awards to Christian Chammas represent 250% of base salary and awards to Johan Depraetere represent 200% of base salary.
LEGACY INCENTIVES IPO SHARE AWARDS As detailed in the Admission documents, prior to Admission it was agreed that one-off share awards would be granted to the Executive Directors and other senior executives shortly after IPO the IPO Share Awards.
The terms of these awards including award levels and performance criteria were determined prior to Admission.
These awards were structured as nil-cost options to vest, subject to the performance conditions, in three equaltranches on the first, second and third anniversaries of Admission.
As previously stated, these awards were one-off in nature, and therefore will not be replicated in future years.
The number of shares under each award were determined prior to Admission.
The Executive Directors have awards over the following number of shares: Number of Shares Name Awarded Christian Chammas 1,197,860 Johan Depraetere 842,245 Each tranche of the IPO Share Awards is subject to targets relating to gross cash profit and adjusted net income.
These targets are equally weighted.
The first tranche will be eligible for vesting in May 2019.
The performance targets for this award were gross cash profit of $680.3 million and adjusted net income of $176.7 million.
The Group delivered gross cash profit of $679.6 million and adjusted net income of $177.7 million, and therefore this tranche is expected to vest at 99.96% of maximum on the first anniversary of Admission.
For the purposes of the single figure table, the amount shown is based on the number of shares expected to vest in May 2019 based on the average share price over the fourth quarter of 2018 117p.
The second and third tranches will be based on performance to 31 December 2019 and 2020 respectively.
The targets for these awards will be disclosed on a retrospective basis in the 2019 and 2020Remuneration reports as they are deemed commercially sensitive.
92 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SINGLE TOTAL FIGURE OF REMUNERATION AUDITED NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The following table sets out the total remuneration for the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2018.
This comprises the total remuneration received by them since their individual appointment dates.
2018 Director Total 000 John Daly 181 Thembalihle Hixonia Nyasulu 50 Christopher Rogers 50 Carol Arrowsmith 50 Gawad Abaza 5 1 Temitope Lawani 1 Javed Ahmed Total 336 1 The Non-Executive Directors nominated by Vitol and Helios, subject to the Relationship Agreement, do not receive any fees.
DIRECTORS APPOINTMENT DATES Director Date of Appointment 1 Christian Chammas 2 January 2012 1 Johan Depraetere 6 April 2012 Temitope Lawani 16 March 2018 Javed Ahmed 12 March 2018 John Daly 20 April 2018 Thembalihle Hixonia Nyasulu 20 April 2018 Christopher Rogers 22 April 2018 Carol Arrowsmith 20 April 2018 Gawad Abaza 1 December 2018 1 Original appointment dates.
VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 93 GOVERNANCE 2018 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING AND SHARE INTERESTS AUDITED The table below sets out the Directors and their connected persons share interests in the ordinary shares of the Company.
Executive Directors areexpected to build up and maintain a shareholding of at least 200% of salary in Vivo Energy shares.
This policy will apply to both the current Executive Directors as well as any future appointments to the Board.
As at the year-end, both Executive Directors have interests in shares which substantially exceed the minimum shareholding guideline.
There have beenno changes in the interests of each Director between 31 December 2018 and the date of this report.
In line with the 2018 Code, the Committee has adopted a post-employment shareholding guideline.
Following departure, Executive Directors will be required to hold two times base salary for a period of 12 months, reducing to one times base salary for a further 12 months.
Shares owned IPO Share Awards LTIP outright at subject to subject to 31 December performance performance 1 1 2 Director 2018 IPO Cash Award conditions conditions Temitope Lawani 13,152,630 n a n a n a Christian Chammas 5,848,593 894,434 1,197,860 1,081,081 Johan Depraetere 4,582,172 669,585 842,245 608,108 John Daly 216,666 n a n a n a Thembalihle Hixonia Nyasulu 22,000 n a n a n a Christopher Rogers 30,303 n a n a n a Carol Arrowsmith 37,878 n a n a n a Javed Ahmed n a n a n a n a Gawad Abaza n a n a n a n a 1 As disclosed in the Prospectus, one-off cash awards were made to Executive Directors on Admission.
The cash amount was communicated before Admission and the net amount wasused to subscribe for shares at the IPO offer price shortly following Admission.
Shares are released from the no-sale agreement in three equal tranches on the first, second and thirdanniversaries of Admission.
2 As disclosed in the Prospectus, it was agreed prior to Admission that one-off share awards would be granted to Executive Directors shortly after the IPO.
These awards, which were granted as nil-cost options, will vest, subject to performance conditions, in three equal tranches at the first, second, and third anniversaries of Admission.
Further details are provided onpage 87.
DILUTION The Company ensures that the level of shares granted under the Companys share plans and the means of satisfying such awards remain within bestpractice guidelines so that dilution from employee share awards does not exceed ten per cent of the Companys issued share capital for all-employee share plans and five per cent in respect of executive share plans in any ten-year rolling period.
The Company will monitor dilution levelson a regular basis.
LEGACY INCENTIVES As detailed in the Prospectus on Admission, the Executive Directors participated in various legacy incentive arrangements which relate to performance prior to Admission.
As these Legacy awards do not relates to qualifying services during the period under review, they are not included in the single figure table of remuneration.
However, in the interest of full transparency, the key details from the prospectus regarding these legacy interests have been replicated below.
SVL Phantom Option Awards Executive Directors and other senior executives were granted phantom option awards by Shell and Vivo Lubricants B. V. SVL in 2012.
These awards became fully exercisable on Admission, but the option holders agreed to amend the terms such that they would receive a cash payment.
As detailed in the Prospectus, the total net cash payment was agreed based on performance prior to IPO and equated to total awards of $1,458,654 to Christian Chammas and $1,201,244 to Johan Depraetere.
The payment was delivered in two tranches: i 75% in April 2018: and ii 25% in December 2018.
All payments to Executive Directors under this plan have now been made, and there are no further outstanding interests under this plan.
IPO Cash Awards Prior to IPO, the Executive Directors were paid cash bonuses by Vivo Energy Holding B. V. to the gross amount of $3,787,000 for Christian Chammas and $2,835,000 for Johan Depraetere, in consideration of work completed over a multi-year period to position the Group for the IPO.
Although all amounts were paid prior to IPO, the Executive Directors were required to invest the net cash proceeds into shares in Vivo Energy plc.
These shares are subject to sale restrictions but are not subject to continuing employment.
The sale restrictions lift in equal tranches on the first, second and third anniversaries of Admission.
As detailed in the table above, ChristianChammas and Johan Depraetere acquireda total of 894,434 and 669,585 shares respectively using the proceeds from IPO Cash Award.
As at theyear-end these shares continued to beheld in full.
94 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE GRAPH AND TABLE The graph below shows the TSR of the Company and the UK FTSE 250 index since the Admission of the Company to 31 December 2018.
The FTSE250 index was selected on the basis that the Company has been a member of the FTSE 250 in the UK since 24 September 2018.
COMPANY PERFORMANCE 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Admission May 18 Jun 18 Jul 18 Aug 18 Sep 18 Oct 18 Nov 18 Dec 18 Vivo Energy FTSE 250 exc.
Investment trusts Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream Given that the Company has only been publicly listed since 10 May 2018, the following table sets out the CEOs pay since Admission: 000 CEO remuneration 2018 CEO single figure of remuneration 1,545 Annual bonus payout % of Maximum 72% 1 Long-term incentive payout % of Maximum 99.96% 1 First tranche of the IPO Share Awards.
No LTIP awards have vested since Admission.
PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN CEO REMUNERATION This section is not applicable as the Company only listed in May 2018 and as such there is no prior year comparative to be shown.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The following table shows the relationship between distributions to shareholders and the total remuneration paid to all employees since the Admissionof the Company up to 31 December 2018.
As the Company only listed in May 2018, there is no comparative information for the prior year.
$000 2018 Shareholder distributions 23,805 Total employee expenditure 175,795 At the 2019 AGM, shareholders will be invited to vote on the Annual Remuneration Report for 2018 and the proposed Remuneration Policy for 2019 binding vote.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf CAROL ARROWSMITH CHAIR OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 5 MARCH 2019 VIVO ENERGY PLC | ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2018 95 Value of hypothetical 100 holding
