Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 95 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Report Dear shareholders, restricted share awards continue to be in line with investor guidance: I am pleased to introduce our Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended Significantly lower award sizes annual 31 December 2018. restricted share awards of 125% CEO and 100% CFO these represent a 50% discount I would like to start by thanking our shareholders on the LTIP award levels that were last granted for supporting our new Remuneration Policy, in 2017. which received a 92% vote for at the 2018 Extended time horizons for each award, AGM.
Shareholders and their representatives 50% is released to participants after five years, engaged extensively with us during the 25% after six years and the final 25% after development of these proposals and provided seven years from grant.
This represents one of valuable insight to the Remuneration Committee.
Clare Chapman the longest holding periods for any long-term This was important given our ambition to reform Committee Chair incentive plans in the UK and is in excess of the the design of remuneration rather than just tweak five years recommended in the UK Corporate it in the margins.
Our We are Weir strategic framework, with Governance Code.
its focus on delivering positive outcomes Incentives are now aligned to the business in  against payment for for all our stakeholders, is at the heart of our a way that exposes executives to upside and failure an underpin applies to the awards approach to reward.
Our remuneration policy downside risk.
We believe the design of the is aimed at providing a simple, transparent which includes a set of key metrics with preand effective way to appropriately incentivise Policy, in particular the introduction of restricted disclosed performance thresholds.
shared success and build a business for the shares as the only long-term incentive plan, best Enhanced shareholding guidelines, including long term.
recognises the cyclical nature of the sectors in extending into post-employment the which we operate.
Given the exposure of our shareholding guidelines for the CEO and CFO Key contents businesses to the commodity markets, it makes it are 400% and 300% of salary, respectively.
extremely challenging to set robust and stretching These have also been extended into a postSummary of Policy financial targets and a traditional LTIP can suffer employment period at 50% of the normal level, and 2019 implementation 97 from all or nothing characteristics with windfall tapering to 0% after two years.
gains and losses more linked to the position in the Directors Remuneration Policy 99 2018 bonus and LTIP outcomes cycle rather than business performance.
In 2018 we also changed our bonus framework Annual Report on Remuneration 107 Best evidence also gives us confidence that to better align with the reward principles and Single figure table 107 this simpler pay package, with less reliance on delivery of our strategy.
We also simplified the short-term performance conditions and requiring The Remuneration Committee 113 framework from four to three measures.
large shareholdings, can have a positive impact After consultation with shareholders, 70% of the on innovation and long-term decision making, annual bonus was based on performance against which is so critical to the value we create for financial measures: Group PBTA and working our customers.
The remuneration framework capital as a percentage of sales.
approved by shareholders last year significantly reduced award sizes, extended time horizons The performance targets were set using and will make executives meaningful longSeptember 2017 closing exchange rates.
The Committee are also with the bonus policy, the Committee also able to reduce payouts if necessary to avoid increased the targets to reflect the acquisition paying for failure.
The key parameters of the of ESCO.
Rewarding long-term value creation One of the strengths of We are Weir is People Customers that it takes our strategic framework and Caring for our colleagues, our Working in partnership to provide identifies how we will create value from it neighbours and the environment distinctive solutions that deliver for all our stakeholders.
and inspiring them to flourish.
Technology Performance Driving the development of new Delivering excellence for all our technologies and capabilities that stakeholders through strong leadership, lead the market.
The Weir Group PLC 96 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Profit for 2018 was between threshold and made under the previous remuneration policy.
Looking ahead target impacted by performance within our Oil The vesting period for the awards granted in 2016 We welcome the FRCs publication of the & Gas Division.
Upstream oil and gas markets ended on 31 December 2018, and 75% of the new UK Corporate Governance Code and the had a mixed year with strong demand in North original award will vest in April 2019.
Full details Committee has undertaken an initial review of our America in the first half followed by much more are provided on page 109. remuneration framework to ensure it is appropriate challenging conditions in the second half of in light of the new Code, as well as the views of Sharing in success the year.
our investors and best market practice.
In 2018 shareholders gave approval for our global Working capital as a percentage of sales for all employee shareplan, with the ambition of As part of the Remuneration Policy, approved by 2018 was between threshold and target with the making all Weir colleagues shareholders, and to shareholders last year, a number of features were Minerals Division impacted by higher inventory reinforce the We are Weir culture and increase introduced which were ahead of market practice.
levels in support of future growth.
Since approval, the For example, we have already introduced a Group has been finalising the design of the Free post-employment shareholding requirement The performance achieved against both Share award to ensure that in all our locations we for the executives and have long-term time measures was 49% of maximum, which resulted will be granting shares where legally permitted horizons that extend to seven years under the in a total contribution to payout of 34% of and giving employees a voice as shareholders restricted share plan.
Given the changes made maximum for the financial measures.
Thefirst award of Free to the Remuneration Policy last year, we are The remaining 30% was based on strategic Shares will be granted in May 2019. not proposing to make any amendments to the objectives developed around the We are remuneration framework for 2019.
The Group has also begun to implement an Weir strategic framework.
A balanced innovative approach to continuous listening, I would like to thank our shareholders again for scorecard provides clear line of sight on how specifically focused on hearing from employees.
their continued feedback on our remuneration our remuneration policy supports successful The outputs from the global employee surveys framework and I look forward to receiving execution of our strategy and the unlocking of will be an important consideration of the their support at the AGM.
As ever, we long-term value.
Further information can be found assessment of the People element of the remain committed to an open and ongoing on Measuring our Progress on page 28. balanced scorecard.
dialogue and I would be very happy to Performance achieved against the strategic hear the views of investors on the current Given the importance of fairness in workforce measures was 92% of maximum.
practices, we wish to move forward with the early disclosed the full balanced scorecard used voluntary disclosure of the CEO to workforce on page 108.
Shareholders can see that the pay ratio.
The disclosure of this ratio appears on scorecard was objective, measurable and page 111. focussed on the key strategic areas of focus for Clare Chapman Weir during 2018.
We set rigorous and stretching The outcomes from our second year of gender Chair of the Remuneration Committee targets and reviewed the achievement at the pay reporting is also set out on page 59.
This shows that our mean pay gap reduced from 8% to 6%.
Full details of the data as well Based on financial and strategic measures, a as the actions being taken to make Weir a more Reward principles bonus of 62% of maximum was awarded to the inclusive and diverse place to work can be Appropriately rewarding Executive Directors.
This resulted in a total payout found in the Gender Pay report on our website of 93% and 77% of salary for the CEO and the delivery of sustainable www.
value over time in a cyclical 2019 decisions The Committee recognises that the strategic business With effect from April 2019, the salaries for measures have paid out at a higher level than our Executive Directors will increase by 2.8% in line financial measures.
However, the Committee with the average increase for UK employees.
Employees as shareholders is satisfied that on this occasion the result is No other changes are being made at this time to justifiable and correct.
As stated above, the Encouraging and enabling substantial longthe pay arrangements for Executive Directors.
financials were impacted by a slowdown in one term share ownership for all employees.
The Committee assessed the restricted share division.
The successful completion of most of Rewarding long-term value creation award levels in the context of the successful our strategic initiatives continued despite this action taken to transform the portfolio and a and has set Weir up to be more successful in the Bringing focus to sustainable improvement share price impacted by a market slowdown future.
Therefore, we determined that we would in the underlying business via our in the North American oil and gas markets.
not adjust the outcome in the balanced scorecard.
The Committee considered whether any We also took a step back to determine if the Supporting our culture adjustments should be made to the award levels result felt fair given the performance of the in the context of our share price performance, group overall and the shareholder experience.
Focusing incentives on team performance in light of recent investor guidance.
On the It was the view of the Committee that if anything to create collective accountability and basis that at the time of our decision, the share the financial outcome was less than fair but when becoming an employer of choice by offering price has recovered c. 25% since the end of the combined with all the other factors, including the a motivating and fair package.
financial year, we determined that a 2019 award share price decline during the year, no positive of 125% of salary for the CEO and 100% of salary Simplifying and increasing effectiveness or negative discretion would be applied to the for the CFO remains appropriate.
Simple and transparent reward linked to The Committee also reviewed the Chairmans business success and delivered in a way Whilst the new remuneration framework does fee during 2018 and, with effect from April that reduces the impact of cyclical volatility not include a traditional LTIP, there are still 2019, is proposing to increase the fee by 2.8%, on reward outcomes and enables retention.
a number of in-flight LTIP awards that were again in line with the average salary increase for UK employees.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 97 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Summary of policy and 2019 implementation The table below summarises the key components of our remuneration framework and indicates how we intend to operate the policy in 2019.
Operation 2019 implementation Fixed Salary Fixed remuneration which reflects role, Increases for 2019 aligned to the average increase for UK skills, and responsibilities.
employees of 2.8%: For 2018: CEO 687,000 CFO 423,000 CEO 668,200 CFO 411,200 Pension Executive Directors receive pension No change.
contributions of 12% per annum in line with other senior UK employees.
Benefits Car allowance, health care and No change.
Variable Annual bonus Maximum opportunity: Measures and weightings in 2019 no change.
CEO 150% of base salary Set out below are the underlying headline metrics to be CFO 125% of base salary achieved over the next three to five years, as well as the target priorities for 2019.
Underlying targets will be fully 30% deferred into shares for three years.
disclosed in next years report.
Measures and weightings in 2018: People 50% Group PBTA see definition on Improved sustainable engagement and page 107 organisation effectiveness 20% Working capital as a percentage High standards of leadership driving a best in class of sales behavioural culture 30% Strategic measures Improve organisational effectiveness Continue and extend the Weir culture and develop the Full retrospective target disclosure see voice of the employee pages 107-109 in respect of 2018.
Customer Increase market share Expand service network and enhance global capability Increase customer technology partnerships and field trial Enhance Voice of the Customer VOC and its use Technology Improved percentage revenue from new solutions services products Protect our core through technology and material advancement Extend beyond the core transform disrupt from product to solutions Grow Advanced Manufacturing and Innovation capability Performance Sustainably higher margins through cycle Improve operational performance Realise benefits of Group portfolio Build sustainability roadmap to deliver tangible value across the Group The Weir Group PLC 98 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued The table below summarises the key components of our remuneration framework and indicates how we intend to operate the policy in 2019.
Operation 2019 implementation Variable Restricted share Maximum award size: No change.
continued awards Underpin: CEO 125% of base salary Balance sheet health CFO 100% of base salary Dividend Vesting phased over a five-year period, Maintain average absolute dividend per share over the with vested shares released between vesting period at least in line with the 2018 declared five and seven years from grant.
Vesting subject to the underpin.
Prior to Breaching covenants vesting, if any of the thresholds have not No breach of debt covenant or renegotiation of been met, it would trigger the Committee covenant terms outside or a normal refinancing cycle.
to consider whether a discretionary adjustment was required.
Investor returns Return of Capital Employed ROCE Restricted share awards will also be Maintain average ROCE over the vesting period subject to malus and clawback provisions.
above the average Weighted Average Cost of Capital for that period.
Corporate governance Major governance failure No material failure in governance or an illegal act resulting in significant reputational damage and or material financial loss to the Group.
Other Shareholding CEO 400% of base salary No change.
guidelines CFO 300% of base salary In addition, shareholding requirements will continue post-employment.
NED fees Fees reflect responsibilities and time Chairman and NED fees will increase broadly in line with commitments for the role.
the wider employee average, effective 1 April 2019: Chairmans fee 315,000 NED base fee 62,900 Chairman of Committee fee 16,400 Senior Independent Director fee 13,200 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 99 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Policy The remuneration policy was approved by shareholders in 2018, and is intended to apply for three years.
Policy table Base salary Purpose Maximum value To provide a salary which takes into account an individuals role, While there is no stipulated maximum salary increase, increases skills and responsibilities and enables the Group to attract and retain will not normally be greater than the average salary increase for UK talented leaders.
employees or the relevant jurisdiction if an Executive Director is based outside the UK.
Operation Reviewed annually, with increases normally taking effect from 1April.
Different increases may be awarded at the Committees discretion in Salaries are set by reference to market practice for similar roles in instances such as where: companies of similar size and complexity.
The Committee also takes there has been a significant increase in the size, complexity or value into account personal performance, the wider employee context, and of the Group: economic and labour market conditions.
there has been a change in role or responsibility: the individual is relatively new in the role and the salary level has been set to reflect this: and the individual is positioned below relevant market levels.
Pension Purpose Maximum value To encourage long-term saving and planning for retirement.
12% of base salary per annum in line with other senior UK employees.
Operation A contribution into the Companys defined contribution pension plan or an equivalent cash allowance, or any other arrangement the Committee considers has the same economic benefit.
Benefits Purpose Maximum value To provide cost-effective benefits valued by individuals.
Car allowance no greater than 20,000 per annum Life assurance 5 x base salary Operation Benefits include, but are not limited to, health care, car allowance, The cost of providing insurance and health care benefits varies liability insurance and death in service insurance.
according to premium rates, so there is no formal maximum monetary value.
Other benefits may be provided from time to time if considered reasonable and appropriate, such as relocation benefits or long-term disability insurance.
The Weir Group PLC 100 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual bonus Purpose Maximum value To incentivise the delivery of our strategic plan and to reward the CEO 150% of base salary achievement of stretching performance on an annual basis.
CFO 125% of base salary Performance assessment To focus incentives on team performance to create Annual bonuses will be subject to such targets as the Committee collective accountability.
Operation Measures, targets and weightings are reviewed and determined Financial measures will normally be used to calculate at least 50% annually at the start of each financial year to ensure they are of the bonus, with the remainder being based on strategic and or appropriate and support the Companys strategy.
30% of any bonus will be deferred into an award of Weir Group The performance targets for financial measures are set in the context shares which will normally be released after three years.
of the internal budget taking into account other relevant factors such as external forecasts.
Malus and clawback provisions may be applied in the event of a material misstatement in the financial statements of the Group or a All financial measures are calibrated with payment on a straight line subsidiary division, the discovery that information used to determine basis between threshold up to 20% of maximum bonus payable an award was materially incorrect, mistaken or misrepresented, gross and stretch.
misconduct leading to termination for cause, or reputational damage Payment of any strategic component will be subject to a discretionary causing significant damage to the Company and clearly attributable to underpin including individual performance.
In exceptional circumstances, the Committee has discretion to alter the measures and or targets during the performance period if it believes the original measures and or targets are no longer appropriate.
The Committee has discretion in exceptional circumstances to amend the payout level if it believes this will better reflect the Companys underlying performance.
Share Reward Plan SRP Purpose Maximum value To encourage and enable substantial long-term share ownership.
The Committee will determine the grant level each year.
The maximum value of an award which may be granted in respect of To reward the delivery of sustainable value over time in a a financial year is: cyclical business.
CEO 125% of base salary Operation CFO 100% of base salary The Committee may grant awards under the SRP on an annual basis.
Performance assessment Vesting No performance measures are associated with the awards.
Vesting of awards will be phased in four equal tranches over a five-year period.
This will normally be split into four equal tranches The underpin will consist of a basket of pre-determined key metrics of 25% of the total award which vest after two, three, four and five which will best reflect overall business health over the vesting period.
For any Executive Director appointed after the For each metric, a clearly defined and, where relevant, quantifiable effective date of this Policy and from 2021 onwards for incumbent threshold will be set at the time of grant.
Thresholds will be executives, 50% will vest after three years, 25% after four years and disclosed on a prospective basis.
Prior to vesting, if any of the thresholds have not been met, it would Vesting will be subject to continued employment and assessment of trigger the Committee to consider whether a discretionary downward the underpin.
Following vesting, an additional two-year holding period will also apply In addition, the Committee will have general discretion to reduce to each tranche, such that 50% of vested shares in an award are vesting levels if it believes this will better reflect the underlying released five years from grant, 25% are released after six years and performance of the Company over the period.
the final 25% is released after seven years.
Awards will normally be made in the form of conditional share awards, but may be awarded in other forms if appropriate e. g. as nil cost options.
Malus and clawback applicable for three years from vesting provisions may be applied in the event of: A discovery of a material misstatement in the audited consolidated accounts of the Group or audited accounts of any Group company: Action or conduct which can be considered as gross misconduct: Events or behaviour which have a significant detrimental impact on the reputation of any Group company and which can be attributed to the individual award holder: The information used to determine the number of shares over which an award is granted or vests is found to be materially incorrect, mistaken or misrepresented to the advantage of the award holder.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 101 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Shareholding requirements Purpose Maximum value shareholding guidelines To ensure Executive Directors build and hold a significant CEO 400% of base salary shareholding long term.
CFO 300% of base salary To align Executive Directors interests with shareholders.
Operation Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding in the Company over a five-year period.
All beneficially owned shares, deferred shares and unvested Restricted Share awards count towards an individuals shareholding on a net of tax basis, where relevant.
Until the shareholding requirement is met, an Executive Director must retain 50% of net Restricted Share awards, Performance Share awards and deferred bonus awards.
Shareholding requirements continue post-employment: The requirement will fall to half the normal level on leaving.
The requirement would taper down to zero after two years.
All-employee share plans Purpose Maximum value To enable long-term share ownership for all employees, and to The maximum amount of shares that can be purchased will be 200 increase alignment with shareholders.
The maximum share match basis will be one share for every three shares purchased.
To provide one common benefit to all employees.
Operation Employees will be awarded Free Shares in 2019 and 2020 to the value of 300.
From 2021 onwards, only new employees will be eligible to receive free shares.
For all other employees, awards of shares will be contingent on the employee purchasing shares with their own funds.
Shares purchased using employees own funds will be matched by the Company.
Shares will vest no later than three years after grant.
Executive Directors will be excluded from receiving any free shares in 2019 and 2020, but they will be eligible to purchase and receive matching shares from 2021 on the same terms as other employees.
In 2016, shareholders approved a Save As You Earn scheme for all employees but this plan is not currently operated.
Legacy arrangements Purpose Maximum value To honour payments and other remuneration related items due to In line with existing commitments and arrangements.
Operation The Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and or payments for loss of office, this includes exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with this policy where the terms of payment: Came into effect before this policy was approved and implemented including where such payments are in line with a previously approved policy : Were agreed at a time when the individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment is not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director.
This will include the vesting of any awards granted under the LTIP.
The Weir Group PLC 102 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees Purpose Maximum value To attract and retain experienced and skilled Non-Executive Directors Fees as prescribed in the Articles of Association.
and to reflect the responsibilities and time commitment involved.
Planned increases in fees will take into account general increases Fees are reviewed annually by reference to companies of similar size across the Group, along with market practice.
and complexity, economic and labour market conditions.
Additional fees may be made available to Non-Executive Directors where appropriate to reflect any additional time commitment or duties.
The Company may reimburse Non-Executive Directors for any business related costs such as travel and accommodation costs incurred in connection with their duties and any associated tax on these costs.
Notes to the policy table Dividends Executive Directors are entitled to receive the value of dividends payable on any deferred bonus awards under the Annual Bonus or awards under the SRP and LTIP up to the point of vesting.
This value may be calculated assuming that the dividends were notionally reinvested in the Companys shares.
Common award terms Awards granted under the share plans may be adjusted in the event of any variation of the Companys share capital or any demerger, special dividend or other event that may affect the current or future value of the awards.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 103 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Recruitment policy The Committees approach when considering the overall remuneration arrangements in the recruitment of an Executive Director is to take account of all relevant factors, such as the individuals remuneration package in their prior role and the positioning of the package against the local market.
We will not pay more than necessary to facilitate the recruitment.
Component Policy and operation Remuneration The salary level, benefits, pension, annual bonus and annual SRP participation will be in line with the policy table.
Buy-out Awards The Committee will consider whether any buy-out awards are reasonably necessary to facilitate the recruitment of an Executive Director, and if there are any other compensation arrangements that would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer.
The Committee will seek to structure any buy-out award taking into account relevant factors including any performance conditions, the form in which it is to be paid and the timeframe of the award.
Buy-out awards will generally be made on a like-for-like basis and will be no more generous in quantum and timeframe than the awards being forfeited.
Other The Committee may agree to meet certain mobility or relocation costs including, but not limited to, temporary living and transportation expenses.
The Committee may also agree to meet the costs of relevant professional fees.
Reasonable expenses and associated tax incurred as part of their recruitment will be reimbursed to the Executive Director.
Internal promotion The Committee will honour existing remuneration arrangements made prior to and not in contemplation of promotion.
to Executive Director The arrangements will continue to pay out in accordance with the respective rules and guidelines.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office It is the Committees policy that there should be no element of reward for failure.
The Committees approach when considering payments in the event of termination is to take account of the individual circumstances including the reason for termination, contractual obligations of both parties as well as incentive plan and pension scheme rules.
In the event that an Executive Directors service contract is terminated other than in accordance with its terms, the Committee will give full consideration to the obligation and ability of the individual to mitigate any loss they may suffer as a result of the termination of their contract.
Service contracts and letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Provision Policy Unexpired term The unexpired term of Executive Directors contracts is 12 months.
Executive Directors have rolling contracts.
Change of control No provisions in service contracts relate to a change of control.
Refer to the relevant sections below for annual bonus and share plans provisions.
Notice period Current Executive Directors have 12 months notice by either the Company or the individual.
This would be the normal policy for new appointments.
Contractual Termination with contractual notice or termination by way of payment in lieu of notice PILON at the payments Companys discretion.
Neither notice nor PILON will be given in the event of gross misconduct.
The calculation of PILON will be at 1.2 x gross salary to reflect the value of salary and contractual benefits.
PILON will be made where circumstances dictate that Executive Directors services are not required for their full notice period.
Contracts also allow for phased payments on termination which provides for mitigation, including remuneration from alternative employment.
The Committee may authorise: payments for statutory entitlements in the event of termination: reasonable settlement of potential legal claims: payment of reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such agreements.
The Weir Group PLC 104 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Provision Policy Annual bonus At the discretion of the Committee, a pro-rated payment payable in such proportions of cash and shares as the Committee and deferred may determine may be earned if employment ceases during the year.
Any payment will be subject to the assessment of bonus awards bonus targets.
Dismissal for gross misconduct all entitlements will be forfeited, including any unvested deferred bonus awards.
All other departure events existing rights are normally retained in respect of any deferred bonus awards.
Vesting will take place at the normal vesting date unless the Committee determines otherwise.
Malus and clawback provisions will continue to apply.
Change in control any bonus will normally be determined by the Committee up to the expected date of change in control taking into account both performance and the period of the financial year which has elapsed.
Deferred bonus awards will vest on change in control.
Outstanding share The treatment of share awards will be governed by the rules of the relevant plan.
plan awards Where an individual leaves as a Good Leaver which includes for reasons of death, retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, the sale of employing company or business, or other circumstances that the Committee determines unvested awards will normally continue and vest on the normal vesting date, taking into account the assessment of any applicable underpins and pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the vesting period of each tranche which has elapsed.
For LTIP awards, vesting would also take into account any applicable performance conditions over the normal performance period.
The Committee may exercise its discretion to apply a different pro-rata methodology or to disapply time prorating completely.
Awards subject to a holding period will continue to be subject to that holding period as if employment had not ceased, except in the case of death, or in such other circumstances as the Committee may determine, when the holding period will end at that time.
The rules provide flexibility that in the case of the participants death or such other exceptional circumstances as the Committee considers appropriate, tranches will vest and awards in the holding period will be released at the time of death leaving.
If an individual leaves for any reason other than as a Good Leaver, any unvested awards will lapse on termination.
Leavers have a period of three months to exercise any options unless this period is extended by the Committee.
In the event of death, an option can be exercised for a period of 12 months by the deceaseds estate.
Awards will remain subject to the operation of malus and clawback provisions.
Change in control the extent to which unvested awards vest will be determined by the Committee, taking into account the performance conditions and or underpins as applicable and the proportion of the vesting period that has elapsed.
Alternatively, awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards in the acquiring company.
The holding period applicable to any awards will end at the time of change in control.
All-employee The rules of any all-employee share plans will apply in the event of termination of employment or change in control.
plans Relocation The Committee may determine that share plan awards or deferred bonus awards should vest early if an Executive Director is relocated to a country where they would suffer a tax or regulatory disadvantage by holding the award.
Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
The letters do not contain any contractual entitlement to a termination Non-Executive payment and the Non-Executive Directors can be removed in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors With the exception of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors appointed prior to 2011, notice periods are six months from the Company and no notice from the individual.
There are no change in control provisions in the letters of appointment.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 105 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 The following table sets out the dates of each of the Executive Directors service agreements, the dates of the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment and the date on which the Non-Executive Director is subject to reappointment or re-election.
Directors are required to retire at each Annual General Meeting and seek re-election by shareholders.
Executive Director Contract commencement date Unexpired term months Jon Stanton 28 July 2016 12 John Heasley 3 October 2016 12 Non-Executive Director Date of appointment Date when next subject to appointment or re-election Charles Berry 1 January 2014 30 April 2019 Clare Chapman 1 August 2017 30 April 2019 Cal Collins 12 July 2018 30 April 2019 Barbara Jeremiah 1 August 2017 30 April 2019 Mary Jo Jacobi 1 January 2014 30 April 2019 Sir Jim McDonald 1 January 2016 30 April 2019 Richard Menell 1 April 2009 30 April 2019 Stephen Young 1 January 2018 30 April 2019 Application of Remuneration Policy The charts below illustrate the potential total future remuneration for the Executive Directors under the new policy.
The illustrations do not assume any share price growth or dividend equivalent payments on share awards.
Jon Stanton John Heasley Illustration of Package Illustration of Package Minimum Minimum 100% 100% 795,975 491,966 On Target On Target 35% 27% 38% 40% 26% 34% 795,975 618,300 858,750 491,966 317,250 423,000 Maximum Maximum 30% 38% 32% 34% 37% 29% 795,975 1,030,500 858,750 491,966 528,750 423,000 Fixed pay Annual bonus SRP Fixed pay Annual bonus SRP Notes to Application of Remuneration Policy charts Element of package Assumptions used Fixed pay Base salary: effective 1 April 2019 Benefits: as disclosed in single total figure of remuneration Pension: 12% cash allowance Annual bonus Minimum: no bonus is earned On target: 60% of maximum bonus is earned Maximum: 100% of maximum bonus is earned SRP Minimum: no vesting On target: 100% vesting Maximum: 100% vesting The Weir Group PLC 106 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group As per our terms of reference, the Committee monitors the level of remuneration of employees below the Group Executive and is regularly updated on pay and conditions across the Group.
When determining remuneration for the Executive Directors, the average salary increases and performance ranges applicable to all employees are taken into account as well as economic trends.
The wider employee group was not consulted when setting the remuneration policy.
Consideration of employee engagement Meaningful engagement with customers and employees play a crucial role in both innovation and the continuous improvement of the Weir business.
The Board recognises the importance of culture and effective employee relations to the creation of good work and good workplaces.
The role of the Board therefore is to ensure that mechanisms are in place, and monitored, for effective employee engagement and that there is governance of the process for management standards and training to continue to assure ourselves of the leadership skills required to do engagement well.
Given the multi-national nature of our business, the management team also recognise that their approaches to insight-gathering and dialogue need to reflect country practices so that engagement can be led well locally and be mindful of circumstances and culture.
As a Board, we recognise the importance of a Group-wide framework for employee dialogue which is why our focus is to ensure that we broaden our Group-wide practices for gathering workforce views and engaging in meaningful dialogue and for measuring and further strengthening employee engagement.
Monitoring of progress will take place at the Board.
Consideration of shareholder engagement Shareholders and their representative bodies played a very active role in the development of our current remuneration policy, which was put to vote at the AGM in 2018.
The Committee remains committed to ongoing dialogue, and will seek input from shareholders when considering any future changes.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 107 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration This section sets out how the Remuneration Policy was applied for the financial year ending 31 December 2018.
Pension corresponds to the cash allowance provided to the Executive Directors during the year ended 31 December 2018.
This equates to 12% of salary.
Benefits corresponds to the value of benefits in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018, as follows: Jon John Stanton Heasley 2018 2018 Car allowance 17,000 13,970 Group healthcare 1,574 1,574 Life assurance 7,961 2,662 Total 26,535 18,206 Annual bonus corresponds to the amount earned in respect of the year ended 31 December 2018.
30% of the value shown will be delivered in Weir shares which will be released after three years.
Details of how the bonus outcome was calculated are set out below.
LTIP corresponds to the level of award resulting from targets achieved over the relevant performance period ending in respect of the financial year shown.
As the award does not vest until 29 April 2019, in accordance with the UK regulations, the vesting price is the average market price for the fourth quarter of 2018, being 15.05.
Further details are set out below.
Annual bonus plan audited Details of remuneration to be awarded to the Executive Directors as part of the 2018 annual bonus plan are set out below.
The annual bonus plan is currently based on the achievement of financial metrics and strategic measures.
This plan provides a maximum bonus opportunity for Jon Stanton of 150% of salary and a maximum of 125% of salary for John Heasley.
30% of any bonus earned must be deferred into shares for three years.
1 The annual bonus measures and weightings were PBTA 50%, working capital as a percentage of sales 20% and strategic measures 30%.
Bonus Outcomes audited The following table illustrates the performance achieved against the targets.
As a result of this performance, a bonus of 62% of maximum was payable to the Executive Directors.
Jon Stanton was awarded 93% of salary and John Heasley was awarded 77% of salary.
Payout % of Weighting Entry Target Maximum Achievement maximum Payout % of maximum 20% 60% 100% Group profit before tax and amortisation 50% 302m 350m 399m 337m 24% Working capital as a percentage of sales 20% 25.5% 23.2% 20.9% 24% 10% Strategic measures 30% Further details set out below 28% 100% 62% Notes 1.
Group PBTA is defined as profit before tax, amortisation and exceptional items from both continuing and discontinued operations, and excludes certain one-off transaction costs.
The performance targets and achievements are calculated using September 2017 closing exchange rates.
In line with the bonus policy targets are increased or decreased to reflect the impact of any acquisitions or disposals made in the year that are of a size requiring Board approval.
For acquisitions, targets are increased by the expected performance from the acquired business.
For disposals, the target is reduced by the expected performance from the business which was disposed.
To reflect the acquisition of ESCO and other integration activities, the targets were increased during the year.
The Weir Group PLC 108 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Financial measures Our performance against our financial measures was as follows: Profit before tax and amortisation at 337m was 13m below target, impacted by performance within the Oil and Gas Division.
Upstream oil and gas markets had a mixed year with strong demand in North America in the first half followed by much more challenging conditions in the second half of the year.
The change was due to capacity constraints in the Permian basin, the early exhaustion of some exploration and production budgets leading to overcapacity in North American frack fleets and extended seasonal breaks in the fourth quarter.
All other divisions met targeted EBITA performance.
Working capital as a percentage of sales at 24% was below the target of 23%.
Minerals working capital position was below target, impacted by higher inventory levels in support of future growth.
Strategic measures The strategic measures were introduced for the first time in 2018 to better align with our reward principles and delivery of our strategy.
The strategic measures are aligned to the strategic framework People, Customers, Technology and Performance.
Each area has an underlying metric to be achieved over three-five years as well as target priorities which were set for 2018.
Target components are awarded a score of between 0% and 2.5%.
The results and aggregate scores for each area are set out below.
People Improved sustainable engagement and organisation effectiveness Priority for 2018 Target Result Score out High standards of TIR maintained at least at 0.53 and a 15% 2018 TIR: 0.45, and 8 out of 9 sites over 0.8 in 2017 of7.5% leadership driving a best reduction in sites rated above 0.8 in 2017. down more than 15% in 2018.
7% in class behavioural SHE assessment results maintained.
Significant improvement in 2018 SHE assessment safety programme Zero Harm 3 rolled out per plan as evidenced results average 7%.
by 5% increase in Zero Harm observations Full year target exceeded.
Identify and build Implement group wide succession planning for Group Executive succession planning approved capabilities required Group Executives.
to deliver the Implement strategic people and talent Pilots concluded and commencement of 2019 customer proposition.
50% gender split external hires to Leadership group external hires M 67% F 33% leadership group, and 37% gender split on Graduate group M 52% F48%.
Continue to extend Embed We are Weir cultural We are Weir fully embedded in strategic planning, the Weir culture and change programme.
balanced scorecard and subsequent dissemination.
develop the voice of Establish baseline measures for Culture change progressing in line with broader the employee.
Scope HRMS requirements and implement Employee engagement survey completed with 84% phase one.
Phase one completed and selected vendor appointed.
Customer Increased market share Priority for 2018 Target Result Score Increase revenues from Minerals integrated solutions input growth to Target exceeded by over 35%.
Occupancy permit date of March 2019.
Construction of Oil & Gas Midland Service Input growth more than 5%.
Increased Flow Control aftermarket input growth 1%.
Increase number of New Minerals Mill Circuit trials in progress with Target exceeded commercially sensitive information.
customer partnerships total potential value per trial $500K.
More than one joint development agreement signed.
on technology At least one PP technology alliance signed development and trials.
Voice of Customer Oil & Gas systems implemented in line with Roll-out and implementation on track for both divisions development.
plan, and Minerals to determine optimal as per plans.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 109 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Technology Improved percentage revenue from new solutions, services, products Priority for 2018 Target Result Score Progress Introduction of Phase 1 of asset tracking Phase 1 completed and Phase 2 progressing.
6.5% commercialisation of solution to track new equipment location.
Target exceeded commercially sensitive information.
Multiple Synertrex installations within Minerals.
Prototype completed, and products trialled.
Big data platform prototyped and trialled.
Further develop Create additive task force and prototype Taskforce and manufacturing cell in place with products advanced manufacturing cell.
Multiple additive manufacturing Target achieved commercially sensitive information.
Priority for 2018 Creation of global innovation team, platform Team in place, and graduate positions filled.
Develop Weir implemented and at least one project moved Software platform launched, and evidence of business innovation framework.
Performance Sustainably higher margins through cycle Priority for 2018 Target Result Score Improved VCE score.
Group Average VCE scores to be at least 10% Average scores 19% higher than 2017.
6.5% higher than 2017 scores Progression on IT 12 agreed projects delivered.
8 out of 12 projects fully delivered.
infrastructure and Minerals SAP rollout on plan and internal control 2018 plan delivered on schedule.
Begin sustainability Sustainability business case agreed, and All sites enrolled on new system with journey.
Pilots initiated with quick wins identified.
Global waste innovation challenge designed and launched.
Total Achievement 27.5% out of30% Long-term incentives vesting in 2019 actual performance audited The 2016 performance share awards are due to vest on 29 April 2019.
The table below sets out a summary of the performance conditions and performance against these conditions.
Threshold Maximum Actual Percentage Weighting 25% vesting 100% vesting performance vesting Relative TSR 33% Median Upper quintile Median 25% EPS growth p. a.
1% 3% 3% Base ROCE 9.5% 33% Actual ROCE 10.5% Actual ROCE 12.5% ROCE 12.7% 100% Straight line vesting in between these points Total vesting: 75% The relative TSR performance was measured against the following companies: AMEC Foster Wheeler, Atlas Copco AB, Boart Longyear replacing Joy Global which was acquired by Komatsu, Caterpillar, Dover Corporation, Fenner Plc, FLSmidth & Co A S, Flowserve Corporation, FMC Corporation, Forum Energy Technologies Inc, Hunting, IMI Plc, ITT Corporation, John Wood Group Plc, Joy Global Inc, Komatsu, Metso Corporation, National Oilwell Varco, Outotec Oyj, Petrofac, Rotork Plc, Sandvik AB, Smiths Group Plc, SPX Corporation, Sulzer Ltd, TechnipFMC.
During the performance period, AMEC Foster Wheeler was acquired by John Wood Group which was already in the comparator group and the combined entity was used as a comparator.
During 2018 Fenner was acquired by Michelin, and Atlas Copco underwent a restructure.
The Committee considered the three options that were legally permissible i exclusion of an affected company, ii replacing an acquired company with the acquiring company, and iii including a substitute for the company.
For Fenner, the Committee agreed to exclusion on that basis that Michelin was not a suitable comparator, and neither were any potential substitutes.
For Atlas Copco, it was agreed to replace Atlas Copco with Epiroc AB as at the date of the demerger.
At the time of making these changes the forecasted outcomes showed that the impact of the chosen treatment was small and that the performance condition was no less challenging to meet.
T SR is the increase in the net return index the index that reflects movements in share price over a period and dividend reinvested net of any associated tax credit in shares on the ex-dividend date for a company as calculated by Datastream or such other financial information provider as selected by the Committee over the performance period.
E PS is adjusted earnings per fully paid ordinary share in the capital of the Company calculated on such basis as the Committee may specify.
In addition, the EPS figure used to calculate the award may be adjusted for changes in accounting standards to ensure a consistent measurement basis across the performance period.
R OCE is defined as earnings before interest and tax divided by capital employed.
Earnings before interest and tax is taken as Group continuing operations after intangibles amortisation but before exceptional items for the relevant financial year.
Capital employed is taken as the average of opening and closing Group net assets excluding net debt cash and pension deficit net of deferred tax asset for the relevant financial year.
To eliminate the impact of movements in foreign exchange rates over the period of the plan, the average foreign exchange rates for the base year are held constant throughout the plan period.
With regard to acquisitions, those acquisitions made in the base year are included, based on a full years ownership for the purposes of target setting.
Where acquisitions are made in subsequent years of the plan period, these are excluded from the assessment of performance relative to the target.
Where there are disposals during the plan period, the base and target ROCE calculations will be restated to eliminate the contribution from the disposed business in the period of ownership.
The Weir Group PLC 110 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued Scheme interests awarded during 2018 audited The following table sets out awards granted to the Executive Directors in the year ending 31 December 2018.
The closing market price of the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2018 was 12.98, and the range during the year was 23.25 to 12.40.
Face Value of Award No of Shares Share Award Award Basis Grant Date at maximum vesting granted Jon Stanton Restricted Share Conditional 125% salary 30 Apr 18 835,249 38,473 Bonus Deferred 30% bonus 30 Apr 18 108,263 5,074 John Heasley Restricted Conditional 100% salary 30 Apr 18 411,187 18,940 Bonus Deferred 30% bonus 30 Apr 18 55,518 2,602 Notes 1.
T here are no performance periods associated with the Restricted Share Awards or the Bonus Share Awards.
Vesting of the Restricted Share Awards will be phased in four equal tranches over a five-year period: 25% after two, three, four and five years following grant.
An additional holding period will also apply to each tranche such that 50% of vested shares in an award are released five years from grant, 25% are released after six years and the final 25% is released after seven years.
T he face-value of the Restricted Share Award is based on the average of the closing price for the three days prior to the date of grant, being 21.71.
The value of the Bonus Share Award is calculated as the share price at the date of grant, being 21.33.
Restricted Share Award Underpin Vesting of the Restricted Share Award is subject to continued employment and assessment of the underpin.
Prior to vesting, if any of the thresholds set out below have not been met, it would trigger the Committee to consider whether a discretionary adjustment was required.
Balance sheet Dividend health Maintain average absolute dividend per share over the vesting period at least in line with 2017 declared dividend per share.
Breaching covenants No breach of debt covenant or renegotiation of covenant terms outside a normal refinancing cycle.
Investor ROCE returns Maintain average ROCE over the vesting period above the average Weighted Average Cost of Capital for that period Corporate Major governance failure governance No material failure in governance or an illegal act resulting in significant reputational damage and or material financial loss to the Group.
A lan Ferguson and John Mogford stepped down from the Board on 26 April 2018.
There were no other payments made above a fide minimis threshold of 750.
C al Collins joined the Board on 12 July 2018.
S tephen Young joined the Board on 1 January 2018.
Taxable benefits include travel to attend Board meetings in the UK excluding international travel from America or South Africa.
Payments to past Directors audited As disclosed previously, Keith Cochranes and Dean Jenkins existing LTIP awards granted in April 2016 continued until their normal vesting date following their departure from the Group in 2016.
The vesting was based on existing performance conditions, subject to time-pro-rating to 31 December 2016 i. e. the date employment ceased.
Although the performance period ended on 31 December 2018, the award does not vest until 29 April 2019.
In accordance with the UK regulations, the vesting price for the purposes of this disclosure is the average market price for the fourth quarter of 2018, being 15.05.
The value of the award is 409,781 for Keith Cochrane, and 198,871 for Dean Jenkins.
Following vesting, the two-year post vesting holding period will apply.
No other payments have been made to past directors.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 111 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Statement of Directors shareholdings and share interest audited The shareholdings of all Directors, including the shareholdings of their connected persons as at 31 December 2018, are set out below.
There have been no changes in the Directors interests from 31 December 2018 to the date of this report.
As at 31 December 2018 Scheme Interests With Without Vested and Current Shareholding Shares owned performance performance exercised shareholding Requirement 1 2 outright conditions conditions in 2018 % of salary % of salary Jon Stanton 47,810 165,149 38,473 3,072 92.87% 400% John Heasley 10,496 90,745 38,940 1,201 33.13% 300% Charles Berry 2,145 Clare Chapman 456 Cal Collins 348,015 3 Mary Jo Jacobi 2,000 Barbara Jeremiah 250 Sir Jim McDonald 500 Richard Menell 1,024 Stephen Young 3,939 Notes 1.
V ested and exercised in 2018 reflects the activity in the year.
C urrent shareholding percentage is calculated using share price of 12.98 as at 31 December 2018.
M ary Jo Jacobis interest in 2,000 shares shown above is through her holding of 4,000 American Depository Receipts ADRSs.
One ADR being equivalent to 0.5 ordinary shares.
Historical performance and remuneration 000 5,000 1,000 4,000 800 3,000 600 2,000 400 1,000 200 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Long-term incentive Short-term incentive Fixed elements The Weir Group FTSE 350 The graph shows Weirs TSR performance against the performance of the FTSE350 over the nine-year period to 31 December 2018 as well as the total and vested received remuneration for the CEO over the same period.
CEO Pay Ratio We are including information on our CEO pay ratio ahead of the reporting requirements formally applying next year.
The table below shows our CEO pay ratio at 25th, median and 75th percentile of our UK employees.
The ratios have been calculated based on the single total figure of remuneration for Jon Stanton and the total pay for the employees based on our gender pay gap data under Option B of the regulations.
T otal pay for the percentile employees includes the following pay elements: base salary, holiday pay, annual leave adjustment, shift premium and allowance, sick pay, overtime pay, first aid allowance, living allowance, advance Christmas pay, back pay and employer pension contributions.
No annual bonus or long-term incentive award was payable to the employees at the above percentiles.
For weekly paid employees whose pay is based on actual hours worked, we have pro-rated pay accordingly to calculate full time equivalent total pay.
W here we had employees with the same hourly rate falling on a quartile, we have calculated the total pay for these employees and used the median value to determine the percentile employee.
The Weir Group PLC 112 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 Directors Remuneration Report continued The table below shows the CEOs total remuneration over the same period, as well as outcomes under the annual bonus plans and long-term incentive plans.
Total Single Figure relates to the period Jon Stanton was CEO from 1 October 2016 2.
Total Single Figure relates to the period Keith Cochrane was on the Board to 30 September 2016.
Total Single Figure relates to the period Keith Cochrane was CEO from November 2009.
External appointments It is the Boards policy to allow the Executive Directors to accept directorships of other companies.
Any such directorships must be formally approved by the Chairman.
During the year John Heasley was a Non-Executive Director of Royal Scottish National Orchestra Society Ltd.
Percentage change in CEO remuneration The table below shows the percentage change in elements of remuneration for the CEO and UK employees between 2017 and 2018.
The UK employee population has been chosen as it reflects a broad sample of employees which includes Head Office and other individuals located in the same country as the CEO.
CEO UK employees % Change % Change Salary and fees 2.1% 7.5% Taxable Benefits -1.3% 9.6% Bonus -9.8% 3.7% Relative importance on spend of pay The table below shows the change in total staff pay between 2018 and 2017, and dividends paid out in respect of 2018 and 2017.
2018 2017 Percentage m m Change Overall spend on pay for employees 629.8 521.1 20.9% Profit distributed by way of dividend 110.8 96.7 14.6% Details of the dividends declared and paid are contained in note 10 to the Financial Statements on page 148.
Details of the overall spend on pay for employees can be found in note 4 to the Financial Statements on page 141.
The 2017 comparator for overall spend on pay for employees has been restated to exclude discontinued operations.
Further details can be found in note 2 to the Financial Statements on page 128.
Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Weir Group PLC 113 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2018 The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee in 2018 There were seven Committee meetings during 2018 and all Committee members attended the meetings they were eligible to attend.
Calls were also held with members of the Committee in relation to shareholder consultation on the proposed Remuneration Policy.
Role Name Title Chairman and members Clare Chapman Independent Non-Executive Directors Alan Ferguson to 26 April 2018 Mary Jo Jacobi Richard Menell Stephen Young Internal Attendees Charles Berry Chairman of the Board Jon Stanton Chief Executive Officer Rosemary McGinness Chief People Officer Geraldine Pamphlett Group Head of Reward and Recognition Graham Vanhegan Chief Legal Officer Committees External Adviser Deloitte Adviser to Committee Internal attendees provided important information to the Committee and attended meetings.
None of the individuals were involved in any decisions relating to their own remuneration.
Deloitte LLP provided services to the Committee for the year ended 31 December 2018.
Fees paid to Deloitte LLP for work that materially assisted the Committee were 144,950.
Deloitte LLP also provided other services to the Weir Group in the year including tax, global employee services, risk advisory and financial advisory services.
Deloitte is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Group Voluntary Code of Conduct and the Committee is satisfied that Deloittes advice was objective and independent.
Main activities Over the course of the period since the last Annual Report, the Committees work has been focused on Working with the executive team to develop the strategic measures for the annual bonus plan.
Reviewing the remuneration of executives below the Board Assessing performance of the Executive Directors.
Committee performance The Committees Terms of Reference are reviewed on an annual basis and were last updated in December 2018.
A copy can be found on our website www.
weir The Committee was evaluated as part of the 2018 Board Effectiveness Review, and it was concluded that the Committee was fulfilling its terms of reference effectively.
Shareholding voting The table below sets out the voting by shareholders on the resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration Report and the Directors Remuneration Policy at the AGM held in April 2018.
For Against Total Votes Cast Withheld Remuneration Report 182,144,580 4,067,742 186,212,322 715,642 97.82% 2.18% Remuneration Policy 172,580,892 14,286,238 186,867,130 60,833 92.35% Annual General Meeting This report will be submitted to shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30 April 2019.
Clare Chapman Chair of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2019
