DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Annual statement Dear shareholder This year, the following salary increases and awards were made, in accordance with the remuneration policy agreed on by shareholders at last years AGM: The salaries of the CEO and the personnel and legal director have been increased by 2.0%.
The salary of the finance director has been increased by 11.4%, in view of his increased seniority and contribution.
Under the agreed annual cash bonus plan, executive directors will receive an award of 14.5% of basic salary, comprising 5% of basic salary under the  element and 9.5% under the profit element.
Under the agreed Company SIP, executive directors will receive an amount equivalent to 25% of their salary in shares.
The CEO and the personnel and legal director will receive an additional award equivalent to 5% of their salary, because of their length of service.
Under the agreed Deferred Bonus Scheme, executive directors will receive 85.8% of their basic salary in shares.
The calculation for this award is included underneath the bonus and incentives table on page 51.
We believe that our proposed remuneration policy continues to be fair and reasonable and aligns the interests of directors with those of the Company and its shareholders.
Further details are set out below, with shareholders invited to approve this report and proposals at the AGM on 15 November 2018.
Debra van Gene Chair of the Remuneration Committee 13 September 2018 46 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration policy The committee reviews the executive directors remuneration packages at least annually.
The aim of the remuneration policy is to: provide attractive and fair remuneration for directors.
align directors long-term interests with those of shareholders, employees and the wider community.
incentivise directors to perform to a high level.
In agreeing on remuneration, account is taken of the pay levels at Wetherspoon, as well as those in the hospitality industry in general, along with other comparisons and reports.
The committee aims to take a fair and commonsense approach.
This policy came into force on the date of the AGM 9 November 2017.
The elements of the remuneration packages of each executive director are as follows: Component Reason Operation, maximum achievable and performance criteria Base salary Provide attractive Salaries are reviewed at least annually, with any changes and fair normally taking effect from 1 October each year.
Salary increases are awarded at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
When considering salary levels and whether an increase should be offered, the committee takes account of a variety of factors, including Company performance, individual performance, experience and responsibilities, market information and the level of increase being offered to other employees.
Benefits Provide attractive A range of taxable benefits is available to executive directors.
and fair These benefits comprise principally the provision of a car allowance, remuneration life assurance, private medical insurance and fuel expenses.
The cost of benefits provided changes in accordance with market conditions.
The committee monitors the overall cost of the package periodically.
Pension Provide attractive The Company does not operate any defined benefit pension schemes.
and fair Contributions of 12% of executive directors base salary are made by the remuneration for Company to the Companys stakeholder pension scheme.
After 25 years service, executive directors receive additional pension payments of 2% of their salary.
This rises by a further 2% after each additional five years service.
The increases which apply to directors after 25 years and after each additional five years apply to all other employees also.
Executive directors may receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension, at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Annual bonus plan Incentivise directors Annual bonus payments are paid in cash, at the discretion of the to perform to a remuneration committee.
The major part of the bonus is based on profit growth, multiplied by a factor of 1.5 and paid to a maximum of 45% of salary.
Profit growth is calculated on profit before tax and exceptional items.
In addition, a further 5% is awarded for carrying out a set number of calls on our pubs per month, in order to monitor service and other standards.
Provisions are in place which permit the Company to reclaim awards under this scheme, in exceptional circumstances of misstatement or misconduct.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 47 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Component Reason Operation, maximum achievable and performance criteria Share Incentive Align directors The SIP allocates shares equivalent to 5% of salary to all Company Plan SIP long-term interests employees after an 18-month qualifying period.
Shares do not vest for at least three years under this plan and tax-free returns are possible, if the shares with those of are held for five years or more.
shareholders, employees and the wider community.
The Company offers extra shares under this scheme to some employees: pub managers receive an extra 5% annual award: head-office staff 1015%: directors, including executive board directors, 20%.
After 25 years service, executive directors receive additional SIPs of 5% of their salary.
This rises by a further 5% after each additional five years service.
Awards under this scheme are not based on financial or other targets.
The Company believes that excessive use of financial targets can lead to distortions in companies behaviour and that it is important for there to be some share awards which can be accumulated gradually, the value of which depends on the overall success of the Company.
Directors must be in office when the shares vest.
If changes are made to SIPs which apply to all employees in the schemes, they may be applied to executive directors, at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Deferred Align directors The Deferred Bonus Scheme may award shares to all senior managers, Bonus Scheme long-term interests including executive directors.
Bonus awards are made under the scheme, with those of annually, at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
shareholders, employees and the Bonus awards are satisfied in shares.
One-third of a participants shares will wider community.
vest to the participant on calculation of the amount of the award, one-third will vest after one year and the remaining third will vest to the participant after two years in each case subject to the participant being employed at the release date.
The current performance criteria are based on earnings per share and owners earnings per share.
The performance criteria for executive directors are the same as those for senior managers who are eligible for the scheme.
Awards are made using a multiple based on an employees grade.
The maximum bonus to be earned under the scheme is 100% of annual salary.
Any changes made to the Deferred Bonus Scheme for eligible senior managers may, at the discretion of the remuneration committee, be applied to executive directors.
Provide attractive The fees paid to non-executive directors are determined by the executive Non-executive and fair board, taking into account the level of fees for similar positions in the market directors fees remuneration for and the time commitment which each non-executive director makes.
The non-executive directors receive no other remuneration or benefits from the Company.
48 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Difference between the policy for All directors will be standing for re-election at the AGM.
directors and that for employees Their current service contracts do not have an explicit Members of the wider management team may expiry date.
receive each of the components of remuneration awarded to the executive directors, although the Non-executive directors amounts due for each component may vary, The non-executive directors hold their positions, depending on their level of seniority.
pursuant to letters of appointment dated 1 November 2017, with a term of 12 months.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to any component other than fees.
If their appointment is terminated early, the nonexecutive directors are entitled to the fees to which The wider employee population of the Company they would have been entitled up to the end of their will receive remuneration which is considered term.
They do not participate in the Companys bonus to be appropriate to their level of responsibility or share schemes.
Their fees are determined by the and performance.
executive directors, following consultation with professional advisers, as appropriate.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The aim, when agreeing on components of External appointments a remuneration package, including any variable pay Executive directors are not allowed to take for incoming directors, would be in accordance with external appointments without the prior consent the table above.
The Company has not released any executive directors to serve as a non-executive Account is taken of the individuals experience, the director elsewhere.
nature of the role being offered and his or her existing remuneration package.
Relocation expenses or Illustration of the application of the allowances may be paid, as appropriate.
remuneration policy The charts below set out the composition of the The committee may, at its discretion, offer cash chairman and executive directors remuneration or share-based elements, as necessary, to secure packages in 000, at a minimum, a reasonable an appointment, although it does not normally do so.
expectation target and as a possible maximum: Shareholders will be informed of any such payments at the time of appointment.
Our main principle is that payments made to prospective directors as compensation for loss of benefits at a previous company are inherently unfair, since it would be extremely rare for anyone below board level to receive this sort of compensation.
Chairman and directors service contracts The executive directors are employed on rolling contracts, requiring the Company to give up to one years notice of termination, while the director may give six months notice.
In the event of termination of employment with the Company, without the requisite period of notice, executive directors service contracts provide for the payment of a sum equivalent to the net value of salary and benefits to which the executive would have been entitled during the notice period.
The executive is required to mitigate his or her loss and such mitigation may be taken into account in any payment made.
The Companys policies on the duration of directors service contracts, notice periods and termination payments are all in accordance with best industry practice.
The commencement dates for executive directors service contracts were as follows: Tim Martin 20 October 1992 John Hutson 2 February 1998 Su Cacioppo 10 March 2008 Ben Whitley 5 November 2015 J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 49 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The fixed annual values include: Fixed annual salary, benefits and allowances, in line with those outlined in the policy section, and based on the salaries applicable as at 29 July 2018.
The annual variable values include the cash bonus which may be achievable.
In the case of the expected, an average percentage achieved over the last five years has been used as a basis.
The long-term incentive plan values include: the fixed 25% awarded under the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
an average achieved in respect of the deferred bonus scheme over the last five years.
Payments for loss of office The Companys policy is that the period of notice for executive directors will not exceed 12 months: accordingly, the employment contracts of the executive directors are terminable on 12 months notice by the Company or six months notice by a director.
The Company may terminate a directors employment without notice or compensation, in the event of gross misconduct.
In the event of a directors departure, the Companys policy on termination payments is as follows: The Company will seek to ensure that no more is paid than is warranted in each individual case.
Salary payments will be limited to notice periods.
There is no entitlement to bonus paid or associated deferred shares or SIPs following notice of termination.
The committees normal policy is that, where the individual is considered a good leaver, a prorated bonus may be paid.
The Company may enable the provision of outplacement services to a departing director.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The committee receives information on salary increases, bonus payments and other benefits available at the Company.
These are taken into consideration when conducting the review of executive remuneration, although no formal consultation with employees is undertaken in this regard.
Consideration of shareholders views Any views in respect of directors remuneration expressed to the Company by shareholders have been, and will be, taken into account in the formulation of the directors remuneration policy.
Details of votes cast for and against the resolution to approve last years remuneration report and any matters discussed with shareholders during the year are provided in the annual report on remuneration.
50 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Annual report on remuneration The table below sets out in a single figure the total amount of remuneration, including each element, received by each director for the year ended 29 July 2018.
2 A bonus of 9.5% was awarded under the profit growth element of the bonus scheme, in line with policy.
A further 5% was awarded in respect of the element for pub calls made to monitor standards, in line with the policy.
3 Executive directors receive either pension contributions, equivalent to 12% of salary, to the stakeholder pension plan or salary in lieu of pension contributions.
Additional pension payments are made, equivalent to 2% of salary for 2529 years service, a further 2% for 3034 years service and a further 2% at 35 years service.
Both Su Cacioppo and John Hutson took a portion of their pension in salary.
Details of targets applicable during the year are disclosed in the directors remuneration policy statement.
The resultant percentages against each of the bonus measures achieved are shown below, with the percentage awards for each director being the same.
Awards under the Deferred Bonus Scheme are based on growth in owners earnings per share of 19.8% and on earnings per share of 14.5% multiplied by 2.5 and limited to 100%.
Please see note 8 of our financial statement for the calculations of the above growth numbers.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 51 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Long-term incentive awards audited Number of shares Face value in Share Deferred Share Deferred Incentive Bonus Incentive Bonus Plan Scheme Total Plan Scheme Total B Whitley 3,573 13,855 17,428 45,993 170,832 216,825 J Hutson 13,917 47,461 61,378 179,008 585,194 764,202 S Cacioppo 7,812 26,645 34,457 100,482 328,533 429,015 25,302 87,961 113,263 325,483 1,084,559 1,410,042 Awarded at an average share price of 12.86, three days before grant, shares will vest three years after grant.
Awarded at an average share price of 12.33, five days before grant, shares vest in three equal tranches, in September of each of 2017, 2018 and 2019.
All awards have no further performance conditions attached, except to be employed by the Company at the vesting date.
With the exception of partnership shares, there have been no changes to these interests since 29 July 2018.
Partnership shares John Hutson, Su Cacioppo and Ben Whitley are participants of the partnership share scheme and acquired 148 shares each in the year.
The market price of the shares purchased ranged from 1,051.0p to 1,273.0p.
Since 29 July 2018, John Hutson, Su Cacioppo and Ben Whitley acquired 12, 13 and 12 shares respectively Under the share partnership scheme.
Performance graph non-audited information Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding since July 2008 is shown, based on 30-trading-day average values.
This graph shows the total shareholder return with dividends reinvested of a holding of the Companys shares against a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE All-Share Travel & Leisure sector index.
The directors selected this index, as it contains most of the Companys competitors and is considered to be the most appropriate index for the Company.
Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding since July 2008, based on 30-trading-day average values.
52 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 J D WETHERSPOON PLC fdfdfds DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Chief executive officers remuneration Remuneration committee The remuneration committee comprises the following independent directors: Debra van Gene chair, Long-term Performance incentives Elizabeth McMeikan, Sir Richard Beckett and bonus scheme Single figure payment Harry Morley.
shares of total achieved vesting remuneration against against maximum The committee meets regularly and considers maximum possible possible executive directors remuneration annually.
000 % % It approves all contractual and compensation John Hutson arrangements for the executive directors, including 2018 1,490 29 100 performance-related payments.
2011 628 24 100 2010 656 44 100 Number of % of votes votes For 82,864,158 91.19% Against 7,833,636 8.62% As long-term incentive scheme shares issued have no Abstentions 176,763 0.19% further performance criteria attached, all shares Total Cast 90,874,557 100.0% previously awarded vest in full when the vesting date is reached.
Shareholders vote on 2017 directors remuneration policy.
The following table compares the change in The table below shows the voting outcomes at the remuneration of the chief executive with that 9 November 2017 AGM for the directors remuneration of all employees.
Total Number of % of 2018 2017 Change employees votes votes 000 000 % % John Hutson For 86,183,895 94.8% Salary 603 585 3.0 4.0 Against 4,477,466 4.9% Taxable benefits 20 22 8.3 11.2 Abstentions 213,196 0.2% Performance bonus 87 250 65.0 10.6 Total Cast 90,874,557 100.0% 710 857 17.1 7.2 By order of the board Change in total employees salary is calculated based on the amounts paid to all employees adjusted for redundancy and employers National Insurance Nigel Connor payments, divided by the number of hours Company Secretary worked by employees.
13 September 2018 Comparison of increases in remuneration, dividends and share buy-backs 2018 2017 Change 000 000 % Dividends 12,655 13,352 5.2 Share buy-backs 36,205 43,887 17.5 Total employee remuneration 551,599 521,038 5.9.
J D WETHERSPOON PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2018 53
