Corporate governance D irectors remuneration report Our policy, as set out in this report, focuses on our approach Annual statement from the Remuneration to pay which we believe is in our shareholders best interests.
Committee Chair It includes appropriate, but limited, flexibility to address changing circumstances during the period in which the policy Dear Shareholder will operate.
The 2016 remuneration policy was supported by On behalf of the Remuneration Committee 98.53 per cent of our shareholders at our AGM in 2016. theCommittee, I am pleased to present the The other members of the Committee are Suzanne Baxter, Directors remuneration report for the financial Annemarie Durbin and Henry Staunton.
At the invitation of the year ended 31 August 2018 which is in line with Committee, the Group Chief Executive and representatives of the Companys approved remuneration policy.
the Committees external independent remuneration advisor Ialso include details of the proposed changes to regularly attend meetings.
the Directors remuneration policy in line with our The Committee met five times during the year.
All Committee requirement to obtain shareholder approval of our members are expected to attend meetings.
The following table policy at least every three years.
Over the following shows the number of meetings held during the year ended pages we have set out: 31 August 2018 and the attendance record of individual directors.
the Companys forward-looking Directors remuneration policy Number of meetings which is subject to a binding shareholder vote at our 2019 Committee membership attended AGM as set out on pages 42 to 50: and Drummond Hall 5 of 5 our Annual remuneration report setting out details of the Suzanne Baxter 5 of 5 implementation of our remuneration policy in 2017 18 and Annemarie Durbin 5 of 5 how the proposed remuneration policy will be implemented in Henry Staunton 5 of 5 2018 19 as set out on pages 51 to 59.
This section of the report is subject to an advisory vote at our 2019 AGM.
Stephen Clarke was invited to and attended five meetings of the Committee but excluded himself in relation to any discussion in respect of his own remuneration.
Robert Moorhead was invited to and attended one meeting of the Committee but excluded himself in relation to any discussion in respect of his own remuneration.
The Directors remuneration policy The Committee has met twice since 31 August 2018 and all Committee members attended both meetings.
has served the Company well.
The Key decisions and changes Committee is therefore seeking The key decisions and changes made by the Committee approval forits renewal with only during the financial year ended 31 August 2018 are highlighted as follows: limitedchanges.
The Committee agreed to the request of the CEO and CFO COO that they should not receive a pay increase in the Drummond Hall financial year ended 31 August 2018.
There was a general Chair of the Remuneration Committee annual pay rise of two per cent for most other head office employees which took effect from 1 April 2018.
The Committee undertook a review of the existing remuneration policy in anticipation of presenting a new policy for consideration by shareholders at the 2019 AGM.
The Committee sought the views of the Companys largest shareholders and shareholder representatives before finalising the proposals.
Details of the review are set out on page 42.
The proposed policy is largely unchanged from the current one except for the introduction of bonus deferral from 2019 and widening the malus claw-back provisions.
The Committee also considered, as part of the policy renewal, increasing the salaries of the executive directors given that the CEO has not received a salary increase since September 2015 and the CFO COO has not received a salary increase since April 2016.
The executives chose not to accept the increase.
The Committee believes that it may be appropriate to consider this background when reviewing future salary increases.
40 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The Committee approved the 2017 Directors The Companys good performance as well as individual remuneration report.
directors performance has resulted in Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead receiving bonus payments of 820,033 and The Committee undertook a review of the fees paid to the 453,938 respectively.
Chairman and, after taking advice from FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP, its external independent remuneration The 2015 LTIP vesting percentage is determined by the growth advisor, increased the fee with effect from 1 April 2018 from 1 in the Companys Headline earnings per share, relative dividend 215,000 to 235,000 per annum.
growth and TSR over the three-year performance period which The Committee approved the performance targets for the ended on 31 August 2018.
The Company substantially met Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP and annual bonus plan.
the performance targets for the 2015 LTIP as the Companys 1 Headline earnings per share increased by 24 per cent during The Committee approved the payout under the LTIP, Cothe performance period, the Companys relative dividend growth Investment Plan CIP and bonus plan.
ranked between 8 and 9 out of 31 companies in the comparator The Committee considered the Companys gender pay group, and the Companys TSR ranked between 3 and 4 out of gap report.
32 companies in the comparator group.
The 2015 CIP vesting The Committee received updates on the new UK Corporate percentage is determined by the growth in the Companys 1 Governance Code and its impact upon the Committees Headline earnings per share over the three-year performance remit and process.
As this was only published very shortly period which ended on 31 August 2018.
The Company partially prior to the end of the financial year, the Committee will be met the performance target for the 2015 CIP.
considering appropriate revisions in the next financial year.
The Committee confirmed that, as the Company has incurred In March 2018, the Chairman and the executive members of the items that are considered non-recurring and exceptional, the Board undertook a review of non-executive fees.
Following this out-turn for the LTIP, CIP and Annual Bonus Plan should be review, it was agreed that the fees paid to non-executive determined by reference to the Headline results.
The Committee directors should be increased from 1 April 2018.
The basic noted that the majority of these items will be incurred with a annual fee increased from 50,000 to 55,000 per annum with view to enhancing the overall strength of the Group by refocusing the additional fees paid to the Senior Independent Director, Chair the High Street business.
For completeness, this definition has of the Audit and Remuneration Committees being increased been applied consistently and, therefore, increases the base EPS from 10,000 to 12,000 per annum.
for the forthcoming LTIP awards.
Gender pay Finally, as you may be aware, this is my last letter to you as In line with the new UK regulations, we published our gender Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
I will be stepping down pay gap report in March 2018.
It showed a median gender as Chair of the Committee at the AGM and handing over to pay gap of zero per cent and a mean gender pay gap of 20 Annemarie Durbin, who will take up the position from January per cent across all our UK employees.
Annemarie has a wealth of experience of remuneration our gender pay gap is caused by the gender imbalance in our issues and I am grateful to her for her guidance and support senior executive positions and is not an issue of equal pay.
over the last six years as a Committee member.
I will be As abusiness, we are committed to promoting a culture of available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions inclusion and diversity and continue to develop initiatives to about the work of the Committee.
attract, retain and engage more women across the business.
The Company is a member of The 30% Club, which helps businesses create sustainable strategies to increase the Drummond Hall number of women in senior executive roles.
Further information Chair of the Remuneration Committee regarding diversity can be found in the Strategic report on pages 11 October 2018 28 and 29.
Outcome 2017 18 The Group delivered another good performance during the year.
The Travel and High Street businesses remain highly cash generative and continue to deliver good profit growth 1 with Headline Group profit before tax increasing by four per cent to 145m.
As a result of this good performance, the 1 Company has increased Headline earnings per share by four per cent to 108.2p per share and dividends by 12 per cent to 54.1p per share.
Further information regarding the Companys performance during the year can be found in the Strategic report on pages8to 17.
1 Headline Group Profit before tax and Headline diluted earnings per share exclude 11m Non-underlying items as described on page 15 of the Financial review.
See Glossary on page 116 for an explanation of the Groups alternative performance measures.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 41 Corporate governance D irectors remuneration report continued The key changes to the Companys remuneration policy are the 1.
Information subject to audit introduction of bonus deferral in the Annual Bonus Plan, the The following information has been audited by PwC: malus claw-back provisions have been widened and that a new executive director will be entitled to a pension contribution of not Section 4.4 Summary of non-executive directors more than 20 per cent of salary.
From 2019, bonuses will be paid remuneration 2018: in cash and shares.
Any bonus payable over target performance Section 4.5 Summary of executive remuneration 2018: will be deferred into shares for a period of up to three years.
Section 4.6 Payments made to former directors: One third of the shares will be released on each anniversary Section 4.7 Payments for loss of office: of assessment.
There will be a transitional arrangement with one third of any bonus payable over target performance being Section 4.11 Annual bonus targets: deferred in 2019, two thirds of any bonus payable over target Section 4.12 Share plans: and performance being deferred in 2020 and full implementation of Section 4.16 Directors interests in shares.
In addition, to comply with the latest GC100 guidance, the salary cap has been re-expressed as a 2.
Background to remuneration policy monetary sum this is not expected to have any practical impact The Companys remuneration policy can be summarised as and is not an aspiration.
providing at or below the median of market levels of fixed pay but with the opportunity to earn upper quartile levels 3.
The Directors remuneration policy of remuneration if the executives deliver superior returns The Committee presents the Directors remuneration policy, for shareholders.
which will be put to a binding vote at the Annual General Executive remuneration packages are structured so that they: Meeting to be held on 23 January 2019 and, subject to shareholder approval, will take immediate effect.
The Directors are aligned to the Companys strategy to deliver shareholder remuneration policy has been prepared in accordance with returns and promote its long-term success: the Companies Act 2006 and on the basis prescribed in the are aligned with the interests of shareholders: Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and are competitive and provide a very clear bias to variable Reports Amendments Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
pay with stretching and rigorous performance measures and conditions: do not promote unacceptable behaviours or encourage unacceptable risk taking: include robust malus clawback provisions and holding periods which permit the recoupment of variable pay either if the payout was based on a material error or if the recipient commits gross misconduct or, going forward, if there is an insolvency having regard to the Committees assessment of the involvement of the individual to such event : and take into account Company-wide pay and employment conditions.
WH Smith PLC 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Future policy table 3.1 Executive directors The following table explains the different elements of remuneration we pay to our executive directors: Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and performance measures Base salary This is the basic element While base salaries are reviewed each year, the Base salary is paid monthly in cash.
of pay and reflects Companys policy is not automatically to award Base salaries are reviewed annually with any the individuals role an inflationary increase.
When reviewing salaries, changes normally taking effect from 1 April.
and position within the Committee takes into account a range of Following the March 2018 salary review, the Group, with some factors including the Groups performance, Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead did not adjustment to reflect market conditions, the prevailing market rates receive an annual increase in April 2018. their capability and for similar positions in comparable companies, contribution.
Base salary the responsibilities, individual performance and is used to attract and experience of each executive director and the retain executives who level of salary increases awarded to employees can deliver our strategic throughout the Group.
objectives and create Base salaries are benchmarked against both shareholder value.
FTSE 250 companies and other leading retailers.
While the Committee applies judgement rather than setting salaries by reference to a fixed percentile position, its general approach is to constrain base salaries to a median or lower level.
While the Committees general approach is to keep salaries to a relatively low level, and, in the normal course, would not expect salary increases to be higher than the average for other head office staff, given the need for a formal cap, the Committee had limited the maximum salary in the previous policy which it may award to 110 per cent of the median of salaries of CEOs in the top half of FTSE 250 companies even though, in practice, the Committee would normally seek to keep it below the median of this benchmark.
To comply with the latest GC100 guidance, the formal cap set out in the preceding sentence is replaced with a formal monetary amount of 680,000 as increased by RPI being the current 110 per cent median level.
Benefits To provide other Provide market competitive benefits in kind.
Benefits received by executive directors benefits valued by the comprise a car allowance, staff discount, The Company may periodically amend the benefits recipient which assist private medical insurance and life assurance.
The executive directors would them in carrying out normally be eligible to receive such amended While the Committee does not consider it to their duties effectively.
benefits on similar terms to all senior staff.
form part of benefits in the normal usage of Competitive benefits that term, it has been advised that corporate The value of benefits other than relocation costs assist in attracting and hospitality whether paid for by the Company paid to an executive director in any year will retaining executives.
or another and business travel for directors not exceed 80,000.
In addition, the Committee may technically come within the applicable reserves the right to pay relocation costs in any year rules and so the Committee expressly or any ongoing costs incurred as a result of such reserves the right to authorise such activities relocation to an executive director if considered within its agreed policies.
appropriate to secure the better performance by an executive director of their duties.
In the normal course, such benefits would be limited to two years following a relocation.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 43 Corporate governance D irectors remuneration report continued Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and performance measures Pension To aid retention and Provide a competitive employer-sponsored pension All executive directors are eligible to remain competitive plan or equivalent cash allowance with a total value participate in the Companys defined within the marketplace.
of up to 25 per cent of base salary.
For new joiners contribution pension plan and or receive a The pension to the Board, this will not be more than 20 per cent salary supplement in lieu which is not taken provides an income of salary.
into account as salary for calculation of bonus, following retirement.
Although the mix may change, currently up to five per cent of salary is paid into a registered pension and 20 per cent by way of a salary supplement.
If the individual elects to receive the five per cent direct e. g. to avoid breaching HMRC limits, employers NICs are deducted from that element.
Annual bonus To motivate employees During the policy period the bonus potential is 160 The performance measures applied may and incentivise per cent of base salary for Stephen Clarke or any be financial or non-financial and corporate, delivery of annual replacement and 130 per cent of base salary for divisional or individual and in such proportions performance targets.
Robert Moorhead or any other executive director, as the Committee considers appropriate.
with target levels at 48 per cent of their respective The appropriateness of performance maxima and threshold bonus levels at 16 per cent measures is reviewed annually to ensure they of their respective maxima.
continue to support the Companys strategy.
Clawback provisions apply to the annual Once set, performance measures and targets bonus plan.
will generally remain unaltered unless events Bonuses are paid in cash and shares.
Any bonus occur which, in the Committees opinion, payable over target is deferred into shares for a make it appropriate to make adjustments to period of up to three years.
The shares are released ensure they operate as originally intended one third on each anniversary of assessment.
and to take account of events which were not Transitional introduction with one third of bonus foreseen when the performance targets were payable over target in 2019, two thirds of bonus originally set.
payable in 2020 and full implementation in 2021.
Long-term incentives To motivate and The policy is to award executive directors with The Committee may set such performance incentivise delivery of shares with an initial face value of up to 350 per conditions as it considers appropriate sustained performance cent of base salary each year under the LTIP.
whether financial or non-financial and over the long-term, whether corporate, divisional or individual In practice, awards of 335 per cent are envisaged the Group will operate over a period of at least three financial years.
for the Group Chief Executive and 310 per cent for the Long-Term any other executive director.
Once set, performance measures and targets Incentive Plan LTIP.
will generally remain unaltered unless events The LTIP will credit participants with the benefit of Awards delivered in occur which, in the Committees opinion, accrual for dividends paid over the performance shares to provide make it appropriate to make adjustments to and any holding period.
further alignment the performance conditions, provided that Malus and clawback provisions in respect of both with shareholders.
any adjusted performance condition is, in unvested and vested paid awards apply to the LTIP.
its opinion, neither materially more nor less Awards are subject to holding periods preventing difficult to satisfy than the original condition.
the delivery and sale of shares until the fifth Executive directors can earn a minimum anniversary of the date of grant.
of 25 per cent of the award for threshold performance.
Although not currently envisaged, the Committee has the right to lengthen the performance period or to make similar additional changes, not to the benefit of participants.
The Company will honour the vesting of all outstanding awards in accordance with the terms of such awards.
WH Smith PLC 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation and performance measures Shareholding guidelines To encourage Executive directors are expected to retain at least 50 300 per cent of base salary for Stephen Clarke share ownership per cent net of tax of the shares which vest under or any other Chief Executive and 250 per cent by the executive the LTIP or any other discretionary long-term of base salary for Robert Moorhead or any directors and ensure incentive arrangement that may be introduced in other executive director.
interests are aligned the future until such time as they hold a specified Once the shareholding guidelines have been with shareholders.
met, individuals are expected to maintain Shares subject to the guidelines together with any these levels as a minimum.
The Committee unvested share awards may not be hedged by the will review shareholdings annually in the executive or used as collateral for any loans.
The Committee will review compliance with the policy as awards To the extent that an executive director is not approach maturity.
meeting the guidelines, he or she will be expected to achieve compliance within six years of joining the The Committee reserves the right to alter the Board or any significant promotion.
shareholding guidelines during the period of this policy but any such alterations will not make the guidelines less onerous.
All-employee share plans To encourage share Executive directors are able to participate in allSharesave individuals may save up to such ownership by employees, employee share plans on the same terms as other limit as permitted by the relevant legislation thereby allowing them Group employees.
currently 500 each month for a fixed period to share in the longof three years.
At the end of the savings term success of the period, individuals may use their savings Group and align their to buy ordinary shares in the Company at a interests with those of discount of up to 20 per cent of the market the shareholders.
price set at the launch of each scheme.
In line with the governing legislation, no performance conditions are attached to options granted under the Sharesave Scheme.
In addition, executive directors may participate in other comparable all-employee incentives on the same basis as other employees.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 45 Corporate governance D irectors remuneration report continued Notes to the policy table Stating maximum amounts for each element of remuneration Where the table refers to the maximum amount that may be paid in respect of any element of the policy, these will operate simply as caps and are not indicative of any aspiration.
In particular, the salary cap is not aspirational and the Committee envisages maintaining its approach to salary increases.
Payments from existing awards Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead are eligible to receive payment from awards made before the approval and implementation of the remuneration policy adopted in 2016 or payments envisaged under that policy.
Details of these awards can be found in the Annual remuneration report on page 57.
The Company will similarly honour pre-existing commitments made to any other new Board members.
Performance measure selection and approach to target setting Annual bonus plan The performance targets used under the annual bonus plan are set annually to support the Companys strategic priorities and reinforce financial performance.
The performance targets are set by the Committee based on a range of factors, principally the Companys budget as approved by the Board either prior to or shortly following the start of the financial year.
1 Under the annual bonus plan, participants can earn a bonus based on the achievement of a Headline profit before tax target and a personal rating measured against one or more specific financial and or non-financial objectives.
The maximum level of bonus paid to a participant in the plan is dependent on the achievement of both the maximum target for the profit target and the highest personal performance rating.
The Committee sets a threshold pay-out target and a maximum pay-out target with straight-line vesting between the targets.
No bonus is paid unless both the threshold profit target and at least an acceptable personal rating are achieved.
For on-target achievement of the profit target and a good personal rating, an executive would earn approximately 48 per cent of the maximum bonus available under the plan.
The Company intends to introduce bonus deferral for any bonus paid to executive directors following approval of the new remuneration policy.
No other changes to the structure of the bonus plan are proposed for the forthcoming financial year.
Long-term incentives The Committee regularly reviews the performance targets applicable to the LTIP to ensure that they align with the Companys strategy and reinforce financial performance.
The Committee may change the measures and or targets in respect of subsequent awards.
The Committee believes that a combination of financial and market-based conditions as the basis for the performance targets for the LTIP is best suited to the needs of the Company and its shareholders in order to reward sustained long-term performance and the creation of shareholder value.
The performance targets for awards made under the LTIP in the financial year ended 31 August 2 2018 were: 60 per cent is based on Headline earnings per share growth and 40 per cent is based on relative TSR.
EPS has for some years been defined as fully diluted pre-exceptional items and excluding IAS 19 pension charges together with other adjustments as considered appropriate by the Committee although practice has been to make limited adjustments.
The Committee is also proposing that any awards made in the financial year ending 31 August 2019 will have the same target ranges as the performance targets for awards made in the financial year ended 31 August 2018 as fully set out on page 56.
Malus Clawback The bonus plan and LTIP rules include a provision for clawback before or within a period of three years following payment or vesting or earlier change of control of a bonus or award if the Committee discovers information which leads it to conclude that any bonus or award was made, paid or vested to a greater extent than it should have been or if it concludes that circumstances arose during the bonus year or vesting period which would have warranted summary dismissal of the individual concerned.
In addition, a specific provision has been added permitting the Committee as constituted immediately prior to any insolvency to enforce malus clawback in the event of insolvency having regard to the involvement of the individual executive in the circumstances which led to such insolvency.
1 H eadline Group profit before tax excludes non-underlying items as explained on page 15 of the Strategic report.
A reconciliation from Headline Group profit before tax to Group profit before tax is provided in the Group income statement on page 71.
See Glossary onpage 116 for an explanation of the Groups alternative performance measures.
2 H eadline earnings per share excludes non-underlying items as explained on page 15 ofthe Strategic report.
A reconciliation from Headline earnings per share to Earnings per share is provided in Note 12 to the financial statements.
See Glossary on page 116 foran explanation of the Groups alternative performance measures.
WH Smith PLC 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 3.2 Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company and differences to executive director policy Our employees are a key component of the Companys performance and our overall reward strategy aims to support this.
When considering remuneration arrangements for executive directors and senior management, the Committee takes into account the pay and conditions of employees across the Group.
The Committee does not formally consult with employees on the remuneration policy but the Committee receives updates on pay and conditions, including the impact of flexible working conditions family friendly policies.
Each business has an employee forum and employees are invited to participate in the annual Engagement Survey where their views on all aspects of working conditions can be collected and shared with the Committee and the Board.
The Company is proud of its long history of being regarded as a responsible and respected employer and regularly reviews the overall structure of pay practices across the Group and the wider retail sector to ensure it remains competitive and is able to retain and attract employees.
All employees are entitled to base salary and benefits, including pension and staff discount.
Eligible employees are able to participate in the Companys Sharesave plan and thereby become shareholders in the Company.
Our Employee Assistance programme offers all employees access to free, 24 7 confidential telephone, online and face-to-face advice for problems they may be experiencing at home or work.
Employees also have access to the Companys Benevolent Fund charity, which can provide financial assistance in cases of significant hardship and provide recuperative holidays and care breaks.
Participation in a pension plan is offered to all employees on a contributory basis and we have approximately 6,330 employees in our pension plans.
3.3 Potential rewards under various scenarios The graphs below provide an estimate of the potential total rewards available to the executive directors for the financial year ending 31 August 2019, ignoring any change in share price and the potential split between the different elements of remuneration under the various scenarios.
The potential total rewards are based on the Companys remuneration policy.
The minimum scenario reflects base salary, pension and benefits, being the only elements of the remuneration package not linked to performance.
No salary increase has been assumed in respect of the April 2019 salary review.
T he on-target scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus the target level of performance for the annual bonus plan which is 48 per cent of maximum annual bonus: and for the LTIP awards, threshold vesting levels have been assumed.
The maximum scenario reflects fixed remuneration as above, plus the maximum level of performance for the annual bonus plan of 160 per cent of base salary for Stephen Clarke and 130 per cent of base salary for Robert Moorhead: and for the LTIP awards, maximum vesting levels have been assumed.
Consistent with market practice, the impact of share price appreciation and dividend reinvestment has been ignored in the above scenarios.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 47 Corporate governance D irectors remuneration report continued 3.4 Recruitment remuneration policy The Companys recruitment remuneration policy aims to give the Committee sufficient flexibility to secure the appointment and promotion of high-calibre executives to strengthen the management team and secure the skill sets to deliver the Companys strategic objectives.
The starting point for the Committee will be to look at the general policy for executive directors as set out above, and structure a package in accordance with that policy.
Although the Regulations provide that, technically, the caps on fixed pay within the general policy will not apply on the recruitment of an executive, the Committee would seek not to exceed those caps in practice.
In addition, ignoring any special buy-out arrangements which may prove to be necessary, the annual bonus and long-term incentive compensation arrangements will operate consistently including the maximum award levels within the limits as set out in the Future policy table in Section 3.1 for executive directors on pages 43 to 47.
For an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may either continue on its original terms or be adjusted to reflect the new appointment, as appropriate.
For external and internal appointments, the Committee may agree that the Company will meet certain relocation expenses and legal fees as it considers to be appropriate.
Where it is necessary to make a recruitment-related pay award to an external candidate to buy-out entitlements under a previous employers plan, the Company will not pay more than the Committee considers necessary and will in all cases seek, in the first instance, to deliver any such awards under the terms of the existing incentive pay structure.
It may, however, be necessary in some cases to make such buy-out awards on terms that are more bespoke than the existing annual and equity-based pay structures at the Company in order to secure a candidate.
Any buy-out awards for external appointments, whether under the bonus plan, LTIP or otherwise, will be capped at the commercial value of the amount forfeited and will take account of the nature, time-horizons and performance requirements of those awards.
In particular, the Committee will seek to ensure that any awards being forfeited which were subject to outstanding performance requirements other than where substantially complete are bought out with replacement requirements and any awards with service requirements are, again, bought out with similar terms.
However, exceptionally the Committee may relax those obligations where it considers it to be in the interests of shareholders and those factors are, in the view of the Committee, equally reflected in some other way, for example, through a significant discount to the face value of the awards forfeited.
3.5 Contracts of service and policy on payment for loss of office The contract dates and notice periods for each executive director are as follows: Notice period Notice period Date of contract by Company by director Stephen Clarke 18 April 2012 12 months 12 months Robert Moorhead 1 December 2008 12 months 9 months Stephen Clarkes service contract provides for notice of 12 months from either party, permits summary dismissal with no compensation in specified cases, has no special provisions in the event of a change of control and limits the maximum sum due on termination to base salary only for the notice period.
Robert Moorheads service contract provides for notice of 12 months from the Company and nine months from Robert Moorhead and has no special provisions in the event of a change of control and limits the maximum sum due on termination to base salary only for the notice period.
Copies of the service contracts may be inspected at the registered office of the Company.
It is envisaged that any new executive director would join with a contract which is no more favourable than that summarised in respect of Stephen Clarke.
In practice, the facts surrounding a termination may be complex and do not always fit neatly into defined categories for good or bad leavers.
Therefore, it is appropriate for the Committee to consider the suitable treatment on a termination having regard to all of the relevant facts and circumstances available at that time.
This policy applies both to any negotiations linked to notice periods on a termination and any treatment which the Committee may choose to apply under the discretions available to it under the terms of the annual bonus plan and LTIP.
The potential treatments on termination under these plans are summarised on page 49.
WH Smith PLC 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information Reason for leaving Timing of vesting payment Calculation of vesting payment Annual bonus Bad leaver all cases other Not applicable No bonus to be paid for the financial year than those specified below Redundancy, retirement At the end of the financial year Bonuses will only be paid to the extent that or otherwise at the the performance measures have been met.
Committees discretion Any bonus will be paid on a time pro-rata basis Deferred Share Bonus Plan Dismissal for misconduct Not applicable Unvested awards lapse All other cases Vesting: at the end of the relevant vesting Awards vest over the original number period save in the case of death where vesting of shares occurs immediately unless the Committee decides otherwise Change of control On change of control Awards will vest over the original number of shares.
Awards may be treated otherwise or exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring company in some circumstances LTIP Bad leaver all cases other Not applicable Unvested awards lapse than those specified below Ill health, injury, permanent Vesting: at the end of the relevant Generally, awards vest over the original disability, retirement with performance period timescales, subject to the original the agreement of the performance conditions.
Awards are normally Payment: at the end of any relevant holding period Company, redundancy, sale pro-rated for time of a division or subsidiary or any other reason that the Committee determines in its absolute discretion Death Vesting: at the end of the relevant performance The Committee has discretion to dis-apply period or as soon as possible after the date of death, performance conditions and may allow at the discretion of the Committee immediate vesting.
Awards may be pro-rated for time Change of control On change of control Awards will vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied and will be reduced pro-rata to take account of the performance period not completed, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
Awards may be exchanged for awards over shares in the acquiring company in some circumstances WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 49 Corporate governance D irectors remuneration report continued 3.6 Chairman and non-executive director fees The following table explains the different elements of the remuneration that is paid to the Chairman and non-executive directors.
All payments made to the Chairman are determined by the Committee.
The Chairman does not participate in any bonus or share plans.
The fees paid to non-executive directors are determined by the Chairman and the executive directors being the Board excluding the non-executive directors themselves and are paid in cash.
The levels are set to take into account the required time commitment and the fee payments for non-executive directors of similar organisations.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any bonus or share plans.
The current fees payable to the Chairman and the non-executive directors are set out on page 52.
The Chairman, who has a letter of appointment, is appointed for an initial term of three years.
His appointment may be terminated at any time by either the Company or the Chairman without notice.
The non-executive directors, who have letters of appointment, are appointed for an initial term of three years.
These appointments can be terminated at any time by either the Company or the nonexecutive director without notice.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election every three years.
However, in accordance with the Code, the Board has agreed that all directors will stand for re-election at the AGM to be held on 23 January 2019.
Element and purpose Policy and opportunity Operation Annual fees The fees paid to the Chairman and the fees of Fees are paid monthly in cash.
the other non-executive directors aim to be Fee levels for the Chairman and the competitive with other fully listed companies of non-executive directors are reviewed equivalent size and complexity.
Fee levels are periodically the last review being in periodically reviewed by the Board for nonMarch 2018 with the next review due in executive directors and the Committee for the March 2020.
In both cases, the Company does not The Company reserves the right to change adopt a quantitative approach to pay positioning how the elements and weightings within and exercises judgement as to what it considers the overall fees are paid and to pay a to be reasonable in all the circumstances as proportion of the fees in shares within this regards quantum.
limit if it is considered appropriate to do so.
Additional fees are paid to non-executive directors who chair a Board Committee excluding the Nominations Committee and to the Senior Independent Director SID.
All fees are subject to the aggregate fee cap for directors in the Articles of Association currently 750,000 per annum.
Non-executive directors do not participate in incentive arrangements.
Benefits In line with other employees, the Chairman and It is not the policy of the Company to the non-executive directors receive an employee provide benefits to the Chairman or the staff discount.
non-executive directors other than the employee staff discount.
However, while the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal usage of that term, it has been advised that corporate hospitality whether paid for by the Company or another and business travel for directors may technically come within the applicable rules and so the Committee expressly reserves the right to authorise such activities within its agreed policies and within the overall limits.
WH Smith PLC 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 4.
Annual remuneration report The Committee presents the Annual report on remuneration which, together with the introductory letter by the Chair of the Committee on pages 40 and 41, will be put to shareholders as an advisory vote at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 January 2019.
4.1 Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee continued to receive advice from FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT, which is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group the professional body and adheres to its code of conduct.
FIT was appointed by the Committee and has no other relationship with the Company.
The Committee is satisfied that FIT continues to provide objective and independent advice.
FITs fees in respect of the year under review were 70,605 excluding VAT and were charged on the basis of FITs standard terms of business.
Ian Houghton, Company Secretary, also materially assisted the Committee in carrying out its duties, except in relation to his own remuneration.
No director or manager is involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
The Group Chief Executive also attends Committee meetings but excludes himself in relation to discussion of his own remuneration, as does the Chairman.
4.2 Implementation of remuneration policy in the financial year ended 31 August 2018 This section sets out how the remuneration policy has been implemented in the financial year ended 31 August 2018.
Executive directors Element of pay Implementation of policy Base salary Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead did not receive a salary increase in the financial year ended 31 August 2018.
There was a general annual pay rise of two per cent for most other head office employees, which took effect from 1 April 2018.
The current salary of Stephen Clarke is 550,000 and the current salary of Robert Moorhead is 374,544.
Benefits No changes were made to these elements of remuneration within the financial year ended 31 August 2018 although the cost of providing benefits may change without any action by the Company.
Both executive directors were provided with a car allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance, in addition to other benefits, during the financial year ended 31 August 2018.
Pension No changes were made to these elements of remuneration within the financial year ended 31 August 2018.
Both executive directors were members of the Companys defined contribution scheme and received a total benefit equivalent to 25 per cent of base salary.
During the financial year ended 31 August 2018, Stephen Clarke received a pension contribution equal to one per cent of his base salary with the balance being received as a salary supplement.
Robert Moorhead received all of his pension contribution as a salary supplement after applying for fixed protection.
Part of the amount otherwise paid to the Companys defined contribution scheme was reduced to reflect the requirement to pay employers National Insurance.
Annual bonus The bonus payable for the financial year ended 31 August 2018 in respect of Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead was 820,033 and 453,938 respectively.
The bonus is primarily assessed against a sliding scale target of Headline profit before tax and is then moderated on a downwards only basis by reference to the achievement of personal objectives.
The target range for the year ended 31 August 2018 is set out on page 55.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 51 Corporate governance D irectors remuneration report continued Long-term incentives Annual LTIP awards were set at the policy level 335 per cent for Stephen Clarke and 310 per cent for Robert Moorhead.
The terms of and the performance measures applicable to the LTIP awards made in the financial year ended 31 August 2018 are described on page 56.
Vesting of LTIP awards is determined based on the following measures: 60 per cent is based on EPS growth and 40 per cent is based on relative TSR.
The performance period is three years.
The Committee approved these performance measures as they are directly linked to the objectives set out in the Groups strategy: there is a direct link with shareholder value and there is a clear line of sight for participants between performance and reward.
Shareholding guidelines Stephen Clarke was required to hold 300 per cent of salary in shares and Robert Moorhead was required to hold 250 per cent of salary in shares.
The directors have met their required holding as at 31 August 2018, with Stephen Clarke holding 235,408 shares with a value of 4,858,821 approximately 880 per cent of salary and Robert Moorhead holding 227,676 shares with a value of 4,699,233 approximately 1,250 per cent of salary.
Non-executive directors Element of pay Implementation of policy Annual fees Current fees are 235,000 for the Chairman of the Board and 55,000 for the role of non-executive director with additional fees of: i 12,000 payable for the role of Senior Independent Director SID : and ii 12,000 payable for being the Chair of the Audit or Remuneration Committee.
Implementation of remuneration policy in the financial year ending 31 August 2019 The Committee envisages that there will be no changes to the implementation of the remuneration policy, beyond the introduction of bonus deferral, during the financial year ending 31 August 2019.
The policy in respect of the executive directors will be applied as follows: Element of pay Implementation of policy Base salary Stephen Clarke and Robert Moorhead will be eligible, in line with other head office staff, for any increase in salary following the March 2019 review.
Benefits No changes are expected to be made to these elements of remuneration within the financial year ending 31 August 2019.
Pension No changes are expected to be made to these elements of remuneration within the financial year ending 31 August 2019.
Annual bonus The bonus opportunity remains unchanged and the bonus metrics will again be based on a matrix of financial and personal performance, with the financial performance measure being Headline profit before tax for the financial year ending 31 August 2019.
Long-term incentives Annual LTIP awards will again be set at the policy level 335 per cent of salary for Stephen Clarke and 310 per cent for Robert Moorhead.
Vesting of LTIP awards is determined based on the following two measures: 60 per cent is based on EPS growth and 40 per cent is based on relative TSR.
The number of shares vesting for threshold performance is 25 per cent.
The EPS performance targets will again be 25 per cent for EPS growth of five per cent per annum to 100 per cent for EPS growth of 10 per cent per annum, and the TSR condition remains a median to upper quartile scale relative to the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index constituents.
Shareholding guidelines Stephen Clarke is required to hold 300 per cent of salary in shares and Robert Moorhead is required to hold 250 per cent of salary in shares.
WH Smith PLC 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information The policy in respect of the non-executive directors will be applied as follows: Element of pay Implementation of policy Annual fees No changes are expected to be made to the fees of the Chairman and non-executive directors.
4.4 Summary of non-executive directors remuneration 2018 audited The table below summarises the total remuneration for non-executive directors as a single figure for the financial year ended 31 August 2018: a Benefits Total Base fee Committee SID fee 000 000 000 000 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Henry Staunton 223 215 223 215 Suzanne Baxter 52 50 11 10 2 1 65 61 Annemarie Durbin 52 50 52 50 Drummond Hall 52 50 22 20 74 70 a B enefits primarily consist of travel and subsistence costs incurred in the normal course of business, in relation to meetings on Board and Committee matters and other Company events which are considered taxable.
4.5 Summary of executive remuneration 2018 audited The table below summarises the total remuneration for executive directors as a single figure for the financial year ended 31 August 2018: Benefits Annual bonus LTI Pension Total Salary a b c, d e 000 000 000 000 000 000 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Stephen Clarke 550 550 14 14 820 866 1,384 2,548 134 134 2,902 4,112 Robert Moorhead 375 375 14 14 454 479 883 1,817 91 90 1,817 2,775 a Benefits relate mainly to the provision of a car allowance, private medical insurance and life assurance.
b F or the year under review, Stephen Clarke had the opportunity to receive an annual bonus up to a maximum of 160 per cent of his base salary and Robert Moorhead had the opportunity to receive an annual bonus of up to a maximum of 130 per cent of his base salary.
The calculated outcome under this measure may be moderated downwards only by the Committee having regard to personal performance ratings.
The Companys headline profit before tax was 145m.
Stephen Clarke received an annual bonus equivalent to 149 per cent of his base salary and Robert Moorhead received an annual bonus equivalent to 121 per cent of his base salary.
c T he performance measures for the LTIP and CIP, and achievement against them, are set out on page 57.
The 2017 figures have been updated to the actual values of the LTIP and CIP awards that vested in respect of performance periods ending in that financial year.
d T he LTI figures in the table include both the WH Smith LTIP and CIP.
The share price used to calculate the LTI figures in the table is 1991.39p, being the average share price for the Company over the last quarter of the financial year ended 31 August 2018. e The pension figures in the table above include both the pension contribution into the Companys defined contribution pension scheme and any salary supplement received in lieu.
The total aggregate emoluments paid to the Board in the financial year ended 31 August 2018 was 2,866,000 and in the financial year ended 31 August 2017 was 2,919,000.
4.6 Payments made to former directors audited No payments were made in the financial year ended 31 August 2018 to former directors of the Company.
4.7 Payments for loss of office audited No payments were made in respect of a directors loss of office in the financial year ended 31 August 2018.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 53 Corporate governance D irectors remuneration report continued 4.8 Assessing pay and performance Total shareholder return performance since 31 August 2009 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Accounting year end WH Smith PLC FTSE All Share General Retailers Index a The graph illustrates the TSR performance on a cumulative basis with dividends reinvested as at the end of each of the last nine financial years compared with the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index the Index over the same period.
b The Company is a member of the Index and, as such, this sector was considered to be the most appropriate comparator group upon which a broad equity market index is calculated.
The table below summarises the CEOs remuneration and how the Companys variable pay plans have paid out over the past nine years.
It can be compared with the historic TSR performance over the same period which indicates a TSR for the Company of 530 per cent, compared with a TSR for the Index of 94 per cent.
This demonstrates consistently superior performance in line with the achievements under the variable pay plans.
Long-term incentive Annual bonus vesting Single figure of total versus maximum vesting versus maximum remuneration opportunity opportunity Financial year ended 31 August CEO 000 % % 2018 Stephen Clarke 2,902 93 58 2017 Stephen Clarke 4,112 98 81 2016 Stephen Clarke 5,179 100 98 2015 Stephen Clarke 4,148 100 100 2014 Stephen Clarke 2,546 100 100 2013 from 1 June Stephen Clarke 4,067 100 97 2013 until 31 May Kate Swann 9,192 100 98 2012 Kate Swann 3,147 100 90 2011 Kate Swann 3,313 100 92 2010 Kate Swann 6,966 100 97 The 2017 single figure of total remuneration has been updated to reflect the actual value of the LTIP and CIP awards that vested in respect of the performance period ending in that financial year.
WH Smith PLC 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 4.9 Change in remuneration of Chief Executive The table below shows the percentage changes in the Chief Executives remuneration i. e. salary, annual bonus and taxable benefits between the financial year ended 31 August 2017 and the financial year ended 31 August 2018 compared with the percentage changes in the average of those components of pay for all full-time equivalent employees based in the UK.
This group has been selected as the most appropriate comparator for the Chief Executive as he is a full-time employee based in the UK and approximately 95 per cent of all WH Smith employees are based in the UK.
Salary Annual bonus Taxable benefits increase decrease increase decrease increase decrease % % % Chief Executive 5.27 6.62 UK employees average per FTE 4.15 27.44 2.07 4.10 Relative spend on pay The table below shows the total cost of remuneration paid to or receivable by all employees in the Group as well as dividends share buybacks made during the financial year ended 31 August 2018.
There were not considered to be any other significant distributions and payments or other uses of profit or cash flow deemed by the directors to assist in understanding the relative importance of spend on pay for the purposes of the table below.
Total Cost of Remuneration Distribution to shareholders 2017 2018 2017 2018 m m % change m m % change 212 216 2% 91 80 12 % 4.11 Annual bonus targets audited Bonuses for the financial year ended 31 August 2018 were earned according to the following scale as a percentage of each executives respective maximum : Role Under Financial performance against Headline Group profit before tax target Model Outstanding Strong Developing Achiever Max: 146.9m 100% 80% 60% 40% 0% Target: 139.9m 80% 64% 48% 32% 0% Threshold: 135.7m 40% 32% 24% 16% 0% Interpolation between points in the matrix is permitted.
1 The Companys Headline Group profit before tax for the financial year ended 31 August 2018 was 145m.
For Stephen Clarke, his personal rating is based on a range of objectives including the development of the talent and succession pipeline to meet the future needs of the business: employee engagement and well-being at work: new format development and international expansion.
Following the successful achievement of all of his key personal objectives, the Committee determined that no downwards adjustment was appropriate and, therefore, Stephen Clarke will receive an unadjusted bonus payment reflecting the financial performance in the year of 820,033.
For Robert Moorhead, his personal rating is based on a range of objectives including achievement of financial targets: development of a high performing executive team: developing Funky Pigeon: managing pensions and management of cyber risk.
Following the successful achievement of all of his key personal objectives, the Committee also determined that no downwards adjustment was appropriate and, therefore, Robert Moorhead will receive an unadjusted bonus payment reflecting the financial performance in the year of 453,938.
For the annual bonus plan for the financial year ending 31 August 2019, the bonus metrics will also be based on a similar matrix 1 of financial and personal performance with the financial performance measure again being Headline Group profit before tax.
The Committee will publish the targets for that financial year in next years report and, consistent with market practice, has elected not to pre-disclose them or give numerical personal objectives on the basis of commercial sensitivity.
Any bonus payable in respect of the financial year ended 31 August 2019 will be paid in cash and shares.
Any bonus payable over target is deferred into shares for a period of up to three years.
The shares will be released one third on each anniversary of assessment.
Transitional introduction with one third of bonus payable over target in 2019, two thirds of bonus payable in 2020 and full implementation in 2021.
1 H eadline Group profit before tax excludes non-underlying items as explained in the Financial review on page 15.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 55 Corporate governance D irectors remuneration report continued 4.12 Share plans audited The performance conditions for awards granted under the Companys long-term incentive plans in the financial year ended 31 August 2018 were as follows: WH Smith LTIP As reported last year, the performance conditions, which apply over the three years, commencing with the financial year of grant the Performance Period, were as follows: a 60 per cent based on growth in the adjusted diluted EPS of the Company.
Vesting will occur on the following basis: Annual rate of growth in adjusted diluted EPS of the Company compounded annually over the Performance Period Proportion exercisable Below 5% Zero 5% 25% 10% or more 100% Between 5% and 10% On a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% For these purposes, EPS will continue to be determined by reference to fully diluted EPS pre-exceptional items and will exclude IAS 19 pension charges from the calculation, adjusted as considered appropriate by the Committee to ensure consistency.
The Company has, as an inherent part of its corporate strategy and its rigorous capital allocation discipline, undertaken share buybacks and the Committee assumed a level of such buy-backs consistent with its established approach in setting the above target range.
b 40 per cent based on the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index constituents.
Vesting will occur on the following basis: TSR performance ranking at end of the Performance Period Proportion exercisable Below median Zero Median 25% Upper quartile 100% Between median and upper quartile On a straight-line basis between 25% and 100% It is envisaged that the grants to be made in 2018 will be subject to the same performance targets.
FIT independently carries out the relevant TSR growth calculation for the Company.
b The number of shares subject to awards is the maximum 100 per cent number of shares that could be received by the executive if the performance targets are fully met except that, in respect of awards granted from October 2016 onwards, consistent with market practice, any part of the awards which vest will benefit from the accrual of dividend roll-up.
c In respect of the award granted on 23 October 2014 under the CIP held by Stephen Clarke, 46,239 shares vested and 19,816 shares lapsed.
The value of the 46,239 shares on the date of vesting was 940,841.12 2034.735p per ordinary share.
d In respect of the award granted on 23 October 2014 under the CIP held by Robert Moorhead, 30,055 shares vested and 12,881 shares lapsed.
The value of the 30,055 shares on the date of vesting was 611,539.61 2034.735p per ordinary share.
e In respect of the award granted on 23 October 2014 under the LTIP held by Stephen Clarke, 79,001 shares vested and 9,072 shares lapsed.
The value of the 79,001 shares on the date of vesting was 1,607,460.99 2034.735p per ordinary share.
f In respect of the award granted on 23 October 2014 under the LTIP held by Robert Moorhead, 59,251 shares vested and 6,804 shares lapsed.
The value of the 59,251 shares on the date of vesting was 1,205,600.83 2034.735p per ordinary share.
g The aggregate value of shares which vested and were received by the executive directors under the CIP and LTIP during the financial year ended 31 August 2018 was 4,365,442.55. h The performance conditions for awards granted in the financial year ended 31 August 2016 under the LTIP are: i 4 0 per cent based on the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index constituents.
Vesting will occur on the following basis: Below median - Nil: Median - 30%: Upper quartile - 100%: and on a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%: ii 3 0 per cent based on growth in the adjusted diluted EPS of the Company.
Vesting will occur on the following basis: Below 7% - Nil: 7% - 30%: 12% or more - 100%: and on a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%.
For these purposes, EPS will be determined by reference to fully diluted EPS before exceptional items and will exclude IAS 19 pension charges from the calculation, adjusted as considered appropriate by the Committee to ensure consistency: and iii 3 0 per cent based on the Companys dividend growth against the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index and the FTSE Food and Drugs Retailers Index constituents.
Vesting will occur on the following basis: Below median - Nil: Median - 30%: Upper quartile - 100%: and on a straight-line basis between 30% and 100%.
For these purposes, the percentage increase in the Companys dividends in pence paid in respect of the year to 31 August 2015 will be compared with the equivalent dividends paid in respect of the financial year ending three years later and the percentage increase compared and ranked with dividends paid by the same companies.
The Committee has discretion to assess whether a companys dividend is paid otherwise than out of operating profits, or otherwise than supported by its normal levels of cover, and therefore should be excluded.
The Committee will report any material adjustments in subsequent Remuneration Reports.
T he performance conditions were substantially met with 79.2 per cent of the shares subject to the awards vesting.
The Committee confirmed it was satisfied that the Companys TSR was reflective of its underlying financial performance and that nothing occurred to negatively impact the performance achieved during the performance period.
i The performance condition for matching awards granted in the financial year ended 31 August 2016 under the CIP are based on growth in the adjusted diluted EPS of the Company.
Vesting will occur on the following basis: Below 7% - Nil: 7% - 25%: 12% or more - 100%: and on a straight-line basis between 25% and 100%.
Following the 2015 remuneration review, no future awards will be made to executives under the CIP.
The performance condition was partially met with 31 per cent of the shares subject to the awards vesting.
j No awards have been granted to directors or have vested between 1 September 2018 and 11 October 2018. k The awards granted in the financial years ended 31 August 2017 and 31 August 2018 under the LTIP will only vest to the extent that the performance targets as set out on page 56 are satisfied.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 57 Corporate governance D irectors remuneration report continued 4.13 WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust The WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust the Trust is used to facilitate the acquisition of ordinary shares in the Company to satisfy awards granted under the Companys share plans.
The Trust is a discretionary trust, the sole beneficiaries being employees including executive directors and former employees of the Group and their close relations.
The Trustee is Computershare Trustees C. I.
Limited, an independent professional trustee company based in Jersey.
The Company intends that the ordinary shares in the Trust will be used to satisfy all outstanding awards and options made under the Companys share plans.
The Trustee may exercise all rights attached to the shares held in the Trust in accordance with their fiduciary duties and the relevant plan rules or other governing documents.
The Trustee has agreed to waive its rights to all dividends payable on the ordinary shares held in the Trust.
Following share purchases of 262,428 shares in the financial year ended 31 August 2018, the number of WH Smith shares held in the Trust at 31 August 2018 was 265,062.
The Groups accounting policy with respect to the Trust is detailed within Note 1 to the financial statements and movements are detailed in the Group statement of changes in equity on page 75.
4.14 Dilution limits Awards under the CIP and LTIP are currently satisfied using market purchase shares which may be acquired by the EBT as described above.
WH Smiths share plans comply with recommended guidelines on dilution limits, and the Company has always operated within these limits.
4.15 External appointments Each executive director may accept up to two non-executive directorships provided they are not both appointments to companies in the FTSE 100 or include a chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
Non-executive directorships must not conflict with the interests of the Company.
Executive directors may retain fees from one of their external directorships.
Neither of the executive directors currently holds any external appointments.
4.16 Directors interests in shares audited The beneficial interests of the directors and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below: Nil-Cost Options subject to performance conditions Ordinary shares LTIP CIP 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 31 August 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Suzanne Baxter 1,000 1,000 Stephen Clarke 235,408 235,408 276,075 273,682 53,452 119,507 Annemarie Durbin 1,000 1,000 Drummond Hall 10,000 10,000 Robert Moorhead 227,676 252,676 176,478 185,524 28,995 71,931 Henry Staunton 30,000 30,000 a The LTIP and CIP amounts above are the maximum potential awards that may vest subject to the performance conditions described on pages 56 and 57. b The performance conditions for the October 2015 LTIP will be substantially met with 79.2 per cent of the shares subject to awards due to vest on 22 October 2018.
As a result, the outstanding number of LTIP awards for Stephen Clarke will reduce to 52,917 and for Robert Moorhead to 35,329. c The performance conditions for the October 2015 CIP will be partially met with 31 per cent of the shares subject to awards due to vest on 22 October 2018.
As a result, the outstanding number of CIP awards for Stephen Clarke will reduce to 16,570 and for Robert Moorhead to 8,988. d There has been no further change in the directors interests shown above between 1 September 2018 and 11 October 2018. e The middle market price of an ordinary share at the close of business on 31 August 2018 was 2064p 31 August 2017: 1849p.
WH Smith PLC 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2018 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Additional information 4.17 Voting at Annual General Meeting Statement of voting at 2016 AGM As disclosed in the previous Annual report, the table below shows the voting outcome at the Annual General Meeting on 27 January 2016 for approval of the remuneration policy: Votes % Total votes Votes Resolution Votes for % for against against cast withheld Approval of remuneration policy 80,375,087 98.53 1,195,511 1.47 81,570,598 179,767 Statement of voting at 2018 AGM The table below shows the voting outcome at the Annual General Meeting on 24 January 2018 for approval of the annual Directors remuneration report: Votes % Total votes Votes Resolution Votes for % for against against cast withheld Approval of remuneration report 70,341,431 96.66 2,431,299 3.34 72,772,730 70,127 A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the proportion of votes for and against a resolution.
On behalf of the Board Drummond Hall Chair of the Remuneration Committee 11 October 2018 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2018 59
