GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Report of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee On behalf of the Board I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ended 31 March 2018.
The 2018 financial year was another year of strong growth for Wizz Air.
Once again, we have delivered industry-leading passenger growth, with passenger numbers increasing by 25 per cent and total revenue increasing by 24 per cent.
While the competitive environment was a little more benign than the previous year, the Companys operating environment was again challenging, with particularly severe winter weather in Central and Eastern Europe during the last quarter of the financial year and significant disruption once again caused by industrial action by various air traffic control organisations throughout the year.
At the same time, management worked on a number of strategic projects to continue to build a strong foundation for the Companys future, including the conclusion of an additional order for 146 Airbus A320neo Family aircraft announced at the Dubai Air Show in November and the start of the licensing process for Wizz Air UK Limited as a standalone airline, which is part of the Companys Brexit contingency planning.
The strong leadership during the 2018 financial year of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and management team has seen the Company deliver record profitability of 275 million, even as the Company dealt with these various challenges and developments.
At the same time, the Company remained extremely cost-focused, with its ex-fuel operating unit cost remaining materially flat 0.4 per cent.
The relative strength of Wizz Airs performance against its peers was reflected in a share price which, as at 31 March 2018, remained some 183 per cent.
higher than the offering price in the Companys initial public offering.
Over the year, therefore, the Directors and senior management have ensured that the Companys business has continued to deliver results that have significantly increased Shareholder value, as well as further strengthening the foundations for the Companys future growth.
The Companys Remuneration Policy is designed to incentivise the Chief Executive Officer, currently the Companys sole Executive Director, not only to deliver profitability, but also to continue to drive the Companys unit costs even lower at the same time as delivering a good customer experience.
By way of reminder, the amount of a payment under the Companys short term incentive plan depends on a number of factors, including profitability 2 3, on-time performance 1 9, ex-fuel unit operating cost 1 9 and personal performance 1 9.
The outcome of the short term incentive plan for the 2018 financial year reflects the Companys performance: while profitability was above target and the reduction in ex-fuel CASK was slightly below target, on-time performance fell below the threshold for any payment, even though this was mainly as a consequence of a number of events beyond the Companys control, including severe winter weather and the ability of a number of European airports to deal with such weather and industrial action by various air traffic control organisations throughout the year.
Taking these factors into account, the Chief Executive Officers payment under the short term incentive plan for the financial year 2018 was CHF 796,000, being 116.8 per cent.
of annual base salary and therefore of target bonus against a maximum bonus opportunity of 200 per cent.
Total remuneration for the year was CHF 1,478,000, or 11 per cent.
more than last year, as a result of the Companys record profitability.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this demonstrates that not only are the targets set for management very ambitious, but also that the Companys current Remuneration Policy is appropriate with the outcome properly reflecting the Companys performance during the year.
The Chief Executive Officers base salary was last revised in 2015 and, since then, the Company has grown from an airline with 55 aircraft and 2,000 employees to one with 93 aircraft and 3,700 employees nearly double on both size measures.
Over the same period, passengers numbers have grown 79 per cent.
profitability has increased 88 per cent.
and ex-fuel unit operating cost has remained flat.
The Chief Executive Officers leadership has been key to this growth and, as the Company moves into its next stage of growth with the first of 256 Airbus A320neo Family aircraft which will see the Company become an airline of at least 300 aircraft within the next 8 years, strong leadership will continue to be critical.
Following a pay benchmarking exercise the Remuneration Committee has concluded that the Chief Executive Officers base salary should be increase by 10 per cent.
to CHF 750,000 with retrospective effect from 1st April 2018.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 48 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Report of the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continued The Remuneration Committee remains committed to ensuring that the Companys Remuneration Policy remains an effective way to align the interests of the Directors and senior management with those of the Companys Shareholders and that it provides appropriate incentivisation to continue to deliver Shareholder value.
However, the Remuneration Committee also remains focused on the Companys ultra-low-cost business model, and the governing principle that will continue to be applied is that remuneration must be competitive whilst not being more than is necessary to attract, retain and motivate executive management of the quality required to continue to run the Company successfully, and that a significant proportion of remuneration remains performance based.
Indeed, this is a principle which is applied consistently throughout the Company for almost all employees.
In addition the Remuneration Committee considers that the policy should not only be easy to understand, but also straightforward and simple to implement and administer in line with our approach to business which seeks to keep processes and procedures as streamlined and as simple as possible.
Whilst the Company is incorporated in Jersey, we have chosen voluntarily to comply in all material respects with the provisions of the UK Companies Act 2006 and related regulations in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration Policy, underlining the Companys commitment to adopt UK corporate governance best practice.
In line with the reporting requirements, our Remuneration Policy will be put forward to a binding Shareholder vote at the 2018 AGM with the intention that it should apply for three years.
Following comprehensive review and consultation with major shareholders, the Remuneration Committee is of the view that the Policy continues to achieve the aims set out above.
We are therefore not proposing any significant changes at this time, other than to introduce malus and or clawback provisions to both the short and long-term incentive plans.
In addition, in the context of the Companys particular structure in which the companys only Executive Director is a co-founder of the Company and has maintained a significant shareholding, the Committee is of the view that there remains to be a strong alignment with shareholders.
However, it is proposed that under our policy the Remuneration Committee adopts the power to increase this alignment through the implementation of shareholding guidelines, mandatory bonus deferral or an additional LTIP post-vesting holding period, over the course of the policy period should it be considered desirable to do so.
In conclusion, I would reiterate that Wizz Air continues to be proud of the strong results delivered in the 2018 financial year against a challenging industry background.
We remain committed to ensuring that our Remuneration Policy continues to incentivise delivery of outstanding results in the future, but in a way that appropriately aligns the interests of the Directors and senior management with those of the Companys Shareholders.
We believe that the approved Directors Remuneration Policy does this in a way which is consistent with the Companys current growth phase and its desire to bring simplicity to all areas of its operation.
Simplicity of process and practice reflects the Companys strategy to focus on achieving the lowest possible unit operating cost while improving customers experience.
As a company, we value our Shareholders feedback, including on remuneration matters.
I was pleased that last years Annual Report on Remuneration received a vote in favour from our Shareholders of 99.7 per cent.
We look forward to the continued support of our Shareholders and welcome any questions or suggestions that you may have to further align our Remuneration Policy with the interests of our investors.
Guido Demuynck Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 49 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Introduction This Directors Remuneration Report comprises of the following three sections: } The Directors Remuneration Policy pages 50 to 54 for approval by shareholders at the Companys AGM in July 2018. }
The Annual Report on Remuneration pages 54 to 59 which sets out the remuneration earned for the 2018 financial year in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Policy approved by shareholder at the AGM held on 29 September 2015.
The current policy, which applies up until the 2018 AGM is outlined in the Companys annual report for the 2015 financial year and is available to view at corporate.
The planned application of our Remuneration Policy for the 2019 financial year pages 59 and 60, following approval at the 2018 AGM.
The report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended the Regulations, which the Company has chosen to comply with in all material respects as a matter of best practice.
Remuneration Policy Introduction Our principal consideration when determining the Remuneration Policy is to ensure that it supports our company strategy and business objectives, as well as to attract, retain and motivate executive management of the quality required to run the Company successfully without paying more than is necessary.
In the selection of performance measures for both the annual performance bonus and the Long-term Incentive Plan the Remuneration Committee takes into account the Groups strategic objectives and short and long-term business priorities.
The performance targets are set in accordance with the Groups annual operating plan and are reviewed annually to ensure that they are sufficiently stretching.
In selecting the targets the Remuneration Committee also takes into account analysts forecasts, economic conditions and the Remuneration Committees expectation of performance over the relevant period.
The aim of the Remuneration Policy is to: } attract, retain and motivate executive management without paying more than is necessary: } incentivise the successful execution of the Companys business strategy: and } align the Executive Directors long-term interests with those of Shareholders.
Executive Director remuneration The Chief Executive Officer is currently the Companys sole Executive Director.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the Companys Remuneration Policy supports the Companys ultra-low-cost business model by incentivising senior management, including the Chief Executive Officer, to continue to strive to increase the Companys cost advantage while improving the customers experience.
The Chief Executive Officer currently receives a base salary and is eligible for an annual performance bonus of up to 200 per cent.
Of base salary and a long-term incentive award of up to 250 per cent.
of base salary, with payments depending on the Company achieving certain financial and operational targets.
In deciding appropriate remuneration levels, the Remuneration Committee takes into account, among other things, the levels paid at competitor low-cost carriers as well as selected fast-growing listed companies across Europe of a similar size.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 50 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Executive Director remuneration continued Future policy table: Executive Directors Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery of Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity sums paid Base salary To provide the core Salaries are reviewed annually, The Remuneration Committee reward for the role.
with any increase being will consider the individual To attract, retain and awarded at the discretion of the salary of Executive Directors at motivate executive Remuneration Committee.
management without The Executive Directors salary There are no provisions for the paying more than for the 2018 financial year is recovery of sums paid or the necessary.
detailed in the Annual Report withholding of any payment on Remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee may take into account a number of factors in deciding whether an increase should be made, including benchmarking against selected airlines and selected fast-growing listed companies across Europe of a similar size.
Benefits To attract, retain and Executive Directors are There are no provisions for the motivate executive covered by the Companys recovery of sums paid or the management without group personal accident and withholding of any payments paying more than life assurance cover, which is in relating to benefits.
place for all employees 2x salary.
Free return tickets usable on the route network of the Group, consistent with the number of free tickets made available for all employees.
does not provide a pension scheme for the Executive Directors unless contributions are required by law.
Short-term To incentivise the Payments under the Short-term Performance requirements Incentive successful execution Incentive Plan are made in are determined by the Plan of the Companys cash, subject to certain Remuneration Committee business strategy.
They are intended to To reward the requirements as determined by align the performance of the achievement of the Remuneration Committee Executive Directors with the annual financial and being met and up to a Groups near-term objectives of operational goals.
maximum bonus set as a delivering against its strategy.
percentage of base salary by In particular, the performance the Remuneration Committee.
requirements incentivise the The maximum bonus for the Executive Directors to focus Chief Executive Officer is 200 on cost control to achieve per cent.
profitability targets, while Currently, these performance delivering a reliable service requirements relate to to customers.
Company profitability, on-time performance, operating cost The annual bonus is subject to and personal performance.
malus and or clawback in the event of serious misconduct which could have served as a reason for termination of the employment for cause, or the employee was involved in fraud, dishonesty or other type of illegal activity.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 51 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Executive Director remuneration continued Future policy table: Executive Directors continued Long-term To align the Executive Each year, performance shares Performance targets Incentive Directors long-term may be granted.
Awards vest are determined by the Plan LTIP interests with those of over a three-year period, Remuneration Committee and operating Shareholders.
subject to the achievement of vesting of the performance for the first To reward strong performance targets.
The shares is subject to performance time in the financial performance maximum face value of annual targets being met over the 2016 and sustained awards will be 250 per cent.
financial increase in base salary for the Chief If a participants employment year.
Executive Officer and the ends before the end of the Executive Director must remain performance period, any vested in office when the performance and unvested options will shares vest.
normally lapse, save in certain good leaver scenarios.
Long-term incentive awards are subject to malus and or clawback in the event of serious misconduct which could have served as a reason for termination of the employment for cause, or the employee was involved in fraud, dishonesty or other type of illegal activity.
Difference in Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors and employees Remuneration of the Companys senior management team follows a similar pattern to that of the Executive Directors, although amounts for each component may vary.
Other employees receive remuneration judged by senior management to be appropriate for their position and experience.
Non-Executive Director remuneration The Non-Executive Directors are only paid fees.
Framework used to assess performance and provisions for the recovery of Element Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity sums paid Fees To remunerate NonNon-Executive Directors are paid a Not applicable: there are no Executive Directors basic fee, plus an additional amount provisions for the recovery to reflect their level for each Board meeting attended.
of sums paid or the withholding of responsibility.
Additional fees are paid for the of any payment relating to fees.
roles of Chairman of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee, Chairman of the Board and, with effect from 2019, the Senior Independent Director.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, are determined by the Board.
Fees for the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee without the Chairman being present.
The Remuneration Committee, in relation to the Chairman, and the Board, in relation to the other Non-Executive Directors, retain the flexibility to increase fee levels to ensure that they appropriately reflect the experience of the individual, time commitment of the role and fee levels in comparable companies.
The fees paid to the Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors for the 2018 financial year are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 52 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Illustration of the application of the Remuneration Policy The bar chart below sets out the annual remuneration package of the Chief Executive Officer, at a minimum, as a reasonable expectation and as a possible maximum in Euro : All amounts are determined in Swiss Francs CHF that for the purposes of this chart were converted into Euro at the rate of 1.17 CHF for Euro rate at 31 March 2018.
The remuneration receivable under the LTIP as shown in the table i does not assume any share price movement between grant and vesting: and ii for the sake of illustration it assumes that no shares would vest in the minimum scenario, 50 per cent.
of shares would vest in the expected scenario and all shares would vest in the maximum scenario.
Fixed remuneration is base salary May 2018 level annualised, being 641,026.
The annual bonus amount is zero at minimum, 641,026 at the expected level 50 per cent.
of maximum opportunity of 200 per cent.
The long-term incentive amount is zero at minimum, 801,282 at the expected level 50 per cent.
of maximum opportunity of 250 per cent.
Recruitment remuneration The remuneration package for an incoming Executive Director would reflect the principles set out above, although relocation expenses or allowances such as school fees for an Executive Director requiring relocation may be paid as appropriate.
For the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-Executive Director, fee arrangements will be made in line with the policy as set out above.
Policy on payment for loss of office In the event of termination of a service contract or letter of appointment of a Director, contractual obligations will be honoured in accordance with the service contract or letter of appointment.
The Remuneration Committee will take into consideration the circumstances and reasons for departure, health, length of service and performance.
Under this policy, the Remuneration Committee will make any statutory payments it is required to make.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee may agree to payment of outplacement counselling costs and disbursements such as legal costs if considered to be appropriate and depending on the circumstances of departure.
There are no pre-determined contractual provisions for Directors regarding compensation in the event of loss of office save for those listed in the table below.
Details of provision Executive Director Non-Executive Directors Notice period Six months notice by either party.
One months notice by either party.
Termination payment The employing company may terminate the Fees and expenses Executive Directors employment with immediate accrued up to effect by payment in lieu of notice.
The Executive Director will be paid a sum equal to six months base salary if the employing company chooses to enforce the restrictive covenants referenced below.
Upon termination of employment other than for cause, the Executive Director is entitled to a severance payment equal to six months salary in addition to any notice pay or payment in lieu of notice.
Post-termination Post-termination restrictive covenants apply for Not applicable.
covenants a period of one year following termination of employment.
No such payment for loss of office was made by the Group in the year or the prior year.
No payments of any nature were made to past directors.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 53 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration Policy continued Discretion, flexibility and judgment of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee operates the Short-term Incentive Plan and the Long-term Incentive Plan, which include flexibility in a number of areas.
These include: } the timing of awards and payments: } the size of an award, within the maximum limits: } the participants of the plan: } the performance requirements and maximum percentages of salary to be used for the Short-term Incentive Plan and the Long-term Incentive Plan from year to year: } the performance conditions, performance periods and vesting periods for awards under the Long-term Incentive Plan from year to year: } the assessment of whether performance requirements and or conditions have been met: } the treatment to be applied for a change of control or significant restructuring of the Group: } the determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and the treatment of awards thereof: and } the adjustments, if any, required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, corporate events and special dividends.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee retains the power to adopt shareholding guidelines, mandatory bonus deferral or an additional post-vesting holding period with respect to the LTIP, over the course of the policy period should any or all of these features be considered desirable.
Legacy arrangements In approving this policy, authority will be given to the Company to honour commitments paid, promised to be paid or awarded to i current or former Directors prior to the date of this policy being approved and ii to an individual who subsequently is appointed as a Director of the Company at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee, was not in consideration of that individual becoming a Director of the Company, even where such commitments are inconsistent with the provisions of this policy.
Outstanding awards under the Companys previous 2009 international employee share option plan remain eligible for vesting and exercise in accordance with their terms.
Shareholder approval of share plans This policy includes any new employee share plans or amendments to existing share plans approved by shareholders which may be applicable to this policy period.
Consideration of Shareholder views The Remuneration Committee and the Board will consider Shareholder feedback received in relation to the annual general meeting each year at a meeting immediately following the annual general meeting and any action required will be incorporated into the Remuneration Committees business plan for the ensuing period.
This, and any additional feedback received from Shareholders from time to time, will then be considered by the Remuneration Committee and as part of the Companys annual review of remuneration arrangements.
Specific engagement with major Shareholders may be undertaken when a significant change in Remuneration Policy is proposed.
Annual Report on Remuneration The members of the Remuneration Committee were Guido Demuynck Chairman, Thierry fide Preux, and Susan Hooper.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Remuneration Policy for all Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pension rights and any compensation payments, and recommending and monitoring the remuneration of the senior managers.
Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the full Board.
A summary of the Remuneration Committees terms of reference can be found on our corporate website, corporate.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee are set out on page 41 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Jzsef Vradi, the Chief Executive Officer, and Owain Jones, the Chief Corporate Officer, attend meetings by invitation and assist the Remuneration Committee in its deliberations as appropriate, though they are not present when their own compensation is discussed.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 54 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued The Remuneration Committee is advised by Willis Towers Watson, which was selected following a competitive tender process led by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in 2015.
Willis Towers Watson attends Committee meetings as and when required.
During the 2018 financial year, Willis Towers Watson received fees totalling GBP 91.024 for advice related to Remuneration Policy, governance, developments in executive pay, benchmarking and performance analysis.
Willis Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, as such, voluntarily operates under the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in relation to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that Willis Towers Watson offers impartial and objective advice and brings a high degree of expertise to the Remuneration Committees discussions.
Shareholders vote on remuneration At the 2017 annual general meeting the Annual Report on Remuneration was put forward for an advisory vote.
Details of the voting outcomes are provided in the table below: Remuneration Policy Annual Report on Remuneration 2015 AGM 2017 AGM Votes for 38,578,768 99.63% 47,008,515 93.79% Votes against 141,517 0.37% 3,114,822 6.21% Total votes 38,720,285 50,123,337 Votes withheld 773,017 - Executive Directors remuneration Full details of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration for 2018 are set out below in Euros : Single total figure of remuneration table audited 2018 Fees and salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Jzsef Vradi 600,762 - 680,543 - - 1,281,304 2017 Fees and salary Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension Total Jzsef Vradi 629,622 - 611,191 - - 1,240,812 Salary and bonus were paid are payable in Swiss Francs and were converted into Euros at the average rate applicable for the year salary or the rate applicable at the end of the financial year bonus.
Base salary for the CEO remained unchanged for 2018 at CHF 682,000.
Exchange rates differences between the 2018 financial year and the 2017 financial year account for the difference in the Euro base salary amount shown in the tables above.
Differences in exchange rates in future years may affect the converted Euro figure.
There were no benefits provided to the Chief Executive Officer other than twelve free return tickets usable on the route network of the Group, the value of which is estimated to be 1600 altogether.
Bonus is linked to three important financial and operational KPIs of the Company and to individual performance.
The measures, target performance and actual performance for 2018 were the following: Target performance Actual Payout Measures Weight Threshold Target Maximum performance ratio Profit underlying, m 67% 225 265 305 275 125% CASK ex-fuel c ASK 11% 2.32 2.26 2.20 2.26 100% On-time performance delay 15 mins 11% 76.0% 80.0% 84.0% 75.9% 0% Individual performance rating 11% 2 2 1 1 20% Aggregate payout ratio 117% There is no payment if the performance is worse than the Threshold.
At Threshold there is 50 per cent.
At Target there is 100 per cent.
Payment being equal to twelve months salary in the case of the CEO.
If the Maximum is reached or exceeded then there is 200 per cent.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 55 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Executive Directors remuneration continued The evaluation of the Chief Executive Officers personal performance during the 2018 financial year took into account factors common with those applied to all employees as part of Wizz Airs People Cycle, namely leadership, execution, cooperation, innovation and expertise.
In the case of the Chief Executive Officer, these factors were considered in the context of two broad categories - building the business and building the organization.
During the 2018 financial year, the business delivered 24% capacity growth and 25% passenger growth to 30 million PAX, 24% revenue growth 1.95 billion and 22% net profit growth to 275 million, Wizz Air UK was established and obtained its air operators certificate and operating license in May 2018 and the Company completed an order for 146 additional latest-technology Airbus A320neo Family with Airbus.
Reflecting the Companys planned growth, the Chief Executive Officer recruited and inducted Stephen Jones as Deputy Chief Executive Officer and also enhanced the Companys leadership capacity by creating the Chief Technical Officer position which was filled through internal promotion and the Chief Digital Officer position, for which the search is at an advanced stage.
Taking these achievements into account, the Chief Executive Officer was awarded a 1 performance rating, together with a small number of other members of the Companys management team.
As outlined earlier, the first award under the LTIP of 250 per cent.
of base salary was made to the Chief Executive Officer during the 2016 financial year July 2015.
The award included 73,805 Performance Options, valued at GBP 15.72 per option share, that was the market price of the Companys shares at the date of grant.
The exercise price of the options is nil.
Vesting is due in July 2018 subject to meeting the following performance criteria: a relative total shareholder return TSR growth versus selected European airlines 50 per cent.
weighting : and b absolute fully diluted earnings per share EPS growth of the Company 50 per cent.
The TSR group consists of the following entities: Ryanair and EasyJet 50 per cent.
weighting : AirFrance-KLM, Air Berlin, Deutsche Lufthansa, Finnair, Flybe, IAG and SAS 50 per cent.
Aer Lingus has been removed from the group following acquisition by IAG and subsequent delisting in September 2015.
of the award will vest for median performance and 100 per cent.
of the award will vest for performance equal to or exceeding the upper quartile.
There will be no vesting for performance below median and linear interpolation will apply for performance between the median and upper quartile.
With respect to the EPS growth measure, 25 per cent.
of the award will vest for threshold average annual growth of 14 per cent.
will vest for target average annual growth of 17 per cent.
will vest for maximum average annual growth of 20 per cent.
Linear interpolation applies for performance between threshold and target and target and maximum.
The second award under the LTIP of 250 per cent.
of base salary was made to the Chief Executive Officer during the 2017 financial year June 2016.
This award included 85,270 Performance Options, valued at GBP 14.80 per option share at the date of grant.
Vesting is due in June 2019 and is subject to the same performance criteria as the first award.
However, the EPS threshold, target and maximum average annual growth rates were revised slightly versus the July 2015 grant to 14.2 per cent.
The third award under the LTIP of 250 per cent.
of base salary was made to the Chief Executive Officer during the 2018 financial year June 2017.
This award included 70,698 Performance Options, valued at GBP 22.00 per option share at the date of grant.
Vesting is due in June 2020 and is subject to the same performance criteria as the first and second award.
However, the EPS threshold, target and maximum average annual growth rates were revised versus the June 2016 grant to 25 per cent.
No remuneration is shown for LTIP options in the table above for single total figure of remuneration, since no shares vested in the 2017 and 2018 financial years.
The first LTIP award made in the 2016 financial year July 2015, and which is due to vest in the 2019 financial year July 2018, will be disclosed in the single total figure of remuneration for the 2019 financial year in next years report.
As outlined in the 2015 annual report, 1,920,075 share options were issued to the Chief Executive Officer during the 20052011 calendar years from the previous long-term incentive plan ESOP of the Company.
Of these, 1,755,075 were exercised during the 2015 financial year.
The remaining 165,000 vested options were exercised in the 2018 financial year hence the Chief Executive Offices does not any longer hold options from the ESOP.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 56 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Executive Directors remuneration continued The following performance graph shows the Companys total shareholder return compared to the FTSE 250 index for the last two financial years following IPO.
TSR is defined as share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
Source: DataStream Return Index 1 Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over three years FTSE 250 comparison based on one month average of trading day values.
In the tables below we provide a five-year overview of the Chief Executive Officers remuneration and the change in the Chief Executive Officers remuneration compared to that of all employees.
Five-year overview of Chief Executive Officer remuneration Performance bonus LTIP shares Single figure achieved vesting of total against against remuneration maximum maximum Financial year Euro possible possible 2014 1,462,212 97% N A 2015 1,607,587 91% N A 2016 1,812,883 95% N A 2017 1,240,812 48% N A 2018 1,281,304 58% N A Share options were last issued to the CEO in the 2012 financial year.
The vesting period was three years but there were no performance conditions other than being in employment during the vesting period.
Change in the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer compared to that of all other employees Chief Executive Officer Total employees 2018 euro 2017 euro Change Change 6.4% Salary and fees 600,762 629,622 -4.6% N A -20.4% Benefits - - Bonus 680,543 611,191 11.3% 84.4% 3.3% 7.9% Total remuneration 1,281,304 1,240,812 Benefits represented an insignificant part, approximately only 1 per cent.
of the employee pay in these two years.
Per employee, excluding the Chief Executive Officer.
The decrease in the Chief Executive Officers base salary in euro terms was attributable to exchange rate differences between the 2018 financial year and the 2017 financial year.
In 2018 the higher level of payout on the bonus Short-term Incentive Plan caused the increase in the total remuneration both for the Chief Executive Officer and for other employees.
This impact was stronger for other employees than for the Chief Executive Officer because in 2018 more Officers were entitled to bonus due to all Officer positions being filled and also one new Officer position being established during 2018.
Total employee remuneration changed from 77.9 million in the 2017 financial year to 106.8 million in the 2018 financial year see Note 7 to the financial statements, being a 37.0 per cent.
This was driven also by the 24.4 per cent.
increase in employee numbers excluding rented pilots.
There were no dividends or share buybacks in the 2018 financial year or the 2017 financial year, and therefore disclosure of relative importance of spend on pay has not been included.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 57 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Non-Executive Director remuneration The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are paid only Directors fees, full details of which are set out below: Single total figure of remuneration table audited 2018 Fees and salary Total Benefits Bonus LTIP Pension - - - - William A. Franke 72,500 72,500 - - - - Stephen L. Johnson 47,500 47,500 - - - - John R. Wilson 47,500 47,500 - - - - Thierry fide Preux 47,500 47,500 - - - - John McMahon 45,000 45,000 - - - - Simon Duffy 66,250 66,250 - - - - Guido Demuynck 60,000 60,000 - - - - Susan Hooper 47,500 47,500 - - - - Wioletta Rosoowska 36,429 36,429 Total 470,179 - - - - 470,179 Joined on 1 June 2016.
This is the sum of the two single figure tables set out above.
Our Conflict of Interest policy prohibits any other employment for all employees on top of the employment at Wizz.
Therefore in case of the Chief Executive Officer any additional directorship would require specific permission of the Chairman of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer joined the board of JetSMART SpA in March 2018 as a non-executive director, with the approval of the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer does not receive any fee for his role as a non-executive director of JetSMART.
Directors shareholdings The Chief Executive Officer holds a significant shareholding in the Company through a family trust and is also eligible to participate in the Companys Long-term Incentive Plan.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors, other than Susan Hooper, is also a Shareholder in the Company, following awards made under a historic non-executive share scheme and or the purchase of shares with the relevant Directors own cash.
No new share plan awards have been made since July 2013 or will be made in the future under this historic share scheme.
The Company therefore believes that the interests of the Directors are well aligned with those of the Shareholders.
Full details of the Directors and their connected persons interests in the Companys shares as at 31 March 2018 are set out below: Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 58 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Annual Report on Remuneration continued Directors shareholdings continued Directors and connected persons interests in shares audited Direct ownership Interests Number of Number of Ordinary Number of Ordinary Convertible Total Ordinary Share Director Shares Shares Shares interests 1 William A. Franke 82,917 15,074,750 29,830,503 15,157,667 2 10,500 1,925,000 1,935,500 Jzsef Vradi - 51,384 51,384 Thierry fide Preux - - Guido Demuynck 5,250 - - 5,250 5,250 5,250 Simon Duffy - - 52,750 52,750 Stephen L. Johnson - - John Mc Mahon 14,750 - - 14,750 John R. Wilson 59,083 - - 59,083 1 Mr Franke is deemed to be interested in all of the Ordinary Shares and Convertible Shares held by Indigo Hungary LP, Indigo Maple Hill LP, Indigo Hungary Management LLC and Bigfork Partners LLC for the purposes of section 96B of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Indigo Hungary LP and Indigo Maple Hill LP also hold Convertible Notes that, subject to certain conditions, are convertible to Ordinary Shares of the Company.
2 Mr Vradi is deemed to be interested in the Ordinary Shares held by his family trust companies.
There has been no change to the interests of each of the Directors set out above since 31 March 2018 to the date of the notice of the 2018 annual general meeting.
Application of the Remuneration Policy in the 2019 financial year a Chief Executive Officers base salary The Chief Executive Officers salary was last increased in 2015 following the Companys initial public offering.
Following a detailed review of his remuneration package relative to pay benchmark peer groups and considering his exceptional performance since the IPO which has seen the Company deliver record profitability and share price growth, the Committee considers that an increase in base salary of 10% from CHF 682,000 to CHF 750,000 to be appropriate.
b Short-term Incentive Plan The Chief Executive Officer is eligible to receive a cash bonus of up to 200 per cent.
of base salary in respect of the 2019 financial year.
The actual cash bonus received will continue to depend on the achievement of certain performance criteria including underlying profit after tax 80 per cent.
and ex-fuel cost per available seat kilometre 10 per cent..
The Remuneration Committee believes that the specified performance criteria are sufficiently challenging compared to the Companys business plan.
The annual bonus targets are commercially sensitive and therefore will be disclosed in the 2019 Remuneration Report following the completion of the financial year provided that they are no longer commercially sensitive.
c Long-term Incentive Plan An award of performance shares of up to 250 per cent.
of base salary will be made to the Chief Executive Officer following approval of policy at the 2018 annual general meeting.
Awards will vest following a threeyear performance period and be subject to the same type of performance criteria as the 2017 award as follows: a relative total shareholder return TSR growth versus selected European airlines 50 per cent.
The TSR group will consists of the following entities: Ryanair and EasyJet 50 per cent.
weighting : AirFrance-KLM, Deutsche Lufthansa, Finnair, IAG and SAS 50 per cent.
of the award will vest for threshold average annual growth of 11 per cent.
will vest for maximum average annual growth of 29 per cent.
Linear interpolation applies for performance between threshold and maximum.
Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 59 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Application of the Remuneration Policy in the 2019 financial year continued d Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees Following a review of Non-Executive Director and Chairman fee levels against external pay benchmarks and noting that Non-Executive Director and Chairman fees have remain unchanged since before Wizz Airs initial public offering in 2015, the Board deemed it appropriate to increase the Non-Executive Directorship fee from 25,000 to 30,000 per annum and the Board attendance fee from 2,500 to 5,000 for each Board full Board meeting attended, for the financial year ending 31 March 2019.
Simon Duffy, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, will continue to receive an additional fee of 18,750 per annum for taking on that role.
Guido Demuynck, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will continue to receive an additional fee of 12,500 per annum for taking on that role.
John McMahon, as Senior Independent Director will receive an additional fee of 10,000.
In addition, the Board deemed it appropriate for William A. Franke, as Chairman, to receive a fee of 235,000 all inclusive per annum for taking on that role.
As noted above, the current Chairmans fee of 75,000 which comprises of the Non-Executive Directorship fee of 25,000, an additional 25,000 for taking on that role plus meeting attendance fees has remained unchanged since before Wizz Airs initial public offering in 2015 and, following the benchmarking exercise by WillisTowersWatson, was found to be significantly below even the lowest non-executive Chairmans fee for FTSE 250 companies.
Given the significantly greater size, complexity and value of the Company since that date and the increased time commitment of the Chairman to the Company, the increase will bring the Chairmans fee in line with the median, which is consistent with the Companys general policy on pay.
The Non-Executive Directors will also be reimbursed for all proper and reasonable expenses incurred in performing their duties.
Other disclosures Directors service agreement and letters of appointment Executive Director The Chief Executive Officer entered into a new service agreement with the Geneva branch of Wizz Air Hungary Ltd. WAHL on 15 December 2015, for a period of five years, subject to earlier termination upon six months notice by either party.
WAHL also has the right to terminate Mr Vradis employment with immediate effect by payment in lieu of notice.
The service agreement contains post-termination restrictive covenants preventing Mr Vradi from competing with WAHL or any of its business partners in the EU as well as those non-EU countries where WAHL operates, for a period of one year following the termination of his employment.
Mr Vradi will be paid a sum equal to six months base salary if WAHL chooses to enforce these restrictive covenants.
Upon termination of employment other than for cause, Mr Vradi is entitled to a severance payment equal to six months salary in addition to any notice pay or payment in lieu of notice.
Non-Executive Directors The Company entered into letters of appointment with each of its Non-Executive Directors on 4 June 2014, other than Ms. Susan Hooper who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2016, which became effective on completion of the IPO for a term of three years.
This term was extended for a further three years, effective from 2 March 2018.
Each Non-Executive Directors appointment may be terminated by the Company or the NonExecutive Director with one months written notice.
Continuation of the appointment is contingent on continued satisfactory performance and re-election at the Companys annual general meetings and the appointment will terminate automatically on the termination of the appointment by the Shareholders or, where Shareholder approval is required for the appointment to continue, the withholding of approval by the Shareholders.
Reappointment will be reviewed annually.
In accordance with the terms of the letters of appointment, each of the Non-Executive Directors is required to allocate sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Each letter of appointment contains obligations of confidentiality which have effect both during the appointment and after termination.
On behalf of the Board Guido Demuynck Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 May 2018 Wizz Air Holdings Plc Annual report and accounts 2018 60
