Directors remuneration policy The Directors remuneration policy is put to a binding shareholder vote at least once every three years.
Accordingly, the remuneration policy will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
It is intended to take effect from the conclusion of that meeting and continue for the year ending 31 December 2019.
The proposed remuneration policy is set out below.
Directors remuneration policy The fees for the Board as a whole are limited to 500,000 per annum in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, divided between the Directors as they may determine.
Subject to this limit, the Boards policy is that remuneration of non-executive Directors should reflect the experience of the Board members and the time commitment required by Board members to carry out their duties, and is determined with reference to the appointment of Directors of similar investment companies.
The level of remuneration has been set with the aim of promoting the future success of the Company.
With this in mind, the Board considers remuneration in order to attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to promote the long-term success of the Company and to reflect the specific circumstances of the Company and its field of investment, the duties and responsibilities of the Directors, and the value and amount of time commitment required of Directors to the Companys affairs.
Due regard is taken of the Boards requirement to attract and retain individuals with suitable knowledge and experience, and the role that individual Directors fulfil.
There are no specific performance-related conditions attached to the remuneration of the Board and the Board members are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other non-cash benefits or taxable expenses.
No other payments are made to Directors other than reasonable out-of-pocket expenses that have been incurred as a result of attending to the affairs of the Company.
In addition to the Board's remuneration, Board members are entitled to such fees as they may determine in respect of any extra or special services performed by them, having been called upon to do so.
Such fees would only be incurred in exceptional circumstances.
An example of such a circumstance would be if the Company was to undertake a corporate action, which would require the Board to dedicate additional time to review associated documents and to attend additional meetings.
Such fees would be determined at the Board's absolute discretion and would be set at a similar rate to other comparable investment companies who have undertaken equivalent activities.
The fees would be set with the Company's long-term success in mind and would be considered in the interest of the Company's shareholders as a whole.
The Directors are entitled to be paid all expenses properly incurred by them in attending meetings with shareholders or other Directors, or otherwise in connection with the discharge of their duties as Directors.
Shareholders have the opportunity to express their views in respect of Directors remuneration at the Companys AGM.
Any comment volunteered by shareholders on the remuneration policy will be carefully considered and appropriate action taken.
No communications have been received from shareholders on the Companys remuneration policy approved by shareholders in 2016.
The Companys remuneration policy and its implementation are reviewed by the Board as a whole on an annual basis.
Reviews are based on third parties information on the fees of other similar investment trusts.
Every third year, in accordance with Code B.
6.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as a FTSE 250 company, the Board is required to carry out an externally facilitated evaluation of its performance.
This evaluation process also provides input into the appropriate level of Directors fees from an independent source.
None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company, nor are any such contracts proposed.
Instead, Directors are appointed pursuant to a letter of appointment entered into with the Company.
There is no notice period specified in the letters of appointment or Articles of Association for the removal of Directors.
Directors are not appointed for a specific term.
Copies of the Directors letters of appointment are available at each of the Companys AGMs and can be obtained from the Companys registered office.
The Directors are not entitled to exit payments and are not provided with any compensation for loss of office.
As with most investment trusts, there is no chief executive officer and no employees.
The Companys remuneration policy will apply to new Board members, who will ordinarily be paid the equivalent amount of fees.
However, the Board may decide to vary the role of a committee C hair or other Director and may, as appropriate, consider and vary fees in the context of additional responsibilities.
Directors fee levels Expected fees for the year to 31 December 2019 Fees for the year ended 31 December 2018 Chairman 46,000 40,000 Senior Independent Director 33,000 29,000 Chairman of the Audit Committee 35,000 32,000 Non-executive Director 30,000 27,000 Effective from 1 June 2018.
To be set at a higher level once a new Audit Committee Chairman has been appointed, due to the planned enlarged role.
Woodford Patient Capital Trust plc 55
