Melrose Industries PLC 14 Annual Report 2012 Chief Executives review During 2012 we embarked on the next phase in the buy element of our strategy by acquiring the Elster Group for an enterprise value of 1.8 billion.
The improvement plan is one year ahead of schedule.
Simon Peckham 2012 has been a good year for Melrose with continued progress from Revenue our businesses and two important M&A events.
1,551.4m In June 2012, Melrose sold McKechnie Plastic Components for 30.7 million.
Whilst not in itself sizeable in the context of the Group this Company was the last business acquired in the McKechnie Dynacast acquisition made in May 2005 and thus completed the final part of our buy, improve, sell business model for Melroses first acquisition.
This acquisition has resulted in our initial equity investment from shareholders of 244 million increasing to cash for shareholders of nearly 800 million and thus has been highly successful.
2010 2011 2012 2012 Secondly, during 2012 we embarked on the next phase in the buy element of our strategy by acquiring the Elster Group for an enterprise value of 1.8 billion.
2 Headline operating profit We are at the time of writing just over six months into our postacquisition programme.
Much has been achieved in that relatively short time, as is set out in this review and we would draw your attention in 243.1m particular to the following key actions: t the Gas and Electricity businesses have been reorganised into global operations: t the old Elster Head Ofce has been completely restructured: t extensive restructuring has been announced at several of the key businesses: and 2010 2011 2012 t R&D expenditure has been maintained but has been far better targeted on the growth areas of the businesses.
These, and a number of other projects and opportunities, create the basis for improving Elster and make us confident that Elster will be a better business in the Melrose Group for the benefit of shareholders and the employees, customers and suppliers of Elster.
1 Restated to include the MPC results within discontinued operations.
2 Before exceptional costs, exceptional income and intangible asset amortisation.
3 Relates to existing Melrose for the year ended 31 December 2012.
4 Relates to Elster for the four month period from acquisition to 31 December 2012.
net Stock code: MRO 15 We would like to thank our shareholders and lending banks for their In the rest of the Group, 2012 has been support in the Elster acquisition.
It is not something we take in any way a year of substantial investment.
On behalf of our shareholders, I would also like to thank the employees of Elster who have welcomed and assisted in the changes invested approximately 45 million this year that have needed to be made.
in a number of exciting projects.
We are confident that these investments will position Elster is a very high quality business with strong market shares in its key markets.
2013 will be a year of substantial change and I believe these our businesses well for the future and will developments will enable Elster to achieve its full future potential in an continue to improve their value.
In the rest of the Group, 2012 has been a year of substantial investment.
We have invested approximately 45 million this year in a number of Crosby has had an outstanding year with sales and profits signicantly exciting projects.
The largest single project was Bridons new factory in up on 2011.
We are also pleased to have invested to increase its Newcastle upon Tyne, which opened in autumn 2012.
We are confident forging capacity over the next 12-18 months and to have improved the that these investments will position our businesses well for the future European business by restructuring its operations.
Crosby continues and will continue to improve their value.
to grow its worldwide sales and offers exciting opportunities for future development.
The Energy division had a successful year in 2012.
Whilst order intake for turbogenerators in 2012 has been lower, the success in growing In the Other Industrial division it is pleasing that the US housing market the aftermarket business has been very pleasing.
The division has recovery appears to be well underway.
This has benefited Truth in also made very good progress in the restructuring of two of the Brush 2012 and positions it well for 2013 and beyond.
Harris also performed subsidiaries, HMA and Hawker Siddeley Switchgear HSS.
The creditably in a difficult market.
medium and long term dynamics of the marketplace are likely to be very beneficial for Brush.
OUTLOOK Conditions in the overall world economy are still very hard to predict with Marelli has had an outstanding year.
The business strategy of increasing any certainty.
The US appears to be recovering subject to uncertainties the size of its generator products and continuing to focus on niche about the Fiscal Cliff but Europe is still in a very difficult position.
markets has succeeded beyond our expectations.
Marelli entered the new We are likely to see volatility in the UK caused by rapidly changing financial year with high order books and a very strong market position.
As a result of these factors we are expecting a year in which growth may be challenging but our exposure to good markets, In the Lifting division Bridon has had a good year.
Revenue, profit and opportunities for improvement at Elster and the fruits of recent investment orders have all increased.
The new factory at Newcastle upon Tyne has should still position us well to improve the Groups performance.
been delivered on time and on budget.
Strong end markets 7 6 Revenue by end market 5 Simon Peckham Year ended Chief Executive 31 December 2012 6 March 2013 1 4 1 Energy 57% 2 Oil & Gas 10% 3 3 Mining 3% 4 Industrials 11% 2 5 Water 9% 6 Hardware 4% 7 Other 6% 70% Energy, Oil & Gas and Mining
