MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief Executives strategy overview Looking to thefuture The last 25 years have been quite a journey... one thats seen MITIE grow from a start-up to an established company with a leading market position and over 63,000 employees.
Ruby McGregor-Smith looks back on the factors that have driven MITIE to continued success and ahead to the opportunities of the future.
1987 1988 1989- 1996- 2001 2003 MITIE is formed MITIE Group PLC is Ian Stewart Acquisitions byDavid Telling listed on the London isappointed incleaning, 1995 2000 andIanStewart Stock Exchange ChiefExecutive.
securityandpest MITIE develops the MITIE established Catering, control MITIE Model landscaping businesses cleaning, engineering facilities and property management, andPFIbusinesses established servicesbusinesses maintenance, into national securityand companies through document MITIE Model start-ups management businesses 8 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2bn 1bn 2005- 2007 2009 2010 2011 2012 Ruby McGregor-Smith Acquired Dalkia FM The award of our Awarded a series The award of our is appointed a UK-wide technical rstpan-European oftransformational largest ever contract 2006 ChiefExecutive.
facilities management integrated FM contracts with a with LloydsBanking Acquisition of three Surpass 1bn annual business, and contract with Rollstotalvalue between Group revenues forthe subsequently Royce, operating 0.7bnand 1.3bn.
further security Market capitalisation companies, rsttime launched across the UK and in Launched a 10m reaches 1bn and CarbonCare six European countries Entrepreneurial Fund includingthe largest revenues surpass2bn acquisition to that Ruby McGregor-Smith Ruby McGregor-Smith date of Initial Security, named Business Leader creating nationwide honoured with of the Year at the aCBEfor services security coverage Orange UK National tobusiness and Business awards diversityin business 9 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief Executives strategy overview What drives MITIEs success, Price yearafter year?
1980 In-house I dont think of MITIE as 25 years old, but asa young dynamic company.
We are still keen on breaking barriers, pushing against no can do attitudes and are asenthused and energised as ever by the opportunities around us.
We are driven by the same thing now as we were at the very beginning a passion for the innovative thinking that can help 1990 clients to get where they want to be, Single service quickly and cost-efficiently.
Security M&E Catering By taking on those services which are Cleaning notcore to our clients operations, Maintenance weimprove standards and save them Pest control money, giving our clients more choices over how to spend their budgets.
Getting the specication and agreed 2000 service levels absolutely rightare the Bundled services keys to a successful contract.
Our skill Broader cost savings base lies in mobilising teams and Single point contact Standardised provision transferring people from the clients Best practice organisation to ours, no matter how large or small the contract.
We also deliver what we say well deliver, precisely when we say well deliver it.
Tosome extent, wecan do this by 2010 drawing on experience and knowIntegrated FM howdeveloped over the last quarterIntegrated delivery Management information systems century.
However, our success is also Property management down to continually investing in Overseas innovative IT solutions that transform Add-on specialist services: Consultancy thenotion of customer service.
Supply chain Project management Whether we are delivering integrated facilities management or any of our specialist single services, clients 2015 appreciate what we do and come Strategic outsourcing backfor more which is why weve Buildings management andservices grown every year since 1987.
BPO Technology Data management Asset investment Outsourcing Energy carbon marketevolution Each of our clients is at a Value different stage of this journey above.
They all havedifferent needs which arechanging attheir own individual pace itsour job tomeet those needs as and when they change.
Ten year share price performance against the FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 April 2002 April 2012 350.0 MITIE Group PLC FTSE 100 FTSE 250 300.0 250.0 200.0 150.0 1,720.1 100.0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 10 p FTSE rebased to MITIE from 01 04 02 MITIE Group PLC A An nn nual Report and Accounts 2012 Evolving markets and client relationships We have continued to build on the excellent client relationships we have in our key markets during the year.
Find out more about some of our developing customer relationships: Sellaeld: Diageo: Ministry of Justice: Essex County Council: 38 22 34 20 In April this year we signed a 775m, The total value will be 200m-455m Are your markets changing, veyear contract to deliver integrated overve to seven years.
facilities and energy management for we formed a ten year partnership Our markets are changing at the fastest Lloyds Banking Group LBG.
The LBG withEssexCounty Council to service rate we have seen in over two decades.
estate encompasses over 3,000 over 350sites, with a total value of up buildings and as part of the contract to100m.
As the graphic on the previous page wewill welcome an extra 3,000 people illustrates, there has been a general In energy services, which provides some to the MITIE team.
Our relationship with shiftin outsourcing, from the time in 34% of our revenues, among several LBG began as a single service cleaning the1980swhen most services were other important projects we were contract in 1987 when we first started, carried out by in-house teams to the appointed to deliver a landmark 35m sothis is a neexample of howa good early yearsof this century which saw energy centre in Scotland.
More than working relationship can blossom into a ariseinbundled services, integrated 1,200 homes in Fife will receive all their great andmuch more extensive one.
facilitiesmanagement FM and heat and hot water from a new energy strategic outsourcing.
In addition, the year saw a successful centre powered by MITIE enterprise rebid with the Cumbrian Collaboration, and38,000 tonnes of waste wood.
What is new is the pace of change.
with the new expanded contract to Ourclients business models are Following our appointment to the NHS provide integrated FM and energy changing, and they are changing fast.
Carbon and Energy Fund, which will services valued at over 200m over Clients have always wanted more for enable NHS Trusts to upgrade their veyears.
Our new contract with less, but now they want a lot more for a energy infrastructure and save energy, Diageo is another example of how lot less, driven by pressures to transform we have been appointed preferred asingle service contract can grow into theirinfrastructure, reduce their energy bidder to develop a new energy anexpanded deal that could be worth consumption and save money at the centreat Addenbrookes Hospital in overfour times the original amount.
Many clients do not want Cambridge.
The innovative centre tobe concerned with delivering In the public sector, we were proud willsave 4.6m in annual energy costs, services beyond their core businesses, tosecure some similarly significant which is equivalent to hiring 217 extra sothis is creating increased contracts in the last 12 months.
It will also save almost opportunities for us, particularly with InJanuary, weentered into a new 30,000 tonnes of CO2 each year and large organisations.
Equally, many of partnership agreement with the Prison help the Cambridge NHS Trust to surpass ourclients still rely on usfor our specialist Service to bidfor the management their sustainability targets.
single services and weremain ofnine prisons.
Its an agreement that However, this doesnt mean we are focusedon helping all our clients, signals a new approach to competition focused only on new or large clients.
for the Prison Service and will harness Every contract is important to us, the expertise and experience of both The New contract summary on page 25 nonemore so than repeat business organisations to compete for and shows how these opportunities have fromexisting clients.
We value our manage 15-year prison contracts.
translated into contracts during the smaller clients enormously, many During the year, we were appointed year, a number of which are particularly ofwhom are atan early stage in tothe Ministry of Justices MoJ Total significant in terms of the scope and thejourney towards large-scale Facilities Management Framework scale of services they offer.
outsourcing and we are theperfect andsubsequently awarded two major partners to help them take the next contracts: for Her Majestys Courts and steps in line with their chosen strategies.
Tribunal Service in the South of England: and for Brixton and Isis prisons.
11 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief Executives strategy overview Our strategy 1 A strategy to deliver stakeholder value through a focus on Clients sustainable, profitable growth 2 liesatthe heart of our business.
Provide world-class Thestrategy has worked well and servicesto attract new clientsand retain and islargely unchanged, although People expand contractswith each year the areas of focus Recruit, motivate, existing clients canchange.
retain, trainand develop thebest talent in theindustry 4 Responsibility 3 Act responsibly and buildareputation that Risk enhances our brand to Take a long-term view allstakeholders toprotect our business andmanage risk Does this mean your e How can a compan H y as large as changingstrategy?
5 Although the size of contracts have MITIE stands for Management Incentive changed, the fundamentals of our Through Investment Equity and the spirit New markets strategy remain the same to provide of entrepreneurialism has always been Expand our capabilities in complementary markets value for all our stakeholders through a atthe heart of our organisation.
and different countries focus on sustainable, profitable growth.
andincrease the Of course, thats a lot easier for a proportionof our energy As the graphic explains, we continue company with a few dozen employees services revenues tofocus on clients, people, risk, than it is for one the size we are today, responsibility, new markets, operational butwere still as passionate about excellence and acquisitions.
entrepreneurialism as we were on day 6 However, its fair to say that as one.
Over the years, weve supported marketsand opportunities evolve we over 100 start-up businesses to grow Operational willne-tune the strategy to meet new usingthe MITIE Model, which helps excellence challenges as they arise.
Energy services talented management teams turn Improve the operational will be a strong focus for us in the years ideasinto reality.
Start-ups keep you efficiency of everything ahead and international opportunities young, fresh and innovative, and the wedo will also continue to be central to our teams have huge amounts of energy.
We go wherever our clients need Its structured so that themanagement us to go, and in more and more team takes an equity stake of up to 49% instances they are asking us to provide in a business which they grow over a five the same high quality services overseas to ten year period before being that they already access in the UK.
acquired by MITIE in full.
In terms of acquisitions, we purchased In 2011, we launched a 10m fund two companies during the year: toencourage more entrepreneurs Utilyx, the leading energy and tostart-up businesses and during carbonspecialists: and Direct Enquiries, 2011weinvested nearly half of that theUKsleading access and disability money.
Inorder to encourage another 7 consultants.
Both acquisitions bring group of entrepreneurs to come to us greatexpertise into MITIE and we with ideas, inMay 2012 we hosted a Acquisitions weredelighted to welcome all the Dragons Den style event where Support our growth with selective acquisitions people into MITIE.
entrepreneurs pitched their ideas to a panel of expert judges.
The entrepreneur Case studies of our acquisitions: 18 with the best pitch on the day secured an investment to start abusiness.
Asalways, we look tostart businesses that expand the range of services we offer toour clients, or that will lead us intonewmarkets.
Ourentrepreneurial model is oneof thebest ways to do this, as well as being core to our culture.
12 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 How do you motivate over 63,000people?
As we grow as a business, we are dedicated to creating an environment inwhich each and every individual canourish recognising and rewarding g performance, nurturing talent and providing career opportunities.
We know what capabilities we need Alongwith our You Tube channel which togrow our business and are very has featured our MITIEs Got Talent and We understand what makes people focused on spotting and developing Stars competitions along with a range tickand we know how important it is the potential talent we have within our ofcorporate videos, our social media that they feel valued.
We have a very clear view channels havehelped us to break has always been at the heart of our of our talent pipeline for key roles across down communication barriers allowing business and is in place to varying the business and have put processes in us tocommunicate, engage and build degrees across the organisation place to ensure our key talent is in the relationships with people across the shareschemes certainly promote right place at the right time.
industries we work in and we can only loyaltybecause they align people see them becoming more and more withthe objectives of the business.
Weve always prided ourselves on important.
We are also using an During the year we launched anew beingdifferent and one step ahead enterprise social network which is voluntary all-employee share plan, inthe waywe communicate with our allowing our sales teams to work smarter which will run alongside the existing people.
Socialmedia frightens some and collaborate across the country.
Save as You Earn Scheme we currently organisations but we embrace it offer.
This gives everyone another On the subject of people, one of the wholeheartedly Facebook and chance to invest in our company and most important things for any business Twitterare how our people choose to save for their future.
We also continue tosucceed is to have inspirational communicate.
Soitmakes absolute togrow and enhance MITIE Rewards, leaders.
For people to develop and sense for us to communicate with them afantastic benets scheme for all our via these channels.
The use of social succeed intheir careers, they need people that isa gateway to making media is just one of the things that strike mentors whowillsupport and believe savings and gaining discounts at over people when they join MITIE, especially inthem.
if theyve transferred in from another downfrom theBoard after 25 years organisation.
It is also one of the many ofdedicated service to MITIE.
For me reasons we are an employer of choice personally, the support, encouragement for Generation Y.
If you tweet, please and advice I have hadfrom Ian join in at #25mitie!
throughout my time at MITIEhas been invaluable.
I would like tothank him for This year we have continued to grow being an inspiration and mentor to me ouruse of social media to strengthen and so many others.
His is ashining ourbrand and connect with customers, An environment where example of leadership.
our people and other stakeholders.
hard work is rewarded MITIE Rewards is open to all Wehave introduced a new Facebook ourpeople and is one of the page aimed at our people and have many ways they are rewarded.
seen our followers triple on Twitter.
Its a gateway to making savings and gaining discounts at over 2,500 retailers across theUK.
From chain stores and niche retailers, to everyday expenses like mobile phone and utility bills, the savings potential is endless.
Ian Stewart retirement Ian co-founded MITIE withDavid Telling in 1987.
Throughoutthose 25 years, Ianhas been instrumental inbuilding and growing the business that MITIE is today.
13 Accounts Governance Business review Overview MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief Executives strategy overview We have also recently launched How can we exploit this situation for our How do technology and Operation Exodus which aims to reclients?
By developing new models for innovation play a part at MITIE?
engineer all of our processes to outsourcing that are based on synergies Technology and innovation are real makethem electronic over the next between cost centres and a new, deep points of difference for us.
Delivering an efficient and understanding of the effect that each made significant investments in cost effective operation to our clients one has on all the others.
This approach innovative IT solutions that transform isatop priority.
Using the benets will be built on the intelligent thenotion of customer service and oftechnology, we want to make all of aggregation of data and real arefundamental to our ability to ourprocesses simpler and more efficient knowledge of Total Operating Costs, deliverthemost efficient services.
for our people, our customers and our and will be driven by new technologies.
In particular, MiWorld, our web based Were well placed to assist clients management information platform, Working more collaboratively with our withsuch an exciting development.
gives clients live visibility over exactly suppliers is also really important when Wealready have extensive service what were doing for them, when and itcomes to innovation.
In many cases delivery capability and were investing how well.
MiWorld presents an overview wework in close consultation with our in skills and technology to expand this of the clients portfolio in one centralised suppliers, involving them in our process even further.
As always, the thing that location, whether thats a PC, laptop or tocreate tailored solutions for our clients.
will set us apart is our ability to create tablet, it helps them identify asset and Our suppliers are also using us to test opportunity for our clients in different facility performance issues which can be newand pioneering products that they and often ground-breaking ways.
acted upon to improve efficiencies and are bringing to the market, for example reduce costs.
MiWorld helps to support through our supplier innovation days.
And what about the next our clients strategies, by combining Inpartnership with our supply chain, theFM service costs with their property fewyears?
wecan offer our clients even more related expenditure such as utility forward-thinking solutions.
The world is a very different place expenditure and leases, and presenting todaycompared to how it was in 1987. the total costsof occupancy across their Ourmarkets and clients are evolving In what direction do you entireportfolios, which can be used atan unprecedented speed, and this tobenchmark performance.
seeoutsourcing going ischanging both the nature and the andhow is MITIE placed scale of the opportunities we face.
Our use of PDAs personal digital tomeetthe challenge?
assistants across the majority of our The last 12 months have seen the contracts has enabled us to introduce In a business climate like we have awardof a number of contracts vastly different working practices.
today, its not easy to predict market thatare transforming our business.
PDAshelp us to schedule our mobile trends.
But one thing is crystal clear Thissuccess isan endorsement of workforce much more efficiently, were going to see a lot more about ourstrategy to invest in our integrated makingsure our people are always intelligent outsourcing.
Of course, facilities and energy management focusing on doing what they do best service delivery remains an absolute capabilities, whichwill underpin the delivering great service.
essential, and self-delivery across a continued growth of our business.
broad platform creates advantages To date, weve invested signicantly Our sales pipeline is strong and our interms of integration and added inMiWorld, PDAs and other service orderbook stands at record levels.
value, not only in price but also enhancing technologies.
During 2012 Weare optimistic about the inservice quality.
But we see the that will increase further, and there is opportunities for growth, but recognise futurelying in assembling data and alotmore to come in future years too.
the wider uncertainties in the global understanding how the separate economy andin some of our more strands of corporate real estate cyclical markets.
andbusinesses seek cost and energy Until now, this is an area that has not efficiencies, ourtrack record for service been exploited but there are new delivery, innovation and efficiency linkages emerging on many levels... willcontinue todifferentiate us.
between FM costs and energy Times change but quality endures.
provision, for example, as well as Looking ahead, I am confident between projects and FM, energy thatthetrack record of sustainable, andprojects, agile working regimes profitable growth that we have andproperty costs such as leases, maintained for 25 years will continue.
ratesand valuations, and between We are more passionate and excited allthese elements of real estate cost about the future than we have and the increasing economic and everbeen.
The role of technology Technology is a real point of Ruby McGregor-Smith CBE difference for us.
For example, Chief Executive MiWorld gives clients real time control over exactly what @RUBYMS weredoing for them, when and how well.
14 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 MiTec Our approach to total security management is driven by technology, riskresilience and futureproofed solutions.
Wedesigned and built MiTec, our industry leading technology centre, to offer a highly secure communications hub.
It is the central point of our technology operations, linking our security personnel with electronic security andresponse services.
25 #01 25 #02 25 #03 15 Accounts Governance Business review Overview
