MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Marketplace overview Exciting opportunities inchanging markets We work closely with clients in both the private and publicsectors, primarily in the UK but increasingly in other Europeancountries too.
The trend towards integrated services isalong-term one, andhas been clearly identied in previous AnnualReports.
Whatisdifferent now is the speed of change andthescale ofcontracts more clients are asking more andmoreofus.
In addition to helping them improve efficiency while reducing 8.6bn The current value of our secured order book costsby outsourcing non-core services to us, we also enable clientsto reduce the amount of energy they use as well as the pricethey pay for it.
34% Current revenue we generate from energy services 450bn UKs total energy efficiency spend by 2025 prisons management, electronic Private sector Public sector monitoring, community payback and As companies continue to seek cost The public sector remains under probation trusts.
Home Office market reductions in order to compete in tough pressure, with central government and opportunities include police services market conditions, they are focusing local authorities in the UK streamlining and immigration removal centres.
onthe further outsourcing of non-core their cost bases in a trend that is services.
Increased demand is likelytocontinue for the foreseeable In the health sector, we are seeing beingdriven by integrated Facilities future andthis is creating significant arange of opportunities, including Management FM and energy services.
The UK agrowing portfolio of energy services Governments 2011 Parliamentary workto upgrade ageing infrastructure.
Our organic growth is based on excellent WhitePaper on Open Public Services Increasingly, there is also a strong client relationships.
We have worked made clear that there remains a strong community element to these projects.
alongside many of our clients for a number politicalwill to introduce greater For example, for Camden Council, of years, building trust and mutual respect competition and reform into more wedeveloped an innovative energy that has translated into increased areasof public services.
scheme to supply upto 1,500 council business.
There are many opportunities tenants with surplus heat from forus to repeat the growth achieved We remain predominantly focused ourenergy plant at the RoyalFree withexisting clientssuch as Rolls-Royce, onthe justice, social housing, education Hospital in Hampstead.
Vodafone and Diageo while also exploring and health sectors.
To date, we have seen limited the potentialof new relationships.
The Home Office and Ministry of Justice momentum within local authorities We see significant integrated FM MoJ have a five year strategic plan tocombine more services and opportunities in the financial services which runs from 2010 to 2015.
As part of rationalisetheir estates.
and retail sectors, and were pleased this, they have savings targets of 25% over tosee potential become reality with four years and haveinitiated a number However, the pipeline of outsourcing ourappointment to service a 775m ofprogrammes to meet that goal.
opportunities for the delivery of local transformational contract for Lloyds public services remains strong across Our own MoJ pipeline stands at some Banking Group.
1bn, with many key contracts due to The majority of financial and retail bedecided during 2012.
Against a sectorclients operate with single-service backdrop of full prisons and the rising contracts and we anticipate that the costs of the justice process, there are next phase of outsourcing is likely to see specic and extensive outsourcing ashift towards integrated property and opportunities in areas such as FM, energy management.
28 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15 1 14 Public sector Private sector 2 13 35% | 0.7bn 65% | 1.3bn 3 4 1.
Utilities 2% 15. Leisure 2% 7 3 4 6 5 In January 2012, the City of Edinburgh Across the EU, there are an estimated The opportunity is clear: 43% of our top Council recommended MITIE as the 700-1040 active energy service contracts 100 clients have international operations preferred bidder for its integrated facilities with a market value of 6.7bn to 8.5bn.
and we are positioned to help them management contract, a proposed This is expected to grow to around access the same efficiencies they enjoy seven year partnership which would 25bn by 2020.
Energy management is in the UK.
havegenerated significant benets now accepted as central to an effective Our European capability was initially toEdinburgh creating 200 new jobs, FM service in fact our energy services provided via a partnership with Service 50apprenticeships and with guaranteed capability is part of every contract we Management International SMI.
During savings of between 51m and 114m.
operate and is absolutely fundamental 2011 we acquired the remaining 50% of Members of the City of Edinburgh to our larger bids.
The SMI platform Council subsequently voted not to Already the second largest energy self-delivers and supply-chain manages approve the proposed contract.
services company in the UK, we are wellFMportfolio services to multinational Whilsta disappointing outcome, our positioned for rapid growth.
Our strengths blue-chip clients across 23 countries.
proposal offered a model of the future of are based around six core capabilities: SMIs established supply chain of affiliates outsourcing and we will continue to invest decentralised energy: renewable have an annual collective turnover of in this area to support itsfuture growth.
energy: energy consumption reduction: US$8.5bn and employ 280,000 people carbon compliance: data management: worldwide.
In August, SMI was appointed and the introduction of innovative ideas as a preferred bidder for a contract with Energy services and initiatives that raise awareness.
Givaudan to provide integrated FM in Our energy services business already several European countries.
accounts for 34% of our revenue and may rise even further as demand grows We currently have direct delivery International and new markets in both the public and private sectors capability in France, Germany, Poland We go where our clients need us forenergy and carbon strategies, driven and Norway and are targeting further togo, and as they increasingly take by macroeconomic, environmental growth in Europe as we see further a pan-Europeanapproach to andlegislative factors.
opportunities emerge in this market.
procurement we have expanded Reduced consumption and diversied ourservices beyond the UK.
In the UK, we are constantly looking at energy supply are major objectives for ways to expand our range of services, Our work with Rolls-Royce now spans all clients.
The UK alone must spend not only by using our entrepreneurial the continent and demonstrates our 450bn on energy efficiency measures model to enter new markets but also ability toprovide integrated FM and and supply infrastructure by 2025. through value-creating acquisitions energy services across borders.
29 Accounts Governance Business review Overview
