DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Chief executives review David Hathorn Mondis 2012 performance Mondi delivered a solid financial performance in what remains an uncertain economic environment.
While the early part of the year was particularly challenging, trading picked up as the year progressed, culminating in a strong final quarter.
In addition, Mondi has continued to make significant progress with growing its packaging interests.
The share of the Groups capital employed in packaging businesses, with typically higher structural growth rates, has increased from 54% to 67% over the last year.
A difficult first quarter was characterised by a continuation of the weak order books seen towards the end of 2011, with trading picking up as the year progressed.
Sales volumes recovered into the second quarter and this, in turn, saw some price recovery in certain of the Groups major grades going into the second half of the year.
The third quarter was impacted by the traditional European summer slowdown in trading, but a strong finish to the year, with good volumes and reasonable price levels in Europe, meant the Group was able to deliver full year underlying operating profit of E568 million, 9% down on the very strong prior year result.
It is pleasing to see that the progress already made in integrating our recent acquisitions is exemplified by the fact we have increased our estimate of expected synergies by 33%, to E30 million per annum within two years.
Fundamentals for the Groups core segments remain sound, although recently announced capacity additions by various manufacturers in selected paper grades are a concern, exacerbated by the prevailing demand softness as Europe remains affected Continued by the macroeconomic slowdown.
On the packaging side, fundamentals for growth in the medium term remain firmly in place with only the kraft paper industrial bags value strong chain in western Europe suffering some secular demand decline, offset by strong export markets.
profitability Continued strong profitability resulted in a return on capital employed of 13.7%, once again above our through-the-cycle target of 13%.
The Group continued to be strongly resulted in cash generative with cash generated from operations of E845 million.
a ROCE of Net debt at 31 December 2012 was E1,864 million, an increase of E1,033 million from 31 December 2011.
The increase is attributable to the E1.2 billion of strategic acquisitions completed during the year.
indd 15 2013 03 04 2:59 PM Chief executives review continued At the underlying earnings per share level, results were down only 3% on the Nordenia is an international comparable prior year figure, supported by lower interest charges and a reduction in supplier of innovative consumer the non-controlling interest charge, primarily due to the acquisition of the remaining packaging solutions and hygiene minority interest in Mondi Swiecie in the first half of the year.
What benefits does bears testament not only to the strength of our strategic positioning, but also the this acquisition offer Mondi?
unrelenting focus on cost management and strong operating performance achieved High level of overlap between across the Group.
Nordenia and Mondis consumer We were again able to reduce fixed costs in absolute terms, excluding the effects packaging business of recent acquisitions, while production records were achieved at a number of our Nordenia enjoys a strong competitive advantage through major facilities.
its proprietary technology, global Our continued strong cash generation and underlying earnings per share of 69.6 euro presence and a proven track cents per share has resulted in the directors recommending a final dividend of 19.1 euro record of innovation and growth cents per share, bringing the total dividend to 28.0 euro cents per share for the year, an International presence with increase of 8% on 2011.
12 fully invested operating facilities located in 7 countries across Europe, North America and Asia: Sustained delivery on Group strategy, creating long-term value plant in China under construction During the year good progress was made in the ongoing process of shifting Mondis Operations in central Europe, portfolio to higher growth products.
This included E1.2 billion of acquisitions in the Russia and Asia provide access growing corrugated packaging and consumer packaging value chains and the disposal to low-cost production and highof the 50% interest in Aylesford Newsprint, which operates in the structurally challenged growth emerging markets Blue chip customer base and newsprint sector.
relationships of 19 years on Key acquisitions and disposals included: average with top 10 customers Packaging Paper Strong, stable management the acquisition of the remaining minority interest in Mondi Swiecie: with proven track record of Mondi Swiecie acquired a combined heat and power generating operation, providing successfully developing and the bulk of its electricity requirements and all of its heat and steam needs: expanding Nordenias operations Consumer Packaging Over 90% of revenues in fast the acquisition of a 99.93% interest in Nordenia: moving consumer goods, Fibre Packaging providing resilience in a downturn the acquisition of Duropacks two corrugated packaging operations in Germany and What does Mondi expect from the the Czech Republic: and Nordenia investment?
Newsprint Development of a leading disposal of interest in Aylesford Newsprint.
consumer packaging business Opportunity to build on deep, We also made progress with the restructuring of our Industrial Bags business to ensure long-term customer relationships the profitability of the operations in Europe.
across both businesses Following the completion of the Nordenia acquisition, the Groups management and Complementary geographic fit reporting structures were reorganised.
The Europe & International Division has been and established platform in highrestructured into four business units: Packaging Paper, Fibre Packaging, Consumer growth emerging markets Packaging and Uncoated Fine Paper.
Material cost synergies in addition to significant revenue These steps build on our position as a leading international packaging and paper Group opportunities with a strong platform for continued growth in emerging markets.
16 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 16 2013 03 04 2:59 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance SSFIR Our str SD ategic framework and key focus 1.
Leading market positions areas are on page 2 Our focus is on developing and maintaining leading positions in packaging and uncoated fine paper, particularly in high-growth markets.
In 2012 we continued to make progress in achieving what we believe is the right product and geographic mix to ensure sustained profitability.
The Group benefits from our exposure to faster growing emerging markets such as eastern Europe, Russia and South Africa, with 57% of revenue generated from operations in these geographical areas.
Mondis leading positions in emerging markets offer cost benefits and operational synergies with existing businesses, giving a clear strategic advantage over many of its competitors.
The packaging businesses also enjoy uniquely strong market positions and attractive growth rates in both developed and emerging markets.
High-quality, low-cost asset base Mondis high-quality, low-cost asset base is a fundamental strategic strength and we therefore selectively invest in production capacity that brings us sustainable cost advantages.
To ensure that our asset base remains well invested, we incurred capital expenditure to the value of E298 million in 2012, E35 million higher than the prior year.
The capital expenditure to depreciation ratio was 86% including expenditure on a number of the Groups strategic energy projects.
The approved energy related investments totalling approximately E140 million announced in early 2012 included a bark boiler at Syktyvkar in Russia, a steam turbine and recovery boiler economiser at Stambolijski, Bulgaria, a new recovery boiler at Frantschach, Austria and a new steam turbine at the Richards Bay mill in South Africa.
The benefits of these investments, mainly in the form of reduced energy costs, improved efficiencies and energy self-sufficiency, are expected to be realised from the end of 2013 as these projects reach completion.
In addition, the decision has recently been taken to commence the E30 million pulp dryer project in Syktyvkar.
The project was initially announced in early 2012 but put on hold pending clarification of various technical parameters, which have since been resolved.
As announced early in 2012 various additional energy related projects, amounting to approximately E250 million, were under consideration.
In this regard, the Boards have since approved a further E128 million strategic energy investment at the 51% held Ruomberok mill.
Further options remain under evaluation.
The Ruomberok investment, including a new recovery boiler at the mill, will increase pulp production, reduce the mills environmental footprint and improve the overall cost position.
The project will also include improvements in chemical recovery and green energy and heat production during the pulp production process.
Some of the project benefits also result from avoiding otherwise essential stay-in-business capital expenditure.
The project is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2014, delivering an after-tax internal rate of return in excess of 40%.
The Boards also approved a E70 million project in the tet i kraft paper mill which will enable the mill to integrate the remaining open market pulp production on site by producing additional volumes of bleached kraft paper and will provide growth Mondi Group 17 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 17 2013 03 04 2:59 PM Chief executives review continued opportunities for the kraft business.
The project is expected to be completed in the latter CASE STUDY part of 2014 delivering an after-tax internal rate of return of around 20%.
Driving innovation to become Including the announced strategic projects, capital expenditure is expected to be as green as it gets approximately 125% of the Groups depreciation charge on average over the next See the full case study online at two years.
Customer focused development The successful Nordenia acquisition complements and strengthens Mondis existing consumer packaging business with a complementary product portfolio which positions the Group well to develop a leading consumer packaging business, with an enlarged geographic footprint and strong competitive advantages.
Building on long standing relationships, know-how and the combined production base, working in close co-operation with its customers, Mondi is able to develop markets and value added technologically advanced products and enter high-growth emerging markets in consumer packaging.
The Consumer Packaging business has a strong product pipeline in development.
The new plant in China, supporting an existing global customer, is expected to commence operations towards the end of 2013, with full capacity being reached in 2015.
Mondis Green Range label was developed in response to customer demand for environmentally preferable purchasing and has since been extended to smart packaging products including sack and speciality kraft papers, containerboard, corrugated packaging, industrial bags, extrusion coated products and consumer packaging.
Korneuburg, Austria Labelling a reel of printed stand up pouches prior to slitting 18 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 18 2013 03 04 2:59 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance 4.
Focus on performance Our focus on performance is driven by continuous productivity improvement and cost reduction, delivered through business excellence programmes and rigorous asset management.
We are very pleased that fixed cost increases have remained within inflation in all the countries we operate in.
This achievement is particularly pertinent in South Africa where electricity and labour price increases remain well above inflation.
Double digit productivity gains were achieved at many of our key operations.
The responsible and efficient procurement of our most critical raw materials, our increasing energy self-sufficiency and our operational efficiencies continue to provide much of the drive behind this core part of our strategy.
SSFIR SD More information about our material Mondis strategic objectives and commitments going forward issues can be found in the sustainable development review on pages 31 43 The strategic progress we have made in 2012 provides exciting opportunities for the SSFIR SD and in on pages 2 3 Group going forward.
The progress we have made in increasing the Groups exposure to higher growth packaging businesses with clear competitive advantages provides a strong platform for continued success in 2013 and beyond.
Although Mondi will always be open to growth opportunities that support our strategy, we are committed to continued discipline around acquisitions and expansionary capital expenditure.
Linking strategy to material issues and managing risk Our strategy as outlined above provides the framework for the Groups success.
Risk is an inherent part of any business and identifying and managing risk is also critical to our success.
Mondi pro-actively manages risks through a flexible and dynamic approach to changing conditions and a deliberate investment strategy to mitigate regional and country specific risks to limits considered acceptable by our Boards.
In addition to Mondis clear strategy and well developed risk management system, in the context of our sustainability we have considered issues that we regard as material to Mondis business.
The sustainability of the Group is dependent on its ability to operate in a responsible, sustainable manner within ever-changing macro and microeconomic, environmental, social and governance contexts.
Mondis Group-wide risk management framework has been designed to address these material issues.
SSFIR WSD e report in more detail on our risks on Maintaining the Groups socioeconomic licence to trade is a strategic imperative.
pages 57 61 This encompasses continued access to credible sources of fibre, protection of High Conservation Value HCV areas and bio-diversity, eco-efficiency of products throughout their lifecycle and the Groups carbon and energy footprint.
Mondi uses biomass energy sources such as black liquor as an alternative to fossil fuels at all of its mills.
Some 58% of Mondis fuel consumption for material operations comes from biomass and a number of operations are completely energy self-sufficient.
TM TM The Group is pleased to have maintained Forest Stewardship Council FSC certification of 100% of all its owned, leased and managed forests.
The commitment to no wood being procured from controversial sources was also maintained.
In addition all mills with the exception of Stambolijski which we aim to certify during 2013 are being certified to Chain-of-Custody CoC standards from FSC, Programme for the TM TM Endorsement of Forest Certification PEFC or a credible alternative.
indd 19 2013 03 04 2:59 PM Chief executives review continued Focusing on our people People at the heart of our success Mondis performance in 2012 demonstrates the benefit of investing in an extremely talented workforce.
Our people have remained diligent and committed to delivering on our strategic objectives despite the challenges we have faced as a business.
Our employees and contractors work in potentially dangerous environments where hazards are ever-present and must be managed daily through a risk-based approach which underpins our safety and health programmes.
Mondis objective is a zero harm environment.
It is unacceptable that we continued to have fatalities at our operations.
Going forward, a priority focus area is the prevention of high risk, low probability incidents which can lead to fatalities, in an effort to become fatality free in our operations.
I believe that engaging and inspiring our people at all levels of the organisation is critical to securing a sustainable future for the Group.
We use the Mondi Way to visualise how our purpose, strategy and operational framework called the Mondi Diamond fit together, all built on the foundation of our shared culture and values.
This simple yet effective approach is in essence an integrated strategic roadmap that guides the way in which we all work.
It facilitates an understanding of how each and every Mondi employee contributes to delivering on our strategy in a sustainable way through their daily work and objectives.
The Mondi Way To create solutions for our customers success, delivering exceptional value in a sustainable way Purpose Leading market positions High-quality, low-cost asset base Strategy Customer focused development Focus on performance Operational excellence Cutting-edge products People development Mondi Diamond Sustainable development Customer focus Dynamic Entrepreneurial Culture Respectful Empowered Responsible Transparent Passion for performance Caring Values Acting with integrity 20 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 20 2013 03 04 2:59 PM DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Performance Governance Encouraging progress has been made with developing an open and honest culture to I believe that inspire and motivate our teams so they can continue to deliver value.
Only by being a fair and caring employer, a reliable and responsible citizen and an honest and ethical company, is Mondi able to operate as an effective and profitable business in the long engaging term, ultimately creating sustained value for our stakeholders.
and inspiring During the course of the year I visited a number of our operations and I am always proud of the passion and perseverance of the 25,700 people that join me in making up the our people Mondi team.
On behalf of the Groups executive committee, I extend my heartfelt thanks to all our employees and I look forward to continuing our journey together in 2013. is critical to I would like to thank all the Mondi people for their hard work and contribution to our Group and my fellow executive committee members for their diligence and insightfulness securing a in what has been an extremely demanding yet exciting year for the Mondi Group.
sustainable Outlook future for the Mondis focus in the near term will be the integration and optimisation of the recent acquisitions and successful delivery of the significant capital investment projects initiated Group over the course of the past year.
It is pleasing to see the progress that has already been made in integrating the recent acquisitions, exemplified by the fact that the Group has revised upwards by 33% its estimate of expected synergies to E30 million per annum within two years.
Fundamentals for Mondis core segments remain sound, although recently announced capacity additions by various manufacturers in selected paper grades are a concern, exacerbated by the prevailing demand softness as Europe remains affected by the macroeconomic slowdown.
However, with the strong finish to the year, coupled with the expected contribution from the recent acquisitions, we remain confident of making progress in the year ahead.
David Hathorn Chief executive officer Mondi Group 21 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
indd 21 2013 03 04 2:59 PM Swiecie, Poland A fully automated high bay warehouse of stacked reels at our mill 22 Integrated report and financial statements 2012 6313 12 Mondi IR 2March13 ES1.
