com Group PLC BuBu sin se in ss e O ss Rev vervi iew ew Annual Report 2012 Chief Executives Report more insight more opportunity more innovation Peter Plumb Chief Executive officer 2012 has been a good year for MoneySupermarket.
IT operation while improving the shopping experience for our customers.
We saved British households 1 billion in 2012.
Thats over 200 for each of the one in five British households who Our technology investments have also supported our purchased a product through MoneySupermarket.
com last relationships with providers.
We are proud of having achieved the goal we set customer information into a single customer view and built ourselves back in 2009. a new analytics team around the data, we can now understand customer trends and behaviour in greater detail.
Much has happened since I joined the business in 2009.
This will ensure we can tailor our services to our customers Reassuringly, our strategy hasnt needed to change and our in a more targeted manner and help our providers gain market continues to grow as more and more customers gain unique insights into our customers.
This is an example of the confidence to shop for insurance, financial, travel and how we challenge ourselves to add value to the service we home services products online.
I see no reason to expect deliver to our providers.
this trend to change in the future.
To help more customers make the best and most informed Our business philosophy is the foundation of everything we do: decision possible about which products to purchase, we t Be the easiest way for our customers to shop for products expanded our team of expert content writers, thereby t Be the best way for our providers to acquire new customers increasing the quantity and quality of help and guidance on our site.
We have also expanded our telephone support It is against this that I look back and summarise our service hours and introduced live chat.
This is all part of our achievements during 2012. strategy to make MoneySupermarket.
com the easiest way for customers to understand, research and purchase what At the heart of our business lies the curiosity of how to help are often complex products.
more families save more money by shopping online to reduce their household bills and make the most of their Marketing is vital for telling people about our brand and that money.
most households can save over 1,000 a year by spending a small amount of time switching their insurance, energy and Marketing plays a major role in attracting more visitors to our banking services.
This message was delivered by our site.
But it is the site design, the expert content, the successful Vegas and 1000 Man TV campaigns of 2012, presentation of product options and features, and the ease extending our brand proposition beyond motor insurance.
of navigation that really makes the difference in helping customers nd the right product for them and then clicking We were still able to grow revenues by 13% while holding through to purchase from the provider.
our TV brand advertising spend broadly at in 2012, thanks to the investment made in 2011 and 2012 in building a world Therefore in 2012 we invested an additional 6m to class digital marketing team.
Our digital experts have accelerate our IT development programme as part of our managed to make our paid search with Google work much Best Shop strategy.
Credit cards was the first channel to harder in 2012 than in previous years, while retaining be launched on the new platform.
This proved the platforms important leadership positions in Googles organic search capabilities and robustness.
A key advantage is the new across our core channels.
This demonstrates the expertise platform delivers each channel automatically as a mobile of our team given that Google continues to change and friendly service, no matter what device a customer is using.
evolve its search algorithms at an ever increasing pace.
We can now retire old legacy infrastructure and simplify our MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC 17 Bu Bus si in ne es ss s O Rev ver iew view Annual Report 2012 Many companies outsource digital marketing, but we believe We saved British households this is a core skill that is best kept inhouse to allow continued investment and development.
Thats over 200 for each of Our biggest investment for growth in the year was the acquisition of MoneySavingExpert.
I am the one in five British impressed by the tenacity of the MoneySavingExpert.
com households who purchased team, who, week after week, search for the best deals and ll their site and weekly email with fantastic money saving a product through tips.
Over 7m people subscribe to the weekly email, which MoneySupermarket.
com is the best endorsement of the teams focus on ghting the users corner.
New services have already been launched by last year.
For example, in response to the escalation of energy of having achieved the prices in the UK, MoneySavingExpert.
com has launched its unique energy help tool: Cheap Energy Club.
Users sign up to goal we set ourselves the club and in return will be offered the best energy rates back in 2009. available on the market, plus an ongoing personalised service that will track all tariff and price movements, regularly informing users of the best deals.
2012 has been a good year for the Group and most importantly, a good year for our customers, who between them have saved over 1 billion.
Looking forward to 2013, I see no reason to change our strategy.
It has served us well for the last four years and, having performed our annual strategic review, I am confident it will serve us well for the next three years: t Our shop must continue to lead the market as voted by customers t Our providers must continue to rate MoneySupermarket.
com as their preferred partner t Our data insights will add value to our providers and support a personalised customer service t Our brand must remain the most trusted by customers to save money on their household bills 18 MoneySupermarket.
com Group PLC BuBu sin se in ss e O ss Rev vervi iew ew Annual Report 2012 Chief Executives Report continued The strength of MoneySupermarket.
com as a business is the biggest savings to be made by our customers are by the breadth of services we offer customers.
As we have switching to online monthly direct debit tariffs and then by seen over the last four years, different years have different changing energy provider, with varied launch dates and dynamics, but as a whole, the Groups diversity is its great durations of xed price tariffs making a difference.
With door to door sales of energy now banned we see online energy strength.
switching as a major opportunity for customers to save money on their household bills.
Motor insurance is our largest channel.
Motor insurance policy premiums uctuated signicantly during 2012.
There is My confidence in looking ahead comes from the security of no real structural solution on the horizon to curb increasing having a great team at the MoneySupermarket.
The Ofce of Fair Trading Our recruitment this year has been extensive, from customer OFT studied the private motor insurance market in 2011 service staff to data analysts.
We invest in the best people we and referred it to the Competition Commission for further can nd and give them the infrastructure investment and investigation in September.
It was encouraging to see that the support to thrive and pioneer.
I am delighted to welcome the outcome of the OFT study acknowledged the positive role 165 new members of our team who joined last year, including price comparison services had brought to customers.
two new executives: Kenny Jacobs, our Marketing Director, However, one of the key drivers of price increases, that of and Vic Darvey, our Director of New Business and Travel.
escalating personal injury claims, has not yet been fully addressed but is being considered by the Ministry of Justice.
However, we are on There is no obvious simple solution.
the right track, we have a great team and we have the right strategy.
Our Money business however is in for a more challenging 2013.
The Governments Funding for Lending scheme has My thanks to all our customers and providers for their had a negative impact on the countrys savers by reducing support during 2012.
As a group, we look forward to saving the competition for bank deposits.
Easy access savings more people, more money in 2013. rates are at their lowest rate for five years at around 2% compared to rates greater than 3% a year ago.
Most forecasters believe this scheme will continue well into 2013.
Peter Plumb Chief Executive officer However, for borrowers, 2013 is shaping up to be a good year with credit cards and personal loans starting the year competitively.
A 24 month 0% interest rate credit card is now available and personal loans are at their cheapest rates for over 10 years, at 5.1%.
Rising energy costs are not only becoming a big issue for British households, but they became a political issue in 2012.
Average energy prices rose by 17% during 2012.
While the Government strives to meet challenging renewable energy generation targets by 2020, it is unlikely that these rising prices will slow.
Government initiatives to reduce tariff complexity might go some way to help.
