cHieF eXecutiVe OFFicerS reVieW Group results Following the Groups record results in 2011, our 2012 performance, whilst still amongst one of the best in Morgan crucibles 156-year history, was impacted by a much more difficult macro-economic environment.
the eurozone countries slipped back into recession, growth in the uS economy was subdued and even the dynamic growth economies, such as china, india and Brazil, all struggled relative to their performance of recent years.
We at Morgan crucible were not immune from the global turbulence of 2012 with Group revenue at 1,007.5 million down 8.5% versus 2011 1,101.0 million and profit from operations before one-off and restructuring costs at 122.0 million 2011: 143.4 million down 14.9%.
this overall Group performance was Mark Robertshaw a reflection of a good year from the ceramics chief executive Officer Division offset by a disappointing one from the engineered Materials Division.
the Groups operating cashflow was strong once again with c. 50 million of free cash flow before as one of the worlds leading advanced acquisitions and dividends enabling the Board to increase the final dividend by materials groups we have a portfolio over 6% whilst delivering a reduction of exciting, innovative, differentiated in 2012 year end net debt levels to 192.8 million 2011: 215.4 million.
Divisional summary the ceramics Division performed well in the more difficult economic environment with an increase in year-on-year Divisional eBita of 1.9 million on revenue which was slightly down on 2011s record levels down 1.9% year-on-year on a constant currency basis and 3.6% at reported rates.
ceramics Divisional eBita margin before any one-off or restructuring costs improved from 13.5% in 2011 to 14.3% in 2012. the key drivers of this encouraging improvement in Divisional eBita margin were an increasing proportion of our business coming from higher margin product areas combined with ongoing improvements to our operating cost base.
06 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2012 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements We continued to make good progress in our businesses and in both we made significant in conjunction with the change to the high-temperature insulating fibre business and reductions in the cost and headcount base to organisational model, i am also pleased to in particular the global rollout of our range of reflect the lower levels of demand.
this has announce that the Group will be renamed low bio-persistent fibres Superwool fibre included the announced closure or downsizing Morgan advanced Materials plc which we products.
High-temperature insulating fibre of a number of sites, particularly in continental believe is a better and more appropriate is the Groups single biggest product category europe.
Our goal is to have an operating cost descriptor of the breadth and depth of the representing close to 25% of total Group base in these businesses which can deliver at technologies and capabilities which we bring revenue.
Our Superwool range of or close to mid-teen operating profit margins to our customers.
high-temperature insulating fibres accounted at current demand levels.
the highlight of the for 37% of these fibre sales up from 34% engineered Materials Division in 2012 was the Looking forward in 2011 as we progressively convert over our performance of the Molten Metal Systems the macro-economic environment was more fibre production capacity to be able to produce business which grew revenue by 4.8% difficult in 2012 and we do not expect this to our differentiated and patent-protected on a constant currency basis a reduction improve materially in 2013.
We anticipate that Superwool products.
as i indicated in last of 1.9% at reported rates with eBita european markets will remain challenging as years annual report we continue to believe increasing to 8.1 million 7.7 million in 2011 austerity driven policies continue to impact that the environmentally friendly properties representing an eBita margin of 17.7% demand and business confidence levels.
of the new Superwool range combined 2011: 16.5%.
the interconnectedness of global markets with their technical performance leave us means that we will likely also see some degree well-placed to deliver profitable growth in this Changes to the Groups of impact on business levels in the americas important business area over the coming years.
in this environment, our focus at the same time as the release of 2012 remains on self-help actions rather than relying From a geographic perspective, the ceramics full-year results, we have also announced on positive market conditions which may Division delivered particularly strong a new management structure which sees or may not transpire.
as one of the worlds performance in the north american region the Group organised on a regional basis.
leading advanced materials groups we have a which achieved record levels of revenue and this change is consistent with our direction portfolio of exciting, innovative, differentiated profit in 2012. in addition to the rollout of of travel in the past several years to present new products and technologies.
We also have Superwool fibre in this region, we also saw our customers and markets with a single, a truly global presence with market-leading good profit growth from our aerospace related unified One Morgan set of products and positions.
above all we have a talented and applications, such as the Morgan certech technologies.
We believe that this leaves us committed workforce around the world businesses, where we are the global number better placed to exploit growth opportunities who have shown themselves once again one provider of ceramic cores used in the both geographically and by end-market, to be nimble, imaginative and tenacious in the manufacture of turbine blades.
through more fully leveraging the breadth uncertain and fluid market conditions of 2012. of our geographic and market access.
it will i would like to take this opportunity to thank the ceramics manufacturing footprint also improve our operational cost efficiency them all for their efforts in 2012 and for their continued to be streamlined with the closure through opportunities to further streamline commitment to ongoing excellence in all that of one of our facilities in new Jersey as our overhead and fixed cost base.
the three we do in 2013 and beyond.
production was relocated to other larger sites regions: north america, europe and asia in the uS and lower cost operations in Mexico, rest of World, will report to andrew Hosty, Mark Robertshaw and with the announced closure of a thermal who moves from being ceO of the ceramics chief executive Officer ceramics site in australia, with production Division to become the chief Operating being relocated to lower cost locations in asia.
Don Klas, ceO of the engineered Materials Division, after helping the performance of the engineered Materials work through the transition to the new model, Division was disappointing in 2012 with will leave the Group after over 30 years with revenue of 347.0 million, down 15.2% at Morgan crucible and i would like to take this constant currency 16.5% at reported rates, opportunity to thank him for his commitment and Divisional eBita down by more than 40% and service and to wish him well for the future.
compared to 2011, as the softening of general industrial demand was exacerbated by the marked reduction in our business into high-margin renewable energy and defence applications.
this impacted both the advanced Materials & technology and np aerospace Annual Report 2012 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 07
