Chief Executives Review The group has continued to make progress this year despite a significant decline in our customers discretionary spending power.
This has necessitated active management of our selling prices, marketing investment and overhead base across all of our brands portfolio to deliver this outcome.
Revenue in other retail stores, whether in the UK Revenue growth has been delivered or elsewhere, which is why we chose the through the core UK home shopping Simply Be brand for both our international business supplemented by international expansion and high street store trial.
expansion and new store openings.
For the 53 weeks to 3 March 2012 revenue Jacamo is targeted at the brandis up in total by 4.8% to 753.2m, and conscious thirty-something male who by 1.6% on a like-for-like basis which either wants the convenience of online excludes the impact of newly opened shopping or struggles to find branded stores, the acquisition of Figleaves in clothing in his size.
Good response June 2010 and the 53rd week.
rates to the improved product offer, coupled with significant numbers of Customer Groups new customers, led to sales increasing by over 50%.
Marisota increased its revenues by Target Age Revenue m % Change 24% targeting the customers aged 30-50 271 13 Figleaves has had an excellent year about 50 with a catalogue and website Over 50 482 1 moving into profit for the first time in its focused on solutions for problems Total 753 5 13 year history after radically pruning its with the fit of clothing and footwear.
Sales from Figleaves own For example we promote our Magi N Brown Group has a very distinctive brand rose by 20% including the new range which, using the latest design customer base, comprising over 6 FGL menswear range, and the range and fabric technologies, can create million individuals with an average age extensions allied to lingerie, such as a smoother body shape.
Similarly we of 58, and an average dress size of 18. swimwear and pyjamas.
have developed our Legroom footwear During the year we saw a small decline range which now has five different calf in the number of active established The other major brand in this section, fittings for long-line ladies boots.
The customers but a combination of Fashion World, whose customers same is also true of our lingerie range higher selling prices and promotional are primarily from the lower sociowhich focuses on the fitting and comfort campaigns led to a 4% increase in demographic groups, had flat sales problems customers have, which, as an average sales per customer.
example, led to the development of the new customers rose by 2% for the year worlds largest strapless bra, available as a whole, due to improved recruitment 50 Plus Customer Group up to size 48K.
campaigns in the second half.
The midlife and older customers aged 50 and above suffered from a Our longest established catalogue Under 50 Customer Group combination of high inflation, particularly is distributed under the JD Williams, The brands in this group grew at a faster for food and energy costs, and a low Ambrose Wilson, Oxendales, Fifty Plus rate than those targeted at the 50 plus return on their savings.
Two thirds of and Thats My Style brands which segment, due to the development of these customers are over 65 and have account for 39% of group revenue.
Simply Be, Jacamo and Figleaves.
Consequently Sales were slightly down even though there was a contrasting performance the average sales per customer Simply Be is the largest single brand in between the brands targeted at the were up.
However there was a small the group with sales of over 100m from younger end of this category, such as proportion of customers who resisted all channels and geographies.
The focus Marisota, and those at the older end, all our promotional activity, and we is on fashionable and flattering clothing such as Heather Valley and Special will especially target them in 2012 to in sizes 14-32 specifically designed for Collection.
These customers often have difficulty finding clothes to fit 10 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Group revenue Adjusted earnings per Total dividend up 4.8% to share up 7.0% to up 5% to 753.2m 28.91p 13.03p The group of brands targeting Within ladieswear lingerie sales were up of our email campaigns and improved customers with an average age of 70 7%, partly due to Figleaves performance, website functionality all contributed to had mixed fortunes, and in aggregate but we also took market share in bras, this growth.
We are the market leader for sales were down by 7%.
online sales for plus-size womenswear, Osbourn, targeting the more affluent menswear for the fifty plus age group 60 customer, increased full margin Footwear saw sales growth of 6%.
Sales from sales but overall revenue was lower Core footwear sales benefited from an product lines only available online, most as reduced stock levels led to fewer improved range of styles and fittings but of which are shipped directly to our discounted sales.
House of Bath, which we also had strong growth from mens customers by the suppliers, increased sells unusual items for the home and footwear, sports footwear and Viva La by 29%.
garden, had an excellent year with sales Diva, our online pure play which sells up by 12%, and Julipa also did well.
third party brands as well as our own.
This increase in online sales improves profitability as web orders have a 25% Product Groups Menswear continues to be our fastest higher value than telephone orders and growing product sector.
Revenue was costs reduce in the contact centre as Revenue % of % up by 15%, primarily driven by the volumes fall.
Telephone order volumes Category m Total Change success of Jacamo and the expansion have fallen 17% this year, and telephone Ladieswear 365 48 2 of High & Mightys store network.
enquiries and payment calls are down Footwear 84 11 6 Menswear 95 13 15 We have recruited Freddie Flintoff as 21% as customers switch to using our Home & Leisure 209 28 5 Jacamos brand ambassador and his redesigned online My Account facility.
Total 753 100 5 range is selling well.
More branded menswear suppliers are manufacturing Despite the increasing share of all retail their ranges in larger sizes, exclusively sales transacted on or influenced by During 2011 the group was operating in for Jacamo.
In addition both Premier the web the vast majority of clothing product sectors which were amongst Man and Williams and Brown are doing and footwear sales are still conducted the most challenging in the retail well, as is our sportswear range.
This is even true marketplace.
The plus-size clothing for the plus-size market which led us to sector did not grow at all and the sales Home and leisure sales were up by 5% trial some Simply Be stores to see if we of home and leisure goods were also in total, although there was a significant could profitably gain more market share weak, particularly for big ticket items.
Gifts for our most fashionable clothing range.
Against this backdrop we can be and toys were 18% up as we promoted We opened stores in Liverpool and reasonably satisfied with a 1.6% likethe Brilliant Gift website throughout Bury in autumn 2011 and in-stores sales for-like sales growth.
the year, rather than just at Christmas.
We will Electrical and homewares also had good evaluate the stores based on the uplift Ladieswear accounts for about half the growth, helped by the availability of of sales from all channels in the post groups revenue, and was up by 2% for credit on customers personal accounts.
codes influenced by the store location.
Due to the cotton However furniture, bedding and home Early indications are that there is an price bubble in 2010 input costs for decor were all down as customers uplift in the level of online purchases in clothing in 2011 were up by 9% on deferred home improvement.
In the last month average, which we passed through into we have opened stores in Gateshead, selling prices.
Customers were only Multi-channel Teesside, Leicester and Doncaster and being enticed to purchase if the product Online sales are now the majority of a Manchester store is scheduled to open or the price was compelling.
Consequently the group sales, as a 16% increase in in September.
This small portfolio of we had strong sales on lines where we online sales to 377m enabled us to stores is focused on five major shopping had new designs or product with unique pass the 50% milestone.
The increasing centres, including one out-of-town retail features and the designer and celebrity proportion of new customers recruited park, plus two smaller towns so we can endorsed ranges but sales of basic on our websites, the improved quality identify the ideal type of location, casual clothing were down.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11 Menswear sales Ladieswear sales Share of up 15% to up 2% to online sales pass 95m 365m 50% assuming further capital investment is We also have international sales for collation and a lower volume of parcels justified by incremental sales.
Oxendales in Ireland, a market which despatched.
This offset much of the continues to be very challenging, and increases for fuel and payroll limiting the High & Mighty was acquired out of for Figleaves which has over 20% of its overall rise in distribution costs to 3.0%.
Since then sales from overseas and an opportunity Selling and administration costs rose by we have relocated the business to to grow them further.
4.8%, in line with group turnover, but this Manchester, re-platformed the website, included heavy investment in customer relocated four stores, refurbished seven Gross Margin and Credit recruitment, both at home and abroad, stores and opened six new stores, of The overall rate of gross margin fell by and high rates of inflation for postage, which three were new in 2011 12.
Total 0.8% to 53.0% with a reduced margin paper and print.
sales grew by 17% to 8.8m with likeon product sales offset by an increase for-like sales up by 7%.
Losses shrank in net consumer credit income.
Customer Service from 0.8m to 0.2m and we would Exemplary customer service is essential expect to move into profit in the The sales of ladies clothing and in difficult economic circumstances to current year.
footwear were impacted by the mild maintain customer loyalty and in this autumn weather and resulted in excess respect we had an excellent year.
The International stocks of cold weather merchandise.
ratio of enquiries to orders improved We believe Simply Bes fashionable As a consequence we offered more further and we had the fastest delivery plus-size clothing range will appeal aggressive promotional discounts to and the lowest ever levels of claims for to international customers, and have customers who had not ordered and goods not received.
In addition our so far targeted Germany and the USA.
marked down prices to reduce inventory bi-annual surveys of customer satisfaction Total sales were 8.4m 2011, 4.2m levels.
Although this reduced the showed record approval levels.
rate of gross margin by 2.2% we did Our key target is the USA as the market successfully reactivate some dormant Outlook and Current Trading opportunity for us is significant and customers and limited the increase in The strategic plan for the business the key performance indicators to year-end inventories to only 5.8%.
is designed to develop our multidate are favourable, with high gross channel trading performance in the margins and returns rates below 30%.
Income derived from our customers UK which will then provide a platform Customer recruitment has been primarily credit accounts performed well with for international expansion.
There are through catalogue mailings to selected revenue up 11.9% to 218.4m.
Changes several components to this strategy customer lists, supplemented by online to credit policies and processes gave which will be our key areas of focus recruitment through paid search and customers the options of paying their during 2012 13. social media.
The appointment of accounts off over a slightly longer local digital agencies took longer than period.
This increased the gross margin Within the core home shopping business originally anticipated but they will be a rate from financial services income by we will be concentrating our marketing key lever of growth in 2012.
1.4% with the increased interest income investment on the key ladieswear and partly offset by a rise in the rate of menswear brands plus the speciality Germanys performance has previously bad debt charge, which increased as propositions.
We will improve our been held back by high rates of product a percentage of revenue from 7.4% to online trading capability and drive returns.
The arrears profile of the debtor incremental sales which will allow us implemented which have brought the book has improved during the year.
to reduce our mailing contacts.
Our rate down by 1% to 60%, although this websites will be adapted to capitalise is still too high.
We limited the level of Overheads on the exponential growth of online customer recruitment whilst we were The business has successfully controlled access from mobile devices.
We will making these changes.
costs during volatile and inflationary review the attractiveness of further store trading conditions.
An increase in openings relative to the capital outlay average order values led to improved and we are testing Jacamos menswear 12 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Online sales Footwear sales Home & Leisure up 16% to up 6% to sales up 5% to 377m 84m 209m on the mezzanine floors of two Simply will result in lower input prices in the Be stores.
Similarly we will testing the autumn which we will pass on to our international potential of Marisota and customers.
Jacamo within the Simply Be website in the USA.
Our online capability was strengthened last year, both in systems functionality Traditionally we have dealt with and personnel, and this will enable us customers who regarded it as normal to trade our websites even more to open a credit account even if it effectively this year.
We have already was just to try on the clothing before seen an increase of 11% in our online purchase.
As the online audience sales in March and April compared with becomes more diverse in its age and last year.
socio-demographic spread we will be testing simpler up-front payment options The clear focus on our targeted to determine whether this profitably customer and product groups, traded increases the size of our customer base.
through multiple channels and to a We will also be providing more delivery wider geographic audience, supported options for our customers.
by more credit and service options, will drive the business forward in the Revenue for the 8 weeks ended 28 April coming year.
2012 shows an increase of 1.0%, and a like-for-like increase of 0.6%, excluding Trading was extremely tough in 2011 but the sales from stores not open at this everyone in the business has risen to the time last year.
Consumer confidence is challenges facing them.
This resilience still low but the situation should improve and our focused strategic plan leave later in the year as inflation and income N Brown Group well placed to make growth rates start to converge.
The further progress this year.
recent spate of retail casualties will also free up some capacity in the market sectors in which we operate.
We have seen encouraging results from our Spring recruitment campaigns which will help to rebuild the 3% reduction in the active customer database we Alan White experienced last year.
We also have a series of reactivation campaigns for lapsed customers planned.
The second half of last year saw high levels of discounting activity to clear excess stocks both by ourselves and in the sector as a whole.
We have bought less stock this year now that lead times have returned to normal from our suppliers and we expect a benefit in the rate of gross margin in the second half.
The reduction in cotton and fabric prices N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 13
