Delivering on our strategy Group Chief Executives strategic review Building on our strengths National Express enjoys leading positions in all of its principal markets, which have attractive medium and long term growth characteristics.
Introduction The Group ended 2012 having established itself in a number of new and growing markets: in particular, public transit in North America, German Rail and German Coach.
We are convinced that our strategy of pursuing organic growth in our core markets, deploying our expertise in new markets where we have an existing geographic presence, and focused debt reduction, will enable the Group to deliver superior returns to its shareholders.
This has been a challenging year for the Group.
We have overcome the loss of the National Express East Anglia franchise, rising fuel costs, economic recession and austerity in many of our markets.
Group profit before tax has reduced by 16 million year-on-year, entirely reecting the loss of one million senior citizen passengers due to the withdrawal of their concessionary scheme by the UK Government.
In each of our markets, we have taken considerable steps to improve the quality of our services, to reduce costs and grow revenues.
Group revenue increased by 7%, benefitting from acquisitions and after adjusting for rail franchises handed back at end of contract term.
Group operating margin has improved by 150 basis points to a best-in-class 11.6%.
Operating profit for the year was 211.9 million 2011: 225.2m as we made substantial progress in mitigating almost 50 million of profit headwinds.
profit before tax was 164.1 million 2011: 180.2m.
As many of the UKs rail franchises reach the end of their current contract terms, National Express stands out as a diversied bus and coach operator.
Our non-rail businesses generated a record operating profit of 185.2 million 2011: 181.8m.
We remain the leading operator by margin in most of our businesses.
Our core markets are sustained by long term, positive trends, such as outsourcing, deregulation and the ever-increasing cost of fuel and motoring.
For our customers, we provide safe, reliable and frequent public transport services at low prices in times of austerity.
Dean Finch 10 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements For our investors, we are focused on driving our return Alongside a record profit performance from our non-rail on capital, generating strong cash ows and enhancing businesses, we have achieved strong results in our other future earnings through leadership in our existing and key performance metrics: developing markets.
t We generated 141 million of free cash ow before rail franchise handover.
We funded 125 million of organic Highlights capital investment, delivering 1,300 new vehicles into our In 2012 we achieved some impressive results, delivered eet to drive passenger and contract growth.
We invested by our high quality divisional management teams: nearly 160 million in new acquisitions to build scale and t UK Bus achieved revenue 2%, profit 4% and margin market presence.
We maintained our non-rail pre-tax 30 basis points growth.
We invested in over 200 new return on capital at 10.6%.
buses over the last 18 months, carried out network t We are making excellent progress in improving our reviews in two major locations and limited fare increases, core safety performance, through our investment in recognising the pressure on household budgets.
In doing Group-wide safety programmes.
Responsible major so, we have more than compensated for the 4 million injuries fell 67% and lost time injuries 23% on 2011.
BSOG fuel duty rebate reduction.
Passenger Alongside our responsibility to be a safe operator, satisfaction increased by 4% in the Passenger Focus this will reduce future costs.
t We made good progress in developing new businesses, t In North America revenue grew by 19% overall, through with our US Transit business achieving annual revenue organic growth, a strong bid season with 97% contract of $65 million by the end of the year and the first two retention and 26 new contract wins, and the successful contract wins under our ownership secured, alongside acquisition and integration of the Petermann school bus our German Rail success in February 2013. business.
Operating profit grew by 22% to $94 million, including the delivery of in-year synergies of $7 million Strategy from Petermann and a first contribution from our small Two years ago I set out a strategy to drive further value from but fast-growing Transit division.
our core bus and coach operations and from our market t In Spain, ALSA has shown a remarkable ability to continue opportunities.
We have focused on improving profitability to grow revenue and maintain profit.
Overall revenue by delivering operational excellence and driving organic growth of 4% was driven by strong urban bus operations growth across our divisions.
We have targeted strong cash and a resilient intercity coach business.
We have sought to build on this platform and unchanged at 103 million.
Operating cash generation expand into new markets.
2012 has been another year of has been exceptional, increasing by over 70 million to good progress in delivering on each part of this strategy.
The quality and exibility of ALSAs business 1.
Delivering operational excellence model gives us confidence for the future.
Delivering operational excellence across National t Rail once again delivered a very strong performance.
Express requires: Operating profit of 27 million and a margin of 13.7% were t Consistent service performance for our customers: generated by best-in-class operations.
c2c is the leading franchise in the UK for punctuality and customer service.
t Continuous cost efficiency improvement: and It also won Rail Operator of the Year at the National t Living our core values every day.
Transport Awards and was voted the best commuter Operational excellence is crucial to our goal of achieving service in the UK by Which?
We outperformed our competitors t We put together two very strong bids for the Essex in 2012 in North America school bus, Spain, UK Coach Thameside and Great Western rail franchises.
In UK Bus we have almost doubled the margin we are disappointed that the UK Governments delay over three years and have plans to match the best industry to the re-franchising process and cancellation of the performer.
Our operational excellence initiatives create more Great Western bid process has wasted significant sustainable, efficient businesses for the longer term.
investment in the bids, we hope to extend the existing c2c contract and look forward to restarting that franchise tender process later in 2013.
Our c2c credentials were also fundamental to being selected for our first German regional rail contracts in February 2013.
This is an exciting opportunity for us to develop our position We have focused on improving in this large and liberalising market.
t Our UK Coach result in 2012 was disappointing.
profitability by delivering operational We over-estimated our ability to mitigate the loss of the Governments senior citizen concession funding.
However, excellence and driving organic we grew our non-concession passenger volumes by 5% and started to implement structural changes in revenue, cost and organisation.
com 11 Delivering on our strategy Group Chief Executives strategic review continued In 2012 we delivered a number of initiatives to ensure 2.
Driving organic growth consistent service performance.
Our c2c rail franchise In 2012 we achieved commercial revenue growth in each achieved outstanding passenger service, scoring a of our divisions, as we: record 93% satisfaction in the National Passenger Survey t Grew passenger volumes in UK Coach, and carrying two million passengers during the London c2c and Morocco: Olympics.
In Morocco, we extended the Agadir bus t Increased contracted volumes in Spanish urban bus network, driving passenger revenue growth of over 50%.
and North America school bus: UK Coach implemented new customer service standards and improved its passenger survey rating in every category t Secured new bid wins in Spain and North America: and as a result, whilst UK Bus implemented automatic vehicle t Integrated bolt-on acquisitions with growth and location to enable better schedule management and provide margin potential.
The Group continues to build a strong pipeline of contracted We are also relentlessly driving cost efficiencies to protect revenues, with 3.6 billion, equivalent to 3.1 years of Group and grow margins across the Group.
Technology is helping revenues that are either contracted or operated on an us to drive savings in every division.
GPS technology and exclusive concession basis.
We have added just under vehicle telemetry are bringing fuel savings in Spain, North 2 billion of new revenue during the last 12 months.
In North America, UK Bus and UK Coach.
We are now able to America this included 26 new school bus contracts, of achieve better route management, monitor driving style which eight were conversion opportunities, adding a total of and reduce the amount of engine idling, as well as ensuring 1,300 new buses.
We also won our first two contracts in the strong cost control where routes and schedules vary, recently launched Transit business.
At ALSA we have added for example in school bus operations.
eight new contracts, including an extension to services in Agadir and contracts in Cadiz and Guadalajara, which were Our business models are exible, allowing us to adjust secured through competitive bids against existing operators.
In Spain, we reduced kilometres In Germany, we have recently been selected to run our first operated in the intercity coach business by 4% to match two rail contracts, starting in late 2015. lower passenger demand by exing our outsourced supply.
In UK Bus network optimisation reduced mileage by 1% Average revenue yield increased by 2% in 2012.
Contract whilst better meeting passenger needs.
In the core UK prices increased in School Bus, reecting improving market Coach business we increased mileage by 3% to support conditions and customer recognition of the quality of service new routes.
In our Urban contracts in Spain we secured an average price increase of 3%.
In UK Bus, commercial We continue to identify ways to make savings through revenue increased by 3%, delivered through fare increases structural change.
UK Coach is consulting with employees that remain affordable for our customers.
In UK Coach to close its Crawley base, to reduce overhead cost without we reduced average commercial yield by 4%, driving compromising network efficiency, saving 0.5 million a year.
a 5% increase in passenger journeys and supporting Our global procurement team delivered over 12 million our value positioning.
of annual savings by leveraging the Groups scale in eet, IT, telecoms and engineering.
We operate in highly competitive markets and our customers are affected by austerity.
Looking to the future, therefore, we We are also making progress in developing the Groups must strive to improve further the value we offer, the service culture around our four core values that we believe will we deliver and ensure we are always competitive.
We will support a sustainable revenue and profit stream in the continue to drive growth, through investment in technology long term Safety, Customer, People and Community.
and through initiatives to better manage eet utilisation.
Our Driving Out Harm safety programme has brought a In UK Coach, the first stage of an improved revenue significant reduction in injuries and is helping to reduce the management system will be implemented later in 2013, number of vehicle accidents: these have a direct financial with a more advanced package to follow.
This will benefit but, importantly, help create a better environment allow better real-time management of fares, promoting for our customers and employees.
Our Customer initiative travel on less utilised services and ensuring fares are seeks to earn the lifetime loyalty of our passengers.
This in turn should deliver healthy 2012, we introduced global standards and monitoring, organic growth, supported by our initiatives to improve improving customer satisfaction in all divisions.
Amongst our understanding, targeting and marketing to key customer People initiatives, we have pooled contract management segments.
In UK Bus we will pilot commercial smart cards expertise to develop new opportunities and an international from the second quarter of 2013, supported by investment management scheme to reect our business development.
this year in 25 million of new buses in the West Midlands, In the UK, we launched the National Express Foundation including 30 hybrid vehicles, as we focus on increasing to provide support to community groups and students in and sustaining the number of passenger journeys.
In Spain, the West Midlands, East London and South Essex.
More as well as all of our UK operations, we are developing mobile information on our progress is set out in our corporate applications that will make ticket purchasing and real-time responsibility reporting.
tracking of vehicles easier for our customers, improving Read more 16 the quality of their journeys.
Read more 17 12 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Delivering on our strategy Business review Governance Financial statements 3.
Generating superior cash and returns National Express is unique amongst its peers in owning Through successful implementation of our strategy, a diversied portfolio of assets that provides a platform for National Express: growth in attractive markets.
ALSA has a strong reputation outside Spain.
In Morocco we expect to bid for further urban t Continues to deliver excellent cash generation: contracts, alongside our existing Marrakech and Agadir t Underpins its operations with a sound debt and dividend operations which have driven recent revenue and profit policy: and growth.
As the largest scheduled European coach operator, we are launching city2city in April in Germanys newly t Is growing non-rail return on capital through disciplined liberalised coach market, taking the best of the ALSA capital deployment across the Group.
and UK Coach business models.
Long term cash generation is a key tenet for us, driving shareholder value creation and supporting future returns Within eight months of initial acquisition in 2012, we built to shareholders.
a Transit business in North America that had annual revenue of $65 million.
In addition, we have a bid pipeline 2012 has been another good year for the Group in this of $100 million of revenue opportunities, with total capital regard, as strong EBITDA, efficient cash management and requirements of only $7 million.
Like urban contracts in Spain selective capital deployment have combined to increase and Morocco, these can be mobilised rapidly on award and operating cash ow signicantly.
Operating cash ow are profitable from the start.
increased by 50 million to 209.6 million, with operating cash conversion of 99%.
Spain alone generated Building on the strong credentials of our leading c2c 101 million of cash this year: of key importance, we are franchise, we invested in a bid team in German rail early being paid promptly by our municipal customers, with 2012 in 2012.
We are very pleased to have been selected for seeing a 20 million reduction in outstanding receivables our first rail contracts in Germany, which are due to start balances.
Our free cash ow of 141 million and low debt operations in late 2015.
This will expand into a portfolio of low position supported an investment of nearly 160 million risk, smaller rail contracts in regional rail franchises.
These in acquisitions of Petermann school bus and the creation contracts offer a similar prole to a UK franchise in duration, of our US Transit business, as well as funding the handover capital requirement and margin, but with less revenue and of the East Anglia franchise.
The focus on cash generation will continue.
Our target is We will continue to expand the Groups capability to secure to generate 125 million to 150 million per annum in free contracts to operate public transportation services.
As the cash ow over the next two years.
Our gearing policy is to leading public transport operator by profitability in Europe, maintain net debt between 2 and 2.5 times EBITDA.
In 2012 we are currently looking at a number of opportunities where our gearing was at the upper end of our range.
We plan to we can use National Express intellectual capital reduce this to 2 times by the end of 2014, enabling further and reputation to explore new markets.
choices over future investment and return of capital Read more 19 to shareholders.
Pre-tax return on capital employed ROCE from the non-rail business the rail business does not utilise capital Prospects for the future was maintained at 10.6% in 2012.
We will continue to target In 2013 we expect to make good progress in growing capital deployment carefully, combining it with further our business in UK Bus, UK Coach and North America.
improvement of margins to enhance ROCE, and releasing In Spain, we have already submitted our first intercity coach capital where appropriate.
Our eet is well-invested across concession bid and are focused on protecting and growing the Group, and we are committed to maintaining an our market share during the renewal process.
In Rail, we appropriate level of investment in each business.
This will are in discussions to extend our c2c franchise and will see us add 115 buses in UK Bus in 2013 and 230 vehicles participate in future franchise opportunities.
In North America we will continue to cascade existing eet, improving utilisation as we consolidate the Looking to the future, we believe we have the right strategy Petermann eet into our operations.
In addition, our range in place to deliver long term value for our shareholders.
of new market opportunities are capital-light, allowing Firstly, we will continue to drive organic growth and better ROCE to continue to improve over time, a key measure margins, by focusing on improving the quality and value of shareholder value creation for us.
offered by our operations, attracting customers, increasing revenue and creating a more efficient cost base.
Secondly, Read more 18 we will drive cash generation, reducing gearing to two times over the next two years and deploying capital in a cautious, targeted way.
Thirdly, we will continue to add 4.
Delivering new opportunities from to the significant pipeline of bid and market opportunities capital-light markets in North America, Europe and North Africa, where our Our strategy is also to target geographies which have, expertise in operating bus, coach and rail services is already or are, liberalising their public transport markets.
t Creating a pipeline of long term, sustainable transport operations: t Leveraging the Groups expertise running passenger transport services in adjacent markets: operating in the same or similar modes of transport: and building scale Dean Finch in selected geographies: and Group Chief Executive t Representing primarily capital-light opportunities which 28 February 2013 will not require significant asset investment.
