Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 53 weeks ended 2 December 2012 10 Chief Executive Officers review We continued to achieve double digit sales growth during 2012 with increasing rates of sales and new customer momentum as we moved into 2013.
This has been driven by further improvements to our core proposition to customers better value, wider ranges and enhanced service.
Tim Steiner Chief Executive officer We have continued to make significant progress in creating The Ocado own-label brand continues to gain popularity a virtuous cycle between growth and developing a long-term amongst our customers who recognise the quality and value for sustainable and profitable business.
This has been achieved money that it represents.
Sales of the Ocado own-label range against the backdrop of the softer economic environment in the continued to grow strongly, up over 70% year-on-year, with over UK which looks set to continue.
77% of our customers baskets now containing at least one Ocado own-label product.
Strategic objectives Product freshness remains very important for customers in their Our strategic objectives centre on driving growth and delivering choice of shopping destination.
We continue to provide Life long-term profitability.
There are a number of complementary Guarantees on our fresh produce, guaranteeing a minimum elements to these objectives: product life.
We believe that our business model allows us to run with lower levels of waste than our competitors, less than Developing our proposition to customers to retain our market 0.7% of revenue.
leading position in terms of service, range and price: Growing customer numbers and spend building an ever We also signicantly increased our non-food range, now growing base of loyal and valuable customers and encouraging numbering over 8,000 SKUs, particularly in Home, Health & them to spend more at Ocado: Beauty, Baby, and Pet.
With increased demand for non-food products to be delivered in convenient one hour time slots at the Optimising operations to operate at the highest service levels same time as their groceries, we plan to expand this range to with the lowest possible cost: 15,000 SKUs by the end of 2013.
Building capacity to satisfy increased demand and drive scale benets: and We continue to work hard on our price competitiveness to give better value and price confidence to our customers.
Working with Developing and leveraging our proprietary intellectual property the support of many of our suppliers, we believe that we now and technology to improve our operations, and to generate offer a level of promotional activity similar to the largest players significant value through monetisation.
During the year we also launched Low Price Promise LPP, our new basket matching initiative which covers Developing the proposition to customers both branded and standard tier priced own-label products.
The What attracts customers to shop with us is our quality of service, early results of LPP are encouraging, with improved customer the range we sell and confidence in our prices.
confidence in our value and stronger sales growth since launch.
We continued to deliver to customers with, what we believe Customer and sales growth to be, market leading accuracy and on time performance.
Our Active Customers at the end of the period stood at 355,000, Orders delivered on time or early improved to 92.7% and order up from 298,000 at the start of the year.
We saw some softness accuracy was maintained at 98.3% during the period.
in new customer acquisition during the summer months but Autumn initiatives such as new customer acquisition partnerships We continue to improve our customers shopping experience to and a stronger price message increased the rate of customer make it quicker, easier and more convenient.
We launched latest acquisition in the final quarter compared to the previous year.
We generations of our range of mobile apps to remain at the forefront have observed that an increasing proportion of new customers of the mobile shopping trend, with 28% of checkouts now across have shopped online before with our competitors.
apps, and mobile checkouts across our website continuing to grow strongly.
Further examples of service enhancements added During the second half of the year we continued to retain a in the past year include text messages to customers indicating the similar proportion of new customers while reducing retention expected 25 minute delivery windows within the one hour slots, voucher spend, helped in part by the introduction of the LPP, real time order tracking, and new services allowing customers our basket matching scheme.
to login to Ocado using their Facebook accounts, and to start shopping with Ocado through the BBC Good Food recipe website.
Our customers average baskets stabilised during the course of the year standing at 112.17 by the period end, broadly We extended our range by more than 40% to over 28,000 the same as the previous year.
The combined effects of a products, now wider than any supermarket.
We continued to natural slowing of Delivery Pass adoption, range expansion and add more branded lines, together with additional specialty lines other initiatives has offset the effect of challenging economic such as Swedish and Spanish food categories and the largest conditions on customer spend.
free from range in a supermarket, now with almost 800 lines.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Stock code: OCDO www.
com 11 Once again, our customers regularly commented on the Optimising operations outstanding service provided by our delivery team of over 2,000 We have made good progress in expanding capacity and efficiency Customer Service Team Members.
in the Hateld Customer Fullment Centre CFC1, with several new enhancements going live, notably a new large storage and We were delighted that we were recognised in the PayPal fast picking machine, our ambient automated storage facility, and Awards as Best Pure-play Etailer and for the way we have crane improvements.
During the period we removed all remaining embraced mobile with the Award for the Best Use of ambient and chilled trolley picking from our fullment system and M-Commerce.
We also received recognition with a number of introduced the first automated bagging machine.
other awards during the year, notably Best Online Retailer and Best Family Brand in the Loved By Parents Awards.
The highest number of orders delivered in a week exceeded 140,000 during the period, and peak day volumes ran consistently Current trading and outlook at new record levels.
Ocado achieved gross sales growth of 11.4% in 2012, with a run rate of growth of 14.2% for the six trading weeks to efficiency levels have improved through the year.
Our ability to grow signicantly faster remains per hour efficiency measure UPH, the average productivity limited in the very short-term due to the current capacity in CFC1 for 2012 was 120 UPH, up from 111 UPH in 2011. limitations of CFC1.
However, we opened our second fullment Signicantly, H2 showed steady improvement over H1 126 v centre in Dordon on 24 February 2013, which will give us 114. significant additional capacity to grow into as CFC2 ramps up.
We expanded our service delivery network with the opening of Against a tough economic environment, we continue to see our Oxford spoke in January 2012, allowing stronger growth that shopping online for groceries is of increasing importance in this region.
The increasing scale of our business, combined for consumers evidenced by the online growth gures reported with improved running efficiency of the CFC, has contributed across the grocery industry.
As more and more shoppers leave to continuing improvement of our delivery performance, with physical stores to shop for their weekly groceries from the deliveries per van per week DPV week of 151 peaking at comfort of their own homes, we have seen our competitors 170.
We expect delivery efficiency to increase further as our investing more into the online channel.
business continues to grow with the opening of CFC2.
We believe we are well positioned to benefit from this Building capacity continuing growth in online demand with our market leading Progress has continued according to plan at our second offer to customers, and unconstrained by the concerns of fullment centre, CFC2, in Dordon, Warwickshire, and the cannibalisation of existing stores.
It is our mission to continue project remains on budget.
Equipment testing started in providing a shopping proposition that offers far more than a early summer, and systems testing commenced according to traditional supermarket, in terms of convenience, usability, schedule later in the summer.
We started receiving stock from service, range and price.
Our focus and business model position suppliers at the end of January 2013 and went live with the first us strongly to drive growth and profitability in the future.
customer orders picked on 24 February.
We also commenced the t out of a non-food distribution centre in Welwyn Garden City, Hertfordshire, which we opened in January 2013, one month ahead of schedule.
This will support the longer-term growth in non-food.
IP and Technology leadership Tim Steiner Since inception we have utilised proprietary IP and technology Chief Executive officer as the foundation for our business.
Maintaining and growing technology leadership in systems, processes and equipment supports our market leading proposition to customers and drives operational excellence.
In 2012 we continued to develop our suite of IP with many technology improvements across the business from improved user interfaces on our website and mobile apps, to real time simulations of our CFCs to improve operations and ow analysis.
This technology leadership gives us opportunities to generate significant value for Ocado through monetising our IP knowledge in the future.
People and recognition Central to our success is the energy and commitment of nearly 6,000 employees across the business.
I want to acknowledge their tremendous efforts made throughout the year.
We continued to work with and listen to the views of our employees through the Ocado Council, with USDAW representatives participating for the first time during the year.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW INFORMATION FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE PERFORMANCE STRATEGY OVERVIEW
