BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS JOINT REVIEW OPHIR MADE OUTSTANDING OPERATIONAL PROGRESS IN 2012 REINFORCING ITS REPUTATION AS A LEADING AFRICAN EXPLORER.
COM 6 BUSINESS REVIEW 01 NICHOLAS SMITH Chairman of the Board NICK COOPER Chief Executive Officer The Group drilled six exploration and two appraisal Commitments to Health, Safety and the Environment wells with a 100% success rate.
Ten seismic programmes HSE and to corporate social responsibility CSR are were acquired and two new country entries were fundamental to Ophirs business practices.
The Group completed, into Kenya and Ghana.
Financially the Group isdedicated to high quality HSE performance and is 1 completed a US$242 million placing in April and ended pleased to report another lost time incident free year the year with a cash position of US$228 million.
At the same time, the Group strives to make alasting, positive difference to the countries and The past year has reaffirmed Ophirs reputation as a communities that host its operations.
Ophir values leading African explorer.
The success of 2012 is a direct highly its country relationships, its reputation as a result of continued focus on creating value with the responsible corporate citizen and is committed to drillbit.
The Groups competitive advantage rests in a sensitive and sustained CSR programmes.
commitment to geoscience, a diverse and prospective portfolio, effective capital management and deepwater In 2012, Ophir has again delivered against its business drilling excellence.
plan and created significant value for shareholders: theGroup discovered an estimated 896mmboe of net Ophirs business model is rstly to secure significant, 2 contingent resources an increase of 377% for a top operated equity positions in plays with substantial quartile nding cost of US$0.58 boe.
running room: secondly to fund extensive 3D seismic 1 The placing occurred on 28 March 2012, with funds received acquisition: and thirdly to partner with leading oil in April 2012. companies for deepwater exploration around Africa.
As the sixth largest net acreage holder offshore Africa Net increase and finding cost calculated on post-Government back-in result.
and having recently acquired a significant library of additional high quality 3D seismic data across most of this acreage, the Group is positioned to create further value from this model in the coming years.
The ongoing seismic interpretations have further increased Ophirs drilling inventory to over 3.0bboe of net risked prospective resources before Government back-in.
This inventory will enable near continuous, high impact drilling through 2013 and beyond.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 7 BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS JOINT REVIEW CONTINUED In East Africa, 2012 highlights include the Groups three 2 Acreage km 10% significant, back-to-back exploration gas discoveries with the Jodari, Mzia and Papa wells, drilled with its 2011 96,941 Joint Venture partner BG Group in Tanzania, adding 2012 106,702 3 a combined 631mmboe of net contingent resources.
Theappraisal of the Jodari and Mzia discoveries began 2 Seismic km 70% towards year end.
In addition, with the completion in February 2012 of the acquisition of Dominion Petroleum 2011 19,017 Ltd Dominion, the Group secured new acreage in Block 2012 32,398 7 Tanzania and Blocks L9 and L15 Kenya.
These additions made Ophir the largest independent oil and 1,2 Net resources bboe 377% gas exploration company in terms of net acreage in the 2c contingent deepwater East African play.
Seven additional seismic programmes have been acquired in 2012 by the Group 2011 0.210 across its East African acreage, a substantial investment that is now starting to pay off with the identication of 2012 1.002 significant new plays and prospects that are scheduled for drilling in 2013 and beyond.
Risked prospective 45% In northern Tanzania, the initial mapping of recently 2011 1.882 received seismic data in Block 7 has identied exciting new prospectivity off the Dar es Salaam coastline, 2012 2.725 including the estimated 20 TCF estimated recoverable resource Mlinzi prospect.
The Group plans to target Mlinzi as part of its 2013 operated drilling campaign.
In southern Tanzania, preliminary interpretation of the newly acquired outboard Kusini 3D seismic in Block 1, located across the international border from the significant recent Mozambique discoveries, has identied a series of prospects in both amalgamated channel and basin oor settings.
Looking to 2013 in East Africa, Ophir and BG Group will complete Tanzanias first offshore testing programme and then plan to recommence exploration and expect to drill the first well into this outboard terrain.
Elsewhere, Ophir will begin its own operated exploration drilling in 2H 2013, with potential play opening wells planned in the Block 7 and East Pande licences Tanzania and in the 4 L9 licence Kenya.
In West Africa, 2012 highlights include the Groups three successful exploration wells in Block R, Equatorial Guinea.
The Tonel, Fortuna East and Fortuna West discoveries added a combined 262mmboe of net contingent resources and have partially fide-risked a further drilling inventory.
Total net contingent resources on Block R have exceeded pre-drill expectations and 5 are now estimated at 312mmboe.
Discussions are now in progress with the authorities and with prospective partners regarding commercialisation of these resources via LNG export.
1 Ophir management estimates including the previous operators estimate for the Starfish prospect in Ghana.
2 Assuming all Governments exercise their back-in rights in full.
3 Management estimate pre-Government back-in, 526mmboe post-Government back-in, 358mmboe from the 2012 MER.
4 Advanced negotiations are underway to farm down the Groups participating interest to third parties.
COM 8 BUSINESS REVIEW 01 In December 2012, Ophir entered Ghana by taking a Net contingent Resource and Prospective Resource 20% operated stake in the Offshore Accra PSC, targeting mmboe potential continuation of the regional West African Transform Margin play.
In Gabon, Ophir acquired three 3D surveys during 2012 one focused on the pre-salt 4,000 play and the other two targeted the Maastrichtian play that has been recently identied in the offsetting Sergipe-Alagoas Basin of Brazil.
Processing of these 3,000 datasets is nearing completion.
In 2013 in West Africa, planning for an extensive drilling programme is underway.
Ophir intends to drill one well 2,000 in Ghana commencing in July and up to three wells in Gabon commencing in late 2013, two of which will be pre-salt targets with our Joint Venture partner Petrobras.
1,000 A further exploration and appraisal drilling programme is also envisaged in Equatorial Guinea, after the 0 introduction of new partners into the licence.
Ophir plans to use a combination of effective portfolio management and or equity to fund the next twelve months forecast expenditure.
On 4 March 2013 the Company announced its intention to raise equity proceeds by way of a Placing and Rights Issue.
The Board is justiably proud of Ophirs talented team, who are based in various locations in Africa, in Australia and in the UK.
The Board thanks them for their contribution to the successes in 2012.
This team has continued to grow during the year, particularly in the key geoscience and drilling functions, and Ophir is proud to be able to continue to attract top talent.
In 2012, Dr Alan Stein, a co-founder of the Company, stepped down from his executive and Board roles.
Alans contribution to Ophirs growth has been immense and the Board thanks him and wishes him well for the future.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 9 1,264 EG 1,990 Tanzania OP 3,007 Gabon PB JV 3,243 Gabon Op 3,406 Madagascar 3,499 Kenya 3,639 Non-core 3,727 BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS JOINT REVIEW CONTINUED 2012 proved to be a successful and significant year for Ophir, with the eight wells drilled delivering six exploration successes and two appraisal successes and 6 nding 896mmboe of additional net resource.
2013 sees the Group planning a 10 well programme across four oil plays and two gas plays.
The Board would like to thank Ophirs shareholders for their continued support in 2012.
Looking forward, the 2013 drilling programme has the potential to transform the portfolio yet again.
NICHOLAS SMITH Chairman of the Board NICK COOPER Chief Executive Officer 6 Pre-Government back-in, 792mmboe post Government back-in, 565mmboe 2012 MER.
COM 10 BUSINESS REVIEW 01 OPHIR CONTINUES TO ESTABLISH ITSELF 1.
ESTABLISH RELATIONSHIPS IN AFRICA AS A PRE-EMINENT AFRICAN ENERGY Ophirs overarching strategy continues to consolidate COMPANY THROUGH THE STRENGTH the Groups position as the leading independent OF ITS RELATIONSHIPS AND TEAM AND African energy company.
To this end Ophir has access THE WAY IT EXPLORES AND MANAGES to an extensive network of relationships in Africa.
By combining these relationships with its geoscience and ITS PORTFOLIO.
commercial expertise Ophir has acquired and developed a diverse portfolio of oil and gas interests in Africa.
Ophir intends to build on its success as the leading explorer in its areas of interest and to enhance its reputation for delivering value to its various stakeholders.
As part of this, the full Board visited Tanzania in November.
The visit included meeting members of Government and national agencies, the business community and a visit to Mtwara.
There was a full site review of the oil eld supply facility and visits to Ophirs local CSR initiatives.
MAKE THE MOST OF AN EXPERIENCED AND MOTIVATED MANAGEMENT TEAM Ophir recruits, develops and retains an experienced andmotivated group of senior staff with a view to identifying attractive investment opportunities, decreasing exploration risk and adding value to its portfolio by applying advanced geoscience technology.
CONTROL THE PACE AND DIRECTION OF EXPLORATION Wherever practical, Ophir seeks to accelerate its exploration activities, while maintaining high professional and corporate responsibility standards demonstrating the Groups commitment to realise value from its assets in a timely fashion for shareholders and partners.
Ophir believes that continuing this approach will enhance its ability to win new business in the future.
ACTIVELY MANAGE OPHIRS PORTFOLIO Ophir prefers to take significant early entrant equity positions in core projects while retaining the exibility todivest through farm-outs or exchanges of interests asprojects mature.
Ophir intends to expand its portfolio by investing in new ventures, particularly where the application of advanced geoscience technology can add significant value by reducing exploration risk.
