THE YEAR IN REVIEW Chief Executives Statement Innovation 10 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 remains at the core of the Groups culture... our strong performance is underpinned by continued investment in R&D which increased this year by 29% It is now a year since we announced We continued to benefit from growth our 14 Cubed Plan to achieve compound across our major geographies with annual growth of 14% and a return on Europe up 37.4%, North America sales of 14% by 2014.
Achievement of up 30.6% and Asia up 14.5%.
Our our strategic objective is driven by three performance in developed markets elements: organic growth through benefited from sales of products and innovation, continuous efficiency services from our new acquisitions which improvements and targeted acquisitions, were primarily exposed to these regions.
all of which have contributed to our Going forward, we expect further growth and margin improvement opportunities to emerge in Asia as we during the year.
expand the reach of these products and services.
We anticipate that Asia will be Our order in-take was 337.8 million our fastest growing region over the 2011: 273.5 million and the order medium to longer term.
book for future delivery now stands at 136.8 million 2011: 115.3 million.
Innovation remains at the core of the Our two principal end market areas, Groups culture.
Our strong performance research and industrial, both remain is underpinned by continued investment Order in-take 23.5% robust.
Revenues rose to 337.3 million, in R&D, which increased this year by 29% an increase of 28.6% of which 15.1% to 25.8 million 2011: 20.0 million.
Adjusted profit percentage of revenue that is made up of 337.8m before tax grew to 42.0 million 2011: products launched or acquired in the last 26.2 million which equates to an three years is a key indicator of the vitality adjusted operating profit return on of our new product development and sales of 12.5% 2011: 10.7%.
Adjusted has increased from 34% in 2011 to Order Book 18.6% earnings per share rose to 61.6 pence 44% in 2012.
2011: 41.5 pence and the Group ended the year with a net positive cash balance OUR PEOPLE 136.8m of 35.1 million 2011: 13.1 million.
A high technology business relies on the skills and expertise of its people.
The three acquisitions we made in the We therefore recognise the importance year are all performing to expectations.
of ensuring a sustainable business going Omicron Nanotechnology, acquired in forward through an inclusive strategy Sales per Head 5% June, has enabled us to extend our of managing, developing and recruiting offering in the Nanotechnology Tools people who support our company values 183.9k sector and good progress has been made and contribute to our growth.
I am proud integrating it into the Group.
Omniprobe, to lead such a talented and committed also acquired in June, has contributed to workforce and I thank them for their the good performance of the continued contribution to our success.
NanoAnalysis business and has a strong pipeline of new products due for launch this year.
The Platinum Medical Imaging business, acquired in November, has been able to exploit the value of the Oxford Instruments brand to win new customers and improve its business performance.
NANOTECHNOLOGY TOOLS: Graphene THE YEAR IN REVIEW 11 Oxford Instruments plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 OUTLOOK A changing market presents interesting We are now two months into the opportunities as well as challenges and second year of our 14 Cubed Plan.
we are confident that we have the Trading to-date has been in line with structure, products and talent in place our expectations and our markets to make further progress in the current remain strong despite continued year and beyond.
economic uncertainty, particularly in Europe.
A healthy pipeline of new product introductions is in place and we are investing across the business Jonathan Flint to increase efficiency, strengthen Chief Executive our market positions and drive further Omicron LT STM meets the trend in research towards sophisticated experiments with extremely profitable growth.
We are well positioned 12 June 2012 long measurement times to build on the opportunities presented by emerging markets and to take Graphene has been described as the advantage of new applications and strongest material ever measured and technologies as they arise.
We continue is 200 times stronger than steel.
It was to look for bolt-on acquisitions to discovered by Professors Andre Geim complement our existing businesses.
and Kostya Novoselov of the University of Manchester, who received a Nobel Prize for their work.
The potential applications of graphene are huge, from electronics to aerospace.
The benets to both business and the consumer will come from faster and cheaper devices that are thinner and more exible, and from stronger and more exible materials.
The research world is excited and there are many projects around the world seeking to discover and exploit the potential of graphene.
Oxford Instruments Nanotechnology Tools group offers a unique toolbox of systems and processes that can be used for research and manufacture of new graphene based materials.
The image on the left was produced on an Omicron STM tool and shows a graphene ake on a SiO substrate.
All 2 four businesses in the Nanotechnology Tools sector are actively supporting researchers around the world with tools, processes and expertise.
Data courtesy of M. Crommie, Univ.
Of California at Berkeley, Berkeley, CA, USA.
Measured with an Omicron LT STM.
