Overview Chief Executive Ofcers Review We have delivered a strong set of financial results, made good progress on our Strategic Plan and laid the foundation for continued improvement in operating performance over the next fewyears.
The Strategic Review we undertook in 2011 highlighted that we Summary operate in sustainable and profitable markets where we have t The Group focused on its strategic differentiated capabilities: however, the Group must execute on objectives and has made good progress its three primary objectives to take advantage of the opportunities both in delivering strong results in 2012 for improving both the level and quality of its earnings.
The Group and paving the way forimprovement is focused on these objectives and has made good progress both in delivering strong results in 2012 and paving the way in2013 and beyond forimprovement in 2013 and beyond.
t The focus on operating efficiency through This progress is reected in 2012 revenues of $2,403.4 million, our transform core economics strategy has up4.1% on 2011, and adjusted EBITA of $158.1 million, equivalent delivered sustainable savings to 6.6% of revenues, up 0.5ppt on 2011.
Prior to the impact ofHard Disk Drive HDD supply disruption, Pace delivered t Pace has remained at the forefront anadjusted EBITA margin of 7.3%, up 0.9ppt on 2011. oftechnological change with advanced Media Server hardware supplied into Strategic plan keycustomers Transform core economics Focus on operating efficiency has delivered sustainable savings t Good progress has been made in growing in the year and Pace is well underway in the transformation of its our Software and Services revenue, supply chain that will deliver tangible benets in 2013 and beyond.
withimportant wins underpinning further growth in 2013 Operating expenses pre-IAS 38 adjustments reduced by $33.0 million 10.6% in 2012.
This was achieved through the scaling down of corporate resources and a reorganisation of the Americas and International business units, whilst continuing to invest in the growth areas of Software and Services.
As such, research and development expenditure as a percentage of underlying administrative spend increased by 2.4ppts to 57.0% 2011: 54.6%, a trend we intend to continue.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 05 Overview Chief Executive Ofcers Review Continued The move to Media Servers and whole home solutions is Strategic plan continued starting to move beyond North America and Pace has achieved Transform core economics continued a number of key wins in Europe, Asia-Pacic and Latin America The disruption to HDD supply resulting from ooding in that will be deployed in 2013 and 2014 including Foxtel, Telenet Thailand was a major challenge in 2012.
However, through and Get TV in Norway.
keen operational focus and working closely with suppliers and customers, the impact of this issue was contained Building on our global partnership with TiVo that was within therst half of the year, with an adverse impact of announced in H1 2012, Pace has been undertaking eld $76.8 million to revenue and$23.1 million to operating profit, trials with an integrated solution consisting of TiVo software well below initial expectations.
and Pace STBs and Gateways and is actively pursuing significant worldwide opportunities during 2013. significant progress has been made in the rationalisation and transformation of our supply chain.
In H2 2012, we selected Gateways revenues were up 8.3% to $469.4million in 2012. two core Electronics Manufacturing Services EMS partners Key wins in the year included MTS, the fourth largest Telco and aim to consolidate our manufacturing footprint around in Canada.
Widen out in Software, Services andIntegrated Solutions We continue to make progress in the improvement and We have achieved a number of key wins and deployments across reduction of our Approved Vendor List AVL : optimised all areas of our Software and Services offerings and have a strong component selection has ensured that new platforms utilise pipeline into next year.
Revenues in this area increased 7.6% to fewer component Stock Keeping Units SKUs and leveraging $108.0 million in 2012 and we expect further growth in 2013. our EMS partner relationships has enabled Pace to reduce The Pace Elements software platform continues to gain the number of vendors it buys from by over 12%.
significant traction as part of an advanced integrated solution Inventory controls have been strengthened: inventory is now with a number of wins including Sky New Zealand and Foxtel.
tightly aligned to confirmed future revenues and the mix of Pace Elements is also a key part of our integrated solutions stock is improved with component stock reduced and faster for emerging markets: we have a number of operators turning nished goods increased.
During the year, stock deployed with this solution Pace hardware, software and turns improved by 19.2% from 2011.
Latens Conditional Access System in India and have an Cash generation was strong throughout the year: free cash encouraging pipeline in Southern Asia, Central Eastern ow was $182.7 million 2011: $8.2 million, reecting lower Europe and CIS.
capital expenditure and re-alignment of working capital.
This The Pace CMS software that was obtained through the has enabled Pace to signicantly reduce its net debt, which 2Wireacquisition has been rebranded as the ECO Service 1 is now less than 1 x net debt adjusted EBITDA.
Management Suite to reect the evolving offering and PayTV hardware leadership simplify the marketing message.
During the year there Pace was reconrmed as the market leader in PayTV hardware: werea number of significant wins including BSkyB, Telstra 2 3 global number one in Set-top boxes and Residential Gateways, Australias leading telecommunications and information and has maintained its position at the forefront of technological services company and ON Brasil our first ECO win in development with the launch and deployment of Media Server thekey market of Brazil.
The ECO platform is currently platforms at DirecTV and Comcast, a number of Media Server supporting our customers to manage nearly 25 million wins across the world and continued demand for our core devices across the world.
Set-top box STB and Gateway platforms.
The Latens software-based Conditional Access and Digital STB and Media Server revenues were up 2.9%to Rights Management DRM business made good headway, $1,826.0million in 2012, driven largely by the high demand with a 68.0% growth in the number of subscribers the product for Media Servers in H2 for both DirecTVs Genie Advanced is deployed to, on both Pace and other vendors STB hardware.
Whole-Home HD DVR and the XG1 for Comcasts new X1 service.
We expect this technology trend to continue into 2013 and we recently announced the approval for production ofDirecTVs next generation HR44 Genie Media Server and C41 mini Genie client device.
1 Adjusted EBITDA is adjusted EBITA after adding back depreciation.
2 By volume 2011 : IMS Research The World Market for Digital Set-top Boxes & iDTVs 2012 Edition.
3 By value 2011 : Infonetics Broadband CPE and Subscribers Report 2Q2012.
06 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc Software and Services revenues in North America increased by 7.2% Business performance to $83.9 million.
This revenue is primarily comprised of customer care, Paces markets have remained resilient during the year, ECO Service Management software and professional services.
withPayTVcontinuing to show growth despite difficult global economic conditions and perceived disruptive threats from new Latin America Over-the-Top OTT market entrants.
Overall, in the markets in The Latin America Latam market is a large, diverse and fast which Pace operates, digital PayTV subscribers are expected growing market, within which Pace serves Satellite, Cable, togrow at c. 6% Compound Annual Growth Rate CAGR IPTV and hybrid operators across the region, with Brazil, 4 between 2012 and 2016.
Mexico and Argentina the key markets.
A major development this year has been the emergence of The overall market has expanded signicantly over the last few theMedia Server product.
As the market evolves to a more years and continues to display strong subscriber growth with a 7 sophisticated digital device in the home, Pace is uniquely placed predicted 16% CAGR from 2012 to 2016.
This growth is led by to support this technology upgrade cycle.
A Media Server combines a number of factors including greeneld markets, deregulation the functionality of the STB and the Gateway, augmenting traditional in Brazil and a number of growing PayTV operators in the region.
broadcast with IP-enabled services and enabling video content Demand for PayTV is strong at all levels of technology: Standard to be distributed around the home, a key component of the move Denition SD to support analogue to digital transition, High to TV Everywhere.
This product category will evolve to become Denition HD continues to grow to meet growing consumer the main hub of the home, enabling any data connectivity expectations and operators are starting to develop high-end video, broadband, home automation, etc.
around the home Personal Video Recorders PVRs and Media Servers for roll out with both operator-provided and consumer-purchased devices.
Pace was recently identied as a market leader in this product Pace achieved a double-digit increase in profits in Latam despite category by industry analysts IHS Screen Digest, a position revenues being down by 20.2% to $374.4 million 2011: $469.0 million.
5 which is forecast to continue to at least 2016.
Pace reduced supply of low end Zapper STBs with aresultant North America loss of revenue but has benefited from focusing onhigh-end North America is the largest, most advanced and most profitable products and integrated hardware and softwaresolutions.
market for digital PayTV and broadband technology in the world, Paces business in Latam continues to diversify: Pace is now with over 110 million PayTV subscribers and close to 120 million providing product to eight of the ten largest PayTV providers in 6 broadband connections.
We believe the digital PayTV market the region and is making good progress in the sale and delivery inNorth America will continue to see low single-digit annual of integrated solutions comprising Pace hardware and software, growth in subscribers for the foreseeable future.
as well as Gateways and next generation Media Server products.
Pace is the only vendor to the largest operators in each of the The Company remains confident that Latam offers strong revenues Cable, Satellite and Telco markets, serving Comcast, DirecTV and profitability and is strategically well positioned in key markets and AT&T respectively.
In each case Pace supplies their most and customers in the region.
In addition, Pace also serves Europe alarge number of tier two Cable and Telco operators in both Europe remains a fragmented and highly customer-specic the USA and Canada.
Revenues in Europe were down by 12.1% Total revenues in North America increased by 23.7% to to$402.4 million 2011: $457.7 million.
HDD supply disruption $1,317.6million in 2012 2011: $1,065.1 million, driven largely by had animpact in this region but the decrease was mainly due strong demand from DirecTV and Comcast for Media Server to a reduced win rate of new products in 2011, which has adversely products in H2.
These confirmed Paces continued position of affected revenue in 2012.
Sales performance is improving and technological leadership in our sector and we remain confident we have achieved key wins in new and existing customers.
about the long-term strength of the market for our products in 8 Single-digit growth is predicted in the underlying European market : North America.
however, we expect significant growth in the Media Server area Gateway revenues increased by 14.5% to $448.7 million reecting of the market as operators in Europe follow the innovation of the continuing demand for high performance Residential Gateways North American operators.
Pace has been awarded the Media from Telcos and Internet Service Providers ISPs to effectively Server business for both Telenet the largest Cable operator in deliver high quality triple-play services.
Belgium, part-owned by Liberty Global and Get TV in Norway.
5 IHS Screen Digest Multimedia Home Gateways: The future of the digital home 2013.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc 07 Overview Chief Executive Ofcers Review Continued Business performance continued Board changes Europe continued On 6 September 2012, we welcomed Amanda Mesler totheBoard In addition, the Group is seeing increasing demand from operators as a new Non-executive Director.
for integrated solutions, incorporating Pace hardware and software Mike Inglis will be retiring from his role as a Non-executive Director assets, that can be quickly deployed and that enable the operator on the Board at the Annual General Meeting on24 April 2013. to innovate and differentiate in highly competitive markets.
Pace is focused on developing opportunities in this area of the 2013 outlook market and has a number of projects underway.
Pace has made considerable progress in 2012 but there remains Rest of World further opportunity in 2013 to develop and improve the performance Rest of World covers a diverse range of markets which are of the Company.
We have a strong management team that is developing at different rates: the highly developed markets in working well together and have a relentless focus on the execution Australia, New Zealand and South East Asia: the fast following of the Strategic Plan.
markets in Middle East and Africa: and the fast growing Indian The PayTV market that the Company serves remains resilient market.
Revenues in Rest of World are down 2.7% to $309.0 million and the demand for our products and services continues to 2011: $317.5 million.
This decrease was primarily due to HDD beencouraging.
Next generation Media Server products are supply disruption in H1 as a number of operators delayed large performing strongly in the US market where technology upgrade marketing campaigns due to the higher input prices of the supply is driving revenue growth.
In 2013, we will start to roll out these constrained components.
products to other operators in North America and other regions.
Australia and New Zealand are traditionally strong markets for In addition, as the Group continues to develop its Software, Pace.
In H1 2012, the Company launched its first advanced Services and Integrated Solutions offerings, we are seeing increased integrated solution with Sky New Zealand.
In H2 2012, Foxtel opportunities for these assets in all markets that Pace serves.
the largest PayTV operator in Australia, selected a Pace Going into 2013, the Group has a clear plan and good line solution, consisting of Pace Elements software and Pace Media ofsight to making further progress.
Server hardware, to deliver their next generation subscription TV service.
The integrated whole home solution will enable Foxtels subscribers to consume, discover and manage their Mike Pulli viewing experience on any screen and from any location.
Chief Executive officer India is a key growth market for Pace as the country experiences 5 March 2013 large PayTV subscriber growth and the transition from analogue to digital progresses in the Cable sector.
During the year, Pace secured deals with a number of operators for its integrated solution for Cable which combines STB hardware, Elements software platform and Latens Conditional Access System.
The Company remains confident that these markets will provide significant growth opportunities both at the high end of the market with HD, PVR and Media Server products and also as the uptake of PayTV and digitisation continues in emerging greeneld markets, allowing Pace to increase its footprint with new customers through Software and Integrated Solutions.
08 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Pace plc
