CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW PayPoint has had another good year, in which we have delivered earnings growth PayPoint.
net ghts online fraud FraudGuard 4 from PayPoint.
net is one of the in line with market expectations and our strategic plans.
Our UK and Irish retail most powerful defences available to online business has continued to grow and remains highly profitable and cash generative, our businesses against online fraud, ID theft and Romanian business is now profitable with good prospects for further growth and our exposure to global fraud risks.
Its exible Collect and PayByPhone businesses have made good progress.
real-time functionality enables them to make quick and safe decisions to accept business The essence of the groups capability is the processing of high volume, consumer and revenue, according to a predetermined transactions, whether for payment or value added services, for example, parcel acceptable level of risk.
Clients can verify fullment, through a exible platform, adding value to clients in specic vertical and process legitimate transactions without markets.
In the case of payments, these are low value transactions and embrace retail, delay while tracking signs of possible ID theft, internet and mobile technologies and include money owing to, as well as from, the such as mis-use or multiple use of a card, IP address, email address or billing address.
The platform is connected to retailers and internet merchants across a number of different geographies, to whom we seek to add value through the provision As a leading online gaming provider, of relevant additional services.
Core to our proposition is to provide consumers with the ability to accept or deny transactions greater convenience.
We are able to grow the business through targeting more clients immediately is vital.
Our customers are using in vertical markets, more verticals, more retailers and more merchants, driving more a real-time service so we have to make quick consumers to use our services.
decisions as to whether payments are genuine or not.
We rely on FraudGuard 4 to automate Our strategy: the decision making as far as possible, while Our strategy remains unchanged.
Since the otation of the original UK & Irish retail minimising our exposure to risk.
FraudGuards network business in 2004, PayPoint has evolved into a specialist payments company.
exibility in assessing risk helps us to accept more payments and improve our service to Our strategy has four key elements: customers.
Motie Bring, Head of Transaction Services, PKR Breadth of payments capability The acceptance of a broad range of payments cash, cards, e-money, etc.
through multiple channels retail, internet and mobile phone Strength in vertical markets Targeting sectors with high volume, recurring consumer payments Value added content services Providing additional content or services to the payment channels and chosen vertical markets to create differentiation Geographic reach Identifying regions with attractive payment dynamics to create value through Western Union in Romania exporting our know-how PayPoint Romanias agents are now able to offer their customers a money transfer service PayPoint has succeeded in introducing this broad payment hub capability to clients via Western Union on PayPoints multiin a number of key vertical markets energy utilities, telecoms and media, financial, function terminal.
Romanian consumers can transport parking, public sector social housing, retail and gaming leisure, with the now go to their local convenience store to send and receive money in the local currency.
ability to process payments using the consumers preferred method of payment Being able to offer Western Union is a major and channel.
The delivery of payments from consumers to our clients encompasses benefit for PayPoint retailers.
Not only can transaction authorisation, processing, clearing and settlement and interfacing to banks, they provide a further valuable local service card schemes networks and other financial intermediaries.
PayPoint also provides to their customers, but it also earns additional value added content and services within each channel, to differentiate the PayPoint commission income and generates incremental proposition from those of its competitors.
footfall by attracting new customers.
In our retail channels, differentiation is achieved through providing retailers with a broad range of retail services, including ATMs, credit and debit card processing, parcel Joining forces with PayPoint in Romania will collections and returns service, SIM cards and international money transfer.
The high ensure that the service is available to more people at the most convenient time and quality of service delivery to retailers is also critical to differentiation.
location, making it more convenient to send money to loved ones abroad and to receive In the internet channel, differentiation to merchants is driven through a widening base payments sent to Romania.
of acquiring bank relationships increasingly in different geographies and payment Declan Daly, Regional Vice President, types, together with the quality of our fraud screening and reporting products.
Central Europe, Western Union Our mobile channel, delivered through PayByPhone, will similarly drive differentiation through its ability to leverage our cash retail payment capability and internet payment services, combined with improving the consumer experience.
The extension of our geographic reach is progressing.
PayPoint plc annual report 2012 3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Direct partnerships with the Growth and prospectslo housing sector PayPoint accepts cash payments for more Technology than 750 housing associations across the UK, Technology is at the heart of our service delivery and differentiation in all our as well as over 260 local authorities.
Having businesses and we plan to invest heavily in this area.
We see increasing opportunities traditionally partnered with third parties to to integrate our payment channel technologies to provide better, more efficient and work with these organisations, PayPoint has complete solutions to our clients across a single platform, irrespective of whether developed the facility to become their exclusive their customer has paid in a store, online or on their phone.
As our businesses grow, payment services provider and is already investments in improved reporting and retail agent management systems will continue handling all cash payments made by some to enhance our ability to provide customers with a unique service and will contribute to 90,000 housing association tenants for rent, further profitable growth.
The reporting system under development for internet clients repairs and other services.
Building further on will be developed further for extension to other clients across all distribution channels.
the synergies offered by group companies, we As we invest in this more integrated solution, we also plan to consolidate our data also enable tenants to make their payments over the internet using a new online payments centres on two hosted sites.
website, developed by PayPoint and powered by PayPoint.
In our UK retail network, we have rolled out our virtual terminal to multiple retailers - a software variant of our terminal which is integrated into the retailers till systems, in With more extensive coverage throughout conjunction with a bespoke PayPoint plug-in reader to provide the full functionality the UK of any retail network and a familiar of the physical terminal more efficiently and at lower cost.
In-store, this allows our brand to many of their residents and service to be available at every check-out lane, eliminates the need for reconciliation tenants, PayPoint is the most accessible and with the main till system, accelerates transaction speed and saves communications and cost-effective partner for local authorities till roll costs.
Over 2,600 sites now have this technology in retailers such as McColls and housing associations to manage cash and One Stop and these stores have benefitted not only from increased efficiency, but collections.
Where existing terminals are replaced by virtual terminals, we refurbish them for deployment in Romania.
An increasing number of our terminals are being connected through broadband links rather than dial-up, dramatically improving the speed of online transactions and the breadth of services that we can potentially offer the retailer in-store.
The transition to broadband links will continue through the year.
We have introduced an agent extranet for our UK agents.
Currently, agent invoicing and financial details for each agent are available using this facility.
We plan to roll this out to all agents, which will reduce paper, postage and some incoming agent calls to Home top-up for online meter the call centre.
We will further develop the agent extranet as a means of marketing to payments and communicating with our retail agents.
Utility customers with prepayment meters have traditionally gone to a PayPoint agent for topDevelopment work on cash out services, the Simple Payment service for the DWP, is at ups, using a plastic card or key, which is then an advanced stage and will be ready for implementation during the course of this year.
However, as some As a result, our retailer settlement systems will be more streamlined, reducing exposure meter customers do not need to pay in cash to retailers and will allow the cash balances we generate through bill payment to be and increasingly have access to e-commerce, recycled back to consumers, saving retailers bank charges and increasing in-store spend.
PayPoint has developed a new service in partnership with its utility clients and meter In Romania, we have completed the development of our money transfer proposition on manufacturers Itron and Siemens for those the terminal and the service is now live and showing encouraging growth.
customers with home top-up units to top up certain electricity and gas meters by visiting In the internet channel, we are developing substantial improvements to our services to the clients websites to make a debit card online merchants.
These include transaction optimisation, an advanced management payment at any time of day or night.
They can and reporting solution, a PCI compliance offering and additional payment methods, also use the system to monitor their usage.
which should provide significant competitive advantage.
PayByPhone is introducing a The payment processing capability is managed new, consumer friendly mobile web parking registration and payment system.
UK retail network Home Energy customers often highlight We are focused on providing increased retail services through our retail networks and home top-up as one of the main reasons they stay with their current supplier and, as have increased the size of the eld sales force by 50 per cent to help deliver growth a result, churn of home top-up customers is in revenue.
Net revenues from these services increased 28 per cent last year.
These signicantly lower than other top-up standard services include parcels, ATMs, SIM cards, debit and credit card acceptance, advertising pay as you go customers.
on till receipts and money transfer.
We will continue to invest in the retail network with technologies such as our virtual terminal and broadband communication links, and in new ATMs to optimise the growth of existing and future retail services.
We are planning to launch our Simple Payment service for the DWP to replace cheque benefit payments later in the year, which will provide us with a larger scale cash out opportunity to supplement existing cash out schemes.
Romanian retail network The Romanian network is now profitable, driven by the optimisation of existing sites and increasing bill payment volumes and which we expect to continue as we market to consumers.
The launch of money transfer, as the first retail service proposition, is showing early signs of success as Romanians opt for the convenience provided by their local shop instead of travelling to a bank.
4 PayPoint plc annual report 2012 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued Internet NFC-enabled cashless parking with Alongside the introduction of the new integrated systems referred to under Technology PayByPhone above, we expect to sign up further new merchants and to benefit from the launch of PayByPhone has launched one of the largest deployments of near eld communications a new enterprise level, real-time data reporting platform.
net NFC payment solutions in the world.
The the opportunity to differentiate further its payments capability to merchants both in the San Francisco Municipal Transportation UK and abroad and will add profitable growth.
Agency SFMTA selected PayByPhone to give drivers the option automatically to launch the PayByPhone PayByPhone app with NFC-enabled mobile PayByPhone, one of the worldwide leaders in mobile phone parking, has the potential phones.
The PayByPhone NFC stickers on the to replace traditional parking meters or provide a system for payment for parking citys 30,800 parking meters have a passive where none exists in many major cities around the world.
We have added significant electronic chip that does not require a battery sales and development resources and we are currently tendering to several large and stores information that can be read parking authorities as well as a large number of smaller opportunities in the UK, wirelessly by any NFC-enabled phone.
The France and North America.
Sales lead times are extended in this market and somewhat motorist simply waves the phone close to the unpredictable, but our momentum continues to be encouraging, with wins in Hackney, sticker and the system recognises the user and Lambeth, City of London, Swindon, Coral Gables in Florida and Ottawa in Canada identies the individual parking location.
amongst others over the past year.
We have also made encouraging progress in applying our mobile payment capability beyond parking, in winning a tolling contract It is our aim to offer greater choice and for a major road bridge in Canada, further bicycle rental contracts in France and an convenience to drivers in San Francisco.
integration into Veolias French bus ticketing system.
Drivers no longer have to worry about carrying sufficient coins: they get text message We continue to focus on improving the consumer experience through mobile phone reminders before parking time expires and can apps and improved registration processes as well as reducing the cost to serve.
The add time by phone without returning launch of our contactless NFC parking solution in San Francisco was one of the worlds to their car when they have not exceeded any maximum stay restrictions.
Including largest implementations of NFC technology and is being adopted by other cities in NFC technology in this service allows us to North America and Europe.
PayByPhone is now integrated into PayPoint.
net and is take advantage of the expected benets in now able to benefit from the latters payment processing capability.
more than we anticipated in addressing the sales opportunities, including expenditure on technology.
This expenditure has been rewarded by 66 new business wins, more than any of our competitors, but the revenue lags the win as it takes time to contract, install and ramp up the service.
We will continue to invest at this high rate, the consequence of which will be a further loss in the current year.
Collect Our parcels joint venture 50:50 with Yodel has continued to progress strongly, with PayPoint Rapid substantial endorsement from the online retailing community and resulting growth in PayPoint has introduced a new payments transaction volumes.
Collect has been recognised in prestigious industry awards for terminal which speeds up transaction times using a standard broadband connection, its innovative parcel delivery and returns service.
Yodels current integration of two leading to improved customer service.
The businesses into one completes in the first half of our current reporting year.
Collect PayPoint Rapid terminal benets busy shops processes over five million transactions per annum based on transaction volumes in doing a high volume of mobile top-ups and March 2012 and is making good progress towards breakeven volume.
other online transactions such as Western Union, prepaid cards and vouchers, by Our plans for the current year speeding up transactions and reducing the We will continue to make further progress in the four elements of our strategy to time spent by staff putting them through increase shareholder value: more payment channel options, specialisation in vertical the terminal.
markets, value added services and geographic reach.
We plan to make good progress in both the established and developing businesses, notably through continuing growth PayPoint Rapid is designed to improve of retail services in both the UK and Romania and internet payments and by adding the overall service PayPoint provides to its new customers to Collect and PayByPhone.
It is complemented by an exclusive discounted broadband deal, which PayPoint Early benets from the synergy between our various business streams, with more has negotiated on behalf of its agents, to help clients in our selected verticals taking multi-channel services have encouraged us to them access the latest technology at the same push this dynamic more strongly as newer business areas bed in and system platforms time as reducing their operating costs.
can be developed across the group.
We have strengthened the management in our UK retail network with the appointment of a UK Managing Director and the business is already benefiting from his increased level of focus.
PayPoint is one of the companies best placed to make further gains in the fast moving payment industry, particularly in e-commerce, and has a market leading position in retail services, on which we intend to build.
Dominic Taylor Chief Executive 24 May 2012 PayPoint plc annual report 2012 5
