06 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Chairmans statement 2012 was another good year for Petrofac.
Despite the marketplace remaining competitive, we continued to grow, increasing revenue by 9% to US$6,324 million and earnings by 17% to US$632 million.
Marketplace Dividends From strategy to delivery Despite the continuing global economic The Company proposes a final dividend of Petrofac is in business for the long term.
uncertainty, demand for energy has remained 43.00 cents per share for the year ended Aswell as having the exacting medium-term strong.
More importantly, we expect to 31December 2012 2011: 37.20 cents, aim of more than doubling recurring 2010 1 seegrowth in demand for energy, including which, if approved, will be paid to Group earnings by 2015, we aspire to oil and gas, over the very long term.
shareholders on 24 May 2013 provided betheworlds most admired oileld Coupledwith the natural decline in existing oil theywere on the register on 19 April 2013. servicecompany.
and gas production, this creates a need for Shareholders who have not elected large-scale investment in oil and gas by26February 2013 to receive dividends While we will continue to build on our existing infrastructure.
This should ensure demand inUS dollars will receive a sterling equivalent strengths, we aim to deliver on our strategy forour services remains strong.
We also see of 28.40 pence per share.
across three key areas: geographical strong industry demand for commercially expansion, broadening our offshore capability innovative, integrated oileld services, Together with the interim dividend of and implementing our IES strategy.
We are whichare helping to build long-term 21.00cents per share 2011: 17.40 cents, expanding to new markets such as Mexico, sustainable earnings for the Group.
equivalent to 13.45 pence, this gives a total where we now have four long-term contracts.
dividend for the year of 64.00 cents per share We have made good progress with our 2011: 54.60 cents, an increase of 17%, offshore strategy, where we are looking to inline with the increase in net profit.
build a differentiated offshore business that will give access to top tier projects.
1 Our Group earnings target is net profit after tax ofmore than US$862 million by 2015, at least adoubling of 2010 recurring earnings.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 07 Wehave achieved significant milestones on At the start of 2012, we welcomed Marwan Our people our portfolio of Integrated Energy Services Chedid and Ren Mdori to the Board.
The Board makes a point of getting out projects, which are building long-term Marwan is our Chief Executive of Engineering, intothe business.
Meeting customers and sustainable earnings for the Group.
Construction, Operations & Maintenance employees is always a highlight of such andRen joined as a Non-executive Director visits.
I continue to be struck by the To be able to deliver our strategy we face becoming a member of our Audit, Board capabilities andpositive, problem-solving various challenges.
We particularly want Riskand Nominations Committees.
They are quite toprotect and improve our execution Theseappointments complete a period exceptional at identifying customer needs capabilities and we need to keep building ofchange over the last two years.
Ourbroad and delivering the right solutions, on time ouroverall resource.
The Fit for 2015 mix of skills, experience and nationalities andto budget.
I would like to thank each of programme, which was launched in 2012 mean that there is little danger ofgroup them for the sterling work they do, much isdesigned to improve all our existing think.
Our discussions are informed, honest ofwhich is complex, arduous and carried processes with a view to helping us work and vigorous.
Once we have agreed on a outinchallenging environments.
This year we continued to course of action, we all align rmly behind it.
improve our capability but we still need to recruit a substantial number of people over Outlook the nextve years if we are to keep growing Setting the tone Whilst the situation in the Middle East and thebusiness in line with our plans.
It is essential that we promote our values if North Africa continues to be uncertain Notwithstanding the scale of the task, Petrofac is to maintain its distinctive culture.
andthe global economic outlook remains Iamcondent that we will be able to do this The Board should lead by example and challenging, Petrofac is well positioned.
as the Group has been building its Human beseen to be safe, ethical, innovative, Global demand for hydrocarbons is Resources capability over a number of years.
responsive, quality and cost conscious, expectedto continue to rise and our principal Given the large number of people who will anddriven to deliver.
customers, the national oil companies, bejoining our Group, it is essential that we continue to invest andfurthermore welcome continue to promote Petrofacs long-standing In considering how the Board espouses the innovative commercial solutions that we values in order to preserve what makes the Company values, two particular occasions are able to offerplus our commitment to Group unique.
this year come to mind: our annual developing local capability.
Whilst 2012 was safetyconference and Petrofacs EVE characterised by Onshore Engineering & Awardsceremony: Construction customers delaying awards, Our Board wethink the situation will improve during The Governance report on pages 64 to 87 t safety is one of our most important 2013.
Inthe meantime, our Integrated Energy explains what the Board did during 2012 but values, as bets our potentially hazardous Services division has many opportunities.
I would like to highlight two areas of Board industry.
The attendance of our Executive focus: our risk management framework and Directors at the safety conference in April Our backlog gives us very good visibility of capability building.
was a clear demonstration ofthe emphasis revenues for the coming year and we have we place on safety.
LordCullen of ahealthy bidding pipeline combined with Our Board Risk Committee has continued to Whitekirk, who led the 1990 public inquiry anexceptional management team and a strengthen our risk management framework.
into the Piper Alpha oil rig disaster, was our robust and ambitious strategy.
If we retain It identied 13 areas of risk which would keynote speaker our values, can-do culture and capable threaten the overall health of the Group t our internal recognition programme, workforce, I have every confidence that including delivery of our strategic goals.
theEVE Awards, stand for Excellence, 2013will prove another successful year.
Wehave developed a number of metrics Values and Energy and honour the foreach of these areas, which we will employees who best embody our values.
We intend to build on this work in The 2012 awards presentation was held 2013 and will continue to develop our key atour Leadership Conference in November, enterprise risk prole.
attended by our 100 top leaders.
I was delighted to present this years ethical Norman Murray Following a recent period of Board change, behaviour award.
It was clear how much Non-executive Chairman our Nominations Committee has been able the awards, and the high prole given to tospend more time reviewing executive them, meant to the winners succession planning this year.
We intend to continue concentrating on this vital area next year.
In addition the Board has devoted considerable time to reviewing our HumanResources strategy and has been much encouraged.
Over the last few years there have been a number of initiatives introduced relating to retention, recruitment, performance management and capability mapping.
These will be essential for delivery of the necessary capability.
08 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 Overview Interview with the Group Chief Executive Group Chief Executive, Ayman Asfari reects on the operational and contract highlights of 2012 and outlines the Groups strategic drivers which underpin its 2015 goals.
Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2012 09 2012 has been another successful year In the light of Petrofacs strategic for Petrofac.
How does the Company ambition to grow its offshore continue to deliver strong results and a engineering, procurement, installation good operational performance, despite and construction EPIC business, what the challenging economy?
is the signicance of the creation of Offshore Capital Projects OCP ?
Our achievements are driven by our people and their passion for delivery.
Despite the challenging macro-environment, the fundamentals Our offshore business has historically been focused on operations, for our sector remain positive and strong oil prices are encouraging maintenance and integrity management, particularly in the UKCS hydrocarbon resource holders to invest in their assets and such as our contract with Apache in the North Sea for the Forties and infrastructure, across the world.
Our talented men and women Beryl assets.
In the past few years we have been responding to our areresponding to these opportunities.
customer needs and delivering large scale offshore developments in the UK Continental Shelf Dons and Greater Stella Area and in Malaysia Cendor, West Desaru, Berantai and Sepat.
What are the three key things you want So, weve been building our track record and we see continuing to report to shareholders this year?
demand in this sector and a growing requirement from our customers for more effective delivery solutions.
The establishment of our OCP I.
The success of our two divisional structure service line, which is led by Yves Inbona, and is part of our ECOM The organisational structure that we implemented at the start of last division, gives us a greater focus on this important market.
OCP has year is working very well and both divisions had a good first full year of agood pipeline of bidding opportunities.
We are aiming to build upon operations.
Marwan Chedid and Andy Inglis, Chief Executives of our existing track record by deepening our offshore technical ECOM and IES, respectively, have done an excellent job of capability and investing in selected assets to provide access to these establishing and leading their businesses.
As we intended, the new markets.
structure is proving simpler for customers to understand, enables us to focus more clearly on our strategic goals and helps the business work more closely together to integrate our services.
What were the operational highlights of II.
The rapid development of IES the year?
Building IES is one of our three strategic growth priorities.
In 2012, thedivision increased earnings signicantly and secured major There have been many operational landmarks this year, including: contracts in both new and existing geographies.
In Mexico, for example, by the second half of this year, we will be operating four t The introduction, in October 2012, of first gas at Berantai, elds and will then be the second biggest producer in the country offshoreMalaysia, under our Risk Services Contract with next to national oil company, PEMEX.
The IES leadership team has PETRONAS, Malaysias national oil company.
We met a very made excellent progress in developing the technical and management challenging development schedule to achieve this from concept strength of the division, providing a sound platform for further strong selection to rstgas in just 21 months growth.
t The swift establishment of our operations in Mexico.
From a standing start, we created a fully functioning business by the end III.
Continued excellence in execution capability ofthe year and secured four production enhancement contracts Operationally, we had another very good year across the Group.
in12 months Ourportfolio is in excellent shape and, most importantly, customers t Our success in delivering large-scale onshore projects atsites like are pleased with our service.
Asab in Abu Dhabi, andat El Merk in Algeria t Offshore Projects & Operations maintained its focus on asset integrity and safety, signicantly reducing Lost Time Incidents compared with previous years, against an overall increase in man-hours worked t Wemade two small, yetstrategic, capability enhancing acquisitions during the year, andwelcomed KW Limited, a subsea specialist consultancy, and Oilennium Limited, an e-learning business, into our Engineering & Consulting Services and Training Services service lines respectively t Also in the year, and in line with our IES strategy to help resource holders develop their assets and the capability of their workforces, Training Services formed a strategic partnership with PETRONAS and was appointed to design and build two training facilities inMalaysia
