Business Review Chief Executive Officers Report In 2012, Playtech strengthened its position as the clear market leader in the provision of software and services to the global gaming industry.
Overview Regulated Markets During the year, Playtech undertook a Playtech again delivered an outstanding Regulated markets continue to present significant level of activity in anticipation of financial and operational performance significant potential for revenue growth and Spanish regulation and further liberalisation in a year of significant change for the online Playtech is in a prime position to take advantage in Italy.
The Company has enjoyed pleasing gaming market.
The Company increased of global market developments, such as those revenue growth following the launch in June revenue by 53% to 317.5 million, gross income in Italy, Denmark, Spain, the Netherlands, of regulated casino, poker and sports betting in by 51% to 368.1 million and adjusted EBITDA Greece and Germany.
Pleasingly, we announced Spain and the launch in December of regulated grew by 49%.
that Playtechs joint venture with Gauselmann, online slots in Italy.
created in January 2012, was awarded two During the period, Playtech expanded its licenses by the state of Schleswig-Holstein for In the UK, the third and final phase of the Gala product offering both organically and through online casino and sports betting a year later.
Coral programme was completed in the last acquisitions, secured 19 new licensees including quarter of the year and Betfair commenced major operators such as Gala Coral and Betclic While Playtech continued to focus on its poker migration to the iPoker network.
Everest, further extended its relationships with increasing income from regulated markets, After the highly successful launch of coral.
co. uk, existing licensees, and entered into significant revenue from dot.
com operators also increased Gala migrated most of its product verticals onto new joint venture opportunities.
These operators provide liquidity in Playtechs IMS platform.
The offering includes most regulated markets and are important some of Playtechs more recent innovations, The Company has the operational capacity to the Companys strategy, as they establish including the Playtech portal, a new mobile to stimulate future growth, specifically in themselves in regulated markets and provide hub and an improved IMS.
The current results mobile gaming, which enjoyed a triple digit the cornerstone for our activities in regulated from Gala Coral are exceeding expectations, percentage performance increase.
In order and soon to be regulated markets.
illustrating the cumulative, positive impact to maintain its high level of customer service, derived through the cross-selling opportunities Playtech invested in new product development In France, Betclic Everest launched with afforded by an integrated offering.
related to the mobile hub, IMS and player portal, Playtechs iPoker network on iPoker.
fr and enabling operators to create a bespoke player iPoker.
This was followed by In November, the Dutch government experience, and grew its employee base by the launch of Unibet.
fr at the beginning of this announced plans to sell the state-owned 63% to support the business and its customers.
Betfair has also commenced its migration casino monopoly and legalise online gaming onto the iPoker network, which is due to be to increase competition.
The government Importantly, the Company surpassed a major completed in July 2013.
These developments is expected to introduce a draft framework milestone in achieving a Premium Listing on have cemented Playtechs leadership in the for consultation in the spring of 2013 with a Londons Main Market in July and was included poker market as the natural network of choice.
finalised law expected to be approved by the in the FTSE 250 Index in September.
We anticipate that Playtech and its licensees will seek to benefit from these changes in the Dutch market.
4 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts Signs from the US are encouraging, with Mobile gaming continues to be one of the Playtechs recent the news that the states of New Jersey and most significant growth drivers of the global acquisitions continue Nevada are to legalise online gaming and poker online gaming industry.
Playtechs launch of to deliver significant respectively.
As a result, other US states may the mobile hub in late 2012 has combined the contemplate similar actions, however, such established Mobenga mobile sports betting benefits in terms of developments are in their infancy and there solution with other gaming products.
This revenue, product capability, remains much work to do to resolve regulatory, combination uniquely positions the Company political and practical considerations.
A number to capitalise on further developments in this cross-sell opportunity of strategic partnerships are being pursued to sector.
Mobile gaming is essential to Playtechs and licensee relationships.
prepare for the potential opportunities offered future success and we have invested heavily by this large, diverse market.
to develop the next generation of products, maximising new functionality on tablets and Elsewhere, the Company signed an agreement smartphones, while continuing to roll out with Mexican market leader Caliente, and products across all mobile platforms, including management believes that Playtech, given Android, Apple iOS and HTML5.
its commitment and proven track record, is positioned as the natural choice for operators Playtechs proven strategy further strengthened in different regulated markets.
its market position, and the Company is seen as the leading software and services supplier Strategic Positioning to the online gaming industry, as evidenced Playtechs strategy of organic development, by Playtech winning the Gaming Awards for targeted acquisitions, partnerships and iGaming software supplier of the year.
joint ventures has enabled it to maximise opportunities created by the significant Acquisitions changes in the online gaming industry.
Playtechs recent acquisitions, including The industry is moving towards locally Mobenga, Ash Gaming and Geneity, along regulated markets as governments see the with PTTS, have been fully integrated and implementation of gaming tax and the sale continue to deliver significant benefits in of regulatory licenses as significant revenue terms of revenue, product capability, cross-sell streams.
Land-based and digital channels opportunity and licensee relationships.
are converging as regulatory authorities issue gaming licenses to land-based casinos for both Playtechs capacity for further bolt-on static and online offerings.
Through being able acquisitions and joint ventures will be enhanced to offer a full turnkey solution, Playtech is able considerably following receipt of approximately to partner with local brands and casinos to take 424 million for the sale of Playtechs 29% advantage of these opportunities.
stake in William Hill Online, which is expected to complete by the end of April.
Industry Awards in the Past Year: Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Business Review Chief Executive Officers Report continued Licensees Casino Playtech aims to provide its licensees with On 11 March 2013, Playtech announced Playtechs flagship product delivered another market-leading content, features, tools and landmark software and services agreements outstanding performance in 2012.
Revenues a broad range of services that support and with Ladbrokes.
The existing Playtech offering increased 33% from a combination of organic enhance their businesses.
to Ladbrokes, which includes the provision growth, the addition of new licensees, of bingo and software for land-based video expansion of the games portfolio, now Betclic Everest launched its poker products licensing terminals, will extend to all product including all Ash Gaming products, growth from on the iPoker network for dot.
verticals other than sports betting, using a mobile and the revamped live dealer offering, In addition, several other licensees increased phased approach.
The second is a significant which is now available through all interactive the number of product verticals licensed from agreement for PTTS to provide Ladbrokes with channels, including mobile.
These developments reflect Playtechs advisory services and to license sophisticated are a valuable marketing tool for Playtech, success in strengthening its relationships CRM methodologies and business intelligence and the Company has the largest portfolio with existing licensees through an integrated to assist in the development and growth of games available across multiple delivery solution, which helps deliver maximum of Ladbrokess digital business.
This is an channels including online, mobile, TV and player yields.
outstanding transaction for PTTS, which gaming terminals.
During 2012, Playtech continues to develop, delivering significant launched 35 games and 21 branded games.
Gala Coral completed its three-stage returns for the Company, which are anticipated programme to move its entire online gaming to increase following the agreement with PTTS operation to Playtechs IMS, which we believe Ladbrokes.
Playtech offers affiliate marketing services and serves as a significant endorsement of the sophisticated CRM solutions, combined with Companys market-leading cross-product Products and Services advanced player management tools, which technology.
Playtech now provides Gala Coral In 2012, Playtech made further investment into are of particular interest to new market entrants with an improved IMS, a newly developed its product offering, extending its capabilities requiring a full turnkey solution as well as portal, innovative mobile hub, and a full both horizontally and vertically through existing operators that would like to boost range of gaming products.
Gala Coral will use in-house development as well as through the their online gaming operations.
Playtechs systems to manage all of its online introduction of acquired products.
Playtechs activities including Gala Casino and Gala Bingo, licensees benefitted from the introduction of During the year, PTTS grew to become as well as Coral.
the mobile hub and portal, as well as the IMS, Playtechs second largest vertical.
In July, enabling operators to offer a bespoke player Playtech announced that PTTS had achieved Pleasingly, Betfair decided to migrate its experience available in all formats and channels.
an annualised adjusted EBITDA in excess of poker offering to Playtechs iPoker network, The combined system facilitates a two-way 40 million in the first two quarters of 2012, commencing the migration plan in the year information flow from the IMS, providing fulfilling the condition for acceleration of with completion anticipated for July 2013. licensees with greater real-time insight and the additional consideration of 140 million.
control, and players with an improved user The additional consideration outstanding In connection with the regulation of the experience thereby maximising the potential at year end is scheduled to be paid in three Spanish, French and Danish markets, Playtech of licensee online gaming operations.
instalments ending in January 2014. gained a number of new licensees.
Certain existing licensees also underwent regulation and now offer their services on a dot.
local basis as compared to a previous dot.
Playtechs flagship casino product delivered revenue growth of 33% in 2012.
6 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts The acquisition of PTTS has been highly Poker The acquisition of successful, delivering outstanding results.
The international poker market remained PTTS has been highly We have also demonstrated that the ability to challenging throughout the year.
However, successful, delivering offer a full turnkey solution or advisory services Playtech recorded an uplift in revenue in is essential to attracting further business the latter part of the fourth quarter and outstanding results.
Through PTTS we can provide the beginning of 2013 following a number operators, both existing and new licensees, of new licensees joining the iPoker network.
com operators or new entrants in regulated markets, access to best of breed During the year, as part the phased migration marketing and CRM services as well as other plan, Gala Coral launched on the iPoker network ancillary services.
PTTS has a proven track followed by Betclic and Everest who launched record of more than a decade and is a on the iPoker.
com networks and fundamental element to the future success Betfair.
com, which launched on iPoker.
These licensee wins in conjunction with Playtechs poker liquidity programme Bingo initiated in August, significantly increase the Playtech provides the industrys leading bingo poker networks liquidity, which is seen as offering and operates the industrys largest key to attracting poker players and licensees bingo network.
Bingo continues to perform when choosing a supplier, and supported the strongly, increasing revenue in the period on-going improvement in poker performance.
In addition, Playtech also introduced a variation Strong organic growth was complemented of Speed Holdem which increased revenue from by the launch in the third quarter of Gala Bingo cash games.
and in the fourth quarter of vernons.
com and our mobile bingo offering, which is available iPoker remains the largest and leading on Android and Apple iOS, supported by worldwide independent poker network.
promotional activity during the final two A number of significant licensees are in weeks of the year.
discussion with Playtech regarding joining the network.
During the year a number Playtechs bingo brand, VirtueFusion, has of new CRM tools and an improved user once again won a number of industry awards, interface supported by a revamped version including eGaming Reviews Bingo Network of the poker client were launched.
of the Year, and the Bingo Summits Best Bingo Software, for the third year running.
Once again Playtech had a very substantial presence at the ICE gaming show in London in January 2012.
Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 Business Review Chief Executive Officers Report continued Videobet return on invested marketing.
Playtechs Sports In 2012, Videobet technology was deployed experience so far is that mobile presents an Sports is one of the largest gaming markets in more than 400 additional terminals, ending incremental opportunity as revenues, margins and frequently acts as the gateway for the year with approximately 23,000 machines.
and activity levels are higher compared with players to access other gaming experiences.
The expansion of Videobet into emerging and other interactive channels.
Mobile remains a Furthermore, recent events have shown that other markets, such as Mexico and Puerto Rico, key focus for the Company and development sports is typically one of the first products to together with location growth by some existing continues of the next generation of the mobile be approved in newly regulated markets.
In line licensees and new markets currently in test, offering that will be even more exciting and with our strategy to provide a comprehensive provide a solid pipeline for 2013. appealing to a larger audience.
solution, and our focus on regulated markets, the Company acquired Geneity, a world class, Mobile Live fully integrated and complete sports platform.
The growth of mobile continues to outperform Playtech was the first company to introduce There are significant opportunities for this all other product channels.
The success by live gaming products specifically tailored for business, which has been integrated with both different operators has led to significant local markets.
As technology has evolved, the the Mobenga mobile sports product and IMS, investments by the Company to ensure that popularity of live gaming formats has grown and which has already won its first two sports it captures the market leading position in the significantly.
In 2012, the live gaming product licensees.
We expect to see significant growth space.
Following the acquisition of Mobenga, underwent a comprehensive redevelopment from sports over the next quarters as more the market leader in mobile sports betting, to include new features and functions appealing licensees are added.
the Company has initiated an innovative internal specifically to live gaming players and designed programme, called the Mobile Hub, converging to capitalise on our first mover advantage mobile sports betting and mobile gaming in order to retain that lead.
In parallel, we products into one offering.
Enabled by mobile introduced a mobile version for the live gaming touch screen functionality, the new Mobile Hub product complementing the product offering creates an exciting new experience for players, available on other interactive channels.
In 2012, with the same products that are available Gala Coral migrated its live casino across its through other interactive channels and share brands and we expect additional licensees to the same poker and bingo pools and jackpots.
migrate to our live gaming offering in the near It also creates for the first time in our industry future.
In Spain, Playtech partnered in January the ability to acquire players through the sports 2013 with Casino Gran Madrid to offer live dealer betting vertical and then offer other verticals services to the Spanish market.
within the same application, maximising the Mobile and Mobile Hub The Mobile Hub combined with the market-leading mobile sportsbook provider and Playtech subsidiary Mobenga, is an open framework designed to integrate content and deliver players a seamless user experience on mobile devices.
Through a branded and unified interface, an operators full product offering is available to players on their smartphone or tablet and can be customised and managed through a centralised management system.
As an open platform, the Mobile Hub allows operators to integrate any software and content using standard and friendly APIs.
The new technology has made it quick and easy to plug-and-play both Playtech and third party mobile content minimising the work load for operators.
Built on HTML5 technology, the Mobile Hub is compatible with web browsers, native applications and across all HTML5 ready devices.
8 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Business Review Governance Sustainability Accounts People The sale process is expected to complete by Playtechs people remain key to the Companys the end of April 2013, and the Board, with its continued success.
A great example of the advisers, is undertaking a broad review of the quality of the Companys employees are their most effective use of the proceeds from the great achievement to ensure that Playtech disposal, taking into consideration feedback established itself as market leader in the mobile from shareholders and the Companys gaming space, following the introduction requirements going forward.
The Board of mobile technologies.
When the Company will, amongst other strategic options, assess assesses potential acquisition targets or the potential for further value-enhancing potential joint ventures, it places a high acquisitions, joint ventures and partnerships, value on the existence of a complementary focusing on regulated markets, together culture of employee service and innovation.
with the possibility of a return of capital to shareholders.
Playtech has a proven ability to In terms of delivery, human capital is as critical provide shareholder value through successful as financial capital.
Playtech has continued acquisitions and management is confident to invest significantly in human resources that this will continue.
to maintain its position as a leading quoted supplier of software and services to the online Outlook gaming industry by delivering innovative high Playtech has made a strong start to 2013, quality products and services to its clients.
with average daily revenues for the first 11 weeks of 2013 up over 15% on Q1 2012 and William Hill Online up 5% on Q4 2012.
With the agreed valuation of approximately 424 million for its 29% stake in William Hill The anticipated revenue from the number of Online, together with dividends received new licensees who launched during the last over the four years since inception, Playtech quarter of 2012, the introduction of slots in Italy has generated a cash return on investment and the extension of existing relationships, such of more than 3.5 times.
The success of the as the migrations of Betfair poker and unibet.
fr joint venture demonstrates the potential of followed by the progress made in the year creating significant value by combining a wellto date, such as the landmark agreement with established brand with Playtechs best of breed Ladbrokes, secures the Companys position technologies, products and services.
Playtech is in a prime participation in this joint venture, Playtech strategic position and is well capitalised to take widened the breadth of its expertise and proved advantage of opportunities from the evolving how successful and valuable a partnership of global regulatory landscape and we look this nature can be for its stakeholders.
While forward to the future with confidence.
the sale of its stake will bring to a close a highly successful and profitable joint venture for Playtech, the Company will continue to enjoy a close working relationship with William Hill, which will remain a top-five licensee.
Mor Weizer Chief Executive Ocer 14 March 2013 Playtech Limited Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9
