Business review Business review Strategy update How weve performed Strategy What we said What we did in 2012 Key achievements Our strategy to generate sustainable Q Delivered strongly in overall terms Gold equivalent production Operating to a value for our stakeholders remains against all our operating objectives and up 31% consistent, with clearly dened associated key performance indicators objectives achieving production Q Meaningful Reserve and Progressed steadily in our capacity, investing in exploration, exploration targets Resource growth through consistent strategy pursuing acquisitions, increasing exploration profitability, rening governance processes and consequent targets, Q Increased profitability and Focused on cost control key performance indicators and and efficiency cash ow measurement processes.
Strategy Objective KPI 2012 performance Q Achieve design capacity at all plants Q Achieving design capacity at current growth projects Gold equivalent produced Koz 1,063 31% and targeted production volumes Achieve design capacity at projects currently in construction or ramp-up phase by the second half of 2013 1.4 Moz in 2014 Q Average gold equivalent grade and achieve production level of 1.4 Moz of gold equivalent ounces in 2014.
Assets in construction or ramp-up Q Complete key capex projects 4.4 15% processed g t phase expected to generate production growth are the Amursk POX and Mayskoye concentrator.
Q Revenue US$ m 1,854 40% Q Capital expenditure US$ m 351 -24% Q Major project milestones completed Q Albazino achieving design parameters Q Omolon achieving design parameters after commissioning the Merrill-Crowe section Q Amursk commissioned, ramp-up underway Q Expand reserve and resource base Investment in exploration Q Resource growth with quality assets 35% Near-mine Investment in near-mine exploration with the aim of expanding the Groups reserve base and creating opportunities for Q Average resource grade GE production growth, either through grade improvement or expansion of existing processing facilities.
Assets targeted 3.3 g t for this expansion are Albazino, Khakanja and Voro.
Greeneld Q Reserve growth 6% Investment in greeneld exploration with the aim of discovering high-grade quality assets for construction of new standalone mines.
Q Average reserve grade GE 3.9 g t Q Deliver superior operating profitability Increasing profitability, cash ow generation and dividend payout Q Total cash cost GE sold 703 0% Deliver superior operating profitability and strong free cash ow by maintaining tight cost control, focusing on return on capital in investment decisions and maintaining safe debt levels.
Q Free cash ow US$139m positive Q EBITDA margin 50% 3pp Q Dividend payout ratio 79% Q Q Transactions made or agreed Acquisition of Svetlobor greeneld Pursuing synergistic value-driven acquisitions during 2012 PGM project Pursuit of selected synergistic bolt-on or other value-accretive acquisition opportunities with a view to leveraging processing Q Acquisition of Olcha bolt-on to capacity, infrastructure and operational expertise at our existing processing hubs or transforming current standalone mines Lunnoye completed in January 2013 into new hubs.
Q Maintain high standards of corporate Q Compliance with UK Refer to page 91 detailing how Rening corporate governance and social responsibility governance and sustainable Corporate Governance Code we have complied Maintain high standards of corporate governance, strictly adhering to the principles of sustainable development in our development interaction with all stakeholders in our operations, including communities, employees and government bodies.
We are Q LTIFR 0.59 -6% compliant with the majority of provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code made by the Board to ensure full compliance from June 2013.
The Group is also a participant in the UN Global Compact, a recognised international Q Social and community investments standard for sustainable development.
6m 50% US$ Q GHG emissions 1.8 -10% tonnes per 10Kt ore mined 16 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 17 Business review Business review Hub Delivering on our promises The Polymetal hub structure efficient processing model Our strategy of creating centralised processing facilities to treat ores and concentrates from surrounding sources enables us to run operations that are characterised by efficiency, Driving hub development and capital and cost effectiveness.
We have further developed this system during the year, and by the end of 2014 we expect our Amursk, Omolon, Dukat and Khakanja hubs to be producing up to 80% of the Groups total output.
and production growth Standalone mining Processing Key exploration operations plants projects What we said Omolon Amursk Production Our original annual gold equivalent production estimate of 1 Moz for 2012 was increased during the year to An excellent performance reecting Russias first operating pressure This has been a very rewarding 1.05 Moz, and although we had set ourselves some the successful implementation oxidation plant year in terms of production results, typically stretching targets we nished the year delighted with the outcome.
of our hub concept with total gold equivalent production of 1.06 Moz 31% up on 2011, What we did Q Achieved an increase of 14% in ore mined to 12,591 Kt.
representing our best ever Q Achieved actual gold equivalent production for the year annual increase of 1,063 Moz, a 31% increase compared to 2011.
Production highlights included: Achievements Dukat This excellent result was driven by strong all-round Increased grade prole, expansion of mining performance, with a notable improvement at Dukat and at Goltsovoye, and improved recovery levels successful ramp-up at Omolon and Albazino, our key growth at the main Omsukchan concentrator.
Annual gold production increased to 589 Koz, up 33% compared to 2011.
Silver production was 26.5 Moz Albazino Amursk hub also up 33% on 2011 as a result of higher grades and The Albazino mine and concentrator reaching design recoveries at Dukat, successful processing of high-grade capacity, start of commercial production at Amursk, Sopka ore at Omolon, and increased grades at Khakanja.
combined with continued concentrate sales to third-party off-takers.
The Groups gold equivalent production Kt Omolon 1,063 Dramatic increase in capacity at the Kubaka plant, higher than planned amounts of ore transported 810 753 from Sopka.
The 46% increase in volume of ore processed and 114% The Amursk plant is one of our key projects and one which growth in gold is a tremendous turnaround story from will give us a significant competitive advantage, both nationally Khakanja a previously under-performing asset, with production and in the global gold industry.
The pressure oxidation Grade prole increase generating 28% of 173 Koz of gold equivalent after transportation technology opens up opportunities for Polymetal in terms 31% production growth.
of high-grade ore from Sopka and the commissioning of efficient and cost effective processing of refractory gold 2010 2011 2012 of the Merrill-Crowe circuit at the refurbished Kubaka plant.
deposits in Russia and the CIS.
Gold equivalent production by mine Koz We commissioned our agship Amursk plant and poured 357 our first gold in April 2012 as planned.
While throughput did 77 Omolons gold equivalent production Kt Q Dukat reach expected levels in late November, we then experienced 173 Q Khakanja some operational issues which have meant that we have not Q Voro yet achieved expected levels of sustainable performance.
Q Varvara 173 However we have already implemented the necessary Q Omolon remedial measures, and are expecting recovery throughout Q Albazino Amursk the year with full capacity being achieved by the fourth quarter 46 134 19 of 2013.
In the meantime, we will be able to generate cash 279% 164 ows by continuing concentrate sales to third-party off-takers.
2010 2011 2012 157 18 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 19
