& y hd s K&& Z d d D Ed WEVE BUILT A STRONG FOUNDATION ON WHICH TO GROW & Transforming YineY began in May 2010 with a 24-month self-help programme.
This addressed the Groups immediate financial situaon, but also targeted three areas for fundamental change: focus, cultural transformaon and strengthening the balance sheet.
This programme achieed its objeces, meeng key goals well ahead of schedule.
& The Group is now managed as a strong defensible core, well-posioned for growth once markets stabilise, with a number of further potenally scalable businesses.
During the self-help programme, the porolio was realigned to ensure a full understanding of where profits were made and lost, and segmented by the sustainability of each business.
This has resulted in disnct inestable businesses, each represenng one of the Groups key Y Chief Eecue Ocer areas of capability, with a clear route-map for the future.
oss-making businesses are being addressed, diested or closed.
d ' Group margin upli drien by h erices pecic progress during the year included: and Global Products: Following on from the restructuring of h erices restructuring completed: the h business last year, the current year Connuing strong cash generaon reduces saw the reshaping of h erices into a net debt to 122.2m: gearing rao 0.5: single integrated business under a new Early repayment of h 177m priate President: placement debt leading to accelerated Compleon of an internal reiew of eery interest of 27m: business units potenal to drie alue: Pension deficit reduced to 31.5m Ongoing disposals: pectro, a supplier 31 March 2011: 124.6m following the of oil and fuel analysis instrumentaon change to CPI as the inaon inde and based in Massachuses, and the h fuel 40m cash injecon: and lubricants business, generang total MOD agreement to modernise pecial net proceeds of 11.2m.
E First phase has idened strong core, new businesses and alue opportunies: egmented porolio will be acely managed to delier rising sustainable earnings: Organic-Plus approach: inesng in organic growth plus partnerships, alliances and selece acuisions.
The gearing rao is net debt to adjusted EBITDA and the denion is in the glossary on page 107.
YY ' Annual Report and Accounts 2012
