Chief executives review Entering 2012, we knew that it was going to be an exceptionally challenging year.
At Kibali in the Democratic Republic of Congo, we were developing the largest and most complex project in our history: our agship, the Loulo-Gounkoto complex in Mali, was ramping up production to meet ambitious targets: and in the Cte dIvoire, our newest mine, Tongon, was still stuttering operationally.
Q Record production and profit despite challenges Q Kibali development gears up for year-end first gold Q Loulo-Gounkoto and Morila both beat production targets As it happened, the year was even more turbulent than we had expected: a coup in Mali was followed in short succession by three governments, two prime ministers and an invasion in the north by Al Qaeda-aligned radicals which triggered a Frenchled armed intervention.
The authorities in the Cte dIvoire and the DRC also indicated a desire to revise their mining codes and the related scal parameters.
The year then drew to a close with a re at the Tongon plant.
Given the circumstances, the record results produced by the group were a truly remarkable achievement and a tribute to another herculean effort by our teams.
Not only did production, sales, profit and earnings per share reach new heights, but at Kibali we geared up to take the next big step in our journey to deliver real and growing value to all our stakeholders.
Mark Bristow Chief executive Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 6 | however, its performance improved signicantly with a much Loulo-Gounkoto joins the big league more consistent throughput on the back of improved plant The effort invested in bringing the Loulo-Gounkoto complex up to availability as a result of a reduction in the number of power speed started paying off last year.
Following the installation and outages.
Unfortunately, that quarter also saw the re in the mill commissioning of the third mill in January 2012, the processing circuit, but the team did a great job in getting it back on line plant ramped up quickly and was exceeding its design capacity within 10 days and fully operational a month later.
At the underground operations, Yalea and Gara, the development rate accelerated and ore production The mine has installed additional generating capacity as backincreased.
Consequently the complex beat its market guidance up for the grid power and has also installed an additional and by producing more than half a million ounces for the year, capacitor bank to absorb uctuations in voltage deliveries.
To joined the global big league of gold mines.
Looking ahead, the improve the recovery rate, a gravity circuit is being installed in focus is on boosting recoveries, improving overall efficiencies parallel with the otation circuit and a planned upgrade of the and containing costs.
Among other things, Loulo will be adding crushing circuit will boost overall plant throughput.
Despite the capacity to its Carbon in Leach CIL and crushing circuits as setbacks, the mines future production prole remains intact well as upgrading its elution technology.
Overall, the complex is aiming at meeting its forecast increase in production with a and management is focused on meeting its 300 000 ounces per year target over the next five years while driving costs commensurate decrease in unit costs over the next five years.
Morila has changed from a big gorilla to a grand old lady in recent years, and in this guise it continues to deliver outstanding The next big step results, beating both its production and total cash cost targets Shortly after the year end, and ahead of schedule, Kibalis for the year.
Its board has approved the pit pushback and two ball mills were settled on their foundations.
This is a key tailings reprocessing projects, which could extend its life indicator of commissioning time as the mine should be capable to 2021, but Morila is in any event proceeding with the of producing gold six months after the mills installation.
While establishment of an agribusiness to provide economic value to critical paths are tightening, this massive project is still on track the local community after its eventual closure.
Demonstrating to pour its first gold by the end of the year.
a spirit of partnership, the Malian government has indicated its willingness to waive its royalties during the pre-stripping period With some 6 000 people now on site, the vast majority of them to ensure the commercial viability of the pushback project.
Congolese nationals, the pace of development is quickening.
Open pit mining has already begun to build up the ore stockpiles Tongon had a difficult year in which it grappled with a number and work is underway on the underground mine, with decline of operational issues, exacerbated by an erratic power supply development having started in December 2012 and the vertical from the Ivorian national grid, which resulted in it undershooting shaft sinking begun in the first quarter of 2013.
The first of four its production target for each quarter.
In the last quarter, new hydropower stations which will supply Kibalis electricity needs is also under construction.
Forecast group consolidated production The resettlement programme, designed to move some 000oz g t 20 000 people from 14 villages on the mine site to the nearby model village of Kokiza, is progressing well.
Last year alone 1 600 4.00 over 1 200 families were relocated on schedule, and new houses continue to be built at Kokiza at the rate of 65 to 90 per week, along with churches, schools and clinics.
This 3.00 1 200 programme, one of the largest of its kind to be undertaken in Africa, was the most complex and sensitive element of the predevelopment phase and its successful execution to date is a tribute to the effectiveness of Randgolds policy of treating its 2.00 800 host communities as full and valued partners in its business.
Looking for the next big one While the development of Kibali proceeds apace, our geologists 1.00 400 continue to explore around the known orebodies and further aeld on the vast permit area.
They are examining satellites and orebody extensions for ounces to expand the reserves, evaluating the target portfolio we acquired with Kibali, and looking for 0 0 greenelds opportunities.
The Congolese Craton, which hosts 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Kibali, is a highly prospective but relatively unexplored gold Actual eld, and it is one of our strategic aims to expand our footprint Morila 40% Kibali 50% in this region.
In line with this, we have recently concluded a Loulo-Gounkoto complex 100% Massawa 100% Tongon 100% Grade g t joint venture agreement with Kilo Goldmines which gives us Annual Report 2012 Randgold Resources 7 | access to nearly 2 000km of prospective greenstone belt in the As part of this development programme, we recently arranged north-east of the DRC.
We will earn 51% of the joint venture by for the University of Cape Towns highly regarded Graduate completing a prefeasibility study within five years.
School of Business Administration to present a week-long course on financial management for non-financial managers in We are actively assessing other joint venture or acquisition partnership with a local Mali business school.
The course was opportunities in the stressed junior sector but our core strategy attended by 30 managers and supervisors drawn from all our is still the creation of value through the discovery of multi-million operations as well as from government and some of our local ounce gold deposits and their development into profitable business partners.
mines: in other words, organic growth.
Our exploration teams are currently at work across all the major gold belts of West and With the size and scope of our operations increasing, safety Central Africa as well as around our existing operations.
In the education and management have also intensied.
Our safety latter regard, the potential for an underground mine to exploit record continues to improve and, as detailed comprehensively the plus one million ounce resource beneath the Gounkoto pit in the sustainability report in this annual report, we are working is becoming increasingly tangible, and we plan to complete a hard to make it even better.
It is also worth noting that all feasibility study on this project by the end of 2013. our operations have either gained, or are close to achieving, their international safety and environmental management The most advanced of our prospects is the Massawa project in accreditations.
Senegal, just across the border from Loulo.
This is a large but metallurgically complex deposit which has been returned to the Growing production, curbing costs exploration division for further work, and in particular to test the We have started 2013 with another demanding to-do list, headed potential for additional, non-refractory resources.
Metallurgical by delivering on our promise to pour the first gold at Kibali before testwork on the sulphides is underway.
As the process is likely the end of the year.
Another priority is xing Tongon so that it to involve pressure oxidisation, it will therefore be power intensive is fully equipped to start meeting its targets.
Loulo-Gounkoto and access to low cost power is essential to the projects viability will continue to ramp up production and the prefeasibility study and this is currently being investigated.
on a new underground mine at Gounkoto will be completed in the first quarter of 2013.
At Morila, the pushback and tailings Driving down costs projects will get underway.
Cash and gold on hand at the While our industry generally is struggling with costs that are year end totalled US$403 million after capital expenditure of rising faster than the gold price, Randgold has positioned itself US$562.3 million, mainly on Kibali which means that we are in the lowest cash cost quartile by focusing on the quality of our assets and keeping a tight rein on cost drivers.
We constantly strongly placed to fund our future growth.
review our business and do not tolerate wastage or inefficiency.
Our exploration teams are hunting for additional resources for Grade is a critical factor in determining costs and, unlike most our mines as well as fresh targets that will produce our next of the industry, our head grade of production is forecast to big discovery.
Throughout the group, we will sustain a strong increase steadily over the next few years.
Diesel is another emphasis on growing production and containing costs, and our major component of the cost basket, and we plan to reduce this overall objective remains the creation and delivery of value to all from 25% of operating costs to 20% over the next three years.
Power costs across the group are expected to drop by 20% over the same period.
At the corporate level, we are looking at acquisition and joint venture opportunities generated by the current state of Cutting down our diesel consumption will not only reduce the industry.
We also intend to continue to work with the costs but the move to renewable forms of power generation governments of our host countries, guided by our partnership will improve our carbon footprint.
To this end, a substantial philosophy, to head off short-sighted changes to their mining proportion of Kibalis power requirement will be supplied by codes.
four run-of-river hydroelectric generating stations.
At Tongon, greater stability in the supply will enable the operation to draw on Once again we have set ourselves some ambitious targets, but more grid electricity, reducing power costs by a planned 20%.
as our teams have shown time and again, they can rise to any Loulo is switching its medium-speed generators from diesel occasion.
I thank them for another great effort in 2012 and I to heavy fuel oil, and is also exploring ways to gain access to know we can count on their undiminished expertise, energy cheaper power.
and enthusiasm as we take our next big step into the future.
I would also like to thank our board for its invaluable guidance and Nurturing our human capital support.
In line with our partnership philosophy, we believe that an African business should be run by Africans, and our recruitment and We are grateful for the contribution made to our success by our skills development policies have been designed to achieve this business associates, advisors, suppliers and contractors, and I objective.
All our operations are almost entirely managed by would also like to place on record our continued commitment nationals of their host countries and some of the most senior members of our executive committee have graduated from to the people whose interests we are here to serve: our their ranks.
