DIRECTORS REPORT: CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW his year, we celebrate Ranks 75th birthday.
We are proud of our heritage in providing entertainment and thrills for three-quarters T of a century to many millions of people in Creating fun and enjoyment Great Britain and around the world.
Today, as in the past, our approach is built on for our customers is what understanding customer tastes, developing wellknown and much-loved brands, taking responsibility Rank does and weve been for our actions and playing our part in building vibrant communities.
An important part in how we doing it well for 75 years!
achieve this is by employing highly motivated teams of talented, enthusiastic and loyal people.
I feel privileged to work as part of this team and I thank them for the dedication, passion, integrity and ingenuity they have shown to help us achieve our goals.
I am also enormously proud that, over the Ian Burke past 18 months, our team members and customers Chairman and chief executive raised more than 525,000 for Marie Curie Cancer 16 August 2012 Care to fund respite care for cancer patients in our communities.
I am pleased to report that over the past 12 months we have made good progress in developing the business and this has enabled us to produce a The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 7 DIRECTORS REPORT: CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED strong financial performance.
We have grown to develop further and enjoys a strong financial earnings per share by 13.7% against a challenging position.
We will continue to focus on sustainable economic backdrop.
As a result of this performance, long term growth by thrilling and entertaining our the board has recommended a final dividend of customers and playing our part in the communities 2.50 pence per share making total dividends for we serve.
the 12 months ended 30 June 2012 of 3.60 pence per share, an increase of 35.3% on the previous Summary of financial results 12-month period.
All of our businesses in Great Britain achieved In addition to the Groups strong financial revenue growth in the period.
This growth, performance, the period has been marked by combined with a lower effective tax rate, responsible a number of other important achievements cost management and lower nancing costs, led to and contributions.
a 13.7% rise in adjusted earnings per share in the First and most importantly, we have made 12 months to 30 June 2012. continued progress in satisfying our customers.
Grosvenor Casinos recorded another period The Groups net promoter score which measures of revenue and operating profit growth up 4.2% how likely a customer is to recommend our brands and 10.9% respectively.
The Groups 37 casinos increased by 3.8 percentage points over the period.
contribute 52% of Group operating profit before We dedicated significant resource to tackling exceptional items and central costs.
problem gambling which affects a very small Mecca Bingo revenues increased slightly in number of our customers through active the 12-month period despite a slight drop in visits.
engagement with gaming regulators and charitable Operating profit before exceptional items decreased organisations like GamCare, the Gordon Moodie by 5.4% because of a rise in depreciation charge, Association and Gamblers Anonymous.
We increased taxes and duties as well as an increase reviewed and enhanced our responsible gaming in property costs following rent reviews.
training package and we have donated 305,000 Rank Interactive increased revenue during to the Responsible Gambling Trust during the last the 12-month period by 20.8% to 77.7m, with a 12 months.
particularly strong performance from the Mecca We continued to engage with governments brand driving a 26.5% rise in operating profit in a responsible, fair and transparent manner.
Great Britain, we volunteered to give evidence to Tough trading conditions in Spain resulted in the Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee: and Top Rank Espaas revenue declining by 12.8% to we support the majority of the recommendations 29.2m.
Operating profit before exceptional items set out within the Committees report published in was also down 65.0% to 1.4m.
The Groups effective tax rate in 2011 12 was We provided employment for more than 9,200 26.3%, down 3.1 percentage points on 2010 11 people directly and many thousands more on an because of prior year adjustments and a fall in indirect basis through our suppliers and related the headline rate of tax.
In addition, our activities generated more net nancing charge before exceptional items than 265 million for the UK government at national of 4.0m was 2.5m lower than in the 12 months and local levels through taxes, duties and business ended 30 June 2011, reecting a substantial rates.
The outlook for consumers in each of our strengthening of the Groups financial position.
The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 8 DIRECTORS REPORT: CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED our performance.
From 1 July 2012, we will report VAT refunds and financial position each brands performance as an individual business On 10 November 2011, the European Court of Justice segment.
This means Rank Interactives results will ECJ upheld the successive rulings of the UK courts no longer be shown separately.
A segment for the that Rank had overpaid VAT on revenue from games Blue Square brand will be created.
of bingo for periods between 1973 and 2009.
As a consequence of the ECJ decision, Rank will retain Gala Casinos acquisition the 253.4m in refunded tax and associated interest By the end of September 2012 we aim to complete paid by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC in the acquisition of Gala Casinos Limited, adding up prior periods.
On 14 June 2012, the Upper Tribunal to 23 more casinos under the Grosvenor brand as heard HMRCs case concerning the outstanding well as three more unused licences.
This acquisition amusement machines claim.
We expect to receive a remains subject to UK merger control clearance.
Rank decision from the Upper Tribunal later this year.
shareholders approved the terms of the acquisition At 30 June 2012, the Group had net cash of 41.8m.
at a general meeting held on 26 July 2012.
Since the beginning of 2012, Rank has agreed new revolving credit facilities of 80m.
These facilities Regulation and taxation mature in 2017.
We believe that in the interests of fairness and sustainability all gambling activities should be Guoco Group Limited subject to a uniform regime of regulation and Since the beginning of 2011, Guoco Group Limited taxation, unless there are clear and explicit social Guoco Group has increased its shareholding in policy reasons for such exceptions.
This means the Company from 29.5% to 74.5%.
Guoco Group, all commercial gambling opportunities offered to a member of the Hong Leong Group, is listed on UK consumers, whether they are presented on a the Hong Kong stock exchange and has a stake in dedicated website, in a venue, on a mobile device a diverse selection of businesses which operate in or on a social network, are treated equally.
We China, Vietnam, Malaysia, the UK and Singapore believe that if all operators are able to compete including several businesses in the hospitality and on a level playing eld, Rank will be able to leisure sector.
Guoco Groups objective is to create make a fair tax contribution whilst providing our long-term sustainable shareholder returns and it has customers a safe environment in which to enjoy a long and successful history of working with other our gaming-based entertainment.
shareholders towards this common goal.
Guoco In July 2012, the Culture, Media and Sport Select Group has consistently expressed its support of Committee published the findings of its review into Ranks strategy since becoming a shareholder the Gambling Act 2005.
The cross-party committee in 2007. noted that casinos are the most highly regulated sector of the UK gaming market but noted that this Our plans was not reected in the permitted areas legislation or the products casinos are entitled to offer.
In response, Brand reorganisation the Committee recommended that the Government We have recently implemented a change in Ranks should give 1968 Act casinos such as those operated business model.
We believe that our customers by Grosvenor the same freedoms as 2005 Act think of our business in terms of the brands that we casinos.
This means that, if enacted and provided offer, not the channels by which they are delivered.
local authority consent is received, each Grosvenor To ensure that our organisation better reects our casino could be entitled to increase its number customers needs we have changed the way that we of amusement machines from 20 to a theoretical manage Ranks business, moving from a channel-led maximum of 150.
The Committee also noted that approach to a brand-led approach.
A single member local authorities should be entitled to invite casino of the executive committee is responsible for each of operators to transfer an existing casino licence into our brands.
Phil Urban, who had managed Grosvenor their jurisdiction.
Casinos venues, is responsible for the Grosvenor The Committee also responded to the Bingo brand in all channels.
Mark V Jones, who had Associations calls for a fairer tax regime.
The report managed Meccas venues, is now responsible for the stated that, in principle, the bingo duty rate should Mecca brand in all channels.
Mark A Jones will be reduced from 20% to 15%, in line with other manage the Blue Square brand along with the shared forms of gambling.
service team responsible for supporting all of our The regulation and taxation of gambling, and brands in the remote gambling channels.
Our in particular remote gambling, remains an area of Spanish business, Top Rank Espaa, will remain intense debate within the European Union.
Many the responsibility of Jorge Ibez who will be member states including the UK, Spain and Belgium responsible for the development of our new have decided that they do not wish to delegate the Spanish brand, enracha.
supervision of remote gambling operators acting in These important changes to the way that we their country to other jurisdictions.
Instead they manage the business will also affect how we report The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 9 DIRECTORS REPORT: CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED have announced changes that will bring gambling Board strengthened operators into the scope of domestic social and Two new non-executive directors have been tax law if such operators accept transactions in appointed to the board in 2012.
appointment took effect on 1 January 2012.
Colin In Spain, Ranks enracha.
es site is now licensed is a chartered accountant with experience in large by the Spanish authorities.
The new website is multi-national businesses operating in a wide range authorised to provide consumers online poker, of sectors, including casino gaming.
roulette and community card games.
In the UK, Sir Richard Needham was appointed with effect from the Government has outlined plans to change the 1 May 2012.
Sir Richard had a distinguished career basis of betting and gaming taxation so that tax in Parliament and, since leaving politics in 1997, will be due from any operator that transacts with has worked in a diverse range of companies in the UK consumers.
Rank welcomes this change in approach as it The appointments of Colin and Sir Richard goes some way to reecting the fact that betting and enable Rank to draw on considerable commercial gaming operators, whether they are online or ofine, expertise and, in the case of Sir Richard, the ability should be subject to equivalent regulatory scrutiny to rene our engagement with HM Government.
However, the proposed changes do not go far enough to completely address this issue and Rank will continue to work with Government to press our case for fundamental reform.
Our plans: brand reorganisation The role of the brands is to meet the needs of their customers to consistently high standards across all channels of distribution.
The Rank Group sets the strategic direction and provides access to the capital needed to fund the ambitions of its brands.
It also acts as a locus for cost synergies, revenue synergies and expertise synergies.
The Rank Group Our brands The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 10 DIRECTORS REPORT: CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Dividend Statutory period reporting The board is pleased to recommend that a final dividend of 2.50 pence per share be paid on m Revenue Operating profit 31 October 2012 to shareholders on the register FY12 FY10 FY12 FY10 at 31 August 2012.
While such a short trading period can be Before adjustments for free bets, promotions and customer bonuses.
distorted by external factors we are pleased with Before exceptional items.
While the outlook for the UK consumer seems Period 1 FY10 six months ended 30 June 2010 Period 2 FY10 six months ended 31 December 2010 likely to remain challenging, Rank is in a strong Period 1 FY12 six months ended 30 June 2011 financial position, possesses market-leading brands Period 2 FY12 six months ended 31 December 2011 and has a clear strategy for long-term growth.
Period 3 FY12 six months ended 30 June 2012 Please note that the six-month periods dened above have not been audited.
The audited periods are the 18 months ended 30 June 2012 FY12 and the 12 months ended 31 December 2010 FY10.
Customer needs Distribution channels Social and competitive gaming-based entertainment Venues Online Mobile Social, community gaming-based entertainment Venues Online Mobile Sports-led betting and gaming Online Mobile Social, community gaming-based entertainment Venues Online The Rank Group Plc: Annual report and financial statements 2012 11
