Chief Executives Statement Results Highlights Outperformance continues RB has once again met or exceeded its targets.
Like-for-like net revenue grew 5% to 9,567m.
1 1 Excellent growth in emerging market areas of LAPAC & RUMEA : 1 ENA performance improved progressively and now back to growth over the year.
The last quarter was 3% growth like-for-like.
Health & hygiene Powerbrands Durex, Gaviscon, Strepsils, Dettol, Lysol, Harpic and Finish led the growth.
Suboxone film reached 64% volume share of the US market.
2 Operating margins increased by 70 bps, ahead of target.
2 Adjusted net income grew 7% 10% constant : adjusted 2 diluted earnings per share of 264.4p 7%.
9,567m Strong cash flow took net debt to 2,426m after dividends, our net revenue in 2012 acquisitions and restructuring.
These results are very encouraging and give us confidence that we have the right business strategy, the right organisation, the right 2,570m adjusted operating profit in 2012 growth platforms and the right culture to deliver our long-term goals.
2013 targets Medium-term KPIs Net revenue growth of 5-6% at Health and hygiene revenues 3 constant exchange rates, excluding to be 72% of core net revenue RB Pharmaceuticals.
2 Maintain operating margin, LAPAC and RUMEA combined to be excluding RB Pharmaceuticals.
equal in net revenue size to ENA by end of 2015.
For 2012 our health and hygiene 3 revenues were 68% of our core Achieve 200 bps pa of net revenue geographic portfolio 67% in 2011 growth on average above our and LAPAC and RUMEA were 44% of market growth.
3 our coregeographic portfolio 42% Achieve moderate operating in 2011.
This strategic reshaping of margin expansion excluding our portfolio is ahead of schedule RB Pharmaceuticals.
and we have accelerated two of our medium-term KPIs from 2016 to 2015.
1 Latin America, North Asia, South East Asia, and 2 Adjusted to exclude the impact of exceptional items Australia and New Zealand LAPAC, Russia and CIS, 3 Core includes health, hygiene, home and Middle East, North Africa, Turkey and Sub-Saharan portfolio brands Africa RUMEA, Europe and North America ENA 2 2 2012 2012 Chief Executives Statement Healthier lives Happier homes Stronger business 2012 was a seminal year for RB.
We announced our new vision and purpose, and laid out a strategy to deliver our second decade of market outperformance.
HEALTH Our vision is a world where people are healthier and live better.
Our purpose is to make a difference by giving people innovative solutions for healthier lives and happier homes.
To do something, we need to stand for something.
Our vision and clear purpose inspires everything we do.
In the fast changing, HYGIENE consumer-led global world we live in, our purpose inspires our people to deliver health, hygiene and home products of superior quality, value and convenience, and creates demand for suppliers who rely on our success, and employment and wealth creation across the more than 60 countries in which we operate.
Our HOME purpose also inspires us to work in over 40 countries with mums, children and health-workers educating them on practices to improve hygiene and so health.
The success of our strategy enables us also to give more to society by improving the sustainability of our products and by funding life-saving health and hygiene programmes through our global partnership with Save the Children.
In the early part of 2012, we rapidly reorganised ourselves and our resources behind our new strategy.
As a result, we made very good progress across a number of areas.
Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive 2012 3 Chief Executives Statement RB Strategy Powerbrands focus A key pillar of RBs strategy is to deliver As an example, even in the worlds outperformance growth ahead of most developed and highly penetrated the rate prevailing in our markets markets, dishwashers are present in through a disproportionate focus on 19 less than 65% of homes, compared Powerbrands in the health, hygiene with washing machines which are and home categories.
Good health is the key to happiness.
Representing the potent core of our In emerging markets the opportunities total portfolio, these Powerbrands are are even greater.
The Powerbrands in health: Durex, Gaviscon, Nurofen, also have potential for growth through Mucinex, Scholl and Strepsils.
In rollout into countries where we do not hygiene: Bang, Clearasil, Dettol, Finish, yet have a Powerbrand presence.
On Harpic, Lysol, Mortein and Veet.
In average, our Powerbrands are present home: Air Wick, Calgon, Vanish and in only 50 markets of the near 200 Woolite.
That represents a sizeable they are the global No.
2 brand opportunity for long-term growth.
Hygiene is the foundation of in their category.
Within our three categories it is health In 2012 our Powerbrands together and hygiene that take precedence.
They delivered 70% of our net revenue.
are faster growing across the world and offer higher margin opportunities.
Our All our Powerbrands have significant medium-term goal is to grow our health potential for future growth through and hygiene categories faster so they increased penetration, consumption become 72% of our core by 2015.
By and category expansion within markets the end of 2012 they represented 68%.
where they already have a presence.
Home is the centre of family life.
Food Frenchs remains an important Powerbrand and continues to be run as a broadly stand-alone business.
Better Finish has had a very strong year in the US with a gain of 190 bps of market share in 2012.
This was driven by the hard-hitting Finish Revolution campaign celebrating the consumer momentum as millions switched to Finish after experiencing the superior results it provided.
4 2012 Powermarkets focus AREAS The first three of these consumer Another key pillar of our strategy is clusters are the consumers of Latin A FOCUS ON POWERMARKETS America, North Asia and South Asia Our brands are marketed and sold in which we group together into one nearly 200 markets across the world, organisational structure named LAPAC.
but we know that the vast majority of The next three clusters are Russia and our global growth will come from a CIS, Middle East and North Africa, few key areas.
and sub-Saharan Africa and we We have identified 16 Powermarkets, group these three together into one LAPAC in both developed and emerging organisational structure RUMEA.
seventh consumer cluster comprises South East Asia Europe and North America.
Across these Here we have a strong presence and an Australia & New Zealand two markets there are many similarities ability to win.
Latin America in behaviours, in brand development A FOCUS ON EMERGING MARKETS and in how the retail trade is organised.
RUMEA Hence ENA forms the third geographic We see seven major consumer clusters, Russia & CIS organisational structure.
each of which have Powermarkets Middle East, North Africa & Turkey within them.
Consumers within these Our new medium-term goal is to grow Sub-Saharan Africa clusters have significant similarities the emerging market areas of LAPAC in how they use, choose and buy ENA and RUMEA faster so that by 2015 they consumer goods and so it makes sense North America together represent 50% of our core to group them together.
Central Europe revenues, equal in size to ENA.
At the Northern Europe end of 2012 they represented 44%.
We take a consumer-centric view of Southern Europe the world and we organise ourselves Western Europe around our seven consumer clusters.
Closer An innovative crowd-sourcing global campaign by Durex attracted 1.4 million users in six weeks and resulted in a global pack design.
The Naked Box campaign has won Gold at an award festival in China.
5 Chief Executives Statement continued Stronger business further accelerate growth and create INVESTMENT IN INNOVATION & This enables us to enjoy enduring Shareholder value.
These might be highBRAND EQUITY relationships with our consumers.
potential brands in adjacent categories Delivering innovative products that meet GENERATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE or companies which strengthen our consumer needs is a cornerstone of We invest significantly behind our existing platform in a certain market.
We invest significantly in brands and innovation.
Through our bringing new ideas to consumers.
This new focus on health and hygiene, and gave us a powerful entry into the We have one of the highest by maintaining relentless control over large and growing global vitamins, innovation rates within the industry.
costs, we have created opportunities minerals and supplements market.
to expand our gross margins already As important as providing great high within the industry.
This drives This is one of the largest consumer innovations that give more benefits and the virtuous cycle of making increased health care categories in the world and convenience to consumers is investing funds available for reinvestment and we now have a strong platform in the in education and communication on growth, ultimately flowing through to US the worlds largest market in this how to get the most from our products.
category from which to grow in this It forms part of what we call brand new area.
We run a lean and fast-moving organisation that can convert We also used M&A to strategically This also comprises advertising in both profit into cash efficiently through strengthen our health platforms and traditional and digital media, and also both cash and net working capabilities in the emerging markets investment in extensive consumer and capital management.
professional education and information campaigns, such as new mother In 2012, we also returned cash to We acquired Chinas Oriental Medicine programmes, in-school hand washing Shareholders through the buy back of Company Limited, a manufacturer of and hygiene programmes, pharmacist 14,991,643 of our shares.
traditional Chinese sore throat products education programmes and health and entered into a collaboration M&A professionals development programmes.
agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb in Our strategy is firmly organic growth.
Combined, these activities build the We consider acquisitions where equity of, and trust in, our brands.
they offer a strategic opportunity to Fitter With the acquisition of Schiff in the US we have entered the large and growing global vitamins, minerals and supplements market.
This is one of the largest consumer health care categories in the world.
We have a highly geared, CATEGORY KPI RB Pharmaceuticals, as a pioneer of performance-driven remuneration % innovative prescription treatments structure for our leadership team.
for chronic diseases of addiction, 72 Our people take a fresh view of introduced Suboxone sublingual film in 1 of core Company net revenues from what is possible in a market, what 2010.
The popularity of the sublingual health and hygiene by end of 2015 value they can create for consumers film meant that by the end of 2012 and how they can deliver healthier it had a 64% market share.
The GEOGRAPHIC KPI lives and happier homes.
sublingual film has patent protection % Then they take often radically different until at least 2020.
Based on the approaches to deliver it.
We grant them enhanced benefits of the sublingual 50 the freedom to operate, to decide and film and the significant reduction in 1 of core Company net revenues to create: entrepreneurship is in their unintended paediatric exposure due to from LAPAC and RUMEA equal blood.
This is combined with a high its unit-dose child resistant packaging, to ENA by end of 2015 drive for achievement, a strong sense RB Pharmaceuticals are voluntarily of ownership and a willingness to withdrawing their Suboxone tablets NET REVENUE GROWTH KPI partner with anyone who can help from the US market on 18 March 2013. bps deliver for consumers.
TALENTED, GLOBAL EMPLOYEES 200 My thanks go to all our employees and Our strategy is supported by hugely a year, on average, ahead of contractors all over the world who have talented and driven people from around the global market growth across contributed to our success in 2012. the world.
Their diverse backgrounds RBs categories and geographies and mix of nationalities foster creativity 1 and a culture of innovative thinking in Core is health, hygiene, home and portfolio brands.
Smarter Dettol South Africa changed the game of hand washing which was dominated by soap bars by successfully introducing the automatic liquid hand washing system No-Touch.
The launch strengthened the No.
1 position of Dettol in the category.
2012 7 Chief Executives Statement continued Our wider responsibilities Our focus on performance applies as We are also focused on reducing child much to our wider societal responsibility mortality.
Our global partnership with as it does to our financial parameters.
Save the Children sees us delivering funds, products and education In 2012, in line with our vision and programmes to reduce the number of purpose, we announced our new children who die under the age of five.
sustainability strategy, having achieved our ambitious carbon reduction target In 2012, we gave 3.5m supporting significantly earlier than originally Save the Children health and hygiene planned.
In 2011 alone, our carbon programmes in over 40 countries, reductions took the equivalent of up from 2.2m in 2011.
Since our 2.4m cars off the road.
We planted an partnership began in 2003 we have additional 371,000 trees in 2012 keeping reached nearly 900,000 children our manufacturing effectively carbon and families.
neutral, and were recognised as a leader In 2013, we are expanding our sights.
in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
We are now partnering with Save For 2020 we have set ourselves the Children to deliver a vision of another stretch target of reducing stopping preventable deaths from our water impact by a third, diarrhoea one of the worlds reducing our carbon emissions biggest killers of children under five.
per dose of product by a further third and ensuring that a third of our net revenue comes from more sustainable products.
Confidence in the future Despite continued tough trading conditions in many parts of the world, RB is confident about 2013 and has set a target of achieving 5-6% net revenue growth at constant exchange rate, excluding RB Pharmaceuticals.
I am confident that our vision, purpose and strategy will continue to take us on the right path for continued outperformance in the years ahead.
Rakesh Kapoor Chief Executive Stronger Our Save the Children partnership helped fund health and hygiene programmes in 40 countries, and reached nearly 325,000 children and families in 2012.
8 2012 Report of the Directors Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 2012 9
