OVERVIEW 4 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT Chief Executive Ofcers report Strategic direction Our strategy is to become a true professional information solutions provider.
A company that delivers improved outcomes to professional customers across industries, to help them make better decisions, get better results and be more productive.
Weaim to do this by leveraging deep customer understanding tocombine content & data with analytics & technology in global platforms.
Our solutions often account for about 1% of our customers total cost base but can have a significant, positive, impact on the remaining 99%.
We seek to build leading positions inlong term global growth markets by leveraging our institutional skills, assets & resources across Reed Elsevier, both to build solutions for our customers and to pursue cost efficiencies.
We are continuing to systematically migrate towards this type of business across all of Reed Elsevier, primarily through organic investment.
We supplement our organic development with Erik Engstrom selective acquisitions, when we are the natural owner and can Chief Executive officer accelerate our strategy with good returns.
We continue to divest assets that we are not able to migrate or where we do not see significant future value creation for Reed Elsevier.
In 2012 we made good progress By focusing on evolving the fundamentals of our business we believe that, over time, we will improve the business prole of on our strategy to systematically Reed Elsevier and the quality of our earnings.
This will lead to more predictable revenues through a better asset mix and transform our business into a geographic balance: a higher growth prole by expanding in higher growth segments, exiting from structurally challenged professional information businesses and gradually reducing the drag from print format declines: and improved returns by focusing on organic solutions provider that combines development with strong cash generation.
content & data with analytics & Overall, we believe that Reed Elsevier has a better business prole today than it had three years ago, and it is our objective to technology in global platforms.
make sure that it has a better business prole three years from now than it has today.
We are continuing to improve the quality of our earnings, to deliver more predictable revenues, ahigher growth prole, and improving returns.
UNDERLYING REVENUE GROWTH Including biennial exhibition cycling 4% 2% 2% -6% 2009 2010 2011 2012 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2012 5 2012 progress With a strong balance sheet and strong cash ow generation, and In 2012 we made good progress both on our organic average acquisition spend comfortably covered by free cash ow, transformation and on reshaping our portfolio.
Organically, we are able to continue to use the gross cash proceeds from weextended our solution sets across customer workows, disposals to buy back shares, to mitigate the EPS dilution launching new products, and rolling out new technology platforms associated with ongoing disposals.
and we continued to build out new products in adjacent markets Financial performance and geographies.
Underlying revenue growth reached 4%, or 3% excluding the By the end of 2012 approximately 80% of our revenues were in effects of biennial exhibition cycling.
Underlying operating profit ourtargeted formats of electronic and face to face, generating grew 6%, and adjusted earnings per share grew by 8% at average underlying revenue growth rates of 5-7%.
Despite continued organic investment in our business and the completion of a number of small acquisitions, We limited our acquisitions to small data and content assets our return on invested capital increased by another 70 basis points across business areas, and assets in high growth markets and to 11.9%.
By the end of 2012 we had reduced our net debt EBITDA geographies.
Over the past three years our average annual ratio to 2.2 times on a pension and lease adjusted basis, or acquisition spend has been around 300m per year, just over half 1.7times on an unadjusted basis, and we remain in a leverage of our typical free cash ow after dividends.
Only one acquisition in range with which we are very comfortable.
the past three years has been in the hundreds of millions of pounds sterling, Accuity, right in the intersection of Risk Solutions and All five business areas contributed to underlying revenue and RBIs Major Data Services.
All other individual transactions have adjusted operating profit growth in 2012. required cash spend in the single digit millions or tens of millions Elsevier achieved good revenue growth in primary research and of pounds sterling.
databases & tools across scientific & medical segments, with Our acquisitions have been focused on electronic and face-to-face particular strength in emerging markets.
Research article formats, with less than 10% of the acquired revenue being in print submissions and usage grew double digits.
They have also been heavily weighted towards higher which now account for approximately 70% of total revenues, growth markets and geographies, with only 10% of acquired grewstrongly across all segments.
revenue in Europe, and virtually no acquired advertising revenues.
LexisNexis Risk Solutions underlying revenue growth In 2012 we increased our disposal activity, exiting businesses that accelerated slightly in 2012.
Solid growth in the Insurance are not likely to transform into the type of business that we want to business was driven by the extension of products and services be in, or where we do not see significant future value creation for across insurance carrier workows.
In Business Services, Reed Elsevier.
We also exited businesses where we have made a anti-money laundering, fraud detection and credit decisioning decision not to invest further to pursue a global leadership solutions all performed well.
position, despite having successfully transformed an asset.
The underlying rate of revenue growth improved at Reed Business For example, in recruitment and pre-employment services, Information, driven by strong growth from most of our Major Data we decided to dispose of both our Totaljobs online recruitment Services businesses.
Marketing Solutions and Leading Brands business and our employment screening business.
grew modestly, and the rate of decline in Other Business Over the last three years we have exited businesses with total Magazines & Services moderated.
We continued to transform the revenues of approximately 600m, including significant amounts business in 2012, exiting businesses that no longer t our strategy.
of print and advertising related revenues in Europe.
UNDERLYING REVENUE GROWTH REVENUE BY FORMAT Excluding biennial exhibition cycling 2012 underlying revenue growth excluding cycling: 3% Print 3% 3% 56% 1% -5% Face to face 7% Electronic 2009 2010 2011 2012 56% excluding cycling OVERVIEW 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REPORT In December we announced that we are bringing LexisNexis Risk Outlook Solutions and Reed Business Information more closely together.
In 2013 we will remain focused on the systematic transformation We intend to leverage Risk Solutions strengths in data, analytics of our business and on improving the quality of our earnings.
and technology in combination with RBIs broader geographic Whilethe outlook for the macro environment and its impact on our footprint and its industry specic databases.
customer markets is mixed, and 2013 will be a cycling out year for our exhibitions business, we have entered the year with positive Underlying revenue growth at LexisNexis Legal & Professional momentum, and expect 2013 to be another year of underlying was positive despite subdued legal markets in the US and Europe.
revenue, profit, and earnings growth.
Growth was driven by electronic revenues, which account for approximately 75% of total revenues.
In 2012 we continued to Erik Engstrom release new products and platforms which have been well Chief Executive officer received.
Reed Exhibitions performed strongly in 2012, driven by strong growth in the US and Japan, moderate growth in Europe, and double digit growth in emerging markets.
We continued to invest throughout the year, launching 30 new shows, and strengthened our position in high growth markets through partnerships and targeted acquisitions.
