10 Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive Overview of performance Organisation change Despite tough conditions in many of our markets Rentokil During the year the Company began the process of fully Initial delivered revenue and profit growth across all divisions integrating Ambius into the Pest Control division under a single in 2012.
Full-year revenue of 2.6bn grew by 2.8% at constant management structure by country or region.
Ambius is now exchange rates, 0.8% organic excluding Initial Facilities Spain included in the pest control segmental reporting see Note 1. where we continue to scale down the business to reduce This follows the implementation of integrated management in financial exposure.
Recent acquisitions have performed well the Nordics, South Africa and elsewhere in the Rentokil Initial during the year, contributing 2.4% 60.6m ofrevenue growth.
Further structural changes were implemented early in 2013 with the transfer of the pest control business units Textiles & Hygiene grew revenue by 2.5% in 2012, aided by in France and Germany to the Textiles & Hygiene division.
a continuing robust performance from Germany and steady performances from France and Australia.
Benelux made further From 1 January 2013 almost all our core businesses with the improvement in profitability as the turnaround progressed, exception of Benelux will be run on a day-to-day basis by one though revenue growth of 0.5% was held back by weak country manager per country.
The country manager is economic conditions.
responsible for all our core categories in his her country pest control, hygiene, workwear and plants.
Countries have been Pest Control grew by 2.8%, aided by a particularly strong grouped into three geographic regions East, West and Asia performance in North America and solid growth in the UK.
with each region being run by a senior managing director While our Central, Eastern and Northern Europe operations reporting to the Chief Executive.
have traded well, our operations in Southern Europe continue to struggle in particularly depressed market conditions.
Growth The countries are supported by functional and category teams during 2012 has been boosted by a number of strategically organised on a global or regional basis.
We believe this significant acquisitions which have strengthened our presence integrated operating model offers the best balance between in our major US market and given us footholds in Latin America driving country cost and growth synergies and also leveraging and the Middle East.
We are particularly pleased with the our international scale through knowledge transfer via global acquisition of leading US West Coast pest control and products and regional functional and category teams.
business, Western Exterminator Western, which gives us As a result of these changes we will report group results on a close to 90% national coverage and positions us as the third major country, as well as category basis.
The Americas, UK, largest player in the market.
Integration of this business is Ireland, Nordics, Southern Europe, Middle East & Africa will proceeding well.
We will continue to pursue growth by form the West region.
This region consists predominantly of acquisition in the coming year.
pest control businesses but includes hygiene and the majority Initial Facilities revenue growth of 2.1% was driven by strong of our plants business.
France, Benelux, the German speaking performances from a number of small acquisitions providing countries and Pacic will form the East region.
Underlying revenue excluding Spain and contains all of our workwear category plus hygiene, pest acquisitions fell by 1.7%, reecting a significant reduction in control and plants.
The Asia region will continue as before.
the cleaning sector which has masked strong growth in other City Link and Initial Facilities will continue to be reported sectors as we re-position the business as a Total Facilities separately as divisions.
Improvement in service mix The reporting structure that will be reported from 2013 onwards coupled with improved operational efficiency has however can be found in the Business Overview on page 19. improved profitability, with growth of 9.6% for the full year.
Both the pest control and Funding hygiene categories performed well, benefiting from further At 31 December 2012 the group had net debt of 989.5m market development and gains in share from competitors.
and a strong liquidity position, comprising over 200m of Our operations in India and China delivered strong revenue funds and 510m of available undrawn committed facilities, growth from a low base though they remain loss making.
with 50m of bond maturities in 2013.
This follows the issuance Malaysia had another exceptional year.
in September of a 500m seven-year bond paying a coupon City Link has made good progress this year on productivity of 3.375%.
savings and in volume growth with our major customers.
Over The bond has provided funding for: the year City Link has achieved a 13% reduction in cost per The acquisition of the Western business at a cost delivery, volume growth of 17% and a 16% reduction in of $92.6m 57.1m operating losses.
However, offsetting this operational progress, revenue per consignment RPC has declined by 10% as our The repurchase of the groups 75m puttable callable sales mix has moved toward large Business to Consumer resettable bond at its fair value of 103.7m customers.
Efforts to maximise retention of more profitable The repurchase of 14.5m of the 500m 2014 bond at smaller customers is a key priority for 2013. a premium of 0.6m Business Review Governance Financial Statements Rentokil Initial plc Annual Report 2012 Business Review Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive 11 It will also provide funding for: Outlook for 2013 Rentokil Initial nished the year strongly, with adjusted profit The repayment at maturity of the groups 50m bond before tax up 15.9% in Q4 and 10.1% for 2012 as a whole at maturing September 2013 constant exchange rates.
These results were broad based, with An element of the groups 500m 2014 maturity every division improving both revenue and profit.
Furthermore, The group signed a two-year 240m revolving credit facility we increased organic revenue growth by 1.3% from negative RCF in December 2012 to provide further liquidity for the 0.5% to positive 0.8% excluding Initial Facilities Spain despite 500m 2014 maturity.
difficult market conditions in most of Europe.
Our organisation has matured considerably in the past 24 Dividend months with global leadership established for major business The Company resumed the payment of dividends in 2011, functions including marketing & innovation.
This has enabled paying a final dividend for the year.
Despite challenging market us to evolve to an integrated country-based operating model conditions the Company has made good progress in 2012 and with strong central and regional support.
These changes have we anticipate further progress in 2013.
Taking this into also given us a strong innovation pipeline for 2013 in our consideration the board is recommending a final dividend in core categories.
respect of 2012 of 1.43p per share, payable to shareholders on While we remain mindful of continuing tough conditions across the register at the close of business on 19 April 2013 to be paid many of our markets, the operational changes we made during on 21 May 2013.
This equates to a full year dividend of 2.1p the year, together with the acquisition of Western in December, per share.
give us confidence that 2013 will see us sustain the momentum we achieved in the final quarter of 2012.
People In 2012 we have welcomed into Rentokil Initial new colleagues through the many good businesses we have acquired and through the on-going process of improving the capability of the business.
We thank all our colleagues who have put in a huge effort over the last year to meet the challenges created by difficult economic trading conditions as well as to contribute to the on-going change programmes designed to improve the John McAdam Alan Brown tness of the group to deliver improved performance.
Chairman Chief Executive Feedback from colleagues about their levels of motivation and enablement remains good, consistently outperforming 14 March 2013 service industry norms, and colleagues participation in training, recognition programmes and community activities is impressive.
We also welcome Angela Seymour-Jackson who joined the board in March 2012 as a non-executive director.
William Rucker stood down as a director today following a review of his commitments.
The board is appreciative of his considerable contribution to the Company since joining the board in 2008.
We are grateful for the continued support of our shareholders and other stakeholders.
