Chief Executive Ofcers review of operations The Restaurant Group made further profitable progress in 2012, building on the solid growth secured in the previous year.
Introduction Our people and our business Although consumer-facing businesses continued to be Throughout TRG we aim continually to evolve and improve adversely affected by the weak economic backdrop and the our offering food, service, facilities and standards.
squeeze on household nances, the Group traded well with Our menus are reviewed twice a year: our seasonal specials growth accelerating as we moved through the year.
menus change quarterly and we pay close attention to the nutritional and caloric content of dishes to ensure that we The Group achieved like-for-like sales growth in 11 out have something to match all of our customers requirements.
The final quarter saw strong growth and We pay close attention to our childrens offerings to ensure this was particularly encouraging against tough prior year that they afford the opportunity to form part of a sensibly comparatives.
I am pleased to report that this trend has balanced diet.
We are also committed to support the continued into 2013 with like-for-like sales growth of 6.5% governments initiatives to encourage healthier lifestyles and, and total sales growth of 14% for the eight weeks to 24 to this end, we have made a number of pledges including salt February 2013. reduction and encouraging physical activities.
As part of our ongoing health and safety assurance processes we conduct As in 2011, all of the constituent parts of the Group saw testing of products and facilities at our suppliers.
We have, growth and, despite having to contend with input cost for a number of years, retained a rm of specialists to pressures, the Group achieved strong growth in adjusted conduct much of this testing.
This testing is in addition to profits and margins were maintained at a similar level to the our suppliers own testing.
In the light of the recent issues previous year.
As in 2011, like-for-like profit growth was also surrounding horsemeat we have, for the foreseeable future, very strong.
Total sales in 2012 were 533m which was decided to increase the frequency and extent of product 9.25% ahead of the prior year like-for-like sales were 4.5% testing.
To date we have not identied horsemeat ahead and adjusted earnings per share increased by 10%: contamination in the products supplied at our restaurants.
this represents a good result and augurs well for the future.
Our focus continues to be directed towards providing our Results customers with a great dining experience plenty of choice Results marked as adjusted are stated excluding non-trading items.
across the price points, offerings geared towards specic parts of the day, good value and superb hospitality and TRGs trading metrics performed well for the 52 week period service.
We strive to employ the best people and to provide to 30 December 2012: them with an opportunity to develop.
Our staff benefit from a number of training programmes as soon as they join us Total sales increased by 9.25% and as they progress, providing the skill sets enabling them Like-for-like sales increased by 4.5% to be efficient and effective managers.
In addition to our 42 million meals sold management training programmes, our staff at all levels have the opportunity to secure qualications in several areas Adjusted EBITDA increased by 6.5% to 95.5m relevant to our industry, including food hygiene, health & Adjusted operating profit increased by 8.6% to 66.4m safety, NVQs and BII accreditations.
Adjusted operating profit margin was 12.5% 2011: 12.6% Adjusted pre-tax profit increased by 7% to 64.6m We employ more than 11,000 people throughout the UK and during 2012 more than 700 new members joined the Adjusted earnings per share increased by 10% to 24.1p TRG team.
As we continue to open new restaurants, Cash ow generated from operations increased the opportunities for our people to progress and secure by 10.2m to 102.0m promotion increase and this helps TRG to attract and retain Free cash ow increased by 7.8m to 69.2m high quality team members.
Net debt, at 0.38x Group adjusted EBITDA, fell by 5.6m to 36m 06 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements We were delighted when The Good Pub Guide awarded Brunning & Price Pub Group of Year for an unprecedented fourth time in 2013.
Brunning & Price were described as the doyen of the smaller independent pub groups.
In addition, the Dysart Arms in Bunbury won the Cheshire County Dining Pub of the Year for the fourth time, the Fox in Chetwynd Aston won the Shropshire Dining Pub of the Year for the fourth year in succession and the Hand and Trumpet in Wrinehill was awarded the Staffordshire Dining Pub of the Year, also for the fourth year in succession.
Our brands Garfunkels 25 units Frankie & Bennys 217 units Garfunkels traded well during 2012.
Although the impact of Frankie & Bennys performed superbly in 2012, with strong the Olympic Games upon Garfunkels trade was adverse, performances across all the key metrics like-for-like sales, from late summer onwards the pick-up in trade was revenues, margins and profits.
We opened 12 new significant and this meant that the brand delivered like-for-like restaurants of which six were on cinema sites.
Trade at the sales growth for the full year and a good level of profits.
new openings has been strong and they are on track to We opened two new Garfunkels in 2012 which are expected deliver excellent returns.
We anticipate opening between to deliver good returns.
13 and 17 new Frankie & Bennys restaurants in 2013.
The enduring appeal and consistent success of the Pub restaurants 45 units Frankie & Bennys brand gives us a great deal of confidence Our Pub restaurants business enjoyed a good year in 2012. that the ongoing roll out potential for this brand is significant.
With the conclusion of the programme of ex-Blubeckers site conversions behind them, the team has been able to Coast to Coast 5 units capitalise on the opportunities to grow the business and this The performance of our new brand, Coast to Coast, has has produced a very good level of performance.
Our first Coast to Coast restaurant opened margins and profits were well ahead on the previous year and alongside an existing Frankie & Bennys restaurant in Brighton the four new openings are performing signicantly ahead of at the end of 2011.
During 2012 we opened four new Coast our expectations and are set to deliver strong returns.
We to Coast restaurants in Stevenage, Newcastle, Solihull and expect to open three to five new Pub restaurants this year Gunwharf Quays in Portsmouth and four of our Coast to and, looking forward, we believe that this business has the Coast restaurants now trade alongside existing TRG potential to grow signicantly.
This strong performance was restaurants.
We are very encouraged by the fact that not capped off with the news that we had won the Good Pub only are our Coast to Coast restaurants trading very well, Guides Pub Group of the Year award for 2013 a tting and are set to deliver strong returns, but also that there has testament to a dedicated crew.
been no detrimental impact upon the adjacent existing TRG restaurants.
We are planning to open four to six new Coast to Concessions 61 units Coast restaurants in 2013.
We believe that the Coast to Coast Our Concessions business traded superbly during 2012 with brand could have significant roll out potential it has broad good increases in revenues and profits.
Although passenger appeal and is distinct from TRGs other brands meaning numbers at UK airports were barely above 2011 levels our that it complements both Frankie & Bennys and Chiquito.
business delivered strong like-for-like sales growth as it We have identied several dozen locations where we are increased market share and improved spend per passenger.
confident that a Coast to Coast restaurant would trade well During the year we opened six new units and these are set to and the process of building a new site pipeline is well in hand.
We expect to open two to four new Concessions restaurants in 2013.
Chiquito 69 units Chiquito delivered a good performance in 2012 with sizeable increases in revenues, profits and margins.
No new Chiquito restaurants opened during 2012, although we anticipate opening between four and six new restaurants in 2013.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 07 Chief Executive Ofcers review of operations continued Over 700 4.5% like-for-like new jobs created sales growth The TRG business model TRGs capital structure Our core objective continues to be growth in shareholder The Groups capital structure is framed in a sensible and value and our strategy to achieve this is to build a business prudent manner which enables shareholder value to grow capable of delivering long-term, sustainable and growing and which recognises the operational and financial gearing cash ows.
Our touchstones are cash ow and return on inherent in our predominantly lease-based business model.
Our business model enables our shareholders In determining the appropriate capital structure, the key to enjoy the benets of high returns on capital, growth in considerations which we keep under regular review are: profits and cash ow and sizeable income distributions from 1.
The level of free cash ow generated and our expectation our progressive dividend policy.
The Group has a consistent for this going forward: record of converting profits into cash at a very healthy rate 2.
The level of capital investment required to fund our new and delivering increasing cash ows each year, and in 2012 openings and our expectations with regard to the number this was again the case.
of new openings over the medium-term : 3.
The maintenance of our progressive dividend policy and In 2012 the Group generated 102m of operating cash ow our intention to grow dividends in line with earnings: and having paid a corporation tax bill of 16.1m, interest payments of 0.9m and spending 15.8m on capital 4.
Ensuring that we have sufficient financial resources improvements to our existing estate the Groups free cash available to take advantage of opportunities to expand ow amounted to almost 70m.
This was 8m ahead of the the business profitably: previous year and continued the Groups record of growing 5.
Ensuring that we have sufficient financial resources cash ow each year.
available to cope with a deterioration in trading conditions as a result of an economic downturn or other adverse This cash is put to good use in 2012 we spent almost 40m factors: and on opening new restaurants and acquiring the freeholds of 6.
Maintaining a good level of xed charge cover as four of our existing Pub restaurants which will, in turn, measured by the Groups ability to meet and service contribute to the continuing growth in the Groups profits and all of its financial obligations.
cash ows: we returned almost 22m to our shareholders by way of dividends and we reduced our bank debt by 5.6m.
As a result of strong cash generation, the Group has continued to reduce its levels of debt signicantly.
In the five This virtuous circle of rising profits being converted into years since 2007, net debt has reduced from 77m to 36m.
higher levels of cash ow which is then invested in new During this period the Group has invested 146m in opening restaurants which, in turn, deliver high levels of return on 137 new restaurants and acquiring freeholds of our existing invested capital represents a highly efcacious and valuePub restaurants, 63m maintenance capex has been accretive model.
TRGs business model enables the Group invested in maintaining the existing estate and 89m has to grow in a predominantly organic and highly value-accretive been paid out to shareholders in the form of dividends.
way, funded from its internally generated funds.
Our model During much of this period the economic backdrop has been delivers high returns, growth and of course, income in the poor and at times very bleak.
Against such a backdrop we form of dividends.
The model is robust, resilient and believe that TRGs very prudent capital structure has been rewarding for our shareholders.
appropriate, safeguarding shareholders interests whilst allowing the Group to grow profits and cash ow and for dividends to increase.
08 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Our touchstones are cash ow and return on investment 28 7% new restaurants opened increase in adjusted profit before tax Although economic conditions have stabilised over the Our free cash ow generation is sufficient to enable the past 12 months the outlook, particularly in the UK, remains Group to accelerate the openings programme whilst opaque.
Forecasts for GDP growth have been subject maintaining maintenance capital expenditure at an to regular downward revisions over the past year and it is appropriate level and pursuing a progressive dividend policy.
unclear whether 2013 will be a year of low or no growth.
There are a significant number of new schemes in Whilst these economic conditions prevail, we intend to developers pipelines and, at some point, these are likely to maintain our very prudent approach to capital structure.
We are now starting to see projects which had We will however keep this under regular review and, taking been kept on the back burner by developers, coming on into account the key considerations set out above, determine stream.
Although these are mainly the smaller, edge of town, what, if any, adjustments to the Groups capital structure are schemes we view this as a positive development and this appropriate.
Any changes which are made would be in line suggests an improving trend in new development activity.
with our policy of maintaining a sensible and prudent capital structure, appropriate for a business which is characterised The economic downturn, whilst presenting formidable by operational gearing and financial gearing primarily by trading challenges, has also afforded to us several new virtue of our leasebased business model, whilst also opportunities and we intend to continue to identify and continuing to grow shareholder value.
pursue these where we are confident that they will meet our returns criteria.
Over the past three years, many of our new Capital expenditure and TRG opening programme restaurant opportunities have been secured from a variety of Our key criteria in determining where to invest our capital is differing sources and the work that we are doing in this to operate restaurants in locations with high barriers to entry, regard has had the benefit of widening the potential paths to good growth prospects and where we are confident that further roll out growth for the Group.
we can secure high returns on investment.
Our focus is on edge of town, out of town, rural, semi-rural and airport During 2013 we are expecting to open between 28 and locations and we occupy leading market positions in these 35 new restaurants and we are also successfully adding to segments.
The footprint that the Group occupies in edge and our potential pipeline for the next two to three years.
out of town leisure and airport locations is comprehensive and, from a market positioning perspective, very formidable.
Market dynamics and the economy It would be virtually impossible to replicate this footprint from Companies operating in the retail environment have found scratch and the Group is well placed to continue to roll out conditions tough in recent years and this seems to have more restaurants.
A deep recession followed by rising taxes, household ination, a scal squeeze with Our philosophy regarding capital expenditure remains lower government spending and higher levels of consistent we focus on cash generation and on securing a unemployment with the equally corrosive, concomitant, return on invested capital at rates ahead of TRGs weighted fear of unemployment and negative changes in year-on-year average cost of capital.
We continue to apply the same levels real wages, have placed significant pressures on many of analytical rigour, commercial analysis, experience and risk consumer-facing businesses.
This has proved particularly adjustment to each capital project that we undertake.
problematic for businesses with poor market positioning, weak business models and high levels of financial leverage.
This approach has served TRG well and we do not intend to Attempts at stimulating the economy through expansionary deviate from it.
This disciplined and consistent approach has monetary stimuli have had some success, but the economic also ensured that our new openings continue to deliver strong backdrop remains quite tough.
Selling goods and services returns.
It is particularly encouraging that returns from our to the UK consumer remains quite a challenge.
openings in recent years have been at some of the highest levels achieved in the past decade.
The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 09 Chief Executive Ofcers review of operations continued 11,000 102m people employed cashow from throughout the UK operations Eating out has become habitual in the UK and it is an activity In addition to consumers being squeezed as a result of that many people are reluctant to give up.
At our price point the difficult economic backdrop, other factors are also it represents a small ticket item or, to put it another way, at work and some distinct trends, both operationally and an affordable treat.
In times of scal restraint and stretched behaviourally, have been evident.
Those companies that nances, it is a pleasure in which many people still feel able have established strong market positions, with offerings to indulge.
that are accessible, attractive, convenient, well understood, trusted and are seen by their customers to offer good value Growth in eating out is a secular trend, driven largely by have tended to outperform.
Customers have become more socio-economic factors ageing population, busy lifestyles, selective about what, and how, they purchase and it is more women in the workplace etc.
and this is set to continue noteworthy how important a strong and clear online offering over the longer term.
Despite the current climate TRG has and communication platform has become for many parts been able to secure good levels of like-for-like sales growth of the retail marketplace.
The ability to read and quickly in both 2011 and 2012 and, as conditions improve and adapt to customer trends is increasingly important.
particularly when people feel more confident about their jobs and incomes, this is likely to accelerate.
With many households experiencing a squeeze on funds available for discretionary spend, harder choices between Economic conditions over the past 12 months have continued competing consumption wishes are having to be made.
to be tough with periods of significant uncertainty.
The first A propensity to save or pay down debt replaced the urge six months of 2012 were characterised by significant swings to buy on credit that was so prevalent just a few years ago.
in confidence which in part were driven by the recognition Consumer-facing businesses have had to work harder to that the correction of countries imbalances was likely to claim a share of this smaller cake.
require radical and potentially very severe actions.
This was particularly apparent within the Eurozone which, for much of Those companies that operate in the dining out sector have the first half of 2012, was subject to considerable volatility.
approached these challenges in different ways.
Many have chosen to compete for customers largely on price and this In July 2012, the President of the ECB, Mario Draghi, has often manifested itself via heavy promotions and deep announced that the ECB was ready to do whatever it takes discounting.
Buy one get one free and other similar, deep to preserve the Euro.
This had a rapid and sustained positive discounting, offers have been rife, and still are.
Our Group impact upon confidence within the Eurozone: together with has adopted a different approach, focusing on value, subsequent US and developing economies initiatives this choice and consistency of service and standards.
Last year, seems to have illuminated a way forward.
Although much the proportion of TRGs revenues which were driven by remains to be done, this willingness to acknowledge and promotions was, as in the previous year, very modest.
adapt presents an opportunity to rebalance and provides We have also increasingly harnessed digital media to a foundation towards improving global prosperity.
broaden awareness of our brands and what we can offer.
These tactics have served TRG well, enabling it to continue to grow profits and protect margins.
10 Annual Report 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements Well positioned to deliver further profitable progress The UK has benefited from these developments and, Stick to our areas of expertise: although sustained economic growth remains elusive, there Focus on our customers by providing excellent value, are some positive signs.
In particular, levels of employment choice and service: are holding up well and this is very encouraging against the Maintain high standards of operational efficiency challenge of replacing public sector jobs with jobs in the and execution: private sector.
Ination has abated a little from the high levels Carefully control our costs and seek to mitigate and seen in recent years and although pressures on household minimise the impact of inationary input costs: nances remain significant, the benets of ongoing low interest rates should have a positive impact upon households Add high quality new restaurants that meet our investment nances, consumer confidence and the propensity to spend.
criteria to our portfolio: and Focus on cash ow, returns and growing shareholder value.
Currently, the outlook for UK GDP growth in 2013 remains uninspiring and regular downward revisions in recent months Our aim is to continue to strengthen our market positions, to indicate that a measure of caution is appropriate.
At this judiciously roll out our brands and deliver long-term and stage, we anticipate that the economic backdrop is likely to sustainable profitable growth.
The Group has demonstrated remain similar to that experienced over recent months and its resilience and we expect to benefit signicantly from the accordingly we will look to manage our business to continue upturn in consumer confidence that will, in due course, prevail.
to deliver profitable growth against this backdrop.
2012 presented TRG with some big challenges.
As always, Future prospects our team rose to those challenges and produced a superb Over the past five years, our business has experienced some performance.
All of our people will be working towards difficult trading conditions and during that period sales, profits replicating this again in 2013.
The first two months of 2013 and cash ow increased every year.
Also within that period have started well with total sales 14% ahead of last year we have devised and developed our new brand, Coast to like-for-like sales up 6.5%, and we will be looking to build Coast, and executed its initial roll out very effectively, further further on this as we move through the year.
widening TRGs roll out path.
Andrew Page TRGs businesses command strong market positions in each Chief Executive officer of our chosen segments and our brands are well recognised 27 February 2013 for the quality, breadth and value of their offerings.
We have a well proven business model, a strong balance sheet and are well positioned to continue our expansion.
Just as we did in 2012, during 2013 we will continue to: The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2012 11
