12 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report chief executives review In 2012, we made further encouraging progress.
You will find the details of the operating and financial results on pages 24 to 39.
Insummary, we delivered organic sales growth above GDP following good volume growth in our beverage can business and organic underlying operating profit from continuing operations improved 1% despite tough economic conditions in many of our markets.
We are pleased to have completed the sale of the Personal Care business and to be returning 395m of the proceeds to shareholders.
Overall, our 2012 performance is a reflection of the breadth of expertise and unyielding commitment of the leadership team and our people.
Gross capital expenditure at 259m was somewhat higher than last year and at 1.6 times was just outside our stated 1.01.5 times depreciation range as we accelerated some investments to ensure that we are in a position to capture future market growth.
Wecontinue to keep a close watch on capital discipline, trading continuing our journey conditions and on achieving our return on capital target.
In Europe, where our assets are close to full utilisation, we invested During 2012, we continued the journey in a new beverage can plant in Finland and a new line in Austria.
The plant in Finland started production as planned in the first towards our 15% ROCE target in 2013. quarter of 2013.
In time, it will increase our capacity by 1.4bn standard cans.
The new plant will help to meet growth in the region I am pleased to report that we are well and free up capacity in other plants in Europe.
The additional can ontrack to achieve that target.
Our focus line in Ludesch in Austria will increase specialty can capacity by 0.7bn cans a year and enable us to continue to support growth in onoptimising cash, controlling costs energy drinks for export.
We converted a line in Chicago to specialty cans, allowing us to meet growth in this segment in North andconcentrating on return on capital America.
A new line for aluminium cans was opened in Mumbai, India, at the end of the year, and the plant in Belm in Brazil is due thethree Cs is creating value and will to come on stream in the first quarter 2013 in time for a number of major sporting events such as the FIFA World Cup and continue to do so going forward.
Graham Chipchase We have also invested in our Healthcare business.
We extended chiefexecutive the Bangalore plant in India to meet growing demand, and expanded one of our plants in France to accommodate increased volumes of insulin pens for global customers.
Free cash flow from continuing operations before dividends was strong, although down on last year at 219m 2011: 274m mainly due to the higher level of investment.
We achieved another year of good cost savings.
In the past total efficiency gains 20082012 m wehave targeted around 30m of savings per year and have consistently delivered on this.
Following the sale of Personal Care, 2012 2011 which as a business contributed some 8m of efficiencies in 2011, 2010 we have revised our target to 25m per year.
The 26m achieved 2009 in 2012 from continuing operations came from three main areas: 2008 reduction in material usage, especially aluminium and process optimisation through the deeply embedded tools and 0510 15 20 25 30 methodologies of lean manufacturing and six sigma to improve productivity and reduce scrap: and the centralisation of our O Beverage Cans O Healthcare 13 In 2012, we made further encouraging progress... insummary, we delivered organic sales growth above GDPfollowing good volume growth in our beverage can business and organic underlying operating profit from continuing operations improved 1% despite tough economic conditions in many of our markets.
Graham Chipchase chief executive balancing returns and growth Sales growth GDP Beyond 2013, our model will remain unchanged Pack mix changes in Europe and our aim is to maintain ROCE at around 15%.
In Growth in specialty cans in a high investment year, or if we make an acquisition, North America ROCE may go down slightly, and in a low investment Growth in emerging markets year it may go up but 15% will remain our centre of gravity through the cycle.
Sales growth is expected to continue to be slightly Operating above the GDP of the countries in which we operate, Investment profit growth GDP Create and as efficiencies and pricing offset cost inflation Organic investment Efficiencies of 25m shareholder value c 1.
0x 1.5x depreciation over time, we expect operating profit to grow faster and pricing offset cost underpins GDP growth by growing inflation over time than the top line.
This will translate into strong cash Bolt on acquisitions, while maintaining Good drop through from generation.
We will continue to invest in order to greenfield investments ROCE at c 15% increased volume and in new geographies support growth.
Any investment in organic growth or utilisation acquisitions will be determined by where we see the best opportunities to grow with good returns over time.
We will continue to pay the dividend in line with our policy of 2.0 to 2.5 times cover and return Cash generation any surplus cash to shareholders.
Strong balance sheet Investment grade credit rating Surplus cash Dividend Returned to shareholders Dividend cover 2.02.5x procurement organisation which will help ensure that we capitalise improving our returns fully on our global footprint and manage our metal, other direct In addition to the three Cs of cash, cost and capital, we have consistently highlighted a number of levers that would help us material costs and capital equipment expenditure more efficiently going forward.
attain our stated ROCE target: asset utilisation, innovation, growthin emerging markets and management of our portfolio.
Return on capital employed improved to 14.7% 2011: 13.7% partly attributable to the successful sale of our Personal Care asset utilisation business see page 15 as well as continued tight capital Our asset utilisation in 2012 improved in all our regions.
in the mid nineties in Europe as a result of higher volumes.
In North America, as expected, we benefited from the recovery of about Our net debt at 31 December 2012, was 0.8bn: down on last one third of the volumes lost in 2011 and utilisation is now in the year due to good cash flow and the proceeds of the sale of mid eighties.
This is expected to increase further in 2013 as we Personal Care.
We succeeded in refinancing our 2013 debt recover the remaining two thirds of the volumes lost.
The conversion maturities with US$750m of senior notes in the US private of one of our 12oz lines in Chicago to 16oz SLEEK cans will also placement market due in 2022 and 2024.
As a result, our increase overall utilisation rates.
As market growth resumed effectiveinterest cost will be around 4% from the second half of inSouth America, our utilisation rate also improved to the 2013.
Our credit rating is investment grade with stable outlook lownineties.
withboth Moodys and Standard & Poors.
innovation Innovation in products and processes is an important driver of value for our customers and us.
In 2012 we restructured our beverage can innovation organisation, appointing a director of technology to coordinate our global innovations programme and the development of supporting technology platforms for products and manufacturing.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 14 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report chief executives review 60 billion cans returned The US recorded a seven percentage point increase in the recycling rate to 65% according to latest 2011 figures available thats more than 60bn cans in total.
This was mainly due to increased efforts bymunicipalities, brand owners, aluminium companies as well as consumers to recycle and reclaim the inherent value of the metal.
Rexam sets a strong example in its local communities by joining in the annual Can Manufacturers Institute CMI industry recycling contest.
In2012 Rexam won the contest for a sixth year in a row as CMI recognised the Rexam Chicago office for its efforts in hosting events to promote recycling and raise money for charity.
In total, Beverage Can North America collected more than 40 metric tonnes of used cans and raised more than US$75,000 for charity.
Read more on recycling on page 51. source: The Aluminum Association Inc, Can Manufacturers Institute, Institute of Scrap Recycling Industries Inc. During the year, we invested in 24oz can capacity in Brazil to emerging markets break into a market segment that is currently dominated by large Almost 34% 2011 restated: 33% of our sales now come returnable glass bottles that cater for the popular drink sharing fromemerging markets and we have leading market positions in culture in bars.
We also unveiled a new shaped version of the beverage cans in three out of the four BRIC countries.
We remain Fusion aluminium bottle called Contour which will give watchful of trading conditions in these markets and committed to customers further opportunity to attract new target audiences achieving our returns target in 2013.
This was demonstrated by the anddifferentiate their brands.
deferral of the opening of the Belm plant in Brazil until early 2013 due to the change in the market growth rate, as well as the Process innovation is also important to ensure that we extract the divestment of our Chinese beverage can making plant which maximum value from our assets.
During the year, among other operated in a highly fragmented market.
things, in Beverage Cans we have focused on increasing capacity with minimal capital expenditure without affecting quality and or In Beverage Cans, we continued to evaluate new opportunities safety.
Using lean tools, six sigma and global best practice tobuild or expand our positions in a range of emerging markets, sharing, we have managed to increase line speeds at a number of leveraging our relationships with existing customers or establishing plants which has resulted in lower investment or the postponement new ones.
Our focus is on opportunities for greenfield investment of further expenditure to a later date.
as well as bolt on acquisitions or joint venture arrangements.
Many markets are still emerging and others relatively fragmented, and In Healthcare, our needle stick prevention device, SafenSound, we remain confident that there are opportunities for consolidation gained commercial traction.
The device helps protect medical staff in an industry where scale economies are considered an and patients from blood borne diseases such as HIV and hepatitis.
advantage in bringing further efficiency to the manufacturing The continuing development of injectable drugs leads us to expect process and procurement.
Strong GDP growth in many emerging strong growth in this area.
markets and the relatively low penetration of beverage cans make these highly attractive target markets as does the presence of major Our preservative free technology for multidose eye droppers, global and regional customers.
This is supported by the increase in Novelia, attracted major interest from the industry.
The convenient the size of the middle classes and predominantly youthful cost effective solution for preservative free eye drops aids populations more disposed towards the modern profile of the patientcompliance.
In addition, the can is well suited to the often tough We industrialised our next generation nasal spray, Advancia, conditions that sometimes exist in the supply chain.
tostrengthen our market position in a segment expected to show strong growth in the next five years.
In our Prescription business, we are on the point of launching anew cost effective, light weight cap with premium features toreinforce our leadership in child resistant closures.
15 In order to strengthen our commitment to growth areas for portfolio management Beverage Cans, we have split our Europe and Asia beverage can Since 2009 we have carefully managed our portfolio of businesses sector to create a new sector, based in Dubai, specifically for the to transform Rexam from a business with variable returns into one markets in Africa, the Middle East and Asia AMEA.
Having a that is much more focused and generating good returns.
During dedicated organisation will sharpen our focus on these markets 2012 we completed the sale of Personal Care.
The business was ofthe future.
sold in two parts: the Cosmetics, Toiletries and Household Care products business and the High Barrier Food packaging business.
In South and Central American markets, we see further potential for Our aim was to maximise shareholder value by finding the best consolidation in the market and for bolt on acquisitions all the while new owners for the business.
The optimum solution both with mindful of our returns over time.
regard to price and terms was to sell the business in two parts given that each business was more attractive on a standalone basis In Healthcare, we doubled the capacity of our plant in Bangalore to separate buyers in light of their focused operations.
to meet continued growth in the region and also finalised a contract to manufacture generic drug delivery devices for a customer In January 2013, we announced the return of 395m of the sale inIndia.
proceeds to shareholders by way of a B share scheme a structure that gave our shareholders flexibility in terms of tax treatment.
The disposal of Personal Care, together with the share consolidation that accompanied the return of cash, will be marginally accretive toearnings.
if you love, you care If you love, you care Quem Ama Cuida is part of our South American can business behavioural based safety BBS programme.
It has been running since the end of 2011 with the aim of encouraging further commitment to an accident free work place using the underlying themes of love of life and companionship.
It is quite simply everyones duty to combat the causes of incidents that may lead to accidents, says Paulo Mota, Beverage Can South America BCSA Organisational Development Director.
It is about building a culture of excellence in safety, and education and incentivisation are apowerful combination in this respect.
Plants are set a number of challenging but realistic targets around lost time accidents and significant reductions in other key safety measures.
Plant achievements are classified as Diamond, Sapphire or Emerald.
Achieving Diamond status, for example, enters the plant into a draw for a brand new car.
According to Carlos Pires, BCSA Industrial Director, the targets are stretching but fully achievable: Safety is essential for improvement and growth, and our employees know that it is everyones responsibility.
Making sure that each employee goes back home safely every day depends on all of us.
That is why as a business we have wholeheartedly embraced this campaign.
In 2012 BCSA reduced its medical incident rate by60% from seven to one.
Read more on safety on page 57. financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 16 Rexam annual report 2012 directors report chief executives review an A rating for sustainability essential ties.
Our commitment to sustainability targets and We believe that sustainability makes business sense and we would measures will help secure the long term future of Rexam.
We not run our company any other way.
So, the publication of our continue to nurture a sense of One Rexam aswe build a winning Sustainability report in June was a significant milestone in our organisation emphasising that together we achieve more, together companys sustainability history which dates back to its first formal we are stronger.
environmental policy in 1994 and the publication of our first Beyond 2013, we plan to create value for shareholders by environmental and social report in 2003.
We were delighted that managing the business to maintain ROCE at around 15% while the latest report was awarded an A rating by the Global Reporting investing in growth opportunities.
In years of high organic Initiative GRI, the most comprehensive sustainability reporting investment or an acquisition, ROCE may fall slightly and in a year guidelines currently available and the recognised global of low organic investment it may rise slightly.
But a ROCE of 15% benchmark in this field.
will remain our centre of gravity as we maintain a disciplined The report is built around three core themes: Products, Operations balance between growth and returns.
Resource and operational efficiency is vital for us and Rexam generates about 200m of free cash flow per year.
In the environment, and with a large number of operational targets addition, our balance sheet is in very good shape.
Our long term set, including waste to landfill and accredited site performance, gearing target is for net debt EBITDA to be in the range 2.0 to 2.5 wenow have stretching goals to improve further on our previous times.
The pro forma gearing was 1.8 times net debt EBITDA at the achievements.
You can read more on the measures and targets in end of 2012, and given the current uncertainty in the global the Sustainability section which starts on page 49. economic climate we are comfortable with this.
But, having As a manufacturing company, we place great importance on the successfully refinanced our 2013 near term maturities and with the safety of our employees.
We also ensure that our employees know next maturities in 2017, we believe that there is scope to increase what it means for us to act like a responsible business from factory gearing to bring us within our target range over time.
to office as witnessed by the global roll out of our Code of Conduct We see, today, organic investment opportunities in existing and see also page 75.
As you will see in more detail on page 57 in the new geographies, and bolt on and consolidation acquisition Sustainability section, all the indicators we use to measure safety opportunities.
To the extent these opportunities materialise and improved during 2012.
Whilst 75% of our plants 2011: 70% had offer us the ability to accelerate top line growth consistent with our no lost time accidents during the year, we very sadly had a fatality objective of maintaining ROCE around 15%, we will then seek to at a Personal Care plant in the US.
Safety cannot be simply a take advantage of them.
If the valuation, timing or availability of priority: it must be an engrained value, part of our culture, and we these opportunities do not coalesce, then we will look to increase have redoubled our efforts to ensure that we are doing everything cash returns to shareholders either by increasing the ordinary to avoid such atragedy recurring at any of our plants.
dividend or by returning surplus cash to shareholders through looking longer term othermeans.
The 2010 to 2013 period is about improving returns and creating a 2013 outlook solid platform for the future.
We are now a more focused company In 2013 we will continue to focus on optimising cash generation, with 90% of our sales coming from beverage cans and we have continually monitoring our costs and maintaining our disciplined evolved the organisation to reflect this.
Our vision is to be the best approach to capital investment.
in our business, with the aim of enhancing shareholder value.
Beyond 2013, this will be underpinned by a continued focus on the We expect to make further progress in 2013 despite an uncertain three Cs.
We will maintain a relentless focus on safety, efficiencies macroeconomic environment and continued cost pressures.
Further and world class operations to ensure we utilise our assets contractual gains in North America and continued growth in our effectively and efficiently.
Innovation in products and processes will European and South American beverage can businesses give us be key, and the reorganisation of our own resources, including the confidence we will achieve our 15% ROCE target.
aforementioned new position of director of technology, reflects this.
Stronger customer and supplier relationships will help consolidate and grow sales, and, again, we have taken positive action during the year to ensure that we can strengthen these 17 key performance indicators We use the following key performance indicators KPIs to measure and track performance.
Each KPI relates directly to our long term strategy and additional information on each of them is contained in the various sections of this annual report.
target 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 best performance 1 Organic sales growth % GDP 4 4 3 7 7 1 Underlying operating profit growth % GDP 1 8 22 17 3 Free cash flow m Note 2 193 245 316 290 128 3 Return on capital employed % 15% by 2013 14.7 13.7 12.3 9.5 11.0 customer expectations 4 Customer satisfaction score 110 Global benchmark: 7.5 8.1 7.8 n a n a n a 5 Emerging market sales as percentage of sales % Continuous improvement 34 33 32 30 30 5,6 Research and new product development m Note 7 8 810 8 10 operational excellence 5 Annual cost savings and efficiencies m 25m 26 27 27 28 19 8 Lost time accident rate LTAR Zero accidents pa 0.19 0.28 0.30 0.63 0.76 5,9 Carbon intensity ratio 10% by 2013 vs 2010 0.90 0.93 0.97 1.07 n a winning organisation 10 Employee engagement index favourable score % Continuous improvement 69 n a 62 n a n a 10 Values & leadership practices favourable score % Continuous improvement 61 n a 53 n a n a 1 Based on underlying business performance from continuing and discontinued operations excluding Closures in 2011 and Personal Care in 2012 before exceptional items, theamortisation of certain acquired intangibles and fair value changes in certain derivatives.
Organic sales growth and underlying operating profit growth are asreported in thefinancial reviewfor the relevant years and represent the organic change after adjusting for acquisitions, disposals and currency fluctuations.
2 Will vary due to investment plans including capital expenditure.
3 Underlying operating profit plus share of post tax profits of associates from total operations divided by the average of opening and closing shareholders equity after adding back retirement benefit obligations netof tax and net borrowings.
4 Based on externally conducted survey in Beverage Cans 90% of sales.
2011 figure from pilot survey in Beverage Can Europe.
6 Research and development spend on a statutory accounting basis which includes design, construction and testing of preproduction prototypes, models and processes.
Our operations also invest in new product and process initiatives which are not captured in the statutory figure.
7 Depends on number of projects in the innovation pipeline: no current explicit target.
8 LTAR is the number of lost time accidents times 200,000 total hours worked.
The long term target is zero accidents pa with a near term target of 10% reduction pa. 9 Kilogram of carbon per kilogram of production.
10 Based on the Group global employee engagement survey conducted at approximately 18 month intervals.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview
