Chief executives statement I am proud to be leading your company and am committed to Delivering our strategy building a stronger business focused on pursuing greater value Under my watch, our strategy will not change but how we deliver it will.
We will consistently execute our strategy in all of our markets with a focus in three key areas in 2013: My more than 20 years experience with Rio Tinto, including as a member of the board for the past four years, has shown me that we have great 1.
Strengthen capital allocation and discipline.
assets, outstanding people and the right strategy.
We will now have a Prioritise our capital expenditure on the highest quality projects single-minded focus on how we deliver this strategy in every market in and improve the way we manage capital.
In addition, we are taking which we operate, everywhere around the world.
a more aggressive portfolio approach to divest assets that no longer I place the highest importance on upholding our values and ensuring fit our strategy.
safety is paramount in everything we do.
Reduce costs and improve performance at our In 2012, while we did experience safety improvements, there were two existing operations.
fatalities at our managed operations and, earlier this year, a fatality at our Our immediate priority is to improve performance at our existing La Granja project in Peru.
I will never let up in my constant efforts to improve businesses by unlocking productivity improvements, aggressively safety, to reinforce our strong safety culture, and to ensure that every reducing operating and support costs, controlling sustaining capital employee and contractor plays their part in making our workplaces safer.
spend and leveraging our expertise across all stages of our operations.
We are targeting cumulative cash cost savings of over US$5 billion Highlights of 2012 over the next two years, which will see an annual run rate improvement The pattern of market uncertainty and volatility we have seen since of US$3 billion by the end of 2014. the global financial crisis continued in 2012.
Yet despite this, our underlying financial results were solid, indicating the fundamental 3.
Deliver our approved growth projects.
During 2013, we continue to focus on delivering our two significant growth projects our Iron Ore business in Australia and our Oyu Tolgoi copperThis was mainly driven by a strong operational performance from some gold project in Mongolia in a risk-managed, value-enhancing manner.
Our iron ore business delivered record production and shipments, and our copper business showed a second half recovery in See page 6 for more detail on what you can expect from us in 2013. copper volumes.
In my drive to increase accountability, I have made some changes to my We also experienced production increases in bauxite, alumina, thermal executive team.
I welcome two new members Jean-Sbastien Jacques coal and titanium dioxide feedstock.
and Chris Lynch and congratulate Andrew Harding on his move to head our iron ore business.
I have also announced some further streamlining The mining sector has experienced unacceptable levels of cost increases of my executive team, reducing my direct reports from 11 to nine.
During 2012 all of our management teams were focused on improving productivity to ensure our assets are at the lower Ongoing commitment end of the total cost curve.
We expect market uncertainty and price volatility to persist in 2013, but We are continuing to see the benefits of cost savings from our aluminium there are positive signs emerging.
In China specifically, momentum is transformation programme and through the review of support and service growing under its new leadership, and we expect to see Chinese GDP costs across the business but clearly much more remains to be done.
growth above eight per cent in 2013.
We are taking a more aggressive approach to assets in our portfolio that China will remain important to us, but I also expect to see strong demand no longer fit our strategy.
We achieved further cash proceeds from our growth from India, Indonesia and other South East Asian countries as divestment programme in 2012, with the sale of several non-core they also urbanise and industrialise.
It is this outlook that gives us businesses including Lynemouth Power Station, the North American and confidence to invest in high-value growth projects, and underpins our Chinese portions of the Alcan Cable business, our Specialty Alumina expectation of strong future cash generation.
division, and we secured a binding agreement to sell our interest in The company has a renewed and strong leadership team, supported Palabora.
We also made good progress on exploring options for our Pacific by outstanding people.
I would like to thank our 71,000 employees Aluminium and Diamonds businesses.
This focus will continue in 2013. around the world for their dedication and resilience.
In many parts of our operations we faced some testing times and there will be more to come.
Growth programme Our total capital expenditure for 2012 was US$17.4 billion, reflecting I remain fully confident in the long-term prospects of the business.
We investment in the high value growth of our business, in particular our have the right strategy to deliver sustainable growth over the long term world-leading iron ore operations in the Pilbara and the greenfield to meet the worlds resourcing needs.
In the short term, I am certain of copper-gold project, Oyu Tolgoi, in Mongolia.
what needs to be done and we are taking decisive steps with a clear plan to build a stronger, more accountable business.
We also continued to invest in a number of other growth projects throughout 2012, such as our iron ore project in Guinea, our aluminium Finally, I would like to thank you, our shareholders, for your continued smelting project in Kitimat, and a project to extend the life of the Groups support.
I am committed to making a real difference building on Kennecott Utah Copper mine.
Rio Tintos strong foundations to put us firmly on the path of delivering greater shareholder value.
2012 was our peak capital expenditure year and, given our commitment to greater capital discipline, we are reviewing all capital commitments in 2013.
Sam Walsh Chief executive 6 March 2013 4 Rio Tinto 2012 Annual report
