Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 14 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 chief executives review We continue to expand our international In 2012 we have seen an increase in orders presence and currently have 22 in the oil & gas market, which has been 2012 was a year of good manufacturing sites, 61 offices and a further driven in part by activity related to shale progress.
We delivered 63 regional locations in 33 countries gas discoveries and the subsequent strong organic growth and meaning we now have sales channels in 94 investment in liquefied natural gas LNG countries in total.
The power market has been successfully integrated the to demand operational and product impacted by a slowdown in China and a acquisitions made during excellence.
We provide this through focused lack of spend in India, although the long 2011.
The investments in our attention on customer satisfaction and term need for power generation in these investment in our people and facilities.
The water market international sales channels showed signs of growth, such that, even and the expansion of our I am pleased to report that our strategy for in countries such as China, which saw a product portfolio helped each growth has delivered record results.
Order decline in the power market in 2012, Rotork intake for the year was 539.3m, up 16.8% was still able to record year-on-year growth.
of the divisions achieve record on the previous year.
constant currency basis order intake was Through the establishment of Rotork 14.4% ahead of 2011.
Instruments, we have increasingly been addressing industry sectors outside of oil & Revenue was again weighted to the fourth gas, power and water.
The acquisitions of quarter and we enjoyed a particularly strong Fairchild in 2011 and Soldo, a switch box end to the year.
Revenue for the full year manufacturer based in Italy, in November Peter France was 511.7m, 14.3% up on the prior year.
2012, provide the division with a solid Chief Executive Adjusted operating profit margin was platform to build on and we look forward 25.8%, slightly lower than the 25.9% to growing the division over time.
achieved last year but, excluding the impact of acquisitions and currency, the adjusted We have continued to invest in the margin was 26.0%.
During 2012 we opened our new Chennai factory in The Company benefits from a diverse India and in Russia we expanded our facility product portfolio and an extensive in Moscow and opened a new office in geographical reach.
The industries that we St Petersburg.
We also opened new facilities serve often have high barriers to entry: for in So Paulo, Brazil, Jebel Ali, UAE and example, actuators usually require Edmonton, Canada amongst others.
We certification and approvals before they can have acquired another site in Bath to be used.
They are also mission critical to the accommodate the growth of the Controls operations of our customers and, as such, division and we will be moving to a new investment in the quality and reliability of facility in Leeds which will house Rotork equipment and service is an area of acute Gears and Rotork UK.
Both sites will be focus for them.
fully operational by the end of 2013.
Rotork plc Annual Report 2012 15 Overview 1-11 Business Review 12-39 Directors 40-43 Governance 44-64 Financial Statements 65-114 Company Information 115-117 During the past decade, several thousand Rotork IQ intelligent electric valve actuators have been installed on the West-East Gas Pipeline project, a pipeline network running through 66 counties in China.
Research and Development We measure RSSs performance against a In January 2013 Alan Paine was appointed All divisions launched new products during number of key metrics and the number of as the first Divisional Managing Director of 2012.
We introduced the third generation service engineers is one of these.
In the year Rotork Instruments and we also welcomed of our agship IQ range to build on Rotorks we have increased the number of service him to the Rotork Management Board.
position as the premium brand in our engineers by 8% and we now have over market by providing our customers with the 320 service personnel globally.
Our products Rotorks success is due to the dedication very latest technology.
In Controls we also are often used in environmentally and hard work of our staff.
I would like to launched the complementary Compact challenging locations and the need for take this opportunity to thank them for Modulating Actuator CMA, which has certainty of operation means that the making Rotork the world-class business strengthened the Rotork Process Control customer is looking for local service and, that it is.
Rotork now has close to 100,000 Corporate Social Responsibility In Rotork Fluid Systems, the investments we actuators under some form of maintenance The Rotork Corporate Social Responsibility have made in recent years have resulted in contract, an increase of 6% over last year.
CSR framework is embedded in many the introduction of a number of new aspects of the way we do business, products, including the latest Gas-over-Oil Our people the way we interact with our people and actuator range.
One of our aims is for the Company to be the communities in which we are based a great place to work.
At the end of and it is an integral part of our culture.
Our spend on R&D increased once again November we conducted our annual The four Sub-Committees of the CSR this year, up 27% to 7.4m.
We continue Employee Satisfaction Survey and saw the Committee provide the necessary focus on to increase our engineering resources and to response rate increase from 73% to 77%.
the key areas of environment, health and work on other initiatives which will support The overall satisfaction score also improved safety, ethics and social issues and recognise the different disciplines best placed to product launches in 2013 and beyond.
All individual questions showed an improvement over the prior year, drive these different aspects of CSR.
The Sub-Committees communicate to teams Rotork Site Services RSS reecting the continued effort being made Rotork Site Services operates mainly within throughout the organisation.
throughout the Group and monitor progress against their respective objectives.
More the Rotork Controls and Rotork Fluid Systems divisions and focuses mostly on 2012 was another year of strong growth information regarding the CSR Committee and its work is set out on pages 32 to 39. preventative maintenance contracts, onsite and we welcomed 228 people into the and workshop service and retrot solutions.
Rotork family, 29 joining with the Soldo References to adjusted profit throughout this This business continues to grow and acquisition.
With the acquisition of document are dened as the IFRS profit, whether provides us with the ability to work closely Schischek in January we have added a profit before tax or operating profit, with the with our existing customer base and further 100 employees and this means that amortisation of acquired intangibles added back.
develop relationships which enhance the we now have approximately 2,800 staff in sales opportunities for the full range of 33 countries.
