14 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2012 Chief Executives review Consistent strategy delivers growth We create value by being in the right markets, having the right brand portfolios, creating the right operating processes and building the right partnerships.
Graham Mackay, Chief Executive The group has delivered another strong Being in the right markets performance, driven this year by the successful In line with our first strategic priority, weve development of our brands and brand portfolios, continuedto build a balanced and attractive global better sales execution and rising consumer spread ofbusinesses one that combines generally confidence in most of our developing markets.
profitable, mature markets with high-growth, Itsparticularly pleasing to see the progress weve developing markets characterised by strong economic made in growing revenue and improving margins, fundamentals and rising levels of disposable income.
as these are two of our key drivers of value.
Were well represented in Group revenue grew by 11% as a result of higher 76% manyof the worlds fastestbeverage volumes, selective price increases Proportion of group growing countries.
andrising sales of our premium brands.
EBITA increased by 12% 8% on an organic, constant EBITA from developing At the mature end of the portfolio, we have leading currency basis, with the reported EBITA margin or emerging economies positions in some of the worlds most profitable rising 10 bps to 17.9%.
developed markets, for example through MillerCoors in the USA.
Here the focus is on enhancing Despite the challenges of the financial crisis, our valueand building profit margins by offering local strategic direction has remained constant.
While premium and global brands and developing craft itnaturally evolves over time, the strategy were beers and other malt-based beverages.
pursuing continues to be relevant and has enabled us to succeed even in trying circumstances.
Our In emerging markets, were well represented either four strategic priorities, together with the measures directly or through partnerships and alliances in the we use to track progress and how weve performed worlds fastest-growing countries, including China, this year, are set out on pages 20 and 21.
India and many African markets.
We also have a strong presence in the developing regions of Latin To provide greater insight into how the business America and Central and Eastern Europe.
In these generates value for its shareholders and to meet markets our focus is on volume and value growth, therequirements of the UK Corporate Governance achieved by providing high-quality, aspirational brands Code, this years annual report offers further detail at a range of prices to cater for all income levels.
Page 15 details the key At76%, the proportion of our group EBITA coming components of this model being in the right from developing or emerging economies remains markets, having the right brand portfolio, creating thehighest in the brewing sector.
the right operating processes and building the rightpartnerships.
The past year has seen strong progress in each case.
