Chief Executives review Creating freedom to succeed We remain confident we will continue to deliver on our strategic and financial goals There are three key areas where we are sharpening our focus on the core.
Overview of the year Firstly, we have undertaken a systematic review of our portfolio of businesses We delivered 2% organic revenue growth in the year 2011: 4%, which reflects to ensure it supports our strategy to accelerate growth.
Proximity to Sages a solid performance in the context of a macro-economic environment which core business and potential value creation are the principles used to assess the remained difficult in most of our markets.
Growing organic subscription revenue strategic fit of businesses within the portfolio and have guided our assessment by 6% evidences our ability to grow recurring revenue even in challenging market of both acquisitions and disposals during the year.
The disposal of our conditions and the strength of our support offering to customers.
The majority of Healthcare business in the US and the acquisition of Folhamatic in Brazil the contraction in SSRS was attributable to weak market conditions, particularly both illustrate this approach.
The rigour with which this approach is applied in France and Spain with the shift to recurring revenue a factor in other markets.
to our existing portfolio is also demonstrated by our identification of non-core We have also focused on disciplined resource allocation, protecting margins at businesses.
These non-core businesses constitute approximately 10% of the same time as investing for growth.
We are committed to driving strategic Group revenue.
change and I am pleased with the momentum we have established with our growth initiatives.
Secondly, we are allocating investment to the most significant initiatives which will drive the Groups growth.
We have completed a comprehensive review A feature of the year has been the variable trading performance by geography.
of our core business and have categorised our products as Invest, Harvest or The trading environment in Europe remained challenging during the year.
This determines where resources are allocated and we are reallocating has been the worst hit of our markets, and remains in deep recession, but R&D and sales and marketing resources to Invest products.
We are reporting uncertain and deteriorating conditions in France also impacted performance.
these measures as a KPI to track progress on our reallocation programme with The UK and Germany, by contrast, delivered strong revenue growth, notably 2012 as the base year.
For 2012, the split by category for R&D is 35% for so relative to the economic backdrop.
North America showed the anticipated Invest, 53% for Harvest and 12% for Sunset and for sales and marketing sequential improvement in the second half of the year, driven by good progress investment the split is 42%, 49% and 9% respectively.
2013 we will see with Sage Business Care and with Sage Payment Solutions.
AAMEA continued continued focus on reallocating investment towards Invest products.
We have to deliver double digit revenue growth, with particularly strong growth in South also centralised R&D in North America, which is an important example of how Africa and Africa more broadly.
This variance in market conditions calls for we are changing processes to accelerate our ability to align resources to our management discipline in allocating resources, directing investment to our priorities.
It will take time for this programme to deliver in full, but the approach growth opportunities, such as Brazil and our Invest products, whilst protecting to streamlining resources is embedded across the Group and will start to drive profitability in weaker markets such as Spain.
Strategy for growth The third key element of business focus is leveraging our global scale and Accelerating growth remains our key priority.
At our Investor Day in July 2012, assets Sage One and Sage ERP X3 are examples of Invest products which we set out our ambition to double our long-term historic average organic are global products in reach and where we are looking to leverage global revenue growth rate within the next three years, together with a targeted EBITA resources, capability and expertise to drive growth.
Our technology strategy margin increase of 1 to 2 percentage points over the same period.
The organic is another important example of how we are investing in global platforms and growth plans are underpinned by three cornerstones and we have made solid initiatives, whilst maintaining a focus on the end-user requirements of the local progress on these.
We have developed a number of Key Performance market.
This links in turn to our subscription strategy, where we are executing Indicators KPIs which reflect the measures by which we are running the with a global mindset, recognising that leveraging the knowledge of business to deliver the cornerstones.
Measurement is important and we will subscription pricing disciplines across the business is vital to our success.
continue to report on these KPIs as evidence of our progress.
Capturing the technology opportunity Focusing our business Our approach to technology is guided by the current and future needs of our We are changing the way we run our business to capture the considerable customers and the unrivalled position Sage enjoys to lead small and medium opportunities we have to accelerate growth from our core business.
This sized companies to apply technology to best effect.
It recognises that these starts with a clear assessment of our core business, which is the provision requirements differ by customer, by segment and by market and that of accounting, ERP, payroll, accountancy and related products for customers technology provides a catalyst for Sage to develop a more active relationship ranging in size from start-ups to mid-market companies.
Importantly, we also with these customers, both existing and new.
As important as leading our have adjacent businesses that support the core, typically involving technology customers is our focus on capturing the commercial opportunities resulting which is highly integrated such as payments and CRM solutions.
from a more active customer relationship.
We have invested significantly in # Organic figures exclude the contributions of current and prior year acquisitions, disposals and non-core products.
Underlying figures neutralise the impact of foreign exchange movements and exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related items and imputed interest.
EBITA is defined as earnings before interest, tax, amortisation of acquired intangible assets and acquisition-related items and is after neutralising the impact of foreign exchange movements.
14 Guy Berruyer, Chief Executive Officer The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 15 Chief Executives review continued our technology, our platforms and our products to capture the trends that are of accounting software customers is a compelling strategic opportunity important to our customers, particularly the move to the cloud and the need and is our measure of progress.
Our North American business continued for solutions that fully integrate and support mobility.
to demonstrate good momentum with integration, with an 18% increase in cross-sell revenue and over 9,700 customers have now adopted Sage One is the focus of our online investment for the start-up and small integrated payments.
Sage One is a SaaS solution providing online bookkeeping and business management software to customers.
It has been developed on The benefits of subscription a global technology platform which can be efficiently and effectively tailored The third cornerstone of our growth strategy is migrating our customers to local market needs.
We are satisfied with the momentum of Sage One in to a subscription pricing relationship.
Subscription represents a significant the UK & Ireland, with over 6,100 paying customers at the year end.
We also opportunity to deliver greater value to our customers and to capture the launched Sage One in the US.
We expect to establish momentum in the US benefits of a more active relationship with our customers.
Technology is an during 2013 as we further enhance the solution and create the necessary important enabler of this strategy, both as a catalyst for changing the needs distribution channels to drive customer adoption.
We are also focused on and requirements of our customers and providing us with opportunities to growing the number of customers in the UK & Ireland as we benefit from the offer greater features and functionality which will drive adoption.
Subscription build-out of our channels and by targeting the 5 to 25 employee segment with pricing is a relatively small part of our business today but to reflect its strategic a more advanced solution.
We are also rolling-out Sage One to more countries, importance, we have introduced the annualised value of our subscriber base starting with Germany in early 2013 and to be followed by Canada, Spain and as a measure to track progress.
2012 is the base year for this measure, with France.
These priorities drive customer adoption which is the key measure of a value of 80.5m.
our success with Sage One.
The move to subscription pricing reflects the evolving nature of our relationship Hybrid cloud is the focus of our investment for small to medium sized with our customers and builds on the success we have had in transitioning businesses SMB, providing customers with compelling cost of ownership customers to premium support.
This will continue to be an important feature whilst retaining the choice of deployment, data control and tailoring their of our business model, as evidenced by the proportion of our contracts which solution to their specific needs.
Our partnership with Microsoft Azure, are premium in nature increasing to 71%.
This increase was driven by the announced in May 2012, is a very significant development in delivering our success of Sage Business Care in North America and premium support hybrid cloud strategy.
Building on the Azure platform allows us to speed up packages in the UK.
development of customer solutions, accelerate time to market and reduce During the year, we have launched a number of subscription pricing options for duplication.
The focus of development started in Europe with Sage 200 selected products across the Group, alongside traditional licence and support hybrid in the UK and Sage Murano in Spain which will both be released alternatives.
In April 2012, we launched subscription pricing options for certain to market in 2013.
North America is also working closely with Microsoft to North American mid-market ERP products.
The early evidence of the dual develop a new generation of Sage ERP hybrid cloud products on Azure.
The model approach is in line with the measured adoption we are targeting, with number of SMB customers adopting hybrid cloud solutions is an important approximately 20% of sales being made on a subscription basis.
Further measure of progress with our technology strategy.
The 115 customers reported subscription pricing options have been launched in North America, Europe for this years results principally reflect existing customers on SageCRM.
We will continue to develop subscription pricing offerings We expect to see that number grow as hybrid cloud accounting and ERP for other key products across the Group.
products are released to market during 2013 and beyond.
Summary and outlook Sage ERP X3 is the focus of our investment at the mid-market level and revenue growth of Sage ERP X3 is the key measure of our success with this We delivered a solid performance in the context of a macro-economic segment.
We are pleased with the progress of the international roll-out of environment which remained difficult in most of our markets.
We achieved Sage ERP X3 which has been a driver of its recent growth, and demonstrates strong growth in recurring revenue and focused on disciplined resource our capability to develop products which are successful on a global scale.
allocation, protecting margins at the same time as investing for growth.
We are Sage ERP X3 revenue grew by 5% in the year, with revenue outside of France committed to driving strategic change and I am pleased with the momentum growing by 17% and now contributing 43% of Sage ERP X3 global revenue.
we have established with our growth initiatives.
Notable developments during the year include the launch of a subscription A feature of the year has been the variable trading performance by geography.
pricing option in North America and the recent launch of Sage ERP X3 v6.5 Europes performance reflected good growth by the UK and Germany, offset featuring integrated payments and other connected services.
by the impact of weaker markets in France and Spain.
North America delivered We see mobile technology as a particularly compelling opportunity to develop the anticipated improvement in the second half of the year while AAMEA more active relationships with our customers and to expand the number of our continued to deliver very strong growth.
We are evolving our product architecture to capture this As we look forward, the global macro-economic outlook remains uncertain and growth opportunity.
In October 2012, we launched four of the first business we are watchful of the environment in Europe, particularly in France.
We are apps for Windows 8, namely Sage 50 Accounts Pulse in the UK, Sage eFactura making good progress with our strategy for accelerating growth and remain Online in Spain, Sage Mobile Salary Calculator in Germany and Sage 100 confident we will continue to deliver on our strategic and financial goals.
In the UK, we also launched the Sage Record Keeper app, co-developed with HMRC.
North America is also developing As we look forward, the global macroeconomic outlook remains fragile and we mobile solutions.
Working prototypes for two of these, Mobile Sales and remain watchful of the environment in Europe, particularly in France.
However, Mobile Service, were showcased at the Sage Summit in July 2012, as we remain confident that we will continue to deliver on our strategic and examples of products which expand our addressable market and will be financial goals.
integrated into our key accounting products and payments.
Payment services represent our largest connected service and our payments businesses in North America, the UK & Ireland and South Africa continue to deliver strong revenue growth.
Integration of payments to our installed base Underlying figures neutralise the impact of foreign exchange movements and exclude amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition-related items and imputed interest 16 Now the sixth largest economy in the world, accounting, tax and payroll and regulatory These acquisitions are in line with our Brazil represents an attractive market with content software.
We are excited about the strategy of expanding our footprint in Brazil.
robust macro-economic fundamentals and growth opportunity that the combination of They are also highly complementary to our a favourable, highly complex tax and Sage and Folhamatic creates in this market.
core business and extends the geographic regulatory environment.
Our entry into the It provides us with a market leading breadth of our offering, particularly in the Brazilian market represents an important position in the large and rapidly growing So Paulo and Southern region.
step in building our presence in key Brazilian market.
high growth markets, enabling a strategy In September 2012 we progressed our focused on growth and a disciplined strategy of expanding our footprint in approach to returns.
Brazil with the acquisitions of EBS and In June 2012 we entered Brazil with Cenize.
These businesses are high growth, the acquisition of a controlling interest with recurring revenue models and are in Folhamatic, a leading provider of focused on core accounting customers.
Sixth largest economy in the world entry into the Brazilian market represents an important step in building our presence in key high growth markets, enabling a strategy focused on growth Source: The Economist Intelligence Unit The Sage Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2012 17 Financial statements Governance Performance Overview
