Section 3 | Our performance Chief Executives Statement Overview 2012 has been a year of significant progress operationally, nancially and strategically.
With a record level of contract wins driving 5.8bn of awards in total, our order book has grown to 19.1bn.
Revenue and Adjusted operating profit were 4,913m and 314.8m, representing growth at constant currency of 6.2 and 9.9 respectively.
The breadth of our portfolio has enabled our strength in the AMEAA region and the successful launch of our Global Services BPO division to offset challenges in the US federal contracting market.
We have made further significant strategic progress in positioning our business to deliver strongly for the future.
The pipeline of identied opportunities has been replenished to stand now at an estimated 31bn.
We remain, therefore, confident of continued resilience in times of dynamic market conditions and of Sercos overall outlook and attractive future growth prospects.
Record level of contract wins and excellent NHS Suffolk community health services 140m over three years operational performance In 2012, across our wide portfolio of markets and geographies, we signed Next pricing period signed for Atomic Weapons Establishment AWE a record level of contracts valued at 5.6bn and were appointed preferred management and operation 1.5bn over five years bidder for a further 0.2bn.
The total 5.8bn of awards compares with 5.1bn in 2011.
Our wins included smaller and medium-sized awards Leadership for corporate services DBS for the UK Ministry of Defence which are fundamental to our growth, as well as significant rebids, 36m over four years extensions, expansions and new contracts.
Reecting the substantial level of awards, our order book grew to 19.1bn at 31 December 2012 US Army base closure support in Afghanistan US$57m over 17.9bn at 31 December 2011. three years Notable contract awards, along with approximate total value and contract US Navy Automated Digital Network Systems engineering US$68m length where appropriate, included: over five years Ferry services to the Northern Isles in Scotland 350m over six years San Francisco parking services US$43m over five years Environmental Services for Wycombe and Chiltern District Councils US MRAP military vehicle equipment and system upgrades US$73m 55m over seven years over 15 months UK asylum applicant accommodation and transport services 175m Wiri Prison 25-year operating contract in New Zealand approximately over five years 15m a year from 2015 Community Payback probation services in London 38m over Wandoo Reintegration Facility in Western Australia A$50m over four years five years Delivery of the UKs National Citizen Service 70m over two years Bus operations in city of Indore, India 13m over six years 20 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 Australian Tax Ofce contact centre services 90m over five years Across the Group we have maintained excellent service delivery.
We were particularly proud of our achievements through the 2012 Olympic Games, Major BPO contract with leading UK retailer Shop Direct Group where a number of our contracts were heavily involved.
We carried record 430m over ten years passenger numbers while maintaining exceptional service metrics on our transport-related services, most notably the Docklands Light Railway, Contact and support services for AEGON UK 170m over ten years, where volumes were substantially ahead of forecasts and there were half and a million passengers on the busiest day.
We have also been delighted with service standards through the mobilisation and transition phases for Anglia Support Partnership shared services operation for UK health major new contracts that commenced across our home affairs, transport, sector 120m over four years.
More details of these and other contract awards can be found in the Strong financial result for the year Operating Review, with further information and other smaller and Serco has delivered growth in revenues including further good organic medium-sized contract awards during the year described in the contract growth, increased the operating margin, and maintained a strong cash news updates and other announcements available on our website, generation prole and nancing position.
Reported Group revenues were 4,913.0m, representing total growth Visibility of future earnings remains high due to the signed contracts that of 5.7%.
Excluding operations disposed of during the year, revenues make up our order book, contracts that we expect to extend and rebid, from ongoing activities were 4,832.2m, with growth at constant currency and contracts at the preferred bidder stage which we expect to sign.
Within this, organic growth was 3.3% and the contribution from At 31 December 2012, revenue visibility was 92% for 2013, 79% for 2014 acquisitions added 5.2%.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 21 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Chief Executives Statement Community health services, Suffolk, UK Defence Business Services, UK Environmental services, Sandwell, UK Good organic growth, for the Group as a whole, demonstrated the charitable foundation, is excluded from Adjusted operating profit.
There resilience of the portfolio and our successful development in new markets was also an exceptional gain of 51.1m arising from the step acquisition and geographies.
There was further very strong revenue growth in AMEAA accounting for the DMS joint venture in Australia.
Global Services, our newly created BPO division, enhances reported profit before tax and earnings per share, but has been saw organic growth of 12%, with underlying growth of over 30% after excluded from our measures of adjusted financial performance in order adjusting for the transfer back of the Bradford education contract and to aid comparability.
the government funding cuts to our previous work for the UK Regional Development Agencies.
Our UK & Europe frontline services division, Group free cash ow was 181.2m compared with 168.3m in 2011. supported by new contract wins, saw a return to organic revenue growth There was an exceptionally strong conversion rate of profits in the second of 2%.
Growth in these three divisions more than offset the 14% decline half of the year, and dividend distributions from joint ventures were in organic revenues for the Americas division that resulted from 16.3m higher.
After the effect of acquisitions and disposals, the payment the challenging conditions of the US federal outsourcing market.
of dividends and other nancing movements, total net debt reduced by Our divisional performance is described fully in the Operating Review.
Adjusted operating profit increased 8.5% to 314.8m.
Excluding Our dividend policy in the past has been to increase the total dividend operations disposed of during the year, Adjusted operating profit from each year broadly in line with the increase in underlying earnings.
ongoing activities was 309.1m, representing growth at constant currency Reecting this, in 2011 we increased the total dividend by 14% to 8.40p, of 13.4% and an increase in the operating margin to 6.4%.
Net finance which based on 39.59p of Adjusted earnings per share represented costs were 8.8m higher, principally reecting the incremental cost of a payout of 21% and dividend cover of 4.7 times.
Adjusted profit before tax of 278.1m and Adjusted earnings per share of 42.55p grew at constant currency by 7.3% and The Board is confident in the future growth prospects for the Group 8.7% respectively.
and of the strong financial position that we have.
We therefore intend progressively to increase the payout ratio and thereby reduce our Following successful portfolio management activity, there was a 5.6m dividend cover over the next three years.
Beyond that point, we anticipate net exceptional profit on disposals of subsidiaries and operations in the a policy of maintaining dividend cover of between 2.5 and 3 times and year.
This, together with the 5.0m one-off payment to establish the therefore reverting to increasing the total dividend each year broadly 22 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 in line with the increase in underlying earnings.
The Board has proposed As described in our Operating Review, 2012 has seen greater exposure a final dividend for 2012 of 7.45p per share, bringing the total dividend to growth markets following entry into new countries in the Middle East as well as new frontline services in India, the provision of new service for the year to 10.10p, up 20% compared with the previous year.
This represents a payout of 24% based on 42.55p of Adjusted earnings per lines such as community healthcare, and breaking into new private sector share, or dividend cover of 4.2 times.
The final dividend will be paid, industries such as the UK Life and Pensions segment of the financial subject to shareholder approval, on 22 May 2013 to shareholders on services market.
We also set out for each of our divisions areas of future the register on 15 March 2013. growth opportunity, which we expect to pursue in 2013 and beyond.
Earnings, cash ow, nancing and related matters are described fully Strategic position further improved through ongoing in the Finance Review.
proactive portfolio management As part of widening our exposure to emerging markets and deepening Greater exposure to international growth markets our transformational expertise, the launch of our Global Services division and sectors in 2012 has been key, adding significant capability in the fast growing, Governments and companies face an increasing need to improve the higher margin BPO market.
The acquisition of Intelenet in 2011 was quality of services to their citizens or customers while contending with strategically important for Sercos development, as were other smaller constrained or reducing budgets.
Competition and outsourcing offers inll acquisitions such as The Listening Company in the UK and Excelior a solution to this need, where: deep operational expertise can assure in Australia.
These acquisitions added specic customer contact delivery: a breadth of knowledge and experience can bring fresh thinking: capabilities and geographic reach.
During 2012 these have been fully and a mixture of front, middle and back ofce expertise can enable integrated with Sercos own BPO operations, while the acquisition transformation.
We are already a leading player in our core markets of of Vertexs UK public sector BPO operations has provided additional defence, transport, justice and health in the public sectors, and financial expertise and strategic partnerships.
The success of bringing together services, retail, travel and telecoms in the private sector, benefitting from our BPO skills and scale in one global division has been reected in the growth in these markets.
Our strategy is to widen our exposure to contract awards in the year totalling over 1bn and with Serco being emerging markets, where superior growth and margins can be achieved, recognised in independent studies and awards as a new leading force and to deepen our transformational expertise to access larger, more in the BPO industry.
complex and higher margin growth opportunities across our core markets.
Another acquisition in the year was our purchase of the remaining 50% Our achievements in 2012 supported this strategy, driven in particular by stake in DMS Maritime from our joint venture partner.
This strengthens excellent performances in our AMEAA and BPO operations.
Our AMEAA Sercos position as a leading defence services provider in Australia and region grew total revenue by 31%, increasing to 18% the regions share in the growing marine services market.
While remaining primarily focused of the Groups portfolio.
Meanwhile our Global Services BPO business on organic growth, Serco will continue to look at potential acquisitions saw 40% total revenue growth, driven by the combination of the that similarly bring new skills, capabilities or market access.
contribution from acquisitions and a series of very strong contract wins.
Both the AMEAA region and our BPO operations are expected to account Our proactive portfolio management also involves an ongoing for an increasing proportion of the Groups revenue mix.
assessment of our existing operations for strategic t, together with expected future levels of performance and returns.
As part of this, The excellent performances in the AMEAA and Global Services divisions, Serco made four disposals of operations that were non-core to the together with a return to organic growth in the UK, more than offset future development of the Group.
These were: our Technical Services the performance of our Americas division.
This has been impacted business which provided consulting and project solutions to the UK civil by extremely tough conditions for the US federal contracting market, and nuclear defence markets: the majority of our mainly defence-related due to the political challenges of the annual budgeting process and operations in Germany: our education software business: and our UK reaching agreement on future government funding.
We will continue to serve the energy, defence, Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 23 Our performance Financial Governance statements Section 3 | Our performance Chief Executives Statement Supporting our BPO customers, Mumbai, India Parking services, San Francisco, US Marine Services, Portsmouth, UK education and IT-enabled BPO markets in other ways, but will focus There is a strong pipeline in AMEAA, with many exciting new opportunities on our long-term contract model to develop the best opportunities such as those in the growing health markets in the region and in the and a balanced portfolio.
There also remain substantial prospects in: defence support, engineering and marine services: transportation markets The successful Group reorganisation has also enhanced our strategic including light rail, road networks and air trafc control: and integrated positioning.
Creating the new BPO division as our first global business facilities management services to support major infrastructure projects brought together all of Sercos middle and back ofce skills and in the region.
capabilities, improving the services we provide to customers and enabling better targeting of opportunities around the world in both the private and In the UK, markets continue to show stabilisation and increasing signs public sectors.
The reorganisation has also created a single UK & Europe of improvement.
There are further indications of new markets opening up, division, supporting better customer relationship management and supported by the agenda for public service reform.
New opportunities service development, as well as increased internal efficiencies.
For include those driven by the growth in commissioning of health services, example, sinceuly 2012, the Global Services division has been operating defence organisation strategic partnerships and from competition being an internal shared service centre for the Group.
These organisational introduced to numerous areas of the home affairs market such as changes, which led to headcount reductions in management and our offender rehabilitation.
own back ofce support functions, have generated in-year savings to cover the associated costs.
While the US is expected to remain very challenging in the short term, due to government budget and funding issues, we continue to develop Extensive pipeline demonstrates attractive our business and expect to secure new areas of work in defence growth opportunities technology and engineering, logistics and programme support and A significant number of opportunities were successfully converted to human capital management.
Other civilian markets such as transport contract awards in 2012.
Newly identied prospects across our portfolio and health will be actively pursued.
We therefore see good longer have increased the pipeline value to an estimated 31bn.
This increase term opportunities in the US, as well as strong potential to develop reects an ongoing demand for efficient, high quality and innovative our presence in the wider Americas region.
service provision from public and private sector customers around the world.
24 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 There are strong growth prospects in the global BPO market as well.
Serco Foundation established Following significant recent wins in the private sector, further prospects To mark Sercos 25th year as a publicly traded company dedicated to are being pursued across a number of vertical markets including life and service excellence, we have established the Serco Foundation as an pensions, telecom, retail, travel and utilities.
There are also opportunities independent charitable foundation with a one-off endowment of 5m.
in the UK public sector, including more strategic partnerships with local The foundation will build partnerships with large charities to make authorities to transform their services, and prospects for future central donations and also support them in the delivery of their programmes government shared service centres continue to develop.
through the application of Sercos people, skills and capabilities.
confident of further growth and continued resilience People Sercos portfolio breadth across different markets and economies We have a clear strategy for managing and developing our people, which continues to provide resilience while at the same time enhancing our in turn supports our vision.
I am pleased that we made good progress growth potential.
For example, while conditions remain very difficult and against each part of this strategy in 2012.
More information on how we uncertain for the US federal outsourcing market, we anticipate further achieved this can be found on pages 68 and 69. improvement in UK markets and strong performances from our AMEAA and Global Services BPO operations.
The strategic and organisational Sercos continued growth in 2012 means that we now have more than activity in 2012 has also positioned the Group well for future growth.
122,000 people delivering services around the world.
Our success comes from their hard work and commitment to our values.
I thank them for their For 2013, we are forecasting a modest improvement in the rate of contribution to Serco and our customers.
The effect of acquisitions and disposals to date is likely to have a broadly neutral impact on total revenue growth.
We are Christopher Hyman CBE forecasting our Adjusted operating margin to be broadly maintained at Chief Executive the level achieved in 2012.
Net finance costs are anticipated to be approximately 45-50m, including the impact from the forthcoming revision to IAS 19.
This would represent a slight increase on the equivalent 2012 restated net finance cost.
Reecting anticipated further incremental working capital investment supporting BPO growth, together with lower dividends from joint ventures, free cash ow in 2013 may be lower than the level achieved in 2012.
For more details of these and other contract awards, see the Operating Review on pages 40 to 57 Beyond 2013, we are planning for continued delivery of strong financial performance at Serco.
Our confidence in continued resilience, the overall outlook and future growth prospects for the Group have also been For details of some of the many smaller and medium-sized reected in our plans to increase the proportion of our profits paid as contract wins, see our contract news updates at www.
com dividends to our shareholders.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2012 | 25 Our performance Financial Governance statements
