Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 4 Chief Executives review Our long term success depends on balancing the needs of all our stakeholders and our ability to continually improve our services and efficiency.
We also aim to drive the industry forwards, by leading the regulatory debate.
Tony Wray, Chief Executive Strategy Our strategy is focused on delivering sustainable growth.
This is crucial to us because we have to plan far ahead often over decades.
To be truly sustainable, we must maintain the appropriate balance across our customers, people, the environment andinvestors.
Water is vital to life, so we look to offer the highest quality at a price customers can afford.
We need to attract investment, so we can fund the infrastructure our service depends on.
Our people must have the skills, support and motivation to continually improve our service.
We have to protect the environment because our business and our customers depend upon it to provide the resources we need.
Achieving this balance leads directly to good financial performance.
It allows us to deliver organic growth and reliable returns over the long term, without excessive risk.
The timescales we work to are long, but our industry doesnt stand still.
Politics, regulation, climate and the availability of finance all change over time, both in the UK and internationally.
For this reason, our board considers strategic topics regularly and formally reviews our strategy every year.
The experience of recent years supports our view that were following the right strategy.
Whatever happens to economies around the world, the need for clean water and sanitation remains.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 5 Chief Executives review Our strategy Sustainable Strategy aim Highlights 2012 Key measures At Severn Trent Water we are focused Delivering value for our customers 4.88 464 Ml d on delivering key service improvements: andinvestors.
we have met our leakage targets: Customer written Leakage megalitres complaints per per day interruptions to supply have been reduced: 1,000 properties STW 2011: 497 we have maintained security of 2011: 5.72 supply in a dry year: and we have maintained the lowest charges in the UK.
Severn Trent Services has returned a creditable performance in difficult markets.
Sustainable nancing, ensuring we have 729.4m 56.0% We have successfully renanced part a strong and exible balance sheet.
Cash generated Net Debt RCV Gearing fromoperations 2011: 56.8% We have maintained a strong credit rating.
2011:753.0m We have kept our dividend promise.
Support for water trading in the UK Governments We have improved our health and safety Responsible leadership, protecting the Water White Paper, Water for Life performance.
environment, thinking long term and We have generated record levels of setting high standards in everything renewable energy.
We have completed a series of successful catchment management pilots.
We have inuenced the regulatory debate around the future of our industry.
Growth Strategy aim Highlights 2012 Key measures We have made good progress in Growing Severn Trent in the UK through 4.0% preparation for the next price review investment in our networks and services.
RCV growth 2011:6.2% We have successfully transferred private drains and sewers to our asset database.
We grew our Regulated Capital Value RCV by 275.0 million.
Severn Trent Services is well placed Granted both water and sewerage retail Positioning Severn Trent to capitalise tocompete in the emerging UK market licences in Scotland onopportunities in a changing fornon-domestic retail.
Severn Trent Water is looking at regulatory framework.
Severn Trent Water is well placed opportunities to provide water to other geographically to benefit from future areas of the country water trading.
We have successfully introduced our Deploying Severn Trent Services business 58 existing water ltration products into into new markets.
anumber of key markets in Spain, Countries with representative Chinaand South America.
distributor locations 2011: 53 Water Purication Products BALPURE Developing new treatment technologies.
5m is making good progress with new contracts with Greenway Shipping New commercial orders andothers.
Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 6 Chief Executives review Despite the driest 18 months on record, Business performance review Despite the driest 18 we managed our resources carefully Severn Trent delivered good financial and andkept our customers supplied with operational performance in 2011 12, months on record, we high quality water, without having a despite challenging UK and international managed our resources hosepipe ban.
As we enter the next markets.
We maintained our focus on financial year, our water resources mean efficiency and service improvement, and carefully and kept our that we do not presently expect any both Severn Trent Water and Severn customers supplied usage restrictions.
Trent Services achieved high standards for their customers.
One of the years key achievements was with high quality water, our smooth adoption of 37,000 km of Whilst keeping prices low, we delivered without having a private drains and sewers.
Feedback from anticipated returns for investors, customers has been positive and the maintaining our dividend promise to hosepipe ban extra work required to repair and grow our dividend by 3% more than the maintain these assets has so far been retail price index up to 2014 15.
We also atthe lower end of our expectations.
took important steps to maintain our financial strength.
We completed a Any company that wants long term, successful 250 million 30 year bond sustainable success has to work in the issue at 4.875%.
We bought back 75% of right way.
We call our approach Safer, our 2014 200 million bond, which was Better Faster.
Its a combination of due for repayment shortly before the management disciplines and our belief next price review, when raising finance inpeople taking responsibility for the could be more difficult.
We thus reduced waythey work.
We want our people to a future renancing risk.
dothe right thing the Severn Trent way, toget things right first time, to help cut Our performance is a credit to our waste from our systems and processes, employees throughout the group.
We are and to care about one another.
proud of their continuing commitment Wevebuilt our ability to continuously whilst weve made major changes over improve, developing our people and the last few years, including key change upgrading our workplaces and projects introducing new systems and technology, so we have a better processes, and a significant change in workingenvironment.
All of these help benets for our employees, being the usto deliver great service efficiently.
closing of our dened benefit pensions schemes to future accrual from 2015.
Key areas for continued improvement include our environmental management, Our employees have proved adaptable further reducing water supply and willing to embrace change which interruptions and our customers isimportant for our future prospects experience of our services.
Were not content with what weve Severn Trent Water achieved, so were always looking for Our household customers still have the new areas for success.
For example, lowest bills, on average, in England and were increasingly using technology to Wales, and our prices will increase by less make it easier for our customers to than the industry average in 2012 13. contact us and for us to stay in touch Weve also been able to keep bad debts with them.
And were introducing new down, despite rising unemployment, water and waste water treatment byhelping customers in need to pay processes that will cut energy use and theirbills.
During the year, we remained focused on Severn Trent Water already has a sector improving our service and efficiency.
We leading position in renewable energy stepped up our network replacement, andwere on track to generate up to which helped us in the aftermath of the 30% of our electricity by 2015.
We have harsh December in 2010, which was nostrong desire to be a big electricity thecoldest in 100 years.
Leakage was generator our motivation is to keep reduced to a new low, ahead of our prices low for customers and reduce our target, and we dramatically reduced carbon emissions.
The next steps include interruptions tosupply.
increasing our use of anaerobic digestion and wind turbines.
Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Company financial statements Other information Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 7 Chief Executives review review in 2014 PR14.
Engaging with our Severn Trent Services customers and other stakeholders will be Severn Trent Services performed key, as we develop with them our plans creditably against a challenging for investment in our water and waste economic backdrop.
Severn Trent water networks to maintain the services Services faced tough trading conditions, provided, deliver our environmental particularly in the first half of the year.
obligations and ensure security of supply.
Political unrest in the Middle East and North Africa MENA as well as sluggish In Severn Trent Services our new economic growth in developed markets management team is focused on made for a challenging environment for operating efficiency and positioning for product sales and contract renewals.
growth when the economy improves.
Renancing of the receivables for part Wealso continue to target new ofour business in Italy remained difficult opportunities.
For example, in addition to for all partners amid the ongoing our existing England and Wales licence, Eurozone crisis.
we have been granted both water and sewerage retail licences in Scotland.
Over the year as a whole, ourrevenues Having the necessary operating licences were slightly ahead on a constant in both markets prepares our business currency basis versus last year, forthe creation of a market across all of although profits were down by around Great Britain as indicated in the UK athird, in part due to 2 million of Governments Water White Paper, Water investment in business development for Life.
This will enable customers with opportunities in both Products and sites across Great Britain to easily switch Operating Services.
Our Operating to Severn Trent Services as their single Services business continued to do well in national water services supplier as the the UK and Ireland but US markets were market opens up.
tougher and, as we reported at the half year, we have ceased any further For several years, Severn Trent Water has development of our business activities been at the forefront of shaping the future For several years, inItaly.
of the water sector in the UK through the development of a series of publications Water purication products saw a slow Severn Trent Water known as Changing Course.
Were recovery, with challenging markets in hasbeen at the encouraged that our ideas are reected North Africa and the US, but better in Ofwats publications on regulatory conditions in the Far East and the UK.
forefront of shaping compliance and future price limits, and We made further progress with our new inthe UK Governments Water White thefuture of the water treatment product BALPURE, our ballast Paper.
These ideas will lead to optimal water treatment system, which received sector in theUK use of water resources, better financial Type Approval and were pleased to have and environmental outcomes for sold the first units in what is a potentially customers and more certainty for sizeable market.
Looking to future opportunities Our UK Analytical Services business has for growth, Severn Trent Water is ideally reduced as two water utility clients have placed to benefit from water trading decided to insource their work.
andto help other water companies At the end of the year, for Severn Trent meettheir strategic shortfalls in supply Services, we appointed Martin Kane as something we first championed the new Chief Executive officer along inChanging Course and that has with a new Chief Financial officer, nowbeen picked up by Ofwat and Stephane Bouvier.
Looking forward The UK economy will remain tough for both consumers and businesses.
This means we must continue to focus on T To on ny y Wr Wray a ay y delivering efficient, high quality and low Chief Executive cost services, and be attentive to our customers needs.
The UK climate will also be a challenge and we will have to manage our water resources carefully.
The coming year will see us continuing with our preparations for the next price
