Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Chief Executives statement, QWURGXFWLRQ Shanks has many compelling This is my first statement as Chief Executive, having joined the Group in February.
I came to opportunities to deliver profitable Shanks because Ibelieve it is astrong and well-positioned business in an increasingly growth and shareholder value.
My time in the business has reinforced thisview.
Clearly we are operating in a challenging macro-economic environment at the moment.
However, Shanks has many compelling opportunities to deliver profitable growth and shareholder value.
By making more from waste, I am confident that we will do just that.
Shanks strategy is focused on delivering cost-effective and sustainable alternatives to landll and mass incineration.
The need for such solutions is increasing due to regulation and legislation, together with societys determination to protect our environment.
Shanks is well placed to meet these growing demands with itsstrong portfolio of businesses, capabilities and technologies.
3HUIRUPDQFH 5HYLHZ During the year, Shanks continued to deliver profitable growth despite softer market volumes and price pressure in some of our markets.
Revenue grew by 3% at constant currency and underlying earnings per share increased by 9%.
This was a direct result of strong returns from Shanks strategic investment programme, together with focused management action tostreamline operations and reduce costs.
It was particularly encouraging to deliver improved results in our core growth areas oftheUK and Organics which grew revenue by6% and 28% year-on-year respectively.
OurBenelux Hazardous Waste business also performed strongly with trading profit up 26%.
These operational gains, coupled with returns from the investment programme and 11m costsavings achieved during the year, more than offset the difficult trading conditions in our Solid Waste markets.
3HWHU 'LOQRW Group Chief Executive 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 The Group-wide Action on Safety initiative led by senior management has been instrumental inachieving a reduction of 13% to our level ofreportable accidents in the year.
The focus onsafety continues and we will drive further improvements.
9LVLRQ Shanks overall vision remains consistent and has become more focused.
We retain a clear aim to be the leading provider of sustainable alternatives to landll and mass incineration.
Weplan to lead in selected target markets which have strong sustainable growth drivers and characteristics that enable Shanks to gain competitive advantage.
This aspiration reects opportunities in our current growth markets, such as Organics in Canada, and also our commitment to be highly selective about where we will operate in the future.
6LWH WRXU LQ %HOJLXP 6KDQNV URXSV The Group Executive Committee VWUDWHJ LV visiting our Roeselare site.
IRFXVHG RQ GHOLYHULQJ FRVW HIIHFWLYH DQG VXVWDLQDEOH DOWHUQDWLYHV WR ODQGILOO DQG PDVV LQFLQHUDWLRQ Responsible Bio-Diesel Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Chief Executives statement 2XU VWUDWHJ More information on how we measure progress on pages 18 and 19 Shanks strategy to deliver growth from sustainable waste management is robust and supported by long-term growth drivers.
We create value from recycling, recovering energy and making products from material that is otherwise thrown away.
We believe that our approach of makingmore from waste delivers cost-effective and environmentally sustainable solutions todealing with a wide range of waste streams.
To focus and accelerate our execution, four strategic priorities have been identied: Measurements Underlying earnings per share growth %, QYHVW LQ QHZ VXVWDLQDEOH RSSRUWXQLWLHV Organic growth in trading profit % WWKDW EXLOG RQ RXU FRUH FDSDELOLWLHV Growth in revenue from sustainable activities % Post-tax return on investment programme % DQG JHQHUDWH DWWUDFWLYH UHWXUQV Overall recycling and recovery rate % 'HOLYHU RXWVWDQGLQJ RSHUDWLRQDO Plant utilisation % SHUIRUPDQFH IURP H[LVWLQJ EXVLQHVVHV Power generation MWHrs DQG LQYHVWPHQWV Lower RIDDOR rate 'HYHORS ZRUOG FODVV FDSDELOLWLHV Carbon avoidance tonnes D DQG WHFKQRORJLHV LQ D FRKHVLYH URXS FXOWXUH Return on operating assets % $FWLYHO PDQDJH 6KDQNV SRUWIROLR DQG XVH EROW RQ DFTXLVLWLRQV WR DFFHOHUDWH SURILWDEOH JURZWK The background and future outlook for each of these is described on the following pages.
8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012, QYHVW LQ QHZ VXVWDLQDEOH 'HOLYHU RXWVWDQGLQJ RSHUDWLRQDO 2UJDQLFV RSSRUWXQLWLHV SHUIRUPDQFH RSHUDWLQJ We have invested 140m in sustainable waste Shanks Group sustainably recycles and PDUJLQV management infrastructure since 2008.
The reprocesses waste into valuable products.
performance of these investments has improved Weget value from the products we make LQFUHDVHG over time and we are now consistently delivering soourrecycling and recovery rate is a critical IURP WR our target post-tax returns of 1215% when operational metric.
In 2011 12 we achieved plants are fully operational.
We have developed anindustry-leading recycling and recovery project management capabilities and rateof 78% up from 70% three years ago.
operational metrics to ensure that we continue Morebroadly in 2011 12, we improved our 18% to generate superior returns on investment.
Organics operating margins from 13% to 18%.
Additionally, in our UK PFI PPP business we A further 110m will be deployed as part of the delivered excellent service to Local Authorities second phase of the strategic investment while driving operating margins from 6.4% to programme.
We are already working on a 10.1% in the year.
significant number of sustainable projects that leverage ourexisting core capabilities and the We are now refocusing the Group to be more pipeline ofsuch opportunities continues to grow product-oriented.
This includes significant effort at apromising rate.
Our target projects are on delivering outstanding productivity.
The core increasingly in Organics where we have proven principles of lean manufacturing can be applied expertise and can deliver excellent operating to our industry and they will be implemented margins.
In the UK municipal market we are going forward.
By way of illustration, we have detecting early signs of a more difficult funding started to develop an improved set of daily environment, together with local authorities management tools tomeasure and increase planning for shorter term contracts and less theoperational performance of our facilities.
We believe that there These will be rolled out across the Group and will be ongoing opportunities for Shanks in this will ensure that wereally are making more from market and we will continue to invest heavily in waste.
Ourproductivity focus is particularly the UK given the strong need forfurther important given that solid waste volumes are sustainable diversion from landll.
currently suppressed by the macro-economic environment.
:HVWFRWW 3DUN $' SODQW XQGHU FRQVWUXFWLRQ Our second AD facility in the UK is a48,000 tonnes per annum facility which will generate up to 2MW ofrenewableenergy.
Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Chief Executives statement 'HYHORS ZRUOG FODVV URXS FDSDELOLWLHV DQG WHFKQRORJLHV We have a decentralised structure that enables local entrepreneurial management teams to deliver responsive and innovative services toourcustomers.
Over recent years, we have sought to foster this cultural advantage whilst developing a stronger central framework to deliver Group-wide benets.
To drive this, the Groups Executive Committee Excom has driven a wider range of initiatives.
For example, wehave started a centrally coordinated procurement project and have increased cross-border trading activities.
In addition, anewoverall Shanks brand was successfully rolled out across the Group, including in the Netherlands where there have been only localbrands in the past.
In addition to recent improvements, we still have many opportunities to leverage further our Group capabilities, technologies and scale.
We are escalating our overall focus on people and capability development.
We are also developing the organisation to be more closely aligned with our core activities.
Tothis end Henk Kaskens, the Managing Director of our Organics business, was recentlyappointed to the Group Excom andnow reports directly to me.
In addition, weare targeting further synergies from across theGroup and announcements will be made asour plans develop during the year.
$PVWHUGDP LQGXVWULDO $' :H VWLOO DQG ZDVWH ZDWHU IDFLOLW KDYH PDQ 100,000 tonnes per annum AD and 300,000 tonnes per annum waste RSSRUWXQLWLHV water treatment.
WR OHYHUDJH IXUWKHU RXU URXS FDSDELOLWLHV WHFKQRORJLHV DQG VFDOH The Group Executive Committee meets monthly and the permanent members include the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Managing Directors of the Netherlands, Belgium, the UK and since May 2012 the Managing Director of Orgaworld.
8QGHUVWDQGLQJ RXU VWUDWHJ DQG PDUNHWV Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 $FWLYHO PDQDJH 6KDQNV 2XU SRUWIROLR SRUWIROLR DQG XVH EROW RQ DFTXLVLWLRQV $FWLYLW &KDUDFWHULVWLFV Over the years Shanks has delivered significant Productive, lean 6ROLG :DVWH value from bolt-on acquisitions.
In March 2012 business with leading this continued with the acquisition of the recycling rates Dutchglass recycling business, Van Tuijl.
Well positioned Thisacquisition expands our capabilities in forrecovery animportant recyclate market and complements our existing operations.
We have clear plans to grow Van Tuijl and the business is off to a strong start under our ownership.
Strong profitable Looking ahead, we will continue to use D]DUGRXV business with acquisitions to strengthen our core businesses.
:DVWH technology advantages We believe buying and integrating bolt-on International businesses in the current environment can experience and reach accelerate the Groups profitable growth.
Ourbalance sheet provides us with this strategic exibility and we are actively looking for appropriate opportunities that meet our target returns on investment.
In parallel, we are also Growing international 2UJDQLFV assessing the Groups current portfolio to green business with identify non-core businesses.
This process proven capabilities isongoing, but has already highlighted some profitable growth small regional operations that might create innew markets morevalue under alternative ownership.
2XU EXVLQHVVHV We have four core activities: Solid Waste, Hazardous Waste, Organics and UK Municipal Stable business with 8.
Each of these activities hasdifferent long-term contracts demand drivers, profitability proles and capital and improving margins requirements.
We also have distinct ways in Evolving growth which we create competitive advantage in each opportunities of these activities.
At the same time, allof them provide cost-effective and sustainable solutions to reduce landll and mass incineration.
They all make more from waste bycreating products such as green energy, recyclate commodities, recovered fuel and organic fertilisers.
Our activities are described inmore detail throughout 2XWORRN :H QRZ KDYH D this report, together with how we win.
Going into 2012 13, we are building on Shanks PRUH EDODQFHG Our portfolio of activities have the following stable platform by accelerating and intensifying keyattributes: EXVLQHVV PL[ the execution of our strategy.
Our markets look Solid Waste productive, lean business set to remain challenging in the year ahead.
UHGXFLQJ withleading recycling rates: well positioned Tooffset these macro headwinds we are taking forrecovery WKH F FOLFDO action to deliver cost reductions and Group synergies.
We will also continue to generate Hazardous Waste strong profitable business H[SRVXUH RI further returns from our ongoing investment with competitive advantage and international WKH URXS programme and through a renewed focus reach onoperational performance.
Organics growing international green business with proven capabilities and I believe that we are well-positioned to deliver attractive economics growth in line with the Boards expectations for 2012 13 and that the future outlook for Shanks UK Municipal long-term PFI PPP contracts Group is very positive.
strong stable business with improving service and returns, plus continued growth opportunities Over the last three years, the proportion of Group profit from Hazardous, Organics and UKMunicipal has increased from 33% to around 60%.
This more balanced business mix reduces 3HWHU 'LOQRW the cyclical exposure of the Group.
Group Chief Executive We believe our combination of established sustainable businesses, coupled with a renewed focus on growth, operational excellence and Group capability, will generate significant shareholder value in the years ahead.
