Chief Executive Ofcers review This year saw us continue to deliver on our growth commitments and further advance our pipeline.
We articulated a 2020 vision and built on our unique culture of aspiring to be as brave as the people we help.
Angus Russell Chief Executive officer Continuing to deliver 2012 highlights We achieved our target of mid-teens earnings growth again this year, having delivered ahead of expectations for the last couple of We continued to deliver growth years with growth rates of over 20%.
We advanced our pipeline, creating significant The business continued to perform extremely well.
VYVANSE and INTUNIV, our treatments for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder opportunities for growth beyond 2015 ADHD, both increased their share of the growing US market, We distilled and communicated where we further consolidating our leading position in this area.
FIRAZYR, our treatment for hereditary angiodema, launched strongly in the US want to take the company: our 2020 vision and we continued robust global sales of our other rare disease treatments: ELAPRASE, for Hunter syndrome, VPRIV, for Gaucher disease, and REPLAGAL, for Fabry disease.
We underlined our belief in our Regenerative Medicine business through announcing investment in a new campus in California and the rollout of a new commercial strategy.
Looking to extend our treatments During the year we had continued successes in our clinical milestones for our program of new uses for VYVANSE.
We are undertaking late stage studies for lisdexamfetamine dimesylate LDX, the active ingredient in VYVANSE, as a treatment for major depressive disorder and recently initiated our Phase 3 programs for binge eating disorder and negative symptoms of schizophrenia.
In addition, we have identied potential new indications for FIRAZYR and DERMAGRAFT.
Our intrathecal trials for Hunter CNS, SanFilippo A and Metachromatic Leukodystrophy are also 6 Shire plc Annual Report 2012 Overview progressing as anticipated.
So through this year we managed can help and add value around beyond the provision of treatments.
to build a very good late stage pipeline to fuel our growth in the Educating people so they really understand a rare disease for years ahead.
example, or helping patients treat themselves at home rather than having to travel long distances to specialist centers.
Theres a lot We also added to our expertise in hematology through our more we can do to help patients and their physicians, building acquisition of Ferrokin and strengthened our regenerative medicine greater value for everyone involved along the way.
And this is what pipeline with the acquisition of Pervasis, bringing us the Phase 2 our new 2020 vision is about.
Being a responsible business goes product in development, VASCUGEL.
to the heart of our vision and for us is distilled to a single core consideration: What is the right thing to do?
This guides everything Preparing to launch ELVANSE across Europe we do from day-to-day across our business.
We received approval of ELVANSE currently marketed in the US as VYVANSE and we are now preparing for launch in eight European Taking brave steps to do more for our patients markets.
We already have experience of the ADHD market in Our view of the world, with the patient at the centre, has directly Europe through our EQUASYM product and we know that there is driven our shared culture of aspiring to be as brave as the people a patient need for a product with the prole of ELVANSE.
Our decentralised, market-driven and increasingly launch will be a significant milestone in the globalization of our international business is united by this shared commitment to major ADHD franchise and the company overall.
It follows our identify new ways to help our patients as much as we possibly can.
successful launch of VYVANSE marketed as VENVANSE in Brazil.
Transforming the business Collaborating for quicker better outcomes Our shared culture will continue to be fundamental as we enter our Our collaborative culture is a key Shire strength.
Were moving into next stage of global expansion.
The globalisation of our business is a world where more people are seeing the benets of partnerships one of the most exciting development opportunities since I joined and collaboration with outside agencies, companies and the Company 13 years ago.
When I came to the Company in 1999 academia.
Its a much better model, because it gives you access to we were dependent on one product for ADHD in the US.
Now we a wider range of opportunities and skill sets that can enhance the have a strong portfolio of products across behavioral health, gastro solutions we develop for our patients.
At Shire, partnering and intestinal diseases, rare genetic diseases and regenerative collaborating with third parties has always been a core capability medicine, which we sell in over 50 markets around the world.
and it ts the increasingly changing and dynamic world in Looking ahead, we have a huge global opportunity with a very healthcare, where you have to make a lot of quick decisions and strong platform and a proven strategy and business model for timeframes tend to be shorter in terms of product development future growth.
We have worked with partners from day one.
Its just more of the same for us.
Were building our collaborations, with Our highly specialized, patient-focused, collaborative approach is academia, with institutions, with companies that work in the areas increasingly seen as the way forward in our industry we have led of expertise that were focused on, such as rare genetic diseases.
As I prepare to retire from the business, I am extremely In doing this we are investing in the best ideas.
proud of what we have achieved together and look forward to seeing the continued growth and success of the Company in the Putting patients at the heart of everything we do years ahead.
Over the past few years the world of healthcare has completely changed aligning with our objectives and business model.
Markets are much more heterogeneous now, and one size does not t all.
You have to tailor your innovation, your capabilities and your treatments to suit individual needs.
This is where our focus of putting the patient at the center of everything we do and focusing on specialist treated and rare diseases with small patient numbers puts us in a strong position.
It allows us to understand the needs of the patients and the relatively small number of physicians who help them.
Our relationships with them provide us with real insights into how patients live their lives the challenges they face and how we Our shared culture aspir aspire es s t to o be as be as b br ra av five e as t as th he e people w people we e help help Pe ople Our patients health h care needs are more tha an the provision of a treatm ment, its nding new holistic c solutions to support patients s and their needs at a cos st that society can reasonably bear.
