8 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Chief Executive Officers review of strategy Our strategy Smith & Nephews strategic priorities are about making choices for the long term benefit of the Group, delivering higher returns to shareholders thanits peer group.
In Established markets US, Europe, Japan, Australia, NewZealand Established markets and Canada, Smith & Nephew sees opportunities to build upon existing strong positions, to win market share through greater 1 innovation and drive efficiencies to liberate resources.
Through these actions the Group seeks to meet the challenges of subdued markets and maximise both revenue growth and profit margins.
Smith & Nephew believes it can secure market leadership Emerging and in theEmerging markets, building upon its initial success in Chinaandexpanding to create sustainable businesses in 2 International markets India, Brazil and Russia.
In particular, the Group sees significant opportunities to build value through augmenting its existing portfolio with new products specifically designed for, and manufactured in, these markets.
The Groups future success depends upon continuing to offer Innovate for value newtechnologies and innovative business models to customers around the world.
Smith & Nephew is accelerating its rate of 3 innovation by increasing the research & development budget andidentifying and investing in the projects that will deliver maximum value.
Smith & Nephew will work to ensure the business structure and Simplify and improve processes support our innovation agenda, and the Group seeks to maximise efficiency in everything it does.
There are opportunities 4 ouroperating model to streamline the Groups operations and  and to remove duplication.
Smith & Nephew is buildingstrong global functions human capital, regulatory, quality, compliance, sustainability, finance and legal affairs to support its managementteams in their quest to serve the Groups markets andcustomers better.
The Group aims to augment its organic growth through acquisitions.
Supplement organic Smith & Nephew will continue with its successful strategy of acquiring complementary technologies, seek to support our 5 growth through Emerging markets ambitions by acquiring local manufacturing and distribution businesses and remain alert to larger opportunities to support expansion in attractive sectors, such as advanced acquisitions woundcare, extremities orminimally invasive surgery.
indd 8 26 02 2013 09:26 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information Section 2 Strategy and performance 9 We are investing in higher-growth products, franchises and geographies and adapting our commercial models and cost structure.
Dear Shareholder, In August 2011, we announced an ambitious set of Strategic Priorities to make Smith & Nephew stronger, faster growing, better balanced and fit and effective for the future.
Across the Group we are implementing this programme.
We are investing in higher-growth products, franchises and geographies and adapting our commercial models and cost structure.
Emerging markets In the Emerging markets we are delivering strong revenue growth, benefitting from our investments to strengthen the Healthpoint Biotherapeutics management team and sales force, and the successful The acquisition of Healthpoint Biotherapeutics registration of more of our existing products for sale.
expands our platform by giving us a strong position in bioactives, the fastest growing area of advanced wound Our strategy is to build upon this platform by expanding management.
This perfectly complements our exudate our distribution capability and delivering portfolios for the and infection management and negative pressure mid-tier segments.
We will develop these through our own expertise.
The integration is proceeding to plan.
R&D, and by acquisition, and we expect to bring our first products to market in 2013.
We are also investing to ensure that all employees and Corporate social responsibility third party representatives follow our Code of Conduct and Whilst working to transform Smith & Nephew, we have local requirements.
We have, what I believe to be, a worldnot lost sight of the importance of our social, ethical and class compliance programme.
Sharing this expertise is environmental obligations.
Our commitment to customers, integral to building a sustainable business everywhere we patients, employees, shareholders and communities operate.
In 2012 we again earned the distinction of being featured in both the FTSE4Good Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
Investing for growth In the Established markets we continue to successfully deliver a high rate of innovation.
In 2012 we launched Delivering value new hip, knee and trauma systems and more than 30 In 2013 we are continuing to build, delivering efficiency advanced wound management products.
We increased improvements and accelerating investment in our our R&D budget, and expect to do so again in 2013. higher-growth portfolios, in geographic expansion, in more R&D and in further acquisitions.
I am pleased at the We are also putting more resources into our higher-growth progress we have made, excited about the opportunities franchises and geographies.
In trauma and extremities that we see, and confident we will continue to deliver our actions to refine the commercial model and build the sales force is delivering good results.
In Japan we are greater value for our company and stakeholders.
strengthening our leadership position in advanced wound management following the launch of Negative Pressure Wound Therapy.
These, and other investments like them, are possible because we are making Smith & Nephew more efficient.
We generated annualised savings of around $100 million Olivier Bohuon by the end of 2012 and are continuing to implement Chief Executive Officer further improvements.
indd 9 26 02 2013 09:26 10 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Chief Executive Officers review of strategy continued 1 Established markets Focused on success Within the Established markets we have dedicated management teams in Advanced Surgical Devices and Advanced Wound Management who are focused on meeting the needs of our customers.
The formation of the Advanced Surgical Devices division created through the combination of our endoscopy and orthopaedics businesses delivered benefits at a slightly faster rate than expected.
This new structure has allowed us to better share the benefits of our experience and scale, whilst supporting the sales force in utilising their local market knowledge and relationships to secure and service customers in each and every market.
indd 10 26 02 2013 09:27 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information Section 2 Strategy and performance 11 11 2 Emerging markets New markets, new products We have recruited experienced leadership to drive usinto the Emerging markets and invested in new headquarters and infrastructure.
Throughout 2012 we made progress registering and selling more of our existing products in our Emerging markets with many new introductions across our franchises.
We are also developing specific products for the middle tier in these countries, investing in determining both the right product categories, and the right business model, to serve these customers effectively.
indd 11 26 02 2013 09:27 12 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Chief Executive Officers review of strategy continued 015914 Smith&Nephew AR12 p10-15 Working Copy.
indd 12 26 02 2013 09:27 MArkETplAcE AND SuSTAiNAbiliTy FiNANciAl rEviEW corporATE AccouNTS AND overview strategy and performance buSiNESS SEGMENT rEviEW rEviEW AND priNcipAl riSkS GovErNANcE oThEr iNForMATioN Section 2 Strategy and performance 13 3 innovate for value centre of innovation in April, we opened a new innovation centre in Memphis, which we are using to deliver best-in-class surgeon training programmes.
This is a world-class, multi-disciplinary facility joint reconstruction, sports medicine and trauma that allows surgeons from different specialties and locations to share learning and innovation.
its 140-seat auditorium, five conference rooms, two classrooms and 17 labs have already hosted multiple groups of surgeons from around the world keen to experience the latest products and surgical techniques.
Designed for real life in June, we launched AllEvyN life, a unique new foam dressing that extends our AllEvyN family of foam products.
This product innovation addresses the findings of new Smith & Nephew research into the real life concerns of patients living with wounds.
ALLEVYN Life offers multiple benefits for the patient and clinician.
These innovative features include: a change indicator to avoid unnecessary dressing changes: a hyper-absorbent core to prevent leakage of exudate: and masking to prevent patient embarrassment caused by visible exudate through the dressing.
This is all combined with unique shapes to ensure better dressing retention and our Gentle Border silicone adhesive to minimise pain at dressing change.
indd 13 26 02 2013 09:27 14 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2012 Chief Executive Officers review of strategy continued Simplify and improve 4 ouroperating model Efficient manufacturing We have been successful in reducing our cost of goods to combat the effects of continued price pressure.
in manufacturing, we have refined our footprint, especially in china.
During 2012, the Group closed the old linhe orthopaedic plant, moving it to our new facility in beijing ahead of schedule.
We completed the extension to our Wound factory in Suzhou on time and on budget and have started equipping the plant.
The European process optimisation programme willrationalise and upgrade our commercial and ITplatforms allowing us to drive efficiencies while betterserving our customers.
indd 14 26 02 2013 09:27 marketplace and sustainability financial review corporate accounts and overview strategy and performance business segment review review and principal risks governance other information Section 2 Strategy and performance 15 5 Growth through acquisitions Augment organic growth through acquisitions In December 2012 Smith & Nephew completed theacquisition of Healthpoint Biotherapeutics, aleaderin bioactive debridement, dermal repair and regeneration wound care treatments, for $782m incash.
This acquisition had compelling strategic and financial rationale for Smith & Nephew.
it gives us a strong position in bioactives, the fastest growing area of advanced wound management.
it brought a complementary range of bioactive debridement, dermal repair and regeneration products led by collagenase SANTyl Ointment SANTYL, an enzymatic debrider for dermal ulcers and burns.
it added an established R&D capability in next-generation bioactive therapies for the treatment of chronic wounds and will double our uS AWM sales and strengthen our commercial scale and capabilities.
The combination creates a wound business which is unique having leadership positions across exudate and infection management, negative pressure and bioactive wound care.
