Chief Executives statement This was another year of good progress with organic revenue growth.
Cash generation and returns on capital have also strengthened.
These results have been achieved in a challenging economic environment through a consistent focus on operational improvement.
Against a persistently tough macroeconomic backdrop, Smiths Group has performed well.
The results reect the benefit of the operational and margin improvement programmes implemented over the past four years.
The focus on improved data-based decision making, performance enhancement and consistency of approach has delivered a significant and sustainable improvement in the underlying profitability, returns and quality of the Groups businesses.
We have also continued to benefit from the strength and breadth of being a diversied industrial company, with our portfolio of leading-edge, technology-driven businesses serving a broad range of geographies and markets.
We achieved improvements on safety and environmental metrics and on sales, cash and returns.
Our drive to accelerate revenue growth has begun to deliver results with revenue growing across all five divisions.
Headline operating profit margins improved in all but Smiths Interconnect, as a result of volume leverage, better pricing and our continued focus on operational improvement and restructuring.
Cash conversion remained strong and we delivered further improvements in return on capital employed.
John Crane grew revenue strongly on continued demand from its end markets, particularly the oil and gas sector: although the rate of Philip Bowman growth eased during the second half.
Margins progressed to record Chief Executive highs as a result of the higher volumes and better pricing, more than offsetting cost ination and investment in specic OEM opportunities.
Smiths Medical delivered an acceleration in revenue growth during the year with a strong contribution from new products such as Medfusion 4000 and CADD-Solis.
Margins advanced slightly, while we substantially increased investment in future growth drivers, such as new product development and sales and marketing.
This result has been achieved despite a tough operating environment, particularly in the mature markets of the US and Europe, where budget pressures and pricing have been difficult.
Smiths Detection performed strongly in the second half in both sales and profit, driven by equipment sales to airports and critical infrastructure which more than offset declines in military and emergency responder revenue.
The performance improvement programme, announced last year, also generated cost savings and operational enhancements.
Smiths Interconnect also saw a better second half resulting in overall revenue growth despite declines in its military sales as a result of lower defence spending.
However, margins suffered with adverse pricing mix and the dilutive impact of the acquisition of Power Holdings Inc. PDI.
Flex-Tek grew revenue across the aerospace and construction markets, supporting higher margins as a result of its strong operational gearing.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 16 Investing to accelerate revenue growth new products Headline earnings per share We have maintained technology leadership in many areas through a Up 7% rm commitment to new product development and innovation, a key driver of future revenue and margin growth as new products typically 92.6p command higher margins.
We raised company-funded investment in R&D by 9% to 107m and secured a further 10m of customerRead more on page 50 and funded investment to take our total spend to 117m, or 3.8% of in note 9 on page 111 revenue 2011: 3.9%.
This long-term investment is delivering results with several important new product launches.
Smiths Medical saw an uplift in revenue driven by Medfusion 4000 in the US and the release of CADD-Solis PIB and VIP platforms outside the US.
Smiths Detection unveiled several new products including a lightweight mobile X-ray system for cargo screening: GUARDION, a gas chromatography Dividend per share and mass spectrometry chemical identier: and HazMatID Elite, an Up 5% improved infra-red identier for unknown chemical threats.
Detection has also launched a new checked baggage screener, which received EU certication in September.
It uses multi-view X-ray and three- 38.0p dimensional computed tomography to achieve enhanced detection Read more on page 18 and and throughput capabilities.
John Crane has continued to make in note 8 on page 111 progress on its portfolio of environmentally focused zero and low emission seals and on extending the high pressure capabilities of its compressor dry gas seals.
Investing to accelerate revenue growth high-growth markets We expanded our presence in emerging markets with an impressive 14% increase in revenue, so that they now represent around 15% of the Statutory earnings per share Group.
Investment in these high growth markets remains a priority.
Down 16% In Smiths Medical, we expanded our sales force by 250 in targeted markets such as China, India and Brazil.
At the same time, we have a programme to register a greater proportion of our products in these 65.4p markets.
In John Crane, we opened a new state-of-the-art test and Read more on page 50 and diagnostic facility for all seals at a key service centre in Dubai to serve in note 9 on page 111 the Middle East.
This is additional to new and expanded facilities in Asia and Latin America, as well as an expanded product offering in China.
Smiths Detection has opened a new X-ray manufacturing hub in Malaysia to serve the Asian market.
Driving savings to enhance margins and invest in growth Margins have continued to benefit from the major restructuring Free cash-ow programme that began in 2008, delivering further savings of 14m in From strong cash conversion the period.
This programme is now largely complete with annualised savings of 70m, against our total planned savings of 70m.
The costs to achieve the programme were 55m.
217m Last year, we also launched a performance improvement programme Read more on page 50 and in Smiths Detection which is scheduled to deliver annualised savings in note 27 on page 132 of 40m by the end of financial year 2014, at a cost of 40m.
In its first year, the programme delivered savings of 15m with 11m expected in the coming financial year.
This will lower the xed cost base and enable the business to respond better to variations in demand while improving customer service.
Improving capabilities through cross-divisional working Employees around the world We intend to improve performance and capabilities in all five In over 50 countries businesses through cross-divisional working groups who share best practice and a consistent approach to processes and reporting in 23,200 areas of common interest.
To date, groups focusing on quality and innovation have been established.
One has developed a consistent Read more on page 63 and approach to measuring the cost of unquality and is identifying further in note 11 on page 116 opportunities to improve quality, thereby reducing costs.
The other has adopted a common gate-driven approach for managing innovation projects.
We will continue to evaluate what other areas of Smiths Group could benefit from such an approach.
Enhancing talent throughout the organisation We have progressively raised the bar in terms of fostering talent in order to drive our strategic initiatives forward.
There are now more rigorous and consistent processes to assess talent and we are investing more in preparing and monitoring personal development plans.
A new senior leadership programme has also been introduced to complement the existing scheme for junior managers.
While this focus has helped strengthen the team, we will continue to challenge ourselves as to whether we have the appropriate skill sets across the organisation.
Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 17 Accounts Governance Risks and responsibility Business review Chairman and Chief Executive Group overview Chief Executives statement Continued actions the Group has taken to minimise liabilities, resulting in Strong cash generation We achieved another strong year of cash generation.
Headline curtailment gains of around 75m, and cash contributions amounting to 378m over this period.
The triennial reviews for the two main UK operating cash generation improved by 60m to 549m resulting in headline operating cash conversion of 99% 2011: 95%.
This was schemes with valuation dates of March and April 2012 are underway and are scheduled to complete this coming financial year.
more than offset by the net impact of acquisitions and disposals, pension contributions and dividends, increasing net debt by 62m to For more than 30 years, John Crane, Inc. JCI, a US subsidiary of 791m.
The Group benets from high cash conversion and a sound John Crane, has defended product liability litigation relating to various balance sheet.
sealing products containing asbestos that JCI ceased making in 1985.
Allocating capital to maximise returns We disclose in our accounts details of recent claims experience and of Improving returns on capital by enhancing margins while operating an the provisions established for these liabilities.
During the period, the efficient capital base remains a key priority.
Overall Group return on number of claims in which JCI is a defendant continued to fall.
capital rose by 10 basis points to 16.5%.
We achieved improved returns Over recent years, Titeex Corporation, a subsidiary of Flex-Tek, across all divisions except Smiths Interconnect where they declined as has also experienced subrogated product liability claims relating a result of lower profitability in its underlying business and the impact to alleged defects in its exible gas piping products.
The number of of the PDI acquisition.
claims received each year and the cost of resolving them has varied but more recently has cost between 3m and 5m a year.
A provision Subject to suitable market conditions, we continue to manage the portfolio of businesses through a combination of acquisitions that was recognised in the interim accounts to defend potential future claims over the next 10 years.
Further details are given in notes 4 satisfy our strategic and financial objectives and disposals that realise additional value for our shareholders.
This is undertaken in the context and 22 to the accounts.
of continuing to manage the legacy issues of the actuarial deficits Dividend on the dened benefit pension plans and ongoing historic product The Board has adopted a progressive dividend policy for future payouts liability litigation.
while maintaining a dividend cover of around 2.5 times.
This policy will During the year, the Group made two acquisitions and one significant enable us to retain sufficient cash-ow to meet our legacy liabilities disposal.
Smiths Interconnect acquired Power Holdings Inc. a leading and finance our investment in the drivers of growth.
designer and manufacturer of specialist power distribution, conditioning The Board has recommended a final dividend of 26.25p per share and monitoring systems, for $235m.
The acquisition exemplies the giving a total for the year of 38.0p, an increase of 5%.
The final dividend Group strategy to invest in complementary technologies and gain will be paid on 23 November to shareholders registered at the close of access to attractive markets.
In October, John Crane acquired the business on 26 October.
The ex-dividend date is 24 October.
business of Turbo Components and Engineering Inc. which services, repairs and builds replacement bearings and seals used in critical Outlook rotating equipment.
It establishes a template for bearings aftermarket The economic environment remains uncertain.
Pressures on servicing that will accelerate the roll-out of John Cranes aftermarket government spending are expected to continue, particularly given offering through its global network.
In July, Smiths Detection sold its the risk of budget sequestration in the US and widespread concerns interest in Cross Match Technologies Inc. a biometrics business that over national debt levels in parts of Europe.
These are likely to restrain was considered non-core, raising 45m in cash.
those parts of our business with government-funded customers.
Managing our legacy liabilities However, our investment initiatives are building a solid foundation to accelerate medium-term revenue growth.
We will continue to The Group manages two areas of material historic liabilities: actuarial deficits on our dened benefit pension plans and ongoing product deliver operational improvements and efficiencies, while balancing increased investment in the drivers of long-term profitable growth liability litigation.
with opportunities to enhance margins and returns.
Subject to The net funding position for the pension schemes has deteriorated economic conditions, I am confident we can continue to grow sales, in recent years as a result of increased liabilities caused by low bond deliver operational improvements, achieve strong cash conversion yields exacerbated by quantitative easing and increased longevity, and improve returns.
Outlook statements for the divisions are provided and the weaker asset performance of equities relative to gilts.
The in the Business review.
funding position has worsened over the past five years despite the Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2012 18
