SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 STRATEGIC REVIEW Chairman and Chief Executives Statement Dear Shareholder THE BOARD EXPECTS perationally and nancially, 2012 was another strong year for the Company as it increased production and TO RECOMMEND cash ow substantially by bringing on additional Oproduction ahead of schedule and on budget at the A SUSTAINABLE Te Giac Trang TGT eld in Vietnam.
SOCO sought and received independent conrmation of the potential of this eld.
At the same RETURN OF CAPITAL time we aggregated further interests in current projects that we believe have significant further potential and bought back a number TO SHAREHOLDERS of shares and bonds.
Over the next year we plan to add a number of new ventures to our already strong portfolio.
DURING 2013 The Group increased its interests in the existing South East Asia portfolio by acquiring the remaining 20% interest in SOCO Vietnam Ltd SOCO Vietnam : the now wholly owned SOCO subsidiary that holds a 28.5% interest in the TGT eld and a 25% interest in the Ca Ngu Vang CNV eld, both offshore Vietnam.
SOCO also acquired the majority stake in the Block V Albertine Rift project, Left: Ed Story, President and Chief Executive officer Right: Rui fide Sousa, Chairman Results in brief $48.4m 2010 revenue $621.6m 2012 revenue $234.2m 2011 revenue $ millions 2012 2011 2010 profit for the Year 207.0 88.6 101.4 Net Cash from 334.8 90.2 36.7 Operating Activities Cash, Cash Equivalents 258.5 160.1 260.4 and Liquid Investments Net Assets 1,176.6 1,098.1 1,013.2 4 y Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information t i n u t r o p p o g n i s i n g o c e R C a p t u r i n g SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 giving it the sole contractor interest 85% in an During the year, the Company retained RPS Energy A new exploration licence onshore the Republic area where there has already been significant Consultants Limited RPS, a professional of Congo Brazzaville, the Nanga II A, was added exploration success.
consultancy specialising in petroleum reservoir to the portfolio during the year.
The Companys evaluation and economic analysis, to begin an expanded and reorganised exploration and business Throughout the year, the Company took advantage of independent assessment of its Vietnam assets.
With development team continues to appraise several its strong cash position to increase shareholder value limited production history from the H4-WHP and only licence blocks in the Groups core areas of central by buying back 7.5 million ordinary shares into the TGT development activities planned through Africa and South East Asia.
treasury, representing 2.20% of the Companys entire 2013 considered, RPS estimates TGTs Stock Tank issued share capital.
It also bought back more of its Oil Initially In Place to range from 466 to 958 million The strategy that fuels growth outstanding convertible bonds during opportune times, barrels of oil MMBBLs with recovery factors Project success is a long term measure of further strengthening the balance sheet.
Additional Prospective management effectiveness at allocating capital.
Resources of 53 to 152 MMBBLS are attributed, in In July 2012, the TGT elds second platform the H4 particular in the undrilled southern-most fault block, Since the Companys inception in 1997, we have Well Head Platform or H4-WHP was brought on H5, which will be drilled as a step-out appraisal well been both selective and disciplined with our project stream, a month ahead of schedule, immediately in the first half of 2013. investments and have only committed the Company raising total eld production from the TGT eld to to major project investment in nine areas.
To date, average above 50,000 barrels of oil per day BOPD Whilst this independent view confirms upside potential seven of these projects have fuelled the Companys since start up.
The acceleration was particularly in the TGT eld, SOCO believes that additional drilling growth organically without the requirement for multiple noteworthy as the elds crude output commanded a and longer term production will continue to fide-risk the capital raisings, the only exception being a share $5 to $7 per barrel premium to Brent during a period eld and impact positively on both the total number of placing in 2010 to address the possible exercise of already high crude prices allowing us to realise an reserves and recovery factors.
We believe we can of a put on a convertible bond.
The Directors of the average crude oil sales price throughout the year of achieve recovery factors of 45-50%, as has already Company believe such growth will continue through approximately $118 per barrel.
been demonstrated in several producing intervals and our adherence to this strategy.
in line with similar producing horizons in other producing elds within the same basin.
WE HAVE CONTINUED TO APPLY OUR THREE-POINT STRATEGY 1.
Recognising opportunity 3 By cultivating relationships and having early access into regions, projects or situations 1 Our core where there is potential to create significant strategic upside through the Companys participation.
Capturing potential By adding the Companys managerial, technical and commercial expertise to progress activities through the formative stages or through periods of difficulty.
Realising value By locking in returns, regardless of the phase of the project life cycle, once the Companys capability to add value begins to diminish.
5 p o t e n t i a l e u l a v g n i s i l a e R SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 STRATEGIC REVIEW Chairman and Chief Executives Statement continued SOCOs Vietnam operations in the Cuu Long that lock in capital for overly long periods of time.
Additionally, the Company was Basin and in particular the TGT eld, remain the Whilst oil is SOCOs main focus, the Company would able to benefit from high oil prices with the Group cornerstone of the Groups portfolio and are not avoid an opportunity where gas could be realising nearly $118 per barrel of crude oil sold generating significant cash ow.
compared with approximately $113 per barrel in 2011. projects have been recycled into cash: these include our interests offshore in the Gulf of Thailand and the Finally, we seek opportunities that offer materiality to Cash ows from operating activities were up from Tunisian Gulf of Gabs and onshore in the East the Company.
The benchmark for entry into a new $90.2 million in 2011 to $334.8 million in 2012, Shabwa Development Area of Yemen, the Tamtsag country is a project that has multiple play types, but reecting the increases in both oil production and Basin in Mongolia, European Russia and the Weald the primary target should have the potential of adding realised oil prices.
Capital expenditures reduced to Basin in the UK.
These divestments have enabled 50 million barrels net to the Companys interest.
$109.9 million in 2012 from $152.2 million in 2011. reinvestment in new projects and funding of further Development activities continued apace with the phases of growth.
The other two of our nine Financial and Operating Results installation of the H4-WHP and the drilling of four wells investment areas, the Congo Basin and the We set new records in 2012 with Group revenue in the TGT eld: however, no exploration wells were Albertine Rift, are still in the exploration phase, jumping to $621.6 million compared to the previous drilled during 2012 whereas two wells were drilled the latter being in very preliminary stages in a record revenues of $234.1 million set in 2011.
This offshore Congo Brazzaville in 2011. high potential region, albeit with significant follows the Companys first full year of production from security challenges.
the TGT eld H1-WHP and approximately six months of In July 2012, the Company used its significant cash production from the H4-WHP.
After tax profits mirrored balances to acquire the remaining 20% interest in The essence of our strategy is to identify underthat dramatic revenue increase at $207.0 million up SOCO Vietnam, which holds the Groups interest in exploited opportunities in hydrocarbon prone regions.
In 2012 Group net CNV and the majority of its interest in TGT, for $95.0 That means that we will not typically enter new entitlement volumes were approximately 15,500 million.
Further, the Company purchased 7.5 million regions or open up new, unproven geological areas.
barrels of oil equivalent per day BOEPD compared of its own shares into treasury, representing 2.20% Equally, it means a cautious approach to popularised with an average of approximately 6,730 BOEPD in of the Companys entire issued share capital, at a but untested regions with significant commercial risk.
Working interest production net to SOCO cost of $32.9 million and repurchased convertible Moreover, we avoid the commercial risk of projects averaged 14,757 BOEPD during 2012 compared with bonds at a cost of $0.9 million.
The Group ended THE STRATEGY THAT FUELS GROWTH Disposal Reinvestment from cash inflows generated by operations and disposals creates more opportunities for exploration Key Production z Recognising opportunity Development z Capturing potential z Realising value Cash ow Exploration Appraisal Project Other Cash evaluation Sources Returns 6 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 the year with cash, cash equivalents and liquid South East Asia steady during the year with production net to the investments of $258.5 million, up from $160.1 Vietnam Block 16-1 Companys working interest averaging 2,139 BOEPD million at the end of 2011.
Production from TGTs southern platform, the during 2012.
H4-WHP, commenced on 6 July 2012, completing the The Directors are not recommending a payment of a elds conversion from an exploration and development Dedicated test separation and metering facilities have dividend in respect of 2012 2011 nil.
However, the play to a cash generative asset.
This was achieved been installed on the Bach Ho central processing Board expects to recommend a sustainable return of over one month earlier than scheduled and nearly a platform complex and the Company has performed its capital to shareholders during 2013, the level of which year ahead of the original approved development plan.
Vietsovpetro, the operator of will be determined pending Hoang Long and Hoan Vu the Bach Ho facilities through which CNV production is Joint Operating Companies HLHVJOC approvals of Production from TGT has averaged 42,126 BOPD gross processed, has undertaken to perform its own a 2013 Work Programme and Budget for CNV and and 12,618 BOPD net to the Groups working interest independent calibrations.
We expect to be able to TGT and incorporating results of the upcoming during 2012 with net entitlement production averaging arrive at some agreed measurement techniques once capacity test of the oating production, storage 13,357 BOPD, including recovery of costs carried on the outcome of their calibrations is known.
The eld continues to perform in line with expectations, with eld production ranging Africa 2012 Operations Review from 52,000 to 55,000 BOPD with daily rate Republic of Congo Brazzaville SOCO is proud of its operational record and uctuations reecting well intervention activities.
A From an analysis of the results of previously acquired achievements.
The on-budget delivery of the second 24-hour high rate ow test of the FPSO was carried data on the Block, incorporating the results of the TGT platform one month ahead of schedule and almost out at 60,789 BOPD with no issues seen in either the Lideka Marine 1 well drilled by the previous Block one year ahead of the original development plan is a reservoir performance or the FPSO operability.
Sales of concession holder, the Marine XI partners have agreed testament to the Company and its commitment to TGT crude currently realise a premium of $5 to $7 per to drill the Lideka Marine East 1 well.
An initial rig prudent and effective operations.
The Company is barrel to Brent benchmark crude price.
sharing agreement was delayed during the fourth particularly proud of the exemplary track record of quarter of 2012, but the well is expected to spud in the health and safety in its Vietnam operations which have Vietnam Block 9-2 second half of 2013.
This well will be a test of stacked had no reported lost time incidents.
Production on Block 9-2 from the CNV eld has been plays and will test both the structural closure updip from Board diversity Board independence WE ARE Board composition In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance COMMITTED TO Code Code, all Directors are subject to annual independence reviews and election by shareholders THE HIGHEST Initial STANDARDS appointment Executive Non-Executive years OF CORPORATE 1 Board nationalities GOVERNANCE More Annual The Board recognises the need for an rigorous independence 2 scrutiny appropriate balance of critical attributes, review United Kingdom Other Europe N. America including skills, experience, diversity, independence and knowledge of the Board age breakdown Company.
Accordingly, it continually 3 5 seeks, within an appropriate Board size, Key to manage a balance between each z Code guidance 4 important element in its composition, Annual reappointment including Executive representation, 41 41-60 60 Time elapsed during tenure --- independence, diversity, tenure and refreshment.
Non-Executive Directors knowledge, skills and experience 4 Key strategic Industry City Entrepreneurial Technical Commercial Accounting, Regulatory, Banking, p47 contacts contacts contacts skills industry industry reporting, governance finance Corporate Governance Report knowledge knowledge disclosure and markets 7 SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 STRATEGIC REVIEW Chairman and Chief Executives Statement continued an oil leg encountered in the Lideka Marine 1 well that cost of 2.784 per Share.
As at 31 December 2012, Companys Board and committee procedures and was drilled two kilometres to the west and also the large the Company held 9,122,268 31 December 2011 policies.
Cynthias appointment increases the financial untested structural closure in an overlying formation.
and corporate governance experience represented on the Board and reects the importance the Board The Group has been awarded a one-year exploration Acquisition of the outstanding non-controlling attaches to these areas of expertise.
licence over the Nanga II A Block located adjacent to interest in SOCO Vietnam Ltd the coast, onshore Congo Brazzaville, near the In July 2012, SOCO completed an agreement Executive Staff Appointment MBoundi producing eld.
The initial plan is to evaluate with Lizeroux Oil & Gas Ltd to acquire the 20% In December 2012, the Company was delighted to aeromagnetic data and reprocess several 2D seismic outstanding non-controlling interest in SOCO announce the promotion of Antony Maris to Chief lines previously acquired over the block before Vietnam for a cash consideration of $95 million Operating officer.
Antony has played a core role in determining whether or not to proceed with a limited the Acquisition, which was satisfied out of existing SOCOs operations since joining in 2004 and we look 3D seismic survey on the area.
The Group will cash resources of the Company.
The Acquisition forward to his ongoing positive input to the business.
determine whether to enter into a production sharing was conditional upon the approval of SOCO contract following an evaluation of the data.
shareholders, which was given at a general meeting Outlook of the Company in July 2012.
As a result of the Operationally in 2013 we will continue appraising the Democratic Republic of Congo Acquisition, SOCO Vietnam became a wholly owned TGT eld, with the most significant undrilled fault block, Kinshasa DRC subsidiary of the Group and SOCO acquired the the southern-most H5 fault block, to be drilled as soon The Government of the DRC commissioned an aerial right to receive all of the future cash ows that the as the winter monsoon season ends in Vietnam, likely survey and baseline studies over Block V in September non-controlling interest was entitled to receive.
at the beginning of the second quarter.
With the 2011 as part of its wider objective of performing a outcome of that well and signicantly more production Strategic Environmental Evaluation.
Accordingly, Transfer of the interest in Block V of the data from the eld, we should be able to further SOCOs work programme has been agreed in close Albertine Graben, DRC progress our assessment of the potential of the eld.
collaboration with the Congo Environmental Studies In July 2012, a wholly owned subsidiary of Ophir Group also known as Groupe dEtudes Energy Plc transferred its 46.75% interest in the Also in Vietnam, we expect to drill an additional Environnementales du Congo or GEEC and the Contractors right, title and interest in a production production well on CNV, which will allow us to access Congolese Wildlife Authority also known as Institut sharing contract relating to Block V to SOCO the thus far undrilled south-western corner of the Congolais pour la Conservation fide la Nature or ICCN.
Exploration & Production DRC Sprl SOCO E&P DRC.
The outcome of this well, with some production The transfer was completed on 20 July 2012 for the history, should enable us to update the reserves Preparations are ongoing for the aerial survey, which cash consideration of $6.5 million plus agreed position in the eld.
will be carried out from our logistics base in Uganda reimbursement of $2.2 million for the cash calls paid and will involve a helicopter ying over Lake Edward in 2012.
As a result of the transfer, SOCO E&P DRC Further exploration drilling is planned in the summer and the surrounding lowland savannah area.
The has an 85% interest in Block V. of 2013 with the drilling of the East Lideka well.
security status is being assessed on a continual basis and we will only proceed when the assessment is that Conditional sale of the majority interest We seek to build shareholder value first and foremost it is safe to do so.
in SOCO Cabinda Limited through the portfolio.
We expect to add multiple new In September 2012, SOCO announced that it had ventures to our portfolio in 2013, including at least one In July 2012, SOCO increased its interest in the Block V entered into a conditional agreement the Disposal more high prole exploration project in an area where licence to 85% by acquiring the 46.75% interest held with Quill Trading Corporation Quill wherein the Group we already have a footprint.
Nonetheless, the Board by Ophir Energy Plc.
The remaining 15% interest is held will sell its 80% majority interest in SOCO Cabinda expects to recommend a sustainable return of capital by Cohydro, the national oil company of the DRC.
Limited SOCO Cabinda to Quill, the holder of the to shareholders during 2013, the level of which will be remaining 20% interest.
SOCO Cabinda has a 17% determined pending the HLHVJOCs approval of a In the Nganzi Block depth migrated reprocessing of the participating interest in the Cabinda North Block, 2013 Work Programme and Budget for CNV and data from the 2D seismic acquisition programme is onshore the Angolan enclave of Cabinda.
The Group TGT and incorporating results of the upcoming ongoing.
Following interpretation, decisions will be has no reserves attributable to its interests in SOCO capacity test of the FPSO.
made by the partners on potential drilling locations Cabinda.
The Directors believe that the Disposal is in prior to year end.
the best interests of the Companys shareholders as the Group continues to re-focus the portfolio on higher Angola impact projects in which it holds larger participating Interpretation of the data acquired from the 2D seismic interests.
Quill has paid a non-refundable deposit to acquisition programme was completed during the year.
the Company for the option to acquire SOCOs entire Preparation has now commenced for the drilling of the shareholding in SOCO Cabinda.
The option expiry has 20-6 and 20-7 exploration wells in Dinge area.
Drilling been extended and the final terms for closing are is expected to start mid-2013.
The Company has under negotiation.
Rui fide Sousa announced that it has entered into a conditional Chairman agreement to sell its interest in the Cabinda North The Board of Directors Block see below for details.
During the year, the Board appointed Ms Cynthia Cagle as an Executive Director.
Cynthia has been an officer Corporate of the Group since its inception in 1997 and is a Purchase of own shares Director of the Companys significant subsidiaries.
In During 2012, the Company spent approximately her role as Company Secretary, Cynthia has attended $32.9 million repurchasing 7,514,416 of its own all of the Companys Board and Committee meetings Ed Story ordinary shares of 0.05 each Shares at an average since 1997 and has an in-depth knowledge of the President and Chief Executive officer 8 Strategic Review Business Review Corporate Responsibility Governance Financial Statements Additional Information SOCO INTERNATIONAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Our Corporate Responsibility Guiding Principle A successful project can transform not only a company, but also TARGETING A the economic and social wellbeing of a host country by contributing to its ability to produce and supply its own natural resources.
NET POSITIVE We recognise that built into the heart of this opportunity is the business imperative to act responsibly.
SOCO is committed to CONTRIBUTION conducting our business in an honest and ethical manner and ensuring that the health and safety of people and the protection Our business is guided by an overarching principle: of the environment remain a business priority.
to make a net positive contribution through balancing the needs for energy security, economic development, social improvement and protection Ed Story of the environment.
President and Chief Executive officer Our Corporate Responsibility In Congo and DRC, SOCO commitment is embedded in and its partners have our strategy provided: } potable water wells Access to Host country } healthcare buildings investment revenue opportunities 3.
medical supplies Realising Recognising } disease prevention value opportunity education and supplies Operating Relationship revenue building } community and social care assistance Host country Economic revenue stimulation } school buildings and Taxes and Early entry teaching supplies fees into regions } new and upgraded road infrastructure Our core strategic } road bridges objectives } an air strip Commitment Capital to local Expenditure economies } supplies following Social and Economic humanitarian emergencies community stimulation projects Skills and Operational expertise management 2.
Capturing SOCO and its partners potential Training Local have contributed approx programmes employment $2.5M towards social projects in Congo and DRC since the further information on our approach to Corporate projects began Responsibility is available on our website: 4 p30 Corporate www.
