overview business review governance financial statements chief executive officers review our pace of innovation leads our industry The fundamental drivers of Spirents business remain positive, despite the macroeconomic uncertainty in many parts of the world during 2012.
Investment in the telecom and IT industries is being made on a large scale to meet the demand of consumers and enterprises for anytime, anywhere access to data, applications and services with the highest quality of experience.
We executed on our strategy in 2012 to increase the breadth of our test solutions portfolio, organically and through acquisition, to address growing and emerging opportunities, laying the groundwork for profitable growth in 2013 and beyond.
Mobility anywhere, anytime, with any device, was a major driver of demand for our solutions, as mobile broadband growth results in everincreasing volumes of data traffic.
This led service providers to focus on fixed and mobile network convergence and on the rollout of 4G LTE networks, along with the services and devices that take advantage of this bill burns technology.
Spending on cloud services Chief Executive Officer grew rapidly, driving data centers to everincreasing scale.
The migration to high speed Ethernet in data centers and core networks accelerated, while awareness of the critical importance of network and application security grew as a result of multiple high profile attacks during 2012.
13 spirent COMMUniCAtiOns plC AnnUAl repOrt 2012 chief executive officers review CONTINuED The impact of macroeconomic conditions Global LTE subscribers on our served markets, particularly in the number million second half of the year, led to flat revenues and profit performance in 2012.
In 427.2 Performance Analysis, we saw a fall in demand for our positioning solutions on the back of caution in government spending and the delay in the rollout of the 327.6 commercial specifications for the Chinese BeiDou2 formerly Compass satellite navigation system.
In addition, some of our large customers significantly reduced 210.1 their spending as a result of the decline in demand in their end markets due to Eurozone and Middle East conditions, 118.4 slowing growth in China and a reduction in government spending, or due to their loss of market share, with some customers 51.2 12 13 14 15 16 exiting certain market segments entirely.
We experienced challenges in our Service Source: Infonetics Research, 2012 Assurance division as service providers The 4G LTE subscriber compound annual growth rate over the period 2012 to 2016 is forecast to be 70%.
sharply reduced investment in assuring their legacy wireline networks.
Despite these headwinds, Spirent delivered a financial performance that remains one of the best amongst its peers.
strengthened our solutions portfolio by Our strategic objectives continue to be furthered through the hard work, acquiring and integrating two strategically We again expanded our global reach dedication and enthusiasm of our important businesses during the year: in 2012 to further strengthen our close employees, and it is key to Spirents Mu Dynamics and Metrico Wireless.
Both cooperation with our customers including success that we develop and nurture acquisitions aligned well with our strategy network equipment manufacturers, mobile our people, recognising their of delivering profitable growth through device manufacturers, service providers, critical contribution.
expanding our capabilities in growing enterprise, technology providers and emerging technology markets.
Spirents solutions span all important technologies and serve all major customer Mu added market leading expertise in Our pace of innovation leads our industry, segments across the telecommunications cyber security, usability and application enabling us to deliver on our strategy of and IT industries.
We increased our emulation to our solutions portfolio.
bringing the right solutions to the global development spend on areas that matter Combining Mus softwarebased market at the right time.
To increase focus most to our customers, including the applications and security testing on innovation in our faster growing core evolution of wireless networks and capabilities with Spirents market leading communications test and measurement services to 4G LTE, high speed Ethernet performance test platforms has enabled market, we disposed of the Systems and nextgeneration data centers, as well us to rapidly create bestinclass security division in November for $63.2 million.
as network and application security and the test solutions with higher performance development of a new approach to testing and greater scale than any other provider.
IT networks by enterprise customers.
We 14 overview business review governance financial statements In acquiring Metrico, Spirent has In 2013 Spirents revenue will be driven Investment in product development responded to the needs of carriers and by macro demand in the Groups major $ million device vendors to minimise time to market, regions, ongoing industry trends, the improve subscriber quality of experience full year effect of revenues from acquired increase 86.1 and reduce device return rates, while businesses, and revenues attributable 83.3 of 3% 75.8 also contending with new and emerging to new product introductions.
70.8 technologies including 4G data, VoLTE and the cloud.
Bringing together Metricos The Group is increasing its organic fieldbased, subscriberlevel focus with investment for future growth, in particular Spirents device performance test strength focusing on expanding Spirents position in the lab has resulted in an unparalleled in the 4G LTE market and entering into new endtoend test portfolio.
For 2013 as a whole, we 09 10 11 12 enables our customers to increase anticipate modest revenue growth.
Given subscriber satisfaction and loyalty current trading conditions and a lower while reducing time to market, as order book at the start of the year, the well as their operational costs.
performance in the first quarter will be lower compared to the strong period last We have the industrys broadest and year.
The Board remains confident that most innovative test solution portfolio.
the Group is well placed to capitalise Given our confidence in the medium on significant medium and longer term outlook, we plan to increase our term opportunities.
investment in new test solutions and in enhancing our current capabilities in the areas that matter most to our customers, as they look to drive innovation and bring their industry leading products and services to market faster and with better quality.
This, coupled with a relentless focus on executing our strategy, will enable Spirent to best leverage opportunities throughout 2013 and beyond.
Outlook The difficult economic conditions that characterised market dynamics in the second half of 2012 are unlikely to change markedly during the first half of 2013, although there are some signs that confidence is returning with a few major service providers increasing capital spending plans for the year ahead.
The rapid pace of innovation in mobile and data technologies continues.
