16 THE BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Report Overview of financial performance I am pleased to be able to report another year of strong underlying profit growth for Sports Direct, in a consumer environment that remains tough.
The resilience and exibility of our business model continues to add significant value to our operations by providing customers with an unrivalled depth and breadth of product choice at the best available prices, across all categories and in all stores and online.
We constantly review and improve our stores to provide a fresh and exciting retail environment for our customers.
With new stores opened during the year in the UK and Europe, We also announced, post the period end, the acquisition of we are proud of our reputation for quality.
We have continued to Flannels Group Limited, which will join the Premium Lifestyle strengthen our position as the clear market leader in the UK sports division.
We have high expectations that this exclusive offering retail sector, and we are very pleased to report that we increased will benefit from our strong supply chain and provide a high-quality our UK 52 week like-for-like gross contribution by 0.7% over the customer experience.
12 month period, in spite of the challenging environment and Due to the success of our 2009 Bonus Share Scheme, in 2011 tough comparatives.
the Company launched a new four-year scheme covering the full We have established a strong online presence, delivering rapid years 2012 to 2015 with challenging underlying EBITDA targets of growth in the Year.
Critically, our online sales benefit from our UK 215m, 250m, 260m and 300m.
We are pleased to confirm market-leading position on the high street and from our established that the first of these targets has been achieved and thank our systems and processes, while our retail stores continue to colleagues for all their efforts this year.
Both of these schemes perform strongly.
have helped introduce and maintain a substantially lower level of employee turnover than before the scheme.
This August will see Furthermore, we have broadened our consumer offering with the first part of the 2009 Bonus Share Scheme vest and we look the creation of our Premium Lifestyle division, which includes our forward to seeing our dedicated colleagues well rewarded for their acquisitions of the USC, Cruise and Van Mildert retail fascias.
Deontay Wilder Everlast Brand Ambassador
