Chief Executives Report Andrew Tinkler I Chief Executive Officer 2012 has been a key year for us in the delivery of the strategy outlined in our capital raising in May 2011 and I am pleased to report that we remain on track.
In a challenging economic climate, we have shown the commitment of our people, our ability to design and introduce the right systems and services for our customers and, above all, our ability to remain focused on our long-term objectives.
The Placing and Open Offer of May 2011 has enabled us to invest to scrutinise in fine detail how our overall system is working across the Group both to develop the asset portfolio and from planner, to vehicle, driver and customer and results in enhance the value of existing assets.
Key amongst these greater utilisation of our fleet.
investments is the development that we have been able to deliver The Group remains alert for opportunities to work with customers at London Southend Airport.
The latest phase of the redeveloped, to develop modal shift projects enabling them to both reduce their refurbished and relaunched airport, arguably the jewel in the carbon emissions and look at more sustainable transport options.
Stobart crown this year, has been completed in time for the The recommencement of the Valencia rail service this year with Olympics and within budget.
significantly improved volumes again highlights our position in the market place as a responsible logistics provider who is able to Stobart Air match environmental considerations with commercial solutions.
We have increased profitability for our customers through splitting Last year it was a plan and this year it is reality.
We have opened a the business into clear profit-responsible units.
This level of detailed new control tower, railway station, passenger terminal and runway.
knowledge enables us to reduce logistics costs for our customers We have also announced our ten-year partnership with easyJet, through working in close partnership with them, allowing us to drive which combined with our flying programme with Aer Lingus up both performance levels and customer service.
Our proactive Regional, will see around one million passengers fly through the response to customer demands allows us to continue to perform airport over the coming year.
The airport now serves thirteen resiliently in tough market conditions.
European destinations and with a direct, frequent rail service to the This information led to the decision to carry out a large scale Olympic Park and Liverpool Street, the airport is ahead of restructure of the ambient transport network with the closure of a programme and set for a very strong year ahead.
Significantly, this large site in Leeds.
key asset is now valued at around 115m which reflects the capital investment.
Future value is expected to be very significantly in excess In addition, we have now commenced restructuring of our of this valuation when we hit our targets in three years time.
This will potentially involve the closure It was interesting to note the recent activity in the sector, with the of two existing sites and transfer of operations to a new site at sale of Edinburgh Airport, which confirms our view of the potential Magna Park in Lutterworth.
This is expected to lead to a value in airport assets.
significant saving in mileage and reduction in vehicles, drivers and site staff required to service the existing work.
We estimate that the one-off costs of site closures and new site set-up costs Stobart Biomass will be in the region of 2.9m and fall in the financial year to 28 The Biomass division is now in sole Stobart ownership and control.
This restructuring should lead to ongoing cost This acquisition of the remaining 50% coincided with the Placing.
savings of approximately 1.5m per annum.
The synergies between source of supply and our transport and planning network and expertise have strengthened our unique Stobart Estates position in the biomass fuel supply market place as a major biomass fuels supplier.
We deliver consistently, frequently and Through the Placing, our Estates division was able to finance the reliably to customers, enabling them to plan their plants and output acquisition of WADI Properties Limited.
This comprises the with confidence.
Moneypenny portfolio of 18 commercial properties including retail, offices and industrial assets.
We are investing in some of these assets to achieve attractive returns over the medium term.
During Stobart Transport & Distribution the first few months following acquisition, Asset Managers were Transport & Distribution is currently our largest operating appointed and strategic plans agreed for each individual property.
We have invested significant time in developing and This led to the immediate success in obtaining a residential implementing our Time Based Planning system, building on our planning consent for a property at Soho Square in London.
In commitment to eliminate inefficiencies and drive operational addition, the strategic acquisition of a 275,000 sq.
ft warehouse at benefits for Stobart and our customers.
This has not only created Magna Park during the year enabled our Warehousing division to greater efficiencies in our planning, but has enabled us attract significant new business and also provide our Chilled division with a superb new 50,000 sq.
ft facility within the building.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 5 Andrew Tinkler, Chief Executive Officer Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 6 Chief Executives Report The final Estates investment which the Placing enabled is a 145,000 The Brand sq.
ft warehouse facility at Appleton Thorn which is adjacent to William Stobart writes eloquently about the importance of our our existing 10 acre transport and office location.
brand in this Report and its value to customers as a mark of the Although a relatively new division in the Stobart Group structure, quality and level of service that they can expect from any part of Estates has already shown strong performance in identifying key Stobart Group.
The brand continues to be a champion for us in operational assets for acquisition.
Estates has also already made the market place.
We constantly strive to improve and develop our good progress in realising value and returns for the Group.
communications with customers and other stakeholders to improve the outstanding multi-faceted nature of the Group whose Infrastructure & Civil Engineering portfolio spans a number of related sectors to provide an integrated and solid foundation for growth.
The ability of the Group's Infrastructure & Civil Engineering division We are using our brand to support some innovative services to deliver the required development on the Magna Park site and which have developed from our internal practices.
on other Estates developments brings another synergy to this area of our business.
This division's work has also enabled the Stobart Groups success is in our ability to make sure we have the transformation of London Southend Airport through the design, right people in the right roles, with the right resource at the right management and construction of the runway extension and time to deliver consistently high performance for our customers and upgrade.
Alongside this, the division delivered the necessary road the Group.
Our strategic goals are clear and understood throughout diversion, new terminal and stands at the airport.
Our focus is on delivering value for shareholders in three years time by realising the value of our assets and operations.
The role of Infrastructure and Infrastructure & Civil Engineering within the Group is all about enabling us to develop sites and We are on track and looking forward to a positive year ahead.
premises on time, to budget and to our required levels of quality, through value engineering and at a lower cost, although we dont see the benefit of this until the sale of the asset.
Andrew Tinkler I Chief Executive Officer I May 2012 Key Performance Indicators Financial 2012 2011 Change Revenue 551.9m 500.4m 10.3% ab PBT 35.2m 34.5m 2.0% Earnings Per Ordinary Share 9.0p 9.0p 0.0% Environmental Fleet Utilisation 84% 83% 1.2% Euro 4 5 Compliance 99% 89% 11.2% CO Per Loaded Mile 1.84kg 1.87kg -1.6% 2 People Accident Incident rate RIDDOR 0.16 0.47 -66% a Comprising the underlying operating profit of 40.0m 2011: 39.6m less share based payments of 0.4m 2011: 0.5m less finance costs of 6.4m 2011: 5.5m plus finance income of 2.0m 2011: 0.9m.
b We have not disclosed underlying EBITDA in the key performance indicators in the current year since, due to a change in the nature of truck leases, we believe this figure is not comparable to the previous year.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 7 Building the Brand William Stobart I Chief Operating Officer The Eddie Stobart brand has always stood out.
Over the last 40 years the name has found fame through the iconic red, green and white liveried trucks which have made the UK road network their home.
The historic association with cleanliness, quality and service has helped consolidate the brands core values and made the Stobart name synonymous with the UKs working class heroes.
The brand has always been strong, but over the last 12 months The Eddie Stobart brand creates distinctive associations in the weve seen it reach new heights.
Eddie Stobart has been rated minds of stakeholders and helps us stand out in the marketplace as a Business Superbrand for the last six years, but in 2012 it was by communicating and engaging with customers.
Its no secret, elevated into the Top 15 UK brands, leap-frogging many other people like doing business with the Stobart brand.
globally recognised brands such as BP, O2 and HSBC.
The Groups brand names, trademarks and designs are included A recognised Superbrand is considered to have established within the accounts classified under Intangible Assets.
They are the finest reputation in its field, offering customers significant carried in the accounts at 60m, but have recently been valued emotional and tangible advantages over its competitors, and at three times that figure.
stands for quality, reliability and distinction.
Stobart exemplifies the Superbrand concept: it represents reliable, high quality Brand Performance products and services, forming a perceived distinction that helps Like the business itself, our brand has performed impressively over to differentiate and elevate the business within the market place.
In recent years weve embraced modern marketing One quality every Superbrand shares is value.
Delivering added platforms such as the social media channels and networking tools value is what made us a Superbrand in the first place.
Attaining to strengthen the brand even further.
this coveted status is immensely important in economic terms, The success across all Stobart Group operating divisions underpins contributing significantly to the market value, strengthening our the versatility of the Stobart brand and its adaptability to differing competitive edge and acting as a spur to on-going innovation.
Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 8 William Stobart, Chief Operating Officer Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 9 business sectors and even consumers.
There is an increasing love for Stobart and were pleased to see the general public become so attached to it and proud to be our supporters.
Eddie Stobart: Trucks & Trailers The brand has received a massive boost over the last 18 months through the Eddie Stobart: Trucks & Trailers documentary series broadcast on Channel 5.
The strikingly popular show, already into its fourth series, has gripped the UK and consistently sees audience figures in excess of two million.
The series has helped both customers and the public to gain an insight into the key role Eddie Stobart logistics operations have to play in getting vital supplies onto supermarket shelves.
However, weve also been able to use the series, and associated opportunities, to promote other key areas of the business.
The series has played an important role in raising awareness of the important developments around London Southend Airport, our partnership with easyJet and the key role Southend will play in supporting travel to the Olympic Games later this year.
Importantly, Professional Jockeys Association sponsorship.
the series has also highlighted our other operating divisions such as Biomass, Estates and Civil Engineering, demonstrating the unique specialisms embedded in the business.
The television series has cemented our bond with the public and weve experienced record sales of Stobart merchandise through our dedicated promotional department.
Membership of the official Stobart Members Club has doubled over the last two years to the point where the inaugural Stobart Fest exhibition of trucks and drivers from the television series attracted 7,000 people in 2011.
Sporting Associations Stobart has successfully used sporting partnerships to assist the brand in reaching customers and the wider public for many years.
Our important partnership with the Professional Jockeys Association, in addition to providing weekly television exposure for the brand on Jockeys breeches, also provides insurance against career-ending injury for professional jockeys as part of the overall deal.
Stobart has also secured title naming rights to the Rugby Super Top 15 Superbrand status reflects exceptional awareness.
League in a joint marketing deal which has not resulted in any direct costs to the business.
The value of the Stobart brand, and the inherent worth of association with it, has allowed us to become title holders by providing promotion of the sport of rugby league on 100 of our trailers.
The striking rugby-liveried trailers will cover a total of 15 million miles each year, their high visibility is expected to draw additional sponsors to the sport, as well as reinforcing its growing popularity with fans and further raising the profile of Eddie Stobart amongst customers and the public alike.
The strength of the Stobart brand has helped us achieve pre-eminence across our industry sectors.
Customers aspire to the innovation and excitement association with Stobart Group brings.
Were proud to see the Stobart brand playing a key role in raising standards and inspiring industry to grasp ideas that can boost their own businesses.
Eddie Stobart: Trucks and Trailers TV series gets over two million viewers.
William Stobart I Chief Operating Officer I 18 May 2012 Stobart Group Annual Report 2012 10
