Overview Business review Governance Financial Statements Chief Executives review nalquarter began to recover sharply and we expect the business toachieve the Groups minimum financial targets in the new year.
The Group is in a good position with an internationally diversied business providing high value-added services, underpinned by long term contracts and excellent cash generation.
Our balance sheet remains strong, with gearing well below our internal ceiling fornet debt to EBITDA of 2.5 times.
Strategy The Board set out its strategy four years ago and believes the successful outcomes that have been achieved endorse the plan.
Torecap, there are four strands to the strategy: internationalisation: focus on high value-added services with high barriers to entry: differentiation through our people and the way we deliver our services: and cost leadership.
Our core service is the provision of outsourced sterilisation for Dr Richard M Steeves medical device manufacturers Applied Sterilisation and for Chief Executive healthcare providers such as acute hospitals Hospital Sterilisation.
In addition, we are a leading provider of linen services in the UK and the Netherlands, a manufacturer of infection control products and a provider of specialist laboratory services Healthcare Solutions.
The growth of our Applied Sterilisation business has been a priority and this is reected in global reported revenue for this service up 36.1% to 95.4 million 2011: 70.1 million.
Hospital Sterilisation revenue was up 10.5% to 62.8 million 2011: 56.9 million, whilst Introduction healthcare linen revenue was at at 112.0 million 2011: 112.9 Synergy is a global leader in outsourced sterilisation services using million.
During the year we sold a small Scottish distribution business arange of technologies.
In addition, Synergy provides other niche and we have seen the full year effect of rationalising non-core outsourced services such as healthcare linen, pathology and businesses.
As a result, revenue within the combined Healthcare specialist laboratory services.
All of our businesses have the benefit Solutions business declined to 153.7 million 2011: 160.4 million.
of significant barriers to entry, stable long term contracts, and good cash generation.
Internationalisation We have made further progress implementing our strategy through Synergy operates its business as four geographic regions.
The increasing investment in the faster growing Asian and American structure provides the depth and resilience necessary to operate markets, expanding our geographic coverage with acquisitions in ageographically diverse business, as well as providing responsive theUS, Malaysia and Switzerland, and bringing forward our plans to leadership as close to the customer as possible.
The continuing enter the US hospital sterilisation market.
We were also pleased that strategy of internationalisation will also play an important role going organic growth improved during the first half of the year but this has forward, mitigating the impact of economic uncertainties in Europe, since reduced slightly, reecting the economic downturn in Europe.
and also providing opportunities for growth in the faster growing In response to the risk of declining growth, we took the opportunity in regions of the world.
Details of the Groups trading performance November to further reduce our cost base and that has fed through andresults by region are shown in the Regional review on the into sustainably improved operating margins.
The Group achieved reported revenue growth of 8.6%.
Underlying organic revenue growth, excluding currency effects and non-core Outlook businesses, was 5.4%.
After allowing for the 53rd week in last years Synergys focus is on the provision of niche outsourcing services comparator, organic growth was 7.5% compared with 4.1% for the thatcreate significant value for our customers.
The success of our strategy to internationalise sterilisation services are mission-critical to our customers and Synergy is reected in our reported growth rate.
UK & Ireland and forthisreason demand continues to hold up well, despite clear Europe & Middle East grew at 2.2% and 3.8% respectively.
Asia & economic headwinds in certain parts of the world, particularly Africa and the Americas grew at 31.6% and 24.6% pro forma Europe.
We are particularly excited by the opportunities that we have respectively.
As we continue to implement our strategy, our reliance in China and the US for the expansion of our Hospital Sterilisation on the UK and Europe reduces, with Asia and the Americas Services business, and we believe that the global demand for our accounting for 9.8% of total revenue compared to 4.7% last year.
Applied Sterilisation Technologies business will continue to be strong.
During the second half of the year we focused on reducing our Our strategy to extend Synergys reach has progressed well with the costbase in the face of concerns around the macroeconomic expansion of our services in the Americas, Switzerland and Malaysia.
Four facilities were closed and their The business is well positioned and we remain committed to strong operations merged into other facilities.
These closures, together with underlying revenue growth with sustainable margins.
other efficiency gains, assisted in increasing margins to new levels for the Group.
Gross margins were up by 1.7% to 39.9% 2011: 38.2% and adjusted operating margin was up 0.7% on last year to 15.7% Dr Richard Steeves 2011: 15.0%.
Group CEO I am pleased to say that issues within our UK products based 7 June 2012 business are being resolved, and whilst this business did not make amaterial contribution to the overall Group profit, margins in the Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2012 15
