6 Chief Executive Ofcers statement Our operational focus during the year has been on % continuing to implement the five core elements of the strategy we set out in November 2010: 18 1.
Extending our network and its benets to 700 more exchanges 2.
Increasing efficiency by simplifying our operating 2012 326 systems and processes 3.
Developing compelling new value for money services for consumers 2011 276 4.
Using our network to expand our range of advanced m data services for businesses Headline EBITDA 5.
Preparing for a bre future We have made significant progress on each of these elements and as a result have delivered an extremely strong financial performance with Headline EBITDA growing 18% to 326m, % operating free cash ow by 33% to 207m and Headline EPS 33 by33% to 18.0p.
Largest unbundled UK network We unbundled 501 exchanges during the year, taking our 2012 207 total network coverage to 2,508 exchanges and 91% customer coverage, by some distance the largest unbundled estate in the UK.
Our plans to extend our unbundled footprint further, to around 2,700 exchanges will take us to over 93% customer 2011 156 coverage by the end of FY2013.
More than 200 further exchanges are currently scheduled to come on stream m before the end of FY2013.
Operating free cash ow We ended the year with 3.755 million customers on our network, accounting for 92% of our total broadband customer base, Better diagnostic processes and tools and greater network compared to 86% at the end of last year.
Of these 3.066 million stability, following completion of our customer migration were fully unbundled customers, taking both phone and programme, were reected in a substantial reduction in broadband services delivered through our MPF equipment.
technical support calls during the period.
Improved self-serve The remaining 689k customers were partially unbundled, capabilities and higher first time query resolution resulted in taking only broadband, served through our SMPF equipment.
lower volumes of general service calls, including billing queries.
Unbundling and the resulting customer mix improvement was a key driver of our ARPU growth during the year, to More than 70% of our total customer contacts are now 25.6 in Q4 from 25.0 at the same time last year.
online, compared to around 65% last year.
This improves both customer experience and future profitability.
Unbundling delivers major benets for our customers, such as better prices, optimised broadband speed and service quality, We have now identied the full 50m of the 40-50m targeted and access to our growing range of additional products and range of efficiencies ahead of plan.
A total saving of 23m services, such as Plus, HomeSafe and Boosts.
We expect a further 22m to in unbundling delivers significant financial benets, including be realised in FY2013 and further 5-10m in the following year.
higher ARPU and lower churn across the base, access to inbound call termination revenue, lower regulated charges MPF and 3.
Value for money quad play SMPF, and lower backhaul costs due to our investment in a Our rm commitment to consistently provide clear, value for highly efficient, high capacity NGN.
money services for our customers was reected in a series of new prices and products, to maintain our positioning as the best value 2.
Operating efficiencies provider in the market.
These initiatives included the repricing of our In November 2010 we announced our target to deliver a total line rental offer, the reduction of headline pricing of our Essentials of 40-50m of operating efficiencies over the medium term, and Plus broadband packages and the launch of both our unique by providing a better customer experience through simplifying HomeSafe service and a 500 Mobile Minute Boost.
our business processes, eliminating significant duplication, and By the end of FY2012, 1 million customers have joined or creating a leaner operational structure.
We have aimed, through been upsold to Plus, our inclusive calls product, reecting its these initiatives, to improve signicantly the quality of the unbeatable value and appeal to customers in these challenging end-to-end experience we deliver to our customers and economic times.
Plus customers now comprise c. 25% of our therefore to also reduce our overall customer service costs.
A further 250,000 customers are now also We have delivered significant improvements in our customer benefiting from a capped cost of calling mobiles through our experience over the last 12 months with a 31% year on year innovative 200 and 500 Mobile Minute Boosts.
reduction in calls into our contact centres, a 36% reduction in complaints to Ofcom and 76% of our customers now benefiting from first time resolution of their query.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 7 HomeSafe, our network level security and safety service that As anticipated, and in line with wider secor trends, voice protects all devices using the internet connection in the home, revenues in the B2B business continued to be under pressure is unique to TalkTalk.
HomeSafe gives customers the ability driven by the impact of mobile termination rates and declining to block inappropriate content as well as protect devices from xed line voice minutes through the year.
Carrier service viruses and appeals strongly to parents in particular.
HomeSafe is operations, which leverage our interconnected voice network an excellent example of our ability to bring innovative new services and scale of customer base, traded broadly in line with last year.
to our customers that also create value for us.
While the service is At the beginning of the year we acquired Executel, a regional unied provided at no charge, the cost of provision is far outweighed by communications solutions business with a strong presence in the benefit to us in the form of materially reduced churn.
Executel was a long-standing TalkTalk Business Our triple play proposition that will feature YouView, is on channel partner, and the acquisition strengthened our capabilities track for launch during Q2 of FY2013.
YouView will bring to our in the all important PBX systems market.
customers all of the plug-in-and-watch simplicity of Freeview, plus the UKs leading internet catch-up and video on-demand 5.
Fibre access services, all instantly available through one simple, intuitive Early in FY2012 we launched our first NGA product, a bre optic set-top box and proprietary electronic programme guide.
Boost that delivers download speeds of 15-40Mbps for our customers who are located within the BT Openreach bre Development within the YouView team is progressing well and network footprint.
Priced at 10 per month, plus a one off within TalkTalk we are making great progress on provisioning connection fee, this product delivers a value for money, highcapability, as well as operational and CRM readiness to support speed broadband service.
Demand for superfast broadband our TV service within our existing operational structures.
We amongst our customer base remains modest as our current began Friends and Family trials focusing on the end-to-end copper-based ADSL technology already delivers average customer experience in April 2012 and will be extending the trial download speeds of 7-8Mbps, which satisfies most customers to our customers soon.
Our mobile base continues to grow with over 70,000 customers We saw accelerating demand for our 40Mbps bre boost during now taking mobile in addition to their phone and broadband Q4, with an additional 4,000 customers being provisioned, to leave service.
We have built an impressive 7.5% share of the UK a closing base of 9,000.
We expect demand for NGA to grow over SIM-only market since launch and as expected, have seen the medium term and we have spent much of the last year on laying signicantly lower churn on this customer base.
We plan to the groundwork both commercially and operationally, to be able to launch a handset proposition later this year in addition to take advantage of customers growing demand for faster speeds our existing SIM-only and data products.
TalkTalk Business services Accordingly, after reaching agreement on commercial terms TalkTalk Business generates approximately 20% of the revenue with BT Openreach, we launched an 80Mbps 20Mbps upload of the Group and comprises three main areas: business data product in April 2012.
Priced at 15 per month, plus a one off services, voice services and carrier services through a direct connection fee, this product also delivers a value for money team and channel community.
service that allows our customers to save money versus comparable products in the market.
Taking full advantage of the UKs most extensive NGN, the re-branded TalkTalk Business is a leading player in developing We are continuing to work with BT Openreach to develop the and delivering converged voice and data services across four NGA product further, and in particular to improve the customer distinct markets, small and medium sized enterprises SME, connection experience and reduce both the initial set-up and larger corporates, system integrators and direct to other carriers.
Currently all new bre connections necessitate a visit by a BT Openreach engineer and supply of Our network coupled with hosted services provides the separate new access and inter-connection equipment within exibility, reliability, capacity and geographic coverage required the home.
Trials on a simpler installation process are underway to meet our customers growing demand for high quality data and we continue to believe that the experience must become services.
Our product range extends from simple business more exible, and its end-to-end costs reduced, before NGA broadband propositions for sole traders and home workers, products will gain mass-market customer acceptance.
through to complex, integrated connectivity solutions for larger organisations delivered direct or through our vibrant partner community.
After the introduction in FY2011 of our bre-based Ethernet Dido Harding connectivity service aimed at large carriers and systems Chief Executive officer integrators we have expanded our offerings with a launch in 16 May 2012 April 2011 of our EFM solution into our partner channel.
This product captures the advantages of both Ethernet technology and the underlying copper-based broadband service, delivering guaranteed symmetrical connectivity up to 10Mbps across bonded copper pairs.
EFM bridges the gap between ADSL and bre-based Ethernet, and presents a major growth opportunity as a compelling low cost, business grade alternative.
Across our Ethernet offerings in the second half we have seen substantial increase in orders as we scale for growth.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2012
