Chief Executives review I am delighted with TelecityGroups performance during 2012 Central management team Michael Tobin Our central management team CEO isintroduced on page 7.
Country managers are introduced on pages 20-21 and TelecityGroups Finance Director on page 34.
Helsinki, Finland During 2012 TelecityGroup established a market leading position in Helsinki through the acquisitions of Academica and Tenue.
See page 22 6 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 I was very pleased to be able to add a leading position in the Finnish I am delighted with TelecityGroups market to our European growth platform.
I am excited about the opportunities that this new market brings to the Group and I look forward performance during 2012.
The to the challenge of capitalising on them with our new team there.
Group did extremely well, delivered We have entered 2013 with a solid recurring revenue base and available capacity across our market.
As such, I expect the Group to deliver 18% revenue growth, adjusted another good operating and financial performance during the year, withstrong growth in earnings.
EBITDA growth enhanced by In addition to meeting the demands of our customers, I remain focussed on delivering value for our shareholders.
increasing margins of 22% and We will continue to use TelecityGroups growing cash ows to create 29%adjusted EPS growth.
further value, through investment in organic growth with high returns oncapital, selective acquisitions that enhance our growth platform To me, this illustrates good execution against our strategy, which is andour progressive dividend policy.
outlined on pages 24 and 25 and the value of our internet hub data At the same time as this, we will continue to recognise our wider centres.
These assets, which are at the core of the European digital responsibilities with our focus on our CSR programme, ensuring that economy, underpin the growth of our customers and deliver value thisfeeds through to the way the business operates and reports on forourshareholders.
corporate responsibility and sustainability now and in the future.
It also highlights the strength of our team, whose experience, dedication I look forward to reporting back to you on our progress during 2013. and customer focus are key to our success.
I would like to thank them allfor their contributions.
In addition to the great financial performance, 2012 was notable for beinga landmark year for the Group in terms of operational delivery.
Weopened major capacity expansions across Europe, increasing our available capacity by 27%, overcoming the challenges associated with opening data centres in highly-connected urban areas.
These sites are key to enabling our future growth and we intend to expand them further in phases over the coming years to meet the demands of Michael Tobin our growing customer base.
Chief Executive officer 12 February 2013 James Tyler Matthew Springett Suzie Woodhams David Crowther Group Director of Marketing Group Head of Investor Group Director of Human Group Financial Controller.
Suzie is responsible David is responsible for financial responsible for TelecityGroups for managing TelecityGroups for leading and implementing reporting, planning, policies and marketing and communication relationships with investors HR Strategy across the Group.
Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2012 7
