Chairmans statement We have moved to address performance issues in the UK.
The Looking ahead challenge of refocusing the UK business to ensure it sustains healthy Last year was a challenging one for the business and we are acutely market leadership is important enough to make it worth giving aware that this was reflected for our shareholders in the share price.
up some profit in the short term to safeguard the business in the We will continue in 2012 13 to address long-standing business issues long term.
We laid out in April how we intend to do this.
in the UK and elsewhere in order to secure future prosperity as well as Elsewhere, we have continued the substantial re-orientation of the ensuring that our financial and human resources are developed and US business to give it the best possible opportunity to secure its future deployed where they are able most effectively to generate future with all the potential for longer-term growth that would bring.
We have growth and returns.
announced our intention to exit from Japan.
We are willing to invest If I have one overriding impression of Tesco after six months, it is that for the long term but where we cannot see a profitable, scalable here is a truly international business, deploying its expertise across the business earning good returns within an acceptable timescale, we world to drive opportunity, growth and returns, all of which ultimately prefer to pursue better opportunities.
And we have slowed down the benefit the UK.
I look forward to being part of it.
development of Tesco Bank to increase its focus on quality, service and risk management.
These are substantial changes, in management, organisation and business and they need to be seen as part of a continuing process of moving the company forward, making changes where necessary to ensure long-term stability and sustainable profitability.
Sir Richard Broadbent Governance Chairman Governance is the framework that articulates a companys values and supports its behaviours.
During the year, we updated our governance framework and processes as described in more detail on page 50.
An important aspect of these changes was the creation of the Board Corporate Responsibility Committee to ensure that the Board maintains a strategic focus on corporate responsibility in its widest sense, reflecting the importance to the Group of how it engages externally.
When a company has significant economic and social scale it is essential that it reflects on the full nature of its accountability for its activities, and how it should discharge that responsibility to the communities in which it operates.
This will be an important focus for the new Committee.
There have been a number of changes to the Board.
In addition to Sir David Reid, David Potts retired during the year, Richard Brasher stepped down from the Board in March, and Andrew Higginson will retire in September.
We thank them all for their contribution to the business over the years.
We are also pleased to welcome Deanna Oppenheimer to the Board as a Non-executive Director.
Deanna brings valuable international, retail, banking and digital experience to our Board.
Financial results In the year, we delivered sales growth of 7.4%.
Profit growth was modest, with a strong international performance largely offset by a reduction in UK profits.
Trading profit grew by 1.3%, and profit before tax grew by 5.3%.
Return on capital employed improved from 12.9% last year to 13.3%, and we continued our long record of dividend growth for shareholders, with the full year dividend up 2.1% to 14.76p.
The fact that in a year when economic headwinds have been evident in practically every part of the globe our business increased sales, profits, return on capital and dividends speaks for its overall resilience.
2 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Chief Executives review Building for the future Philip in conversation with Ellen and Jobe at the Tesco Extra store in Baldock It has been a year of significant change and one in which we took My first year as Chief Executive decisive action on some very important issues for Tesco: our reset has been a year where we have of expectations for the UK for the forthcoming year, the announcement of our intention to dispose of our business in Japan, the focus on implemented important changes moving Fresh & Easy closer to profitability and the renewed focus on delivering a reliable Tesco Bank.
As a part of this we made several at Tesco, a year when we have built key management changes during the year which have allowed some strength for the future.
significant new appointments as we renew and reinvigorate the Tesco team.
This has very much laid the ground for the future: a future where we will make sure that our capital and our talent are put to work where it benefits most our customers and hence our shareholders.
The future Tesco will demonstrate greater innovation and creativity as we address the needs of consumers around our world both in store and online.
We regularly deliver over 75 million shopping trips a week and as a retailer are only as good as the last trips.
Ensuring that Tesco is highly valued by customers on each and every one of those shopping trips will be what makes Tesco achieve sustainable success.
That is what we set out to do every day.
I believe that we have faced into challenges with real determination and taken decisions for the future.
I know that it has been a tough year to be a Tesco shareholder.
I know too that my whole team and I are confident that the changes we are making are the right things to do for customers, staff, the business and its shareholders and that Scan here to hear more the long-term opportunities for Tesco remain undiminished.
from Philip Clarke, or visit www.
com ar2012 ceoreview Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 3 Chief Executives review Performance in 2011 12 To grow the UK core We delivered modest profit growth in a challenging economic environment, with a strong international performance largely offset by a reduction in UK profits.
Whilst the year gave us many things to be proud of, overall it was not the most pleasing performance.
My team and I are resolved to get Tesco back to winning, particularly at home.
Group sales increased by 7.4% to 72 billion, while Group trading profit was up 1.3% on last year and underlying profit before tax rose to 3.9 billion, an increase of 1.6%.
Group capital expenditure in the year was 3.8 billion.
Group return on capital employed ROCE increased to 13.3% last year 12.9%.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 10.13p per share, taking the full year dividend to 14.76p, which is an increase of 2.1% on last year.
The decisions we have taken during the year have had an impact on The deli counter in our Hertford Superstore has a flat glass front, bright our financial performance.
We decided to forego some short-term lighting and warmer, more engaging signage profit to re-invest in the long-term health of the business, with a clear focus on improving the shopping trip for customers.
In the UK, high petrol prices and falling real incomes affected customers The UK business clearly did not meet our own expectations in the discretionary spending in the year.
The combination of disappointing year and, partly as a result of this, we decided to accelerate our sales in the second half of the year and our decision to increase investment plan to make improvements which has meant a necessary reset to into the shopping trip meant that our UK performance was weaker expectations for our growth in 2012 13 as well.
This acceleration and than planned.
Sales grew by 6.2%, supported by excellent new store reset were announced with our Christmas trading update in January.
performance, but trading profit declined by 1.0 %.
Despite this significant re-investment programme, we remain The issue we are addressing is that the shopping trip just hasnt been committed to driving higher returns for shareholders.
Although improving fast enough and our standards havent been as consistent as our investment plans in the UK make achieving our ROCE target our customers have come to expect.
As a result, we are taking action to more challenging in the short term, we still expect to deliver a improve each aspect of the customer offer.
This will involve significant ROCE of 14.6% by 2014 15, with broadly based growth from revenue and capital investment in a comprehensive plan encompassing around the Group.
Strategic update The UK Plan Building a Better Tesco In last years Annual Report, I set out an evolution of our strategy Our Plan for the UK business has six elements: into seven parts: Service & Staff: helping our people deliver great service by investment To grow the UK core: in recruitment, training and equipment, dedicated to particular departments such as produce so that our customers notice the change.
To be an outstanding international retailer in stores and online: Stores & Formats: making our stores better places in which to shop and work, with the pace of new store development moderating, and To be as strong in everything we sell as we are in food: the pace of refreshing our existing stores stepping up.
To grow retail services in all our markets: Price & Value: delivering great value for money through the right To put our responsibilities to the communities we serve blend of price, promotions, couponing and loyalty.
at the heart of what we do: Range & Quality: building the right ranges of quality products, To be a creator of highly valued brands: and reviewing and refreshing our entire range of Tesco brand products, making our ranging more store and format-specific, and bringing To build our team so that we create more value.
dunnhumby, our marketing insight business, back into the heart This strategy remains as relevant now as it did a year ago and of Tesco.
Im pleased to be able to update you on the progress we have Brand & Marketing: making sure that we get back to having the right made on each of these strategic objectives.
I also set out immediate conversation with our customers about Tesco.
management priorities for the business last year keeping the UK strong and growing: becoming outstanding internationally, not just Clicks & Bricks: making this a potent combination for our customers, successful: becoming a multi-channel retailer wherever we trade: with the roll-out of Click & Collect and the transformation of our range delivering on the potential of retail services: applying Group and online presence.
skill and scale: and delivering higher returns.
You will see how these priorities have shaped our actions through the year.
4 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model We are clear on what we need to do, we have trialled substantial The economic background was particularly difficult in Hungary and elements of the changes and we know they work.
Our investment in the Republic of Ireland this year.
Given the current conditions, we programme has already started and we expect this to deliver stronger are focusing on growth primarily through our existing stores in these results.
The Big Price Drop in September 2011 was the first step, but markets, rather than investing substantial new capital.
In addition to the changes we are making are about much more than price.
They are these headwinds in two of our largest markets, profits were held back a combination of price, quality, range and service, including a significant by disruption connected to the opening of our new distribution centre investment to create an additional 20,000 jobs over the next two years.
in Poland, but this is behind us now.
These changes will reinvigorate the shopping trip for customers, and We have made good progress with the closer integration of our consequently deliver improved performance for shareholders.
European businesses this year, from sharing infrastructure to buying as a single region.
This means that we can leverage the skill and scale of the Tesco Group to deliver a better shopping trip for customers To be an outstanding international retailer and higher returns for shareholders.
One example of this is our recent in stores and online launch of grocery dotcom in Prague, with initial sales well ahead of plan, and our dotcom business in Warsaw will be launched soon.
Our international businesses performed strongly, with trading profits up 18%, or by 22% before the impact of a crisis tax levied in Hungary.
We have seen progress in our established businesses, such as in Central Europe, South Korea and Thailand, and from our newer, rapidly growing businesses, such as Fresh & Easy in the United States and Tesco Malaysia.
It is encouraging that we are winning market share in almost all of our markets and, in some countries, at a faster rate than for many years.
Asia: another strong performance I am pleased with the performance of our businesses in Asia.
Sales and profit grew well sales by over 10%, and trading profit by over 20%.
We delivered solid like-for-like sales growth and an excellent contribution from new stores.
Our business in Thailand had an extraordinary year.
The worst flooding for 70 years caused us to close over 150 stores temporarily and all four Our Extra format stores delivered an encouraging performance through of our distribution depots.
The superb dedication of our team enabled the year us to keep supply lines open for customers and to support staff affected by the flooding, and we have come out of the crisis stronger.
We grew United States: on the path to profitability like-for-like sales and profits in the year.
South Korea had another good It has been a year of encouraging progress in Fresh & Easy.
Sales grew year, although I anticipate a modest reduction in like-for-like sales next by 27%, with almost 12 percentage points coming from like-for-like year as restrictions on trading hours for large retailers are implemented stores.
We have also delivered reduced trading losses for the first time, across the country.
with an 18% improvement on last year.
After four years of rising losses, this is a decisive change of trend, driven by further improvements to our In China, we have continued to focus on building scale in three regions of the country.
With the economic environment currently proving customer offer.
Features such as in-store bakeries, more loose produce, additional ranges and new Fresh & Easy products have been very challenging for mainstream retailers, we have decided to take a more cautious stance on the market, at least for now.
We have decided not popular with customers and we have seen an acceleration in our already strong growth in customer numbers.
to commit substantial new capital to freehold shopping centres, and we have also elected to hold back on the pace of new hypermarket The progress we have made gives us more confidence that we will development this year.
We will only open 16 stores, instead of stepping deliver a further significant reduction in losses in the coming year.
We still believe that China can be an engine of timing of break-even will be later than we had previously expected, as growth and we can speed up again when the outlook improves.
we will focus on getting more of our existing stores to reach profitability We took an important step this year in deciding to exit Japan.
It is before we step up the rate of new store openings.
We can then reach right to focus on our larger, profitable and growing businesses in the sufficient scale to cover our substantial central overhead costs and we anticipate that we will reach the break-even point during 2013 14.
It is never easy to make decisions of this kind and I would like to thank our staff in Japan for their continued hard work and professionalism through this time.
Europe: growth in a difficult environment Following a strong performance in Europe in the first half of the year, the performance in the second half was weaker than expected.
Sales for the year grew by 8% and trading profit increased marginally, by 0.4%.
Trading profit growth would have been in line with sales had it not been for the impact of the crisis tax imposed in Hungary, which cost 38 million in the year.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 5 Chief Executives review To be as strong in everything we sell To grow retail services in all our markets Tesco Bank is a key part of the potential we see in retail services.
as we are in food Since we took full control of the Bank in 2008, our focus has been on It has been tough to achieve growth in sales of discretionary items developing our own systems and infrastructure and recruiting and not least in the UK, where we have seen a number of specialist general developing a new team to run the operation.
Im delighted to say that merchandise retailers go into administration and our UK like-for-like this period of migration from The Royal Bank of Scotland RBS to our growth in general merchandise, clothing and electricals has remained own platforms is now nearing an end.
Building a bank is a complex task negative.
To adjust to this, we have been allocating more space to the and I took the decision during the year to slow down the migration, so most popular products and improving merchandising.
We are committing as to minimise the customer impact.
This final stage of migration will less capital to new space for non-food and instead focusing more be completed imminently, at which point the business can put more resource on continuing to develop our online capability.
emphasis on growth and on developing the potential we see in financial services.
We have delivered good business growth in the year with revenue up 14%, driven by a good performance in the insurance business.
The Banks profit figure includes several accounting adjustments, so we measure business performance using baseline profitability, which increased by a very encouraging 29%.
The Banks capital position has also remained strong through the year, supported by a 7% growth in savings balances.
With the migration almost completed, the Bank is well positioned for future growth.
We are also on track to launch new products, starting with mortgages, to broaden into a full-service retail bank.
We are seeing the early benefits of our changes, but much remains to be done Europe and Asia delivered stronger performances in general merchandise, clothing and electricals, despite subdued consumer confidence even in the better performing economies.
I was pleased with the performance of clothing in Central Europe, with sales growing by 12% at constant exchange rates.
This is testament to the strength of the F&F brand and also to the performance of our new Extra format stores.
We ended the year with 44 of the new Extras in Europe and three in Asia.
These stores are introducing our customers to a different way of shopping, with stronger ranging and new services, with extremely encouraging results.
Different categories of food and general Customers can purchase insurance and other Tesco Bank products in store, alongside their weekly shop merchandise have their own distinctive look and feel within the Extra store, known as Worlds, such as Baby World and Sports World.
We are making similar changes to the look and feel within our large UK stores, partly as a result of the encouraging performances in Europe.
6 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model To put our responsibilities to the communities To be a creator of highly valued brands we serve at the heart of what we do We have reinforced our commitment to be a good corporate citizen this year: as a retailer, an employer and a neighbour.
We employ over half a million people worldwide, which allows us to make a real difference in the communities where we operate.
Our core business involves two vital roles in the heart of the community: providing customers with safe, good quality, affordable, nutritious food and creating good jobs and careers.
Beyond this, we have demonstrated that we put our responsibilities to communities at the heart of what we do in a huge variety of ways: I want to pay tribute to just some of the great achievements of the last year.
Even when their own homes were in danger or flooded, our people in Thailand went to extraordinary lengths for customers.
Some even Finest sold well over 1 billion in the UK alone this year.
In April 2012 we gave up their days off and travelled for hours by boat to continue to relaunched Tesco Value as Everyday Value, with quality improvements get essential supplies to our customers.
There is no better example of to hundreds of products our colleagues living true to the Tesco Values: No one tries harder for customers and Treat people how we like to be treated.
Across our markets our own-label programme encompasses a Our responsibility to our people is to provide them with good jobs broad spectrum of ranges to appeal to diverse customer needs, and careers.
In the last year, we have created thousands of jobs giving customers the quality products they are looking for at across our businesses, invested in a state-of-the-art, zero-carbon competitive prices.
training academy in South Korea and have continued our work in In the last year we have expanded our offering, launching new ranges the employment of young people, university graduates and the such as Venture Brands in the UK and Europe including Chokablok long-term unemployed.
chocolate and ice cream and Carousel childrens toys which offer Our customer offering is based on strong relationships with our customers premium quality at great prices.
For example, we now have supplier academies in all of our We have started to differentiate our ranges more clearly, such as Central European markets for suppliers to present their products to our sub-brands Gourmet and Eat Well in Fresh & Easy and Goodness, our buyers.
This enables us to support the growth of our suppliers which is a range of healthy and nutritious childrens products now whilst sourcing the best local and regional products for our customers.
Any business on the scale of Tesco has the opportunity to make a We recently relaunched our UK Tesco Value range as Everyday Value, significant difference in tackling climate change.
We were proud to with quality improvements to hundreds of products and new, brighter be recognised by the Carbon Disclosure Project again this year, with packaging.
This is the first stage in a refresh of our entire range of over Tesco named the top retailer in the world.
We will continue our work 8,000 Tesco brand products in the UK in the next two years, including as we progress towards our ambitious target of being a zero-carbon a comprehensive update to our Tesco Standard range.
This is an area of substantial and growing strategic importance for us, as we recognise the role that our brands play in attracting customers and as we start to leverage our expertise in brand management across our markets.
Our state-of-the-art, zero-carbon training academy in South Korea, to train staff from across the Tesco Group Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 7 Chief Executives review To build our team so that we create Delivering higher returns In April last year we set out a target to increase our already good more value level of ROCE to 14.6% by 2014 15.
We improved ROCE from 12.9% to Strengthening our management 13.3% in 2011 12.
Although it is likely that we will see a small reduction This time last year we were in the early days of some of our new in 2012 13 as a result of our UK investment plans, we continue to see a management structures.
I had just introduced a matrix structure number of opportunities to drive returns and we still expect to deliver throughout Tesco with CEOs for each of our key business areas the our targeted increase to 14.6% by 2014 15.
UK, Asia, Europe, and the US supported by integrating functions, such as Property, Human Resources and Marketing.
I am very pleased with how this structure has bedded in and expect to see even greater Doing the right thing value creation as a result.
I am confident that we are ready to tackle whatever challenges lie ahead.
The decisive action that we have taken in the past year and The introduction of a dedicated UK Operating Board has enabled the management changes which have reinvigorated the Tesco team greater focus at home and given the importance of the changes have laid the ground for the future: a future where we will make sure we are currently making for customers, I have recently decided to that our capital and our talent are put to work where it benefits most assume direct responsibility for the UK business during the process our customers and hence our shareholders.
We have and will continue of its renewal.
to focus on doing the right thing for customers, for communities, for I have continued to strengthen both the Executive Committee and our staff, for the business and for our shareholders.
senior management teams through the last year, drawing on our deep pool of internal talent.
We have also been fortunate to welcome our new Chairman, Sir Richard Broadbent, following Sir David Reids decision to retire.
I want to thank David for his lasting contribution to Tesco over 26 years on our Board and, on a personal level, for all the help he has given me in settling into my role as CEO.
Philip Clarke Building the Tesco team Chief Executive We will create 20,000 more jobs in the UK over the next two years and many more around the world Tescos most important asset will always be its people, who live by our Values to do their very best for customers.
Many of our plans for the coming year are built on investment in our people.
We employ more than half a million people across the globe and this will continue to increase, with plans to create an additional 20,000 jobs in the UK alone in the coming two years and to continue to grow our teams around the world.
It is the quality, commitment and dedication of our people that gives me so much confidence that we can and will achieve our plans for the years ahead.
8 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Strategy in action IN THIS SECTION Having given you an overview 10 UK: Giving our customers the best shopping trip of the implementation of our 12 UK: Refreshing our stores for customers and staff strategy over the past year, this 14 Online: Making Clicks & Bricks a reality for customers section sets out some detailed 16 International: Moving into the next phase of growth case studies showing our 18 International: Footholds in newer markets strategy in action.
20 Retail services: A Tesco Bank for Tesco customers 22 Our dedication to the community: Thailand In the next few pages, youll read about the 1 billion commitment were making to improve the shopping trip in the UK, our exciting innovations online, what we mean by Group skill and scale, our businesses in newer markets, the progress of Tesco Bank over the last three years and our teams extraordinary response to the flooding in Thailand.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 9 UK: Giving our customers the best shopping trip We always want to provide our customers with the best shopping experience and set the standard in the UK.
Focusing on food first, we are making a 1 billion commitment this year to improve the shopping trip, driving a strong pace of improvement in the things that matter for customers service, range, quality, price, availability and the store environment.
More staff, better service One of the largest elements of our investment is in increased We are improving the look and feel staffing levels, training and equipment for key departments in of many of our fresh departments using existing stores such as produce and meat.
We saw marked more engaging signage, stronger graphics, improvements in customers perceptions and sales performance warmer colours and better lighting of 200 pilot stores.
This success has given us the confidence to move quickly to apply these changes to all of our large stores an investment of over 200 million.
Creating more good jobs and careers The Fruit and Veg team Over the next two years, we will create 20,000 new jobs Fresh food is an area where customers really appreciate to deliver new levels of excellence in customer service.
having dedicated, specially trained and knowledgeable staff.
Customers will benefit from more staff on the shop floor at With the additional investment in staffing, training and busy times, greater staff expertise and enhanced service equipment, the Fruit and Veg team can focus on fresh across the store.
produce, improving product availability and presentation for customers.
The investment goes to the heart of our promise to create good jobs and careers, with opportunities focused on young We are also increasing the number of staff across the whole people who are currently unemployed.
British Prime Minister of fresh food meat, produce and chilled convenience foods.
David Cameron described the investment as a massive confidence boost for the UK economy.
10 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Quality and innovation We are reviewing and refreshing our entire range of over 8,000 Tesco brand products starting with the relaunch of Tesco Value as Everyday Value, with quality improvements to hundreds of products.
Helping customers manage on tight budgets, Value was already growing at twice the rate of the market as a whole: these changes will further strengthen its position.
We will also be comprehensively updating our other Tesco ranges this year.
We have already stepped up the pace of innovation with our new Venture Brand exclusive products such as Chokablok ice cream, Parioli authentic Italian ranges and the Lathams range of premium pet food.
With such a strong variety of ranges to appeal to the needs of different customers, we will also be applying more personalisation and localisation in stores to help them tailor their ranges much more for their local area.
The Big Price Drop In September 2011, we launched The Big Price Drop, investing more than 500 million to reduce the prices of over 3,000 everyday products.
Big Price Drops target the products that customers buy week in, week out.
The progress is encouraging and were now more competitive.
Its an important step in the journey but theres more to do to get the blend right on price, promotions, couponing and loyalty.
Over the page Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 11 11 UK: Refreshing our stores for customers and staff The way stores look and feel is an important part of the shopping trip.
Customers wanted a warmer, friendlier look and feel, so we have accelerated our Refresh programme to improve the environment in all our stores.
Investing over 200 million of additional but were also making some changes that capital, we will refresh 430 stores in the particularly affect our larger stores.
Were coming year, representing about 25% of our drawing on the great success of our new UK space.
Bringing in a warmer, friendlier look Extra format in Europe to make sure that our and feel will go hand in hand with our work on UK Extras continue to meet our customers quality and range, so that we offer customers changing needs, as they increasingly combine great products displayed in an attractive, shopping in store and online.
Future investment Listening to our staff In the last few years, both convenience Bakery Most of our changes are visible to customers and online shopping have been growing Customers love being able to choose from but we are making some equally important rapidly.
While our existing large stores in freshly baked breads and cakes and see changes behind the scenes.
We ran a the UK perform very well, recognising the our bakers at work in the background.
programme this year for staff to email or current economic climate and the growing Displaying the goods in baskets, not on text in comments about what they felt importance of online shopping, we are not standard shelves, also helps to make our bakeries much more appealing.
needed to be fixed in their stores.
With planning to open many more of the very 40,000 comments received, weve responded biggest.
Instead, more of our investment is by rolling out new and better equipment, going into refreshing our existing stores.
like checkout chairs and handheld printers.
New investment will be channelled into This has helped deliver the best staff Express stores and our online offer.
Viewpoint feedback survey results for five years.
Scan here to see some of the The Extra format improvements were making Customers are noticing the changes we are in store, or visit www.
com ar2012 ukvideo making in stores across all of our formats Extra, Superstores, Metro and Express Fixtures and fittings, lighting andspace We are refreshing our stores, inside and out, to make them more inviting.
Wooden cladding and brighter signage welcome customers into the store.
Inside, different areas are being given a more distinctive look and feel, such as wooden fixtures in Bakery, or sleek shelving and lighting in Health & Beauty.
Our produce aisles are more spacious, and our counters have less functional, more engaging signage, flat glass fronts and better lighting, to show off our meat, fish, cheese and deli products at their best.
12 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Click & Collect As the option of ordering online and picking up in store continues to grow in popularity, our stores are ideal collection points.
We will add 700 new collection points for Tesco Direct orders in the next year customers can already collect from over 770 stores, including 70 Express stores.
We will also continue to increase the number of stores with collection points for grocery, as well as trialling convenient joint collection points.
Retail services The services we offer in store like an optician, pharmacy, phone shop or customer restaurant all help customers to get more out of their everyday shopping trip.
We ended the year with over 180 opticians and are planning to increase the number of our phone shops to over 260 in the coming year.
Clothing The UK clothing market, worth 33 billion, is one of the few areas of discretionary spend that continues to grow and is a category where the internet has so far had a limited impact.
Our Central European Extras have shown us that Clothing tends to benefit from more space and better lighting on the shop floor, as customers love seeing more of our range.
As well as giving Clothing more space in store, we will be improving the ranges and quality we offer to ensure broad appeal.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 13 Online: Making Clicks & Bricks a reality for customers Growing our online businesses in all our markets is a strategic priority for us and it shows how we are Tesco Direct adapting to our customers changing needs.
Stores We have upgraded our Tesco Direct website to better showcase our great quality range and offer customers continue to sit at the heart of our business, but we improved functionality and ease of use.
For the first time it is now configured for mobile devices.
We will are aiming to become a multi-channel retailer be moving our other UK Clothing and Entertainment websites onto the same platform later in the year.
By Christmas we will have increased our Direct range to 200,000 items, thanks in part to third-party Customers increasingly expect to be able to shop where, when and how they want: Sellers.
Having introduced our first Sellers at Tesco the boundary between stores and online is blurring.
In developing our online offer, Direct recently, we are offering our customers we are drawing on our convenient store network and our expertise to meet our additional ranges teamed with Clubcard points and customers needs and help make their lives easier, progressing towards an offering convenient store collection points, while our Seller where customers can shop with us anywhere, any time, any how.
Partners benefit from our volume of online traffic and expertise.
Weve taken online far beyond everyday grocery shopping.
Digital technology allows us to meet the on the go needs of our customers with you can stream entertainment on the move and with our virtual stores in South Korea you can even shop during your commute to work.
We want to offer our customers convenient options to shop with us using those access points stores, computers and mobile devices which are part of their daily lives.
Whether customers want to shop on the move using their smartphones, or take their time at home, we are innovating to help them shop however they want, with quick and easy apps and improved platforms.
Online grocery When we first launched a grocery home shopping service in 1997 wewere viewed as pioneers, and we have grown to be the worlds largest and most profitable online grocery retailer with sales of well over 2billion.
As technology moves forward so do we.
We use it to help make shopping easier for customers with a mobile web platform for shopping on the go, features like Favourites and tailored online offers developed for Tesco via analysis from dunnhumby, our marketing insight business.
Where customer demand is very high we have complemented our Scan here to see how in-store picking model with a number of specialised dotcom-only were developing our stores.
In January, we opened our fourth in Enfield.
We currently online offer, or visit fulfil over 80% of London orders from our dotcom-only stores, www.
com ar2012 providing our customers with our total food range more than onlinevideo can be offered from any one store.
14 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Click & Collect Click & Collect is a key component of our multi-channel offering.
Our store and distribution networks mean we can give customers the opportunity to pick up products whenever it suits them from over 770 stores, close to where they live or work.
70% of online general merchandise orders are handled in this way.
Click & Collect is becoming increasingly relevant for all product groups.
We currently have 45 stores that offer grocery Click & Collect and we expect this number to increase quickly.
Our customers appreciate this innovative, quick and convenient service which fits well into their busy schedules.
Social media As our customers spend an increasing amount of time online we are able to use social media to build trust and understanding of our business.
This in turn helps to drive loyalty.
We have built our business on listening to our customers and acting on their feedback.
Social media allows us to have conversations with them on any issue at any time in the UK, we now have more than 680,000 likes on our Facebook page.
In 2011 we acquired BzzAgent a unique business combining word-of-mouth marketing with a commercial application of social media, helping to drive consumer advocacy and broaden our capability and innovation in product marketing.
Social media also helps us to be more effective and innovative in existing tasks such as recruitment and staff communication.
For example, our staff use Yammer aprivate social network for businesses to share best practice and celebrate success, often by posting photos, and we use it operationally for sharing messages and asking for feedback.
International growth We already have profitable online grocery businesses in South Korea and the Republic of Ireland, launched dotcom in the Czech Republic this year and are planning to begin soon in Warsaw.
In the next few years, we are planning to launch online grocery shopping in at least one major city in each of our markets, using our operating model to roll this out quickly and cost-effectively.
In Asia, were innovating to access the biggest opportunities for example, in addition to our online grocery service, our virtual stores in South Korea enable busy customers to shop on their way to work.
The Homeplus app has been downloaded over a million times.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 15 International: Moving into the next phase of growth Since the mid-1990s, we have built an international business of more than 3,200 stores, which delivered more than 1 billion trading profit for the first time thisyear.
As we strive to become an outstanding international retailer, we are drawing on Tescos skill and scale to move into the next phase of growth.
Customers By Group scale, we mean using the size of Consistent property love local and regional products: we pride the Tesco business to benefit our customers ourselves on having local people running our by lowering prices, improving quality, and blueprints operations: and we use local knowledge to sourcing new and different products from As we continue to grow our source and to allocate space to the most the best suppliers around the world.
Globally international businesses there is popular products.
However, lots of what we sourcing food, general merchandise, and the a significant opportunity to make do especially behind the scenes is best goods that we use in store is one way that savings from applying standardised done in the same way across our markets.
We buy some products property blueprints.
With the We are increasingly realising our vision to from the same source for all our markets, same specialist team designing the stores, we can build great stores win locally by applying our skills globally.
such as bananas, and we buy others for a for customers more quickly, more whole region, such as F&F clothing for Group skill and scale describes this step in cheaply and with a reduced carbon Central Europe.
Buying on a larger scale footprint.
We also ensure the new our evolution to becoming a global business.
means that we can achieve a better cost space is best used by reducing the By Group skill, we mean applying expertise price and create headroom to invest in space given to offices and chillers from individual countries to all of our markets: improving the shopping trip for customers.
in the back, providing more room Clubcard is a great example.
Having invested on the shop floor.
millions of pounds to develop the UK scheme Scan here to find out in the late 1990s, we have been able to more about our introduce a loyalty scheme to each of our international businesses, markets for a fraction of the cost.
com ar2012 asiaandeurope Our evolution to becoming a global business International trading profit of over 1 billion bn 1.0 0.5 96 97 01 02 06 07 11 12 Since the mid-1990s, we have built an international business with more stores than we have in the UK, which has delivered more than 1 billion trading profit for the first time larger than any of our UK competitors.
With strong market positions, we are well positioned to move into the next phase of growth.
11 12 trading profit excludes Japan, which has been treated as discontinued following our decision to sell the business.
10 11 has been re-presented to be consistent.
The data up to and including 05 06 is statutory operating profit: from 06 07 it is trading profit.
16 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 s t e k r a m l l a n i t u o l l o r d n a e c i W t c o a r r k p t t o s g e e b t h y f e i r t n w e h d e I r e i t m a k e OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Smaller format stores Smaller format stores complement our established store networks to meet growing demands for convenience.
These formats are not only great for customers but are also cost-effective, utilising our existing distribution networks and requiring less capital.
One platform, many markets the best everywhere Rolling out the same processes and systems across the Group delivers a better shopping trip for lower cost.
Shelf-ready packaging and best practice replenishment processes support great availability for customers in store, while warehouse processes minimise stock loss and wastage.
We increase back-office efficiency through our shared service centre in India with Winning locally, the same team designing common applying our skills features, such as self-service checkouts, for all our markets.
globally Reaping the benefits of centralised distribution As we buy more and more products Rolling out services on a regional or global scale, it becomes easier and more effective At year end, we had 47 of our Extra format stores internationally.
to organise our distribution across These stores offer customers a whole range of services, such borders.
We have opened new as photo shops, opticians and phone shops, for relatively low depots in Poland and China this investment as they use existing hypermarket space and customer year, building them to a Group footfall.
Retail financial services are well established in Thailand blueprint and implementing best and South Korea, where Tesco partners with leading financial practice processes, equipment services providers, and in an earlier stage of development in and systems.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 17 s s e n s e r e f f o l a c o l t s e b e h t n i t s e v n I International: Footholds in newer markets China: three regions the size of countries North region A large, rapidly growing market, China offers Hymall opened here in 2001 and 11 real long-term potential for growth, despite a years later we have 39 stores trading.
Our first Extra opened in Shenyang in currently challenging consumer environment.
Freezing cold in winter, our clothing and food ranges are very different to the East and South South region Present in this region for only four years, we continue to adapt our offer to meet consumer needs in this warmer part of China East region The home of Tesco in China is Shanghai and here we are trading our first Express convenience stores Diversity and complexity... and operating responsibly Our strategy in China is A market of Chinas scale brings not only Our stores are active in their local communities, significant opportunities but also huge to focus on building scale for example through Care for the Needy, where diversity and complexity.
To be successful, we donate daily essentials to elderly and infirm in three regions which we need a deep understanding of regional, people.
Drawing on our Group expertise and provincial and city-level differences, as well technologies, our new distribution centre in together have a population as an ability to leverage our global expertise Jiashan uses 45% less energy than a traditional of over 600 million.
and systems in order to build scale.
These are just two examples of how we vision of winning locally by applying our skills operate responsibly through a combination of globally is key to our ambition to drive being local and applying our skills globally.
long-term, sustainable growth in China.
Group skill and scale The importance of being local... Tescos skill and scale are crucial to Even within a single region temperatures, differentiating our business in China.
Our tastes and preferred brands can all vary, new distribution centre was an important so our operation is local in many ways.
first step to streamlining our supply chain, For example, our buying teams are based allowing us to buy on a greater scale and in different regions and even in specific giving us more control over the storage and provinces and cities to be close to our transportation of fresh produce.
Drawing on our customers and suppliers.
We have appointed brand capabilities, we have recently relaunched more local Directors this year to strengthen the packaging for 250 of our own-brand our China Board and have ongoing plans products, with hundreds more to follow in the to recruit and develop local talent.
Our Shenyang Extra store has benefited from the success of our new format in Europe, with the senior team trained in our Extra store in Bratislava, Slovakia.
18 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Scan here to hear more from our Fresh & Easy colleagues, or visit www.
com ar2012 freshandeasyvideo Fresh & Easy: progress in the United States The Fresh & Easy shopping trip The journey to profitability The changes we have Our Fresh & Easy business is about The results of these changes mean that we made to stores this wholesome, fresh, high-quality food in the are more confident about the outlook for the heart of the neighbourhood, with great staff business, although clearly much remains to year are building real giving the best customer service.
We have reduced trading losses by made changes this year to bring out these 18% and are on track for another significant momentum in Fresh & features and give them more prominence in reduction in 2012 13, even if the timing of Easy, driving growing our stores.
With a friendlier store environment break-even will now be later than our earlier and atmosphere, the quality of our fresh and expectation.
This is because we will focus on customer numbers and prepared produce more apparent and the more stores reaching profitability first, before sales and delivering launch of our Friends card to thank our loyal pushing on faster with the expansion we customers, we have driven 12% like-for-like need to create sufficient scale to cover our reduced losses for the sales growth this year and total sales overheads.
We ended the year with 185 stores growth of 27%.
and will have approaching 230 stores by the first time.
Doors on our fridges and freezers, wooden floors and brighter walls all make our stores more inviting for customers New prepared ranges from the Fresh & Easy Kitchen, offering wholesome, natural and tasty meals Customers can see and Fresh & Easy superstars go feel the quality of our the extra mile for customers loose fresh produce and help create a culture of personal service Friends loyalty card Welcoming thanks our customers customers with for shopping with new fresh ranges: Fresh & Easy flowers, fresh bread and coffee to go Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 19 Retail services: A Tesco Bank for Tesco customers Tesco Bank brings Tescos Values, customer focus and trusted brand name to a big market and is differentiated by being a bank that has Tesco at its centre.
We offer simple, convenient, value for money products in what can be a highly complex market.
Since we took full ownership of Tesco Bank in that discussions with customers can 2008 we have been in a period of transition.
focus solely on meeting their banking and In just over three years we have developed a insurance needs.
Over the last three years, completely new infrastructure for the business, we have built a strong team with experience built up a new team and brought in new and expertise, growing dramatically from expertise effectively building a new bank 300 to 2,800 people.
We are now completing the very In terms of systems and IT, our new final stages of this huge project, as we move platforms have enabled some significant Savings and loans: towards offering a full-service retail bank.
Instant Our savings book continues to grow At its core, Tesco Bank is underpinned by the decisions are now available on loan well, with retail savings deposits Tesco brand and Clubcard, and its operations applications, and customers can open and increasing by around 330 million are effective because of our people, systems fund savings accounts in just ten minutes, this year.
Clubcard insight supports and IT.
which had previously taken around our competitive customer offering twoweeks.
and high quality loan book.
Even Being part of Tesco delivers benefits for though loan balances have been customers and Tesco Bank.
For example, While we have completed the majority temporarily reduced this year as we the insight we gain from Clubcard allows of the transition from The Royal Bank of have undergone migration, customer us to understand our customers needs Scotlands RBS systems and platforms to accounts in loans and savings have well, helping us to provide them with the our own, we did encounter some technical increased by 30% since 2008.
We are most relevant offers in a clear and simple issues during the summer of 2011.
We pride continuing to attract new customers way and at a great price.
ourselves on being a bank that customers who know that the Bank is reliable, can rely on and trust, and to ensure that Tesco Clubcard credit card rewards trustworthy and good value.
the continuing process was as smooth as customers with Clubcard points whenever possible for customers and staff, we decided they use their card.
Clubcard customers to slow the remaining transition of our can also receive preferential deals when 2.8 million credit card accounts.
This is buying Tesco Bank products including now nearingcompletion.
discounts on car, home, pet and travel insurance and can use Clubcard points to Even with all this work going on, we have buy Tesco Bank insurance.
This year, Tesco grown the business during 2011 12.
The Bank gave customers around 70 million savings book was up 7% versus a market of Clubcard points to spend in store or on of 3%, and the underlying performance of Clubcard rewards.
the Bank remained good, with strong growth in baseline profit which excludes key nonThe Tesco Values sit at the heart of Tesco trading provisioning movements.
Our core purpose is To create value for customers to earn their lifetime loyalty, In the last three years, we have seen so our people focus on providing great significant growth across key Bank products.
At our Glasgow and We have laid our foundations for growth Newcastle customer service centres, staff and, with the transition from RBS almost are not incentivised to sell, which means complete, we are now in a position to grow the business faster.
Scan here to watch our video about Tesco Bank, or visit www.
com ar2012 tescobankvideo 20 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 e c n a r u s n I P N e e o w p l p e r o d u c t s d n s s r o i e m a t c c i c e OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Transaction services: Our transaction services ATMs and travel bureaux offer customers convenience while they are on the go.
Both saw strong growth in the year, with ATM transactions up 9% and travel money transactions up 12%.
We ended the year with 3,265 ATMs, up from 2,600 three years ago, and we have close to 200 travel bureaux across our store network.
Insurance: Our products help support customers in their daily lives, giving them peace of mind wherever they are.
Simple to understand, our range of products continues to prove popular with customers.
Around 1.5 million people now insure their cars and homes with Tesco Bank.
Since 2008, our car insurance gross written premiums have increased by 39% and pet insurance gross written premiums are up by 44%.
Credit cards: We are increasing our share of the market, New products: experience, so we believe getting with 57% growth in credit card transactions Tesco Bank has been growing well it right at launch is more important since 2008.
Three years ago, Tesco Bank even without new product launches, than rushing the process.
Once we credit cards made up 9% of all MasterCard but the products weve launched have completed the final stage of and Visa credit card transactions in the on our own systems have enjoyed migration, we can push on faster UK that figure is now 12%.
Our Fixed Rate Saver, with more substantial new products, benefit from the added Tesco extras launched in October 2010, has grown starting with mortgages.
that come with their credit card, such as to 1.5 billion and our retail bonds have collecting one Clubcard point for every Current accounts are planned attracted investments of 185 million.
to follow and we welcome the These initiatives diversify our funding recommendation of the Independent base and increase the long-term Commission on Banking to make funding available to the Bank.
it easier for customers to switch We always want to give our customers between banks.
the best products and the best Rates are subject to change and are correct as at April 2012.
Fixed rate saver: one-off payment and money cannot be withdrawn until the end of the term.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 21 a v t s b r s n e y u a s r S l T C C r e d i t c I a T r d s s n s g a n o i l v a d S n a Our dedication to the community: Thailand In 2011, Thailand suffered its worst floods Our stores are important in 70 years.
At Tesco Lotus our staff went parts of local communities.
to incredible lengths through immensely difficult conditions to get essential supplies We are committed to being into our stores for customers.
a good neighbour and Events such as the floods are a reminder of making a difference to the strength of local communities and how people turn to them in times of need.
They the communities we live are also a reminder of the importance of and work in, including providing customers with good quality, safe, affordable food, whenever they need it.
supporting the causes that matter to our customers and our people.
22 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Like all Thai retailers, we faced a major challenge with the flood crisis but at Tesco Lotus the team worked incredibly hard to find ways to get products into store and support local people.
Our people came into work even when their own homes were flooded.
We used trains Scan here to see and planes to bring products in and worked together across the Group to secure our Thai team in deliveries.
Tesco in Malaysia provided three million litres of water and eight million action, or visit www.
packets of noodles and our global suppliers helped to secure canned fish, eggs and com ar2012 UHT milk.
thailandvideo We used our stores as donation centres for customers who wanted to support flood victims and contributed almost 500,000 of essential products.
For our staff affected, we provided financial support as well as relief bags, food, temporary accommodation and transport.
Through teamwork at Tesco Lotus and the support of the Group, we were able to help the people of Thailand during this difficult time a recovery effort that is still continuing.
I would like to thank the whole team again for their extraordinary dedication.
Chris Bush CEO Tesco Lotus at the time of the floods, now COO Tesco UK Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 23 Business model Our strategy is put into action through our business model.
At its heart is our core purpose: To create value for customers to earn their lifetime loyalty.
24 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Business model Building the Tesco Core activities brand The virtuous volume circle Enablers Develop Sell Insight economies more of scale Leveraging Innovating Group skill our offer and scale Core purpose: Sell Buy To create value for customers to earn their lifetime loyalty Operating Developing responsibly our people Sell for Buy for Move less less Creating valuable property Our loyalty schemes, such as Clubcard or Legou Tesco Membercard Core activities in China, are not only great for our customers but also provide data insight to enable us to continually improve the shopping trip.
With Our core business model is simple: we buy, a loyalty scheme in all of our markets and around 44 million active customers in total, we are in a unique position to understand customers move and sell products and services to our shopping patterns.
Our marketing insight business, dunnhumby, customers and use customer insight to do provides analysis which we feed back into our business model, shaping our product and range development and enabling us to offer customers this slightly better each time.
the best products and promotions for their particular needs.
Buy: Insight: A great range of products Improving the customer offer In food, general merchandise and services, we work with our suppliers Listening to customers in a wide variety of ways is key to what we and develop our brands to bring a great range to our customers.
We engage with customers through a range of focus groups and ongoing research trackers, and actively seek feedback on what The relationship with our suppliers is the foundation of our customer is good or not so good, such as through our Every Comment Helps offer.
We work with a broad range of suppliers, from global produce scheme in the UK.
Online and social media make it easier to listen suppliers and international FMCG companies to local suppliers who and respond to large numbers of customers in real time, through provide products for a single region in one of our markets.
We sell over webchats, Facebook and Twitter.
The insight from all of these 1 billion of local products annually in the UK and, across Europe, our conversations increasingly feeds into the customer offer so that series of meet the buyer events helped us to stock hundreds of new we can continually drive incremental improvements for customers.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 25 Business model With our established private label programme, we produce great shopping in South Korea, the Republic of Ireland and the Czech quality Tesco brands at a range of price points, from Everyday Value up Republic, and launched further online businesses, such as Direct, to Finest.
Our product brands also have established market positions.
We are increasingly offering customers For example, F&F, which is the market leader in clothing in the Czech the option of combining stores and online with Click & Collect, which Republic, Slovakia and Hungary, is itself diversified into distinct submakes the most of our convenient store locations, giving customers brands for different clothing styles.
an easy way to pick up products ordered online.
In services, we often work with specialist partners to source the best We also offer a wide range of services to our customers.
For example, we created a joint venture between pharmacies and phone shops available in our larger stores, and Tesco Vodafone and Tesco Hungary this year, and Tesco Bank insurance Bank products available to buy in store, over the phone or online, we underwriting is primarily provided in partnership with Ageas are deepening our customers relationship with Tesco, bringing our Insurance Limited.
values of convenience, simplicity, reliability and great customer service into what can be complex markets.
Move: We dont always sell our products ourselves.
In South Korea and the The right products at the right time Czech Republic, we operate franchise chains alongside our own stores, and we have also recently announced a new franchise model for our Our network of distribution centres DCs and advanced technology F&F clothing brand in Saudi Arabia.
support a modern, efficient and cost-effective supply chain.
An efficient distribution system starts with understanding which products our stores need.
First, we forecast The virtuous volume circle what customers will buy, using sophisticated, detailed models to consider variables such as seasonality, weather forecasts and likely By keeping our customer focus central to our business model, we are response to promotions.
Second, our ordering systems automatically able to provide a leading customer offer: a broad range of products update in real time based on what customers do actually buy, so that and services at great prices, sold in shops in convenient locations and, we can quickly and accurately supply stores with the right products increasingly, available online.
A great customer offer drives the virtuous at the right time.
volume circle, which means that we can continuously improve our offer.
By selling more products, we are able to work with our suppliers to drive We plan our distribution processes, systems and network of DCs to mutually beneficial economies of scale, creating headroom to invest maximise efficiency.
Labour scheduling and transport planning systems and to offer lower prices to customers.
An important element of our enable our pickers and drivers to operate highly effectively, and we Plan to improve business performance in the UK is centred on investing develop our distribution networks to minimise the mileage needed to in the shopping trip so that customers will reward us by buying more get products to store in perfect condition.
We also use transport other from Tesco.
than lorries such as our four train services in the UK, which save 15,000 tonnes of CO2 per year.
Continually striving to make every part of the process productive, Enablers through primary distribution, we use our network to pick products up from some of our suppliers and transport them to our depots, which Our core business model is supported by can be more cost-effective than individual suppliers delivering to us.
We also use return journeys from stores to depots to pick up waste enablers which maximise the potential materials which we sell for recycling.
of our core activities to give our customers Sell: the best shopping trip and ensure that our The best shopping trip activities are carried out in a sustainable way.
Whether in store, online or a combination of both, we pride ourselves on delivering a great shopping trip for our customers, week in, week out.
One of Tescos Values is No one tries harder for customers, and this Leveraging Group skill and scale: can be seen in how we strive to improve the shopping trip.
This represents Making our business Better, Simpler, Cheaper, Faster every element of the customer shopping experience, including price, Sharing best practice systems, processes and approaches across all range, quality, availability and service.
Our loyalty schemes are key to of our markets takes our business model to the next level.
By identifying the customer offering, thanking customers each time they shop at Tesco.
best practice in each market, we can improve our offering around We take a multi-format approach to our store network, to be able to the Group.
For example, some of the very popular brands we have meet our customers needs for different types of shopping trip, from developed in Fresh & Easy in the US have recently been introduced large Extra stores that offer a full range of food, general merchandise into the UK and South Korea.
As our international experience grows, and services, to Metro and Express convenience stores.
we are increasingly benefitting from sharing best practice with our UK Operating Board all having spent some of their careers in our Selling refers to a broader and broader range of activities as we international businesses.
We launched a grocery home shopping service in the UK in 1997.
Since then, we have grown this business to over 2 billion of annual sales, launched grocery home 26 Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REVIEW PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Chief Executives review Strategy in action Business model Group skill and scale supports each of our core activities: utilising Operating responsibly: Insight, Buying, Moving and Selling.
Utilising Insight as a Group, with a Ensuring that growth is sustainable loyalty scheme in all of our markets, means we can continually innovate By operating responsibly, we not only benefit and secure the future the customer offer.
Our Turkish business launched Clubcard this of our business but we can bring real benefits to the communities in year, which would not normally be possible for a business of its size.
Buying as a Group is cost-effective, creating headroom to invest in the customer shopping trip, such as by sourcing consumables in Central At the heart of our commitment to operating responsibly is providing Europe as a Group.
Moving as a Group, with distribution centre our customers with good quality, safe and affordable food.
This is easily blueprints, systems, and the early stages of borderless distribution, taken for granted in developed economies, but can be a real challenge makes our deliveries simpler and faster, with new distribution centres in economies with low penetration of modern retail and underopened in both Poland and China this year.
Selling as a Group, with developed supply chains.
our Extra format already in eight international markets, including the We can only achieve this by working with our suppliers to ensure Czech Republic, Thailand and China, offers customers a better our supply chain is both resilient and efficient.
Strong, fair, mutually shopping experience.
beneficial, long-term partnerships with suppliers, from local to global, Of course we dont believe in one size fits all.
There are many things are at the heart of this.
The strength of our supply network was evident that are best done locally because customer tastes and lifestyles are during the Thai floods this year, enabling us to secure essential supplies not uniform.
Our businesses are run predominantly by local teams, from Malaysia and other markets.
not by expats, so that our operations can be close to the customers We are committed to the responsible sourcing of raw materials, we serve, and our local ranges both support our smaller suppliers and ensuring the resilience of our supply chain and managing our impact give customers a tailored product offering.
We work with the wider industry on core issues, such as water scarcity, and co-chair the Sustainability Steering Group Developing our people: of the Consumer Goods Forum, which has pledged to help end Our most important asset deforestation by 2020.
We aim to be a zero-carbon business by 2050 Great service can make a customers day, and we achieve this when and are mapping the biggest opportunities to cut carbon in our supply our people live the Tesco Values: No one tries harder for customers chain, as well as continually exploring new energy efficiency measures and Treat people how we like to be treated.
Our business is built on to be introduced across the Group.
the commitment of more than half a million people across the world and, in return for their commitment, we offer them good jobs and Innovating our offer: careers with Tesco.
Developing our people takes many forms, from Constantly improving our customer offer training in our state-of-the-art training academy in Asia, to offering jobs To continue to meet customers changing needs, we are constantly to the long-term unemployed through Regeneration Partnerships and innovating our offer in a whole variety of ways.
Innovation can supporting the development of women to management positions.
bring greater convenience to an existing way of shopping, as with self-service checkouts.
It can offer customers a new way of shopping, Creating valuable property: as with Click & Collect grocery or our virtual stores in South Korea.
The best located and best designed stores It can combine our presence in shops and online into a compelling Our site research and property capabilities enable us to identify customer proposition: for example, a customer registered with Blinkbox and develop the best sites for our stores.
Tesco has great depth can automatically receive a digital copy of most new Hollywood of experience in property development all around the world.
releases when they buy the DVD with a Clubcard in store.
By drawing on the breadth of our expertise and by always putting the customer Optimal sites for new store developments and extensions are identified first, we continue to serve customers how they want to be served in by our site research departments.
We have a flexible approach to a changing and increasingly joined-up world.
property acquisition, considering both freehold and leasehold sites and assessing each opportunity on its merits.
Using a range of data, Building the Tesco Brand: such as demographics and competitor activity, we forecast sales for a new store to a high degree of accuracy, so that we can develop To be seen as the most highly valued business in the world the stores with the greatest potential.
Through everything we do, we strive towards our vision of being seen as the most highly valued business in the world valued not only by Once a site has been identified, approved and secured, our property our customers, but also by the communities we serve, our staff and our development and construction teams design and develop the site.
Protecting and developing our brand reputation is the of experience have fed into Group-wide blueprints and specifications so foundation of customer loyalty and of how we are seen by our many that all of our development takes place to the highest standard.
stakeholders and enables our business model to operate effectively.
For In many of our international markets, Tesco owns or leases whole malls, example, our diversification into services such as Tesco Bank is built on which are anchored by a Tesco hypermarket.
Operating the mall and customers trust in the Tesco brand to offer good value, simple solutions renting out the space to other retailers, cafs and cinemas creates a and great customer service: and our recruitment and retention of great great destination shopping centre for customers, as well as bringing staff depends on our reputation for customer service and offering good in significant rental income, which makes Tesco one of the largest mall jobs and careers.
Tesco PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 27
