Deputy Chief Executives Review of the Year John Carter FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 Deputy Chief Executive Introduction damage the Groups ability to take advantage of the After planning our new divisional structure during market once it starts to improve we have proactively 2011 and ensuring that we had the right people in managed each business to achieve a gentle reduction place with the right blend of skills to take our business of costs rather than undertaking wholesale cost cutting.
forward, 2012 has been a year where our efforts have Our priority has been to review all businesses to ensure been directed towards consolidating our previous they have the right cost structure for the business they achievements whilst managing in a commercially are currently handling.
Early in the year we changed slightly our approach to Business model generating sales.
We retreated from our previous stance Our strategy is set out on page 14.
The business model where we had sought to outperform the market and took we deploy to execute that strategy is shown in the table a more long term view of accepting slightly lower, but on page 17. more sustainable growth in order to protect our gross Operationally we measure our success through a margins from significant erosion.
comprehensive balanced scorecard of key performance Improving the overall operating margin of the Group indicators KPI, which are aligned to achieving our remains a priority and that has required us to maintain strategy: our focus on costs.
Mindful that we do not want to 2012 2011 Like-for-like revenue change General Merchanting 0.0% 9.3% Like-for-like revenue change Specialist Merchanting 2.3% 11.5% Like-for-like revenue change Consumer 5.6 % 1.3 % Like-for-like revenue change P&H 1.6 % 3.4% Like-for-like revenue outperformance 1.4% 5.0% Colleague retention 84.0% 87.0% Revenue from expansion 2.8% 2.0% Health and safety see separate report on pages 50 to 52.
Environment see separate report on pages 46 to 49.
30 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Improving the overall operating margin of the Group remains a priority and that has required us to maintain our focus on costs.
2012 has not been a year for making large given on pages 50 to 52, but in summary we are intent investments in new initiatives.
We started the year on eliminating accidents and injuries and making determined to continue with a number of operational everyone associated with our group fully understand the initiatives where we had already achieved improvements role that we all play, and the responsibilities we all have, and could envisage further progress.
We also wanted to in maintaining a safety culture across all our locations.
ensure that any new investments either resulted in a The training and culture journey for managers and rapid payback or were necessary to maintain progress colleagues is the most critical part of winning hearts toward our longer term strategies.
As a result the main and minds to keep colleagues safe, and great progress areas of focus have been: has been made in engagement and in improving the Continuing our drive to eliminate accidents and communication process across the network.
injuries from the Group: Investigating and further improving our customer Sales and margin management proposition: We are set up to be the best whatever the market Reducing the administrative burden on branch circumstances in good times we take advantage colleagues so they can spend more time with to grow, in bad times we undertake the careful customers: management of costs.
In the current markets the Generating additional purchasing and overhead approach our operators must take is to: synergies from the BSS acquisition and continuing Focus on customers manage our resources so we get with the integration of that business into the Group: the most out of what we have: Leveraging our investment in our direct sourcing Concentrate on the quality of trading review our operations: trading stance to drive profit and ensure we are not Dealing with the opportunities for improvement letting the competition take our business: identified by our bi-enniel colleague engagement Trust our central resources to deliver the right survey.
improvements that will enable branches to improve profitability.
Stay Safe We pride ourselves on the service we provide to our Following the reorganisation of the group health and customers, but we are not complacent and we recognise safety team in 2012, which enables us to manage safety the need to continually improve.
Our customer in a different way: we have invested a lot of energy and proposition team under the leadership of Norman resource into Stay Safe during the year.
Full details are Bell is working on a major project to look at how we 31 REPORTS DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR can streamline our processes and make it easier for of daily performance in real time.
We plan to complete customers to deal with us.
We are reviewing all aspects the PTS roll out by mid 2013 before transferring both of our customer touch points from ease of opening a BSS Industrial and F&P Wholesale to a version of the new trading account through to the simplification of our same system.
The General Merchanting division has been targeting We know that regular targeted communication with branches to improve the quality of orders taken and our customers helps build a relationship based on the mix of products sold.
It is currently piloting four trust and can stimulate sales.
We are looking at ways regional customer centres designed to improve account of improving our customer segmentation and from management for our smaller customers and engineer that how we can better inform our customers of our opportunities to upsell.
capabilities and then help them transact with the Group.
In August an improved search capability was The quality of our customer proposition is partly launched on the General Merchanting website allowing dependent upon product range availability and the customers to search and request quotes for over 9,000 services we provide.
Our supply chain teams mission products on line.
This is the start of a journey to improve is to make building materials supply Easy for both our multi-channel offering, but it is already generating a branches and customers, their Easy Supply of Products good level of sales.
ESP programme being a key pillar of the Groups Both Wickes and Tile Giant have improved their plans for growth and the continued development of its performance in 2012.
Despite tough competition, multichannel offer.
both have increased their gross margins and overall Our new Chief Information Officer, JJ Van Oosten profitability.
Dropping Mycard in June allowed the joined us mid year and undertook a fundamental review Wickes team to invest some of the subsequent savings of our IT strategy and capability.
Our strategically into selectively reducing prices.
important multi-channel project is focussing on A lot of work has been undertaken to complete the using alternative technology, with the result that our integration of ten UGS branches into Keyline.
We have website redesign project continued, albeit at a slower invested in infrastructure, systems and stock availability pace during 2012.
In 2013 the pace of multichannel to bring them up to the standard we expect of our developments will accelerate and the new site, which branches and given our colleagues the tools they need to will allow customers to trade on-line, will be introduced maximise their effectiveness.
into Wickes initially before being rolled out to our Our work on leveraging the strength of our own brand merchanting businesses.
The popular Scruffs safety-wear We are challenging the way building materials have range, supplied by Birchwood Price Tools, has replaced traditionally been supplied to our businesses through ranges previously stocked in Wickes and Travis Perkins: collaborating with our suppliers.
For example, we now sales have exceeded our expectations.
have 12 colleagues from key suppliers implanted within We have also invested in our geotechnics expertise the Group, working with us to create the best route to having previously had a limited capability.
On 3 October market for their products.
As a result, our availability and a new team joined us from a competitor and we look service offer with these suppliers continues to improve forward to expanding our presence in this increasingly with customers more likely to source these suppliers important market.
With the Group providing access to over 100,000 Tight cost control and asset management products, sourced from over 10,500 suppliers, it is Group scale means we are able to develop solutions that essential that the distribution infrastructure and can often be shared across multiple businesses and systems can support our branches and customers to markets, improving services, return on investment and complete their transactions and projects as quickly as lowering cost.
We undertake a large number of projects possible, making them and the Group more profitable.
during the course of a year, each of which contributes The integration of BSS continues to progress well and to improving our operating margin.
It is not possible to in most cases well ahead of expectations.
The synergy discuss all of them, but the following paragraphs set program delivered a net 32m benefit versus the initial out details of some of the more significant changes we projection of 25m announced at the point of acquisition have made.
and the forecast of 30m at the end of last year.
In 2012 Keyline transferred responsibility for much The implementation of the new PTS point of sale branch administration to a central team based in computer system POS has progressed very well during Northampton.
This freed up branch colleague time to 2012 with over 120 PTS branches, representing more enable them to focus on customers whilst improving than 50% of revenue, now being on the system.
This will the efficiency with which we deal with suppliers and be a landmark in PTS history as it will be the first time customers.
In 2013 we will be taking a similar step in our that each branch manager will have an unequivocal view General Merchanting division.
Stephen Doody, Yard Supervisor at Keyline 32 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 33 REPORTS DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR Our property department under the direction of new automated stock ordering system for Wickes Martin Meech is an important profit generating centre, stores that improves availability reduces stock and but it also has an important part to play in controlling frees up management time.
We believe that in due our cost base.
Where possible we will look to exit leases course this will help reduce Wickes stock without if a branch is performing poorly and we can integrate impacting availability.
the branch activity into a nearby branch.
There are a Our distribution infrastructure has been developed number of opportunities in PTS and we believe that with a flexible approach and low levels of automation, opportunities exist in respect of a number of Wickes to ensure that we can respond quickly to the rapidly properties as we target smaller 20,000 sq.
ft. footprint changing service demands of the market, driven in part stores to lower property costs.
This will also allow us to by the growth of multichannel business.
The success of open in previously unattractive locations that could not the model in improving sales, profitability and service support larger stores.
means the business will open a further 650,000 sq.
ft. Supply chain continues to leverage our group warehouse in Warrington in 2015 to support the Groups distribution infrastructure.
During the year we have growth and multichannel ambitions.
This investment transferred the: will see the Group take a further step in improving Wickes bathroom home delivery operation in-house, service by providing access to more centralised products without increasing our space footprint, which has and reducing delivery lead times.
improved service at the same time as reducing costs: Moved our PTS radiator supply to an in-house External expansion solution, improving service and margins: With our aim of increasing our return on capital, we Provided our biggest customer, British Gas, with a have been more selective when making investments supply chain for its insulation installation business.
At 31 December 2012 we, By selectively investing in GPS in our distribution and our associate companies, operated from 1,896 vehicles to get a return we have been able to strengthen branches including 12 Rinus Roofing and 5 Toolstation the management of our vehicle costs whilst also Netherlands sites a net increase of 28 during the year.
We opened 48 new sites, 20 of which were for Our IT department is being restructured and Toolstation where new branches rapidly achieve re-focused so we can reduce the costs of keeping the profitability and have an above group average return on lights on and divert more resource towards developing incremental capital employed.
We also closed 17 underthe IT infrastructure that will support the business on its performing sites, 9 of which were in our plumbing and strategic journey.
One of the first changes will be moving heating division and sold 3 others.
from Microsoft to Google Enterprise allowing us to use We now have tool-hire operations situated on 200 sites new technologies to improve utilisation and efficiency.
including 8 new implants for the commercial contract market in BSS Industrial branches.
The dedicated teams Improve return on capital installed in each of the BSS locations have delivered We spend a considerable amount of time finding ways excellent service and sales and the number of customers to improve our management of working capital.
A lot using the service is ahead of projections.
In 2013 further of colleagues are involved in ensuring that we receive roll out of the offering is planned.
prompt payments from our customers.
In 2012 we have Our managed services offering goes from strength piloted giving CCF drivers PDF devices that allow them to to strength and we opened another 8 sites in 2012.
Our electronically process proof of delivery documents at the record of winning more than our expected share of time of making the delivery.
We are also developing our these opportunities continues as those tendering the central cash allocation systems to reduce the time we contracts recognise the skills that we possess and the spend dealing with receipts and to make it easier for our opportunities that will give them to improve their own customers to manage their accounts.
Achieving the balance between maintaining stock Sales of spares grew by 11% year-on-year due to availability in nearly 2,000 outlets and controlling the the good like-for-like performance from the existing value of stock in our balance sheet requires a great deal plumbing and heating locations and the opening of of skill.
We continue to manage our branch mandated new sites.
We now operate from over 200 sites across stock and are currently considering making it more the Group.
branch specific to reduce the level of slow moving stock We opened 39 new bathroom showrooms, 13 of that can accumulate from a one-size fits all approach.
which were in Travis Perkins General merchant sites We are also seeking to improve the co-ordination and now have 51 showrooms in the Group with plans of inventory reduction across the Group by sharing to continue the roll out in 2013.
The new showroom knowledge and best practice.
concept, which has received excellent feedback from We have developed and implemented i-Replen, a both trade customers and the retail customers of the 34 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Developing highly skilled colleagues who can progress as our business grows is of paramount importance to us.
tradesmen, has resulted in significant sales growth and It is a platform, which enhances the online learning improvements in product mix have been seen across the options available to all colleagues, whilst also providing new network.
technology to manage and record colleagues learning and development activity.
People Our commitment to apprenticeships continued Our vision is to create a great place to work: one that is with high levels of activity throughout the year.
This safe, rewarding and empowering and so we were pleased commitment was supported by the development of that for the third year running we were independently our apprenticeship website, designed to attract young assessed to be one of Britains top employers.
Our customer insight The Travis Perkins Group Building People work indicates that high levels of colleague engagement Apprenticeship scheme which replaced our have a very positive impact on customer experience, management trainee scheme in 2011 is aimed at both in terms of satisfaction and ratings of customer attracting and developing the skills and knowledge service.
Therefore, seeking feedback from those of young people within our branch operations and colleagues is vital, especially when we face a challenging management roles.
We hope that this new scheme trading environment.
will develop the same high quality future leaders and In 2012 we undertook our biennial You Talk We managers that we see in our business today.
There are Listen employee survey in our head office locations, two parts to the scheme: and our General and Specialist Merchanting and our The branch scheme is aimed at attracting those who Consumer divisions.
79% 2011: 63% of colleagues are new to merchanting, with many joining as their responded with overall engagement scores increasing first job: when compared with 2011.
84% of colleagues were The management apprenticeship scheme is focused proud to work in their location.
Teams across the Group on attracting talent from other merchanting branch reviewed the results, then identified and implemented networks, with apprentices development being actions to address any issues.
accelerated through completion of the scheme.
Developing highly skilled colleagues who can progress Over 30 apprentices graduated with a nationallyas our business grows is of paramount importance recognised qualification during the year and a second to us, so we work hard to support them throughout tranche of 30 high calibre Building People apprentices their career.
In 2012 51% 2011: 44% of management joined us during the autumn.
We also have 500 appointments were filled by internal candidates.
apprentices enrolled onto the Wickes Level Two Retail During 2012: Apprenticeship Scheme.
In partnership with Ashridge business school Sharing knowledge with our people is key to we delivered the Horizons business leadership engagement so they can see, where we are going as a programme to 60 directors.
It focused on leadership business, the part each of us plays in that journey, and behaviours, business strategy and fostering that we listen to what they are saying.
collaboration across the Group: Many of our brands produce internal magazines Our branch managers were able to attend the 6 day and newsletters, so that everyone can see and better Evolve management development programme which understand what is happening across the Group.
delivers leadership, sales and commercial modules.
However, we have reviewed our internal and external We provide a diverse range of development opportunities communications activity this year and realised there is for all our colleagues ranging from practical job skills more we can do to raise awareness of the Travis Perkins and product knowledge through to management and Group as a whole.
We also invest in training We have also appointed a Head of Corporate technology and during the year we launched iLearn.
Communications to support the internal and employee 35 REPORTS DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OF THE YEAR In 2013, we will continue to take a balanced view when managing sales, seeking to protect margin where necessary, but all the time ensuring that our costs are well controlled.
communications work already underway in our Management changes businesses.
She will also identify areas to improve There have been few changes in our senior management communication with new and existing audiences, and group during 2012. so build our brand reputation and influence opinion in Chris Bosworth was appointed managing director of our sector.
Group spares: a new role that will focus on the multiOur Save as You Earn SAYE scheme is a real success channel growth of spares across the Travis Perkins group.
with 1,200 or 19% more colleagues, joining in 2012.
On 31 December 2012 Mo Iqbal left our business, Its really encouraging that 7,500 2011: 6,300 of our six years after we purchased Tile Giant and he came colleagues are keen to share in the success of the Group on board to oversee its integration and expansion.
Mo through the SAYE scheme, even when there are so many brought great expertise and knowledge to the Group other demands on their money.
and has had a huge influence in the success of our tile Pension membership increased during the year as business.
We wish him well in his new endeavours.
a result of our work to introduce a new pension plan which meets the governments requirements for autoOutlook enrolment from March 2013.
In total, at January 2013 I think it is important that I place on record my 42% 2011: 27% of our colleagues are now members of a appreciation for the work undertaken by all colleagues group pension plan.
in all our businesses and supporting functions.
The success of our Group is founded on the quality and the Awards commitment of people throughout our organisation.
For the second year running the innovation, skills and 2012 has been another testing year for them, but once performance of our supply chain team and our Wickes again, they have excelled.
Early indications are that distribution team were recognised during 2012.
Between in the short term certainly, 2013 may be not be any them, they were shortlisted for 5 awards of which they better, but I know that colleagues will continue to deliver won four: outstanding results regardless of the circumstances.
Hermes Retail Week Supply Chain Leader of the Year We have many initiatives underway to deliver was our group supply chain director Robin Proctor: improvements across the Group, some of which I have Hermes Retail Week Multichannel Project of the described in this report.
In 2013, we will continue to take Year Award went to the Wickes National Delivery a balanced view when managing sales, seeking to protect Service.
margin where necessary, but all the time ensuring that Hermes Retail Week Grand Prix Award Overall our costs are well controlled.
In that way we will continue Winner was also awarded to the Wickes National to maximise the advantage of our operational gearing Delivery Service.
and so sustain our overall operating margin.
The Eur opean Supply Chain Excellence Awards Public Sector was won jointly by British Gas and Travis Perkins for our collaboration project.
In addition our marketing team won the Best Use of Direct Marketing award at the Construction marketing awards in December.
That was followed in February John Carter 2013 by the team winning the award for Best B2B for Deputy Chief Executive its customer lifestyle optimisation campaign at the Data Strategy Awards.
John Williams, Warehouse Supervisor at CCF Birmingham 36 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 37 REPORTS
