Chief Executives Review of the Year Geoff Cooper Chief Executive FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2012 drivers of our improved financial performance coming Introduction The Group made good progress in 2012, despite a from: Toolstation, for which we acquired the remaining challenging construction industry background resulting 70% of its share capital on 3 January 2012: the 13 new from a combination of continuing economic uncertainty, ex-Focus stores which were opened in the autumn of the wettest weather conditions in living memory and 2011: and our BSS synergy programme.
continued reductions in public sector activity and weak Having acquired Toolstation in 2012 and previously consumer confidence.
having acquired BSS, we chose to limit other network Action in both like-for-like LFL and expanded expansion to tidying up the estate and a few high operations has enabled the Group to achieve increases returning projects.
However, the economic environment in turnover, adjusted operating profits, profits before tax, also presented us with a few other opportunities.
In 2012 earnings per share and to recommend a 25% increase in we saw a small, but clearly discernible worsening in the the full year dividend.
outlook for a number of competitor companies in our Construction activity in 2012 fell by about 9%, whilst sector.
Our Specialist division benefited from the slow the materials distribution market fell in volume by demise of the leading civils and heavyside distributor about 4%.
during the second half of the year and a number of We have continued to execute trading tactics finely company administrators and independent owners tuned to the current environment with the aim of offered to sell us small businesses.
In most cases we maximising operating profits and operating margin.
This declined the opportunity, preferring to let the capacity has meant that for most of our businesses and branches fall out of the market, but we were able to agree terms to we have focussed on gross margin protection, which acquire the trade and assets for five businesses.
Overall has caused us to turn away some unprofitable sales, this expansion has increased our turnover by 2.8%.
balancing cost control with protecting service levels and On 1 January we established our new Plumbing carefully managing working capital.
and Heating division under the chairmanship of Paul By focussing more on gross margin we have Tallentire.
He has been closely involved with our BSS fide-emphasised our goal of out-performing markets integration programme which has seen a restructuring on a LFL basis, reducing our previous rate of sales of the PTS management team, the roll out of a new out-performance.
For the year as a whole we have point-of-sales system with enhanced functionality sustained our market share and a market position into PTS and the closure of several poorly performing consistent with our objective of trading sensibly in a branches.
Further work remains in the BSS integration disappointing market.
programme, however a significant value of synergies Against contracting market volumes, our trading has been achieved, and many of the organisational and stance and our continued programme of self-help technology changes have been implemented.
initiatives has increased profits by 4.5%, with the main The BSS synergy programme has continued to 20 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 For the year as a whole we have sustained our market share and a market position consistent with our objective of trading sensibly in a disappointing market.
Having beaten our original for new housing has increased, but low consumer 8m synergy target for 2011 by 12m, we reset our confidence and restricted funding availability has 2012 target to 30m.
Thanks to the excellent work of caused subdued numbers of mortgage approvals and a large number of colleagues, synergies for 2012 have housing transactions, which remain at half the level they totalled 32m of which 6m related to overheads and were in 2006.
The Governments action to encourage first 26m to buying gains.
Despite this success, our work to time buyers through Funding for Lending, Firstbuy and maximise synergies is not yet fully complete.
We have the Newbuy guarantee scheme are to be welcomed, but identified further opportunities of around 5m for 2013, the overall housing market remains in desperate need of but these will be more difficult to deliver as it will involve a kick start.
structural change to supply chain activities.
Public sector spend on construction has contracted sharply, particularly in new build as the government Markets and our response cuts have taken effect, but opportunities remain in some According to the Consumer Products Association, segments such as rail and utilities.
construction output in 2012 fell by about 9% as a result The economic uncertainty continues to impact of a significant reduction in public spending coupled consumers, with confidence levels little higher than in with a slowdown in private sector investment caused December 2011.
Consumers remain cautious because by economic uncertainty.
That reduction is the worst wage awards are once again below the rate of inflation, market performance since the depths of the recession and until recently money has been hard to come by.
This has adversely impacted the consumers desire to Despite a relatively strong start to 2012, we predicted, make big money purchases.
in early 2012, that volumes in our markets would fall for the year as a whole.
In reality the performances Financial performance of our end markets have been mixed.
Volumes in the Throughout this annual report, consistent with our merchanting market actually reduced by around 2% approach last year, the term adjusted has been used whilst retail market volumes are down by around to signify that the effects of exceptional items and 7% year-on-year, which has resulted in even greater amortisation of intangible assets have been excluded competition for sales.
from the disclosures being made.
Details of the The majority of our business is related to RMI exceptional items are given in the Finance Directors activities which have been a little more robust than the review of the year on page 39. other parts of the market that we operate in.
A combination of the economy and the extreme In the private sector new build has been relatively flat weather conditions had a significant impact on for most of the year although we have seen some gentle construction activity and constrained the performance expansion towards the end of the year.
Latent demand of our heavy-side businesses.
21 REPORTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIW OF THE YEAR Total revenue is 1.4% higher than for 2011 at acquisition and our subsequent investment in opening 4,845m 2011: 4,779m, driven by the Toolstation a further 20 new branches and the full year effect of the acquisition and the 13 ex-Focus stores opened during 13 new Wickes stores opened in 2011.
In our plumbing the autumn of 2011. and heating division 2012 total sales show a reduction We have modified our group trading stance to reflect compared with 2011 principally because of the sale of the more competitive environment we have experienced Buck and Hickman during September 2011. during 2012 with the result that we have traded some With a competitive market we concentrated on volume to protect margin.
Even so, by concentrating carefully managing our overhead base with the result on our customer propositions, we have sustained our that each of our businesses showed an improvement performance relative to the market, which together with in operating margin, or at worst a very slight decline our ability to pass through the bulk of cost inflation when compared with 2011.
Group operating margin has from suppliers has restricted the like-for-like sales improved by 0.1% to 6.7% due to an improvement in volume reduction to 2.4% in markets that we estimate overall gross margins for the Group and the additional fell by around 4%.
benefits from our synergy programme.
Whilst the The pricing environment has weakened as the year overhead to sales ratio has increased by 0.3%, this has progressed with full year price inflation of 1% rather was principally a mix effect of Toolstation being than a more normal 3%.
By quarter 4 month-on-month consolidated for the first time.
sales price inflation for the Group was virtually zero, Adjusted operating profit increased by 14m to with merchanting slightly positive, consumer flat and 327m 2011: 313m, which resulted in an adjusted plumbing and heating negative due to the impact of group operating margin of 6.7%, a 0.1% improvement reducing basic commodity pricing.
Even though the effect of currency With the exception of the plumbing and heating fluctuations on our portfolio of derivatives increased division, like-for-like volumes improved in the second financing costs by 62% to 27m 2011: 17m, the half of the year when compared with the first half, Group still improved adjusted pre-tax profits by 3m particularly in our Specialist division where Keyline 1% to 300m 2011: 297m.
benefited from the failure of a major competitor.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 2.1% to 95.1 Sales expansion arose primarily from the Toolstation pence 2011: 93.1 pence.
General Specialist Plumbing Revenue Merchanting Merchanting Consumer & Heating Total % % % % % Volume 1.5 0.2 6.6 1.6 2.4 Price 1.5 2.5 1.0 - 1.0 Like-for-like per day - 2.3 5.6 1.6 1.4 Trading day impact - - 0.3 - - Expansion disposals 0.9 1.3 18.5 4.4 2.8 Total revenue change 0.9 3.6 13.2 6.0 1.4 Including Toolstation on a proforma basis would result in like-for-like sales for Consumer being -3.1% and for the Group being -0.8%.
Adjusted operating General Specialist Plumbing margin Merchanting Merchanting Consumer & Heating Total % % % % % 2011 operating margin 11.8 4.5 4.5 4.6 6.6 Gross margin 0.9 - 0.4 0.6 0.2 Synergies 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.7 0.2 Overheads 0.6 0.5 0.6 0.2 0.3 Joanne 2012 property differential 0.2 0.1 - - - Kavanagh, Customer Service 2012 operating margin 11.5 5.2 5.6 4.5 6.7 Assistant at Travis Perkins, Excluding Toolstation, gross margin improved by 1.1%, overheads to sales rose by 0.1% and property profits to sales rose by 0.1% giving a year-on-year Rickmansworth, divisional operating margin increase of 1.2%.
with tile display 22 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 23 REPORTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIW OF THE YEAR Divisions and suppliers sought to put more business our way.
Even though many of the closed branches have now General Merchanting been sold and re-opened, the Keyline team is working 2012 2011 Change hard to retain the new business they have won.
New m m % opportunities in rail and utilities are being pursued by dedicated teams established during the year.
Turnover 1,457 1,443 0.9% Net margin progress in Keyline was good and Adjustment segment profit 167 170 -1.9% according to our key suppliers our business growth with them outperformed their respective markets.
Having The growth in sales in our General Merchanting suffered from the lack of buying gains in the first half, we division has arisen from the limited expansion we have created opportunities which crystallised in the second undertaken during the year LFL sales growth was half without a rise in stock levels.
Volumes were only 1.5% lower than 2011, whilst CCF faced intensified competition during the sales prices rose by an average of 1.5% over the course year as its markets have been particularly difficult.
The commercial market is affected by both lower Gross margin declined by 0.9% due to reduced commercial construction activity and reduced new product inflation 0.5%, customer mix changes arising public sector spending in buildings such as hospitals from the better performance of large contractors and schools, which has all but dried up.
compared to their smaller competitors 0.2%, and more Benchmarx has seen another improvement in its competitive market conditions as construction activity performance with sales growing by nearly 20%.
In a stable, or even a rising market, we would sales growth was close to double digits and at the same expect each of these drivers to reverse.
The business has been The tough gross margin conditions were balanced by targeting the contracts market and the investment made management in the division exercising tight cost control, is now starting to pay off.
and the overhead to sales ratio improved by 0.6%.
As with our other divisions, the Specialist businesses Divisional operating margin was only 0.1% below 2011, paid close attention to managing the overhead base with adjusting for the change in property profits.
the result that the ratio of overheads to sales fell by 0.5% Kevin Appleton, the divisional chairman, and his equivalent to savings of approximately 3m.
team have implemented a number of initiatives to drive profitability.
On a selective basis low margin business Consumer 2012 2011 Change is being turned away and customer and product m m % profitability is being closely monitored to manage mix.
Marketing initiatives are in place to target profitable Turnover 1,152 1,018 13.2% segments, and the overall customer service is being enhanced through the development of dedicated Adjusted segment profit 65 46 40.7% customer contact centres.
Further opportunities to improve efficiency have been Our Consumer Division, led by Jeremy Bird has identified via selective actions aimed at employee and significantly outperformed in 2012, with the Wickes, Tile vehicle productivity.
Giant and Toolstation businesses all producing excellent results.
The consumer division markets were the hardest Specialist Merchanting hit of any that our divisions operate in, so that makes 2012 2011 Change the result achieved in 2012 even more remarkable.
A m m % combination of careful margin management, strong overhead control and targeted investment resulted in Turnover 604 582 3.6% profits rising by 40.7% whilst turnover on a reported Adjusted segment profit 32 26 20.2% basis was up only 13.2%.
If Toolstation is excluded from the 2012 result, divisional turnover was flat year-onUnder the guidance of Arthur Davidson, the Specialist year, whilst profits increased by 26.5%.
division recorded a strong performance driven by Wickes has made further market share gains, for the Keyline, our heavy-side, civils and drainage business.
Both the Trade and Kitchen and The division gained further market share and reported Bathroom offerings have done well, but our performance a 2.3% like-for-like sales growth on the back of above in the DIY segment has been less strong as discretionary average price inflation.
The team did well to protect spend has been under pressure.
gross margin recording a flat year-on-year performance Our trading tactics continue to deliver both higher in increasingly competitive markets.
gross margins and sustained market share through The failure of the largest civils merchant brought careful management of promotions, range developments some short-term benefit to Keyline as both customers and working with suppliers to reduce supply chain costs.
24 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 Research continues to indicate the clarity and simplicity have taken action to cut costs by restructuring the of the Wickes and Tile Giant propositions are compelling network, closing nine branches.
City Plumbing performed well and whilst its likeToolstation performed strongly as those stores opened for-like turnover is slightly down, it has improved its with our support pre-acquisition moved further towards gross margin compared with 2011.
Like-for-like sales are up 21%, significantly showroom concept has continued to outperform the ahead of other multi-channel operators, profits are rest of the estate and so we will extend their presence approximately 280% higher and the estate has grown by throughout the estate during 2013.
P&H divisional overheads were tightly controlled Overheads were well controlled throughout the with some additional costs being incurred by PTS for division with the ratio of overheads to sales for Wickes the full year administration of the solus British Gas and Tile Giant increasing by only 0.1% despite turnover contract to whom we are proud to provide an industry remaining flat.
Wickes like-for-like costs fell as a result of leading service.
changing the store colleague structure late in 2011 and from re-targeting their marketing spend.
Overseas expansion During the year we have taken our first tentative Plumbing and Heating step into international markets.
In conjunction with 2012 2011 Change the founder of Toolstation, we have made a small m m % investment of less than 2m in five Toolstation branches located in the Netherlands that were previously Gross turnover 1,632 1,736 -6.0% franchised to an independent operator.
The initial focus Adjusted segment profit 73 80 -8.7% has been on expanding the product range and improving marketing, but much work still needs to be done.
Whilst If the results of Buck and Hickman and 17 P&H we anticipate making further small investments in 2013 branches divested in 2011 are excluded from the 2011 and 2014, it will be some time before we are able to comparative, turnover has decreased by 21m 1.2%, determine whether the venture will be successful.
whilst net profit fell by 5m 6.3%.
Throughout 2012, trading in both the commercial Investors and lenders and domestic markets has been difficult.
The domestic Holders of the Companys equity are concentrated heating market was subdued all year with the markets for primarily in the UK and North America, with North the key product groups of boilers and radiators 2% and American investors now holding 26% of the Companys 10% down year-on-year respectively.
We are committed to frequent and open dialogue last phase of government subsidies impacted demand with our shareholders and we take a pro-active stance to and new initiatives such as Green Deal, Renewable Heat ensure we meet with as many of them as possible.
Incentive and the energy company ECO commitments During the year a combination of me, Paul Hampden did not have any real impact during the year.
Smith and John Carter met with 44 investors holding In a low demand market, competition remained 55% of our shares at least once.
We also met with a intense and throughout the year decisions were taken significant number of non-holders as we sought to widen to improve pricing and monitor customer profitability.
In PTS several long standing supply relationships were We find that both investors, members of the analyst re-negotiated or terminated altogether.
community and our lenders benefit from seeing The Group has a good record of pre-price increase our operations first hand.
It provides them with an stock buying.
With sales price deflation in our plumbing opportunity to see our sites and talk with the hard market those opportunities to bolster margins through working colleagues who make Travis Perkins such a buying gains have been considerably more limited.
During 2012 we undertook 3 store, The industrial businesses of BSS were the strongest warehouse and branch visits and we intend to continue performer in a weakening plumbing market.
In the autumn, once we have completed our contract wins helped protect sales with margins slightly annual strategy review, we expect to combine a site tour above last years levels due to a number of self-help with a strategic update for both investors and analysts.
Good overhead control I reported last year that in difficult markets for resulted in an improvement in overall operating margin.
raising finance we had secured a 550m revolving credit The domestic business, which includes PTS and facility that is available to draw down from April 2013.
F&P, our wholesale distribution business supplying As with our investors, we think it is important to build second tier merchants, has suffered as a result of a sharp relationships with our banks and other lenders and contraction in the boiler and radiator markets and low so we maintain regular contact throughout the year.
Tight competitive conditions have I am pleased to report that the confidence the banks resulted in a reduction in margins, and management showed in the Group last year has continued.
Following 25 REPORTS CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIW OF THE YEAR discussions with several banks who were interested in the support frequently provided by our customers and making further funds available to the Group at improved our suppliers.
rates, we have secured a 50m of medium term Each of our 16 businesses supports their preferred committed funding by way of a bilateral loan.
charity, selected by employees, and throughout 2012 they pursued a range of activities to raise Executive committee funds.
An army of employees across the Group grew If we are to maintain our position as the UKs leading dubious moustaches in support of Movember and supplier of building materials we need to invest in Prostate Cancer UK, the charity partner of our Keyline our executive team to ensure we have the best talent business, while Tim Parsons and Paul Widger from available to develop and deliver our strategy.
During our PTS business braved sweltering heat to cycle 500 2012 there have been two significant changes to our kilometres from Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam to Angkor Executive Committee.
Wat in Cambodia, raising over 14,400 for Cancer After 40 years of service with the Group, Joe Mescall Research UK.
Whilst the phrase can The Travis Perkins business was awarded Business never be replaced is over-used and is rarely true, it of the Year at the 2012 Business Charity Awards, should be applied to unique people and Joe is definitely sponsored by the Charities Aid Foundation CAF, for its one of these.
He has a great blend of long and varied outstanding partnership with Breast Cancer Campaign experience, well honed leadership skills and first class and Together for Short Lives over the last three years.
trading nous which is admired by everyone who has As the driving force behind a number of charitable had the privilege to work with him.
initiatives, including painting a number of Travis Perkins Joes position has been taken by Kevin Appleton.
delivery trucks pink, Ian Church was awarded Business Kevin joined us from the Lavendon Group where he Charity Champion 2012.
Ian, formerly Managing held the position of CEO for 10 years.
He brings a lot of Director of Travis Perkins in the Midlands and now relevant experience from the customer-focused delivery Managing Director of our PTS business, understands services and logistics sectors having previously held the power of charitable activity as a way of driving the managing director roles for a division of FedEx and the engagement of employees and customers.
I am confident that the new experiences Internally, our employees can support additional Kevin brings will build on the achievements of Joe and charitable activity through payroll-giving and a the TP team to ensure that we continue to stay ahead of Colleague Lottery, and the popularity of these schemes our competitors.
Our second key appointment was Jean-Jacques Thanks to wonderful activities like these, we are JJ Van Oosten to the position of Chief Information pleased to have donated more than 2.1m 2011: 1.9m Officer.
This position is critical to the Groups continued through group activities, including 165,716 2011: development so it was important that we employed a 146,217 directly from the Group, to worthwhile causes person with a proven track record of determining IT in the fields of cancer research, support for children and strategy, leading large teams and delivering complex IT young people, and the hospice movement, to name a few.
We encourage our colleagues and businesses to JJ was previously at Tesco plc where he held the support community activities in the areas they live, work role of CIO and Market place Director both reporting and operate.
During the year many opportunities arose to the CEO of Tesco.
He led and delivered critical where we were able to help: here are just a few examples.
programmes which established Tescos multi channel BSS Industrial donated sleeping bags to charities IT capability.
Prior to that he was the Group CIO for across various locations in December, giving a small Kingfisher plc, where he established and led a shared helping hand to the homeless over the harsh winter.
service centre for IT that combined twelve technology Travis Perkins supported the next generation of builders teams across multiple geographies.
He was also by donating materials to Live Train, a London-based responsible for delivering systems for B&Q Trade training scheme which equips unemployed people with counter and leading the multi-channel agenda.
the skills and experience to start a sustainable career in the construction industry.
Charitable and community activities CCF and Travis Perkins branches in Reading teamed We are passionate about the charitable work we up to fit new flooring for West Street, a house for undertake, and we continue to have strong and severely disabled children in Henley on Thames, whilst extremely valuable partnerships with a number of colleagues from Travis Perkins Hyde helped create a British charities.
The enthusiasm and commitment memorial garden in memory of PCs Fiona Bone and Piotr shown by our colleagues as they fundraise is something Nicola Hughes, the two Greater Manchester Police Trebiatowski, we are enormously proud of.
We are also delighted by officers who were tragically killed in September.
Warehouse Operative at Brackmills distribution centre 26 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 27 REPORTS Post year end acquisition optimistic about the second half.
The recent rise in We expect the renewables market for construction mortgage and housing transaction activity should feed materials to show growth ahead of market averages for into improved volumes in the market by the second some time, as consumers become better informed and half of the year.
In the public sector market, the huge invest to reduce their energy costs whilst improving potential spending on various infrastructure programmes carbon generated.
announced by the government should begin to gradually On 30 January we acquired the renewable energy show in real activity on and in the ground.
distribution specialists, Solfex Energy Systems Solfex, Overall we believe that market volumes for 2013 are a company that in December 2012 was listed as the UKs likely to be lower than 2012, but the rate of decrease will fifth fastest growing private company in the Sunday be smaller than last year at around 1% to 2%.
Inflation is Times Virgin Fast Track 100. likely to stay low with early indications suggesting it will Solfex uses its distribution platform to integrate and be around 1% to 2% for the second year running.
supply components to the UKs renewable companies Since the financial crisis in 2008, the term roller and provides a value-added service to customers through coaster could fairly be applied to the gradient of annual comprehensive technical and customer support.
It is a and monthly change in our markets.
Five years later, valuable addition to the Plumbing and Heating Division we have yet to experience a flatter track, and we wait of our Group.
for evidence of a steady recovery from the current Our strategy of offering our customers an integrated unsustainably low levels of activity.
approach to energy efficient building will be greatly We have an excellent track-record of matching our enhanced by the market leading proposition created by margin and costs to the prevailing market conditions, the Solfex team.
and we judge our cautious stance to be appropriate.
However, we shall be monitoring lead indicators 2013 performance carefully, and expect that our next change will be to It is difficult to draw any conclusions from the first few a more expansionary stance in volume.
We plan to weeks of trading because the January 2012 comparator combine this with a restrained approach to costs, so as was quite strong whilst 2013 has seen a continuation of to benefit from overhead gearing and further improve the poor weather conditions experienced in 2012.
We anticipate increasing expenditure group LFL sales, on a delivered basis, for the first seven only for unavoidable inflation and pension increases and weeks were down 5.1%.
subject to satisfactory trading continuing, we plan to invest further in pursuing our multichannel strategy.
General Specialist Plumbing Whilst, for most of our businesses, our operating Merchanting Merchanting Consumer & Heating Total margins remain ahead of our competitors, the trough % % % % % levels of market activity are consistent with, against recent history, operating margins, which we regard 4.5 2.0 7.6 5.4 5.1 as unsatisfactory for three of our four divisions.
For We view underlying like-for-like sales in February as Specialist, P&H and Consumer divisions a combination broadly flat.
of self help initiatives and a recovering market should deliver steady growth in operating margins.
For Travis Outlook Perkins, investments in improvements to the proposition Our like-for-like sales in quarter 4 of 2012 showed an will be applied to increasing market share on a LFL improving trend on the two previous quarters in most basis, whilst sustaining operating margins.
of our businesses making it difficult to read for signals So in summary, we think the performance of our of underlying activity.
Accordingly, we look to medium markets in 2013 may begin to turn, but it will be term indicators to plan our resource levels for 2013 mainly through our own endeavours to outperform our and beyond.
competition and manage our operating margin that the In the short term, trends will be volatile: we Group will be driven forward.
currently anticipate that our markets will be stronger in the second quarter, mainly due to a relatively weak comparator in 2012 and potential recovery from low activity levels expected in first three months of this year.
Whilst this suggests difficult conditions will remain Geoff Cooper in the first half year, there are reasons to be more Chief Executive Cain Doolan, Manager, BSS Industrial, Reading 28 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2012 29 REPORTS
