Strategic overview TUI Travel PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2012 9 Strategic overview Chief Executives statement This has been a year of record success cycle, which in turn helps us to manage see How we do it: Business models across the Group, proving that our capacity and therefore efficiency.
We are section that satisfy these customer strategy is delivering results.
We have always looking for opportunities to develop demands.
One model addresses the Tour recorded our largest underlying profit the portfolio of unique holidays across the Operator segment of the market, satisfying figure to date, despite the negative Group and this will continue into 2013 and the individualisation demands of our foreign exchange translation of 36m.
In practice, this means offering On a constant currency basis, our unique holidays to customers through our Our direct distribution channels are central underlying profit increased 12% to Mainstream Sector, such as Sensatori in the to the Groups continued growth.
UK, Sensimar in Germany and Blue Village room to expand these in all our markets in the Nordics, and also includes our which will lead to improved margins and Underlying profit Specialist & Activity Sector offering, better results.
The core contribution of focused on tailor-made holidays, including our direct distribution comes from online private jet tours, polar expeditions and channels.
12% sailing experiences among many others.
At present we consider ourselves to be an The other model addresses the Online These are the results of a resilient online-driven Group, however, we can do Accommodation segment of the market, and flexible business with the right more.
The online drive continues across the satisfying the commoditisation demands strategy for the market and a large Group from front-end customer interaction of our customers.
We are able to take number of colleagues who care about at the time of booking to back office advantage of our scale and technological our customers, are passionate about functions.
Technology is an integral part developments to offer our customers a our leisure travel experiences and can of the direction we are heading in and as wide variety of choice at very competitive plan, implement and deliver growth.
such, in March 2012, we appointed Mittu prices.
We have the market-leading position Sridhawa as the Groups Chief Information in Accommodation Wholesale and continue Our return on invested capital has Officer and member of the Group to invest in our own Accommodation Online increased again this year, now standing Management Board.
With our weighted average cost of capital at 10% we continue We have been successful in implementing We have had a good start to the new to generate returns in excess of our Group-wide cost efficiency and business financial year with strong Winter 2012 13 cost of capital.
We are therefore well improvement programmes as we have done trading.
For the two markets on sale for positioned to invest further in the over previous years.
The total savings made Summer 2013 we have increased capacity, business and accelerate our growth this year of these activities equates to showing our confidence in the market plans.
The drive for operational efficiency and our ability to deliver growth.
Mainstream Sector has begun reporting Return on invested capital from 1 October 2012 in its new structure The UK has had a great year delivering a which has been developed to accelerate record underlying operating profit, up 32% more rapidly the move to modern on the previous year, to 197m 2011: 12.2% mainstream.
This has been achieved through the increase in sales of our unique holidays We could not do any of this without our Overall, the Group has expanded its unique and continued focus on direct distribution, fantastic colleagues, all 54,000 of them.
holidays portfolio this is our differentiated with online as the core contributor, as well I am hugely proud of every single one and exclusive products combined which as our operational efficiency programmes.
of them and would like to personally books earlier and provides higher margins thank them all for their consistent effort, for our businesses.
The sales of these Our strategy has evolved over the year.
determination and successes in a products have continued to increase It now stems from two very prominent challenging macro-economic environment.
contributing to the success of the Group customer demands in the leisure travel this year.
The feedback received from our market individualisation and customers experiencing these products has commoditisation.
We see these trends as Peter Long been incredibly positive.
This helps lead to central to our future growth and have Chief Executive repeat bookings, often early in the booking developed two strong business models On a constant currency basis www.
