CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW SUSTAINING OUR UNIQUE COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE As we enter 2013, Tullow has never been in a stronger position to add real and sustainable value from our growing portfolio of assets and to fund our industry-leading, high-impact exploration campaigns in Africa and the Atlantic Margins.
2012 was a year of major progress for Tullow.
We materially enhanced the business with a basin-opening oil discovery in Kenya, by adding highly prospective new licences to our portfolio, refinancing our debt and partially monetising our Ugandan assets.
The Jubilee field in Ghana is now approaching its full potential and provides the base for our production profile and operational cash flow.
Our financial position underpins our highly ambitious 2013 exploration programme which has high-impact wells planned in Kenya, Ethiopia, Norway, Mauritania, Mozambique, Cte dIvoire and French Guiana.
This focus on exploration-led growth, together with active portfolio management and Tullows strong balance sheet, provides an excellent platform for growth in 2013 and beyond.
Exploration-focused Exploration has been the foundation of our growth and over the past five years we have invested over $2.6 billion in E&A activity.
This has added over 865 million barrels of oil to our resources and opened up new oil regions for monetisation through selective development, farm-down or divestment, creating both attractive returns for Tullow and for host countries.
Industry-leading exploration success in frontier areas, which can be extremely remote and challenging, creates our E&A competitive advantage.
In 2013, we have more acreage in Aidan Heavey Chief Executive Officer attractive geographies and known geologies than ever before, and we are executing the most significant and perhaps the most exciting E&A drilling programme that we have Africa remains at Tullows core but our undertaken to date.
industry-leading exploration team and Strong financials the Board see additional potential in Our exploration-led growth is enabled by our financial strength, which has been significantly enhanced over recent years.
We the Atlantic Margins beyond our have increased our operational cash flow from production and African heartland.
while we are not a production-driven business per se, it is a key component of the cash flow required to finance a major exploration programme.
It also reduces the cost of capital to the business and broadens the funding options for the Group.
Portfolio management is another rich source of funding opportunity for the business.
As part of our ongoing activity, we will sell or reduce our interest in assets at different points in the value curve to either increase the rate of return on Watch Aidans video interview online investment from our portfolio or to use the proceeds to recycle to find out more about Tullows cash and maintain capital efficiency.
Where surplus cash is exploration-led strategy and how we generated, it can be used to expand the exploration programme create value.
or be returned to shareholders.
Video online We also judiciously use leverage and in 2012 refinanced www.
com ARA2012 chief executives review $3.5 billion of debt capacity, giving the Group $2.2 billion of financial headroom.
As a result we are in an excellent position to fund both our E&A campaigns and those developments to which we decide to commit.
14 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts BUSINESS REVIEW More information 35 Key Performance Indicators 56 Exploration & Appraisal overview 1 58 Development & Operations overview Our size as a l eading independent, the calibre and commitment of our people and our entrepreneurial culture are critical elements of our competitive advantage.
Portfolio optimisation Our size, as a leading independent rather than a major oil There are always opportunities to monetise assets, partially or company, and our entrepreneurial culture are other elements of our competitive advantage.
We have a nimble approach to in full, across the portfolio.
This means that both the portfolio decision-making, making us responsive and flexible when and the allocation of capital within it are under constant review.
This means we can match In 2012, we announced the planned disposal of our Asian, and outperform our competitors, particularly in exploration UK and Dutch gas assets to enhance our focus on light oil and often in operational excellence, such as the swift and exploration and, where appropriate, selective development.
We cost effective remediation of Jubilee production.
Investing in also undertook a review of our portfolio and have written down development and operations has built up critical operational exploration assets by $371 million in addition to unsuccessful skills for Tullow offshore in West Africa and increasingly exploration activities of $300 million.
These decisions were a onshore in East Africa.
Today, Tullow has many attributes consequence of increased competition within Tullows growing that are attractive and important to host governments when portfolio of assets for capital allocation.
deciding on exploration licence awards, qualification as an operator or approval of partnerships or acquisitions.
Our Exciting New Ventures success in entering five new countries in different parts of the In 2012, we also entered new licences in Mozambique, Guinea, world in 2012, clearly demonstrates our competitive ability to Greenland and Uruguay and we made a significant acquisition access the best exploration acreage in the market.
This is why, in Norway with the purchase of Spring Energy.
All of these New year-on-year, our Global Exploration Leadership Team is able Ventures have three important factors in common: they all sit to drill only the top 10% of the prospects within our inventory within geographies that are well-known to Tullow: they include and deliver exceptional success.
geological structures that Tullow has had previous success with: and they all contain light oil prospects.
They also reflect that Shared prosperity beyond our African heartland, our industry-leading exploration Another area where we see opportunity for competitive team and the Board see additional potential in the Atlantic advantage is in our approach to corporate responsibility Margins, comprising the North, Central, Equatorial and South and shared prosperity.
These are vital parts of managing our Atlantic.
This reshaping of our portfolio gives the business much business and achieving our business plans.
Governments are better long-term upside potential based on a much stronger and now actively managing the resources sectors in their countries broader portfolio of assets than a year ago.
In 2010, our major more vigorously.
This includes greater scrutiny of companies, exploration targets were in Uganda, Ghana and along the coast increased regulation and a larger government take in Production in the West Africa Transform Margin.
In 2013, we are targeting Sharing Agreements than in the past.
Host countries are also Kenya, Ethiopia, Norway, Mauritania, Mozambique, Cte dIvoire increasingly and openly wondering how to secure the best return and French Guiana and still see further upside in those original for their country and achieve economic and social progress.
core campaigns in West and East Africa.
This growing level of interest is a benefit to Tullow as we have consistently taken a long-term approach to our activities, have A uniquely competitive business few legacy operations and have openly made a commitment to Our main competitive advantage stems from the calibre of our creating shared prosperity where we operate.
We have been very fortunate to build up an exceptional that with potentially billions of capital investment required team of people working across our global business.
We have and infrastructure development that will last decades, we done this through offering exciting career prospects as well as need to focus on taking the right approach because if we career development opportunities.
I am particularly proud of the do not, short-term gains will lead to value destruction for commitment we have to employing local nationals in our host all parties in the longer term.
countries, which is supported by our localisation strategy and building capacity with on-the-job training, industry-specific We are also consistently reminded that we do not operate in education and secondment placements in Tullow operations.
isolation of the expectations assigned to Tullow by external In 2012, our total workforce grew by 230 people, up 15% to 1,778 parties.
As we continue to grow, there are greater expectations employees and contractors.
from local communities, NGOs, investors and our employees.
These expectations include Tullow taking a more active role in social and economic areas in host countries, leading by example www.
com 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED W e are consistent in our explorationled growth strategy with a focus on light oil in frontier areas and we have reshaped our portfolio to provide us with further access to material value creation opportunities.
with regard to the environment and making greater efforts to be as transparent as possible.
An update on our progress is OUR STRATEGY on pages 74 to 83 of this report.
We will publish a separate The Special Feature starting on page 17, opposite, gives Corporate Responsibility Report in the second quarter of this an overview of our vision, strategy and how our business year and for the first time we will publish a number of countrymodel is focused on creating value and ensuring we specific reports to enhance transparency of our activities.
run our business very successfully.
We also set out the strategic priorities for Tullow and our progress against Clear focus and strategy these in 2012.
These strategic priorities are aligned with I am clearer than ever, as are my fellow Executive Directors specific performance indicators for the Group as well as and the Board, about the strategic direction of Tullow.
We are key risks to our long-term performance.
Our goal is to maintaining our exploration focus.
We are utilising production demonstrate that Tullow operates as an integrated and leverage to fund a demanding E&A programme and business, which is focused on the successful delivery of selective development.
We are creating a dynamic and exciting our business plans in the shorter term and our strategic portfolio of core plays in Africa and the Atlantic Margins.
We are priorities over the longer term.
building a unique exploration and production company that can sustain our competitive advantage and will maximise value Our 2013 to 2015 business plans creation and total shareholder return TSR.
The Board approves a detailed annual plan, extending over three years, and this sets out the operational and Further, I am confident that Tullow has the right team, the right performance agenda for Tullow over the period.
It includes approach, the right assets and the funding in place to maintain region-specific and Group plans.
The following are the key our track record of success.
We are consistent in our Group objectives in our 2013 to 2015 business plan.
Key exploration-led growth strategy with a focus on light oil in objectives for each of the regions are in the operations frontier areas and we continue to reshape our assets to provide review of this report.
us with further access to material opportunities.
As we enter 2013 we have an exceptionally strong platform for future growth.
Group I look forward with excitement to driving the strategy and the Replenish and high-grade the exploration portfolio: business forward this year and beyond.
Generate monetisation options for each asset: Develop Joint Venture partnerships that add material value to the business: Continue to build organisation capability, with Aidan Heavey a particular focus on localisation: and Chief Executive Officer Maintain safe and efficient operations.
West & North Africa 2013-2015 business plan key objectives page 60 South & East Africa 2013-2015 business plan key objectives page 64 Europe, South America & Asia 2013-2015 business plan key objectives page 68 16 Tullow Oil plc 2012 Annual Report and Accounts
