Chief Executive Officers statement Focused on improving returns Cash flow generation and improving returns from our assets form a key part of our Operational Review and we will update on our progress throughout the course of 2013.
We have maintained the 2012 dividend at the 2011 level, reflecting our confidence in the business and our commitment to shareholder returns.
Greg Hawkins, Chief Executive Officer CAPITAL ALLOCATION Overall for ABG, 2012 was a year where we realised good progress in US$m several areas but where we did not meet our core production and cost 400 targets.
We continued to invest in the ongoing stability of the business and our licence to operate.
This was rewarded with increasing consistency 300 inthe operational performance at Buzwagi as the year progressed, and improvements in the grade profile at North Mara where we also received confirmation of the renewal of our mining licences and signed the Village 200 Benefit Implementation Agreements.
Overall, our mining rates for the year increased, we processed 4% more tonnes through our plants and 100 weimproved the recovery profile of our operations despite the expected decrease in grade.
We also significantly enhanced our early stage 0 exploration portfolio with the acquisition of Aviva Mining Kenya 0 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 Limited AMKL.
Dividend payments Exploration spend Acquistion spend Our Group production for the year was 9% lower than 2011, with the grade driven increase at North Mara offset by declines of similar levels atour other three operations.
Bulyanhulu was impacted by paste fill and equipment availability issues together with the loss of skilled employees due to proposed government pension law changes: Buzwagi saw an expected reduction in grade to around its reserve grade although it did benefit from improved plant performance later in the year: and Tulawaka operated under batch processing following the exhaustion of surface stockpiles.
These lower production levels, together with higher energy and maintenance expenses, resulted in our cash costs for the year reaching US$949 per ounce sold.
As we move into 2013, we start from a strong platform with a net cash position of US$401 million, but we nonetheless need to strengthen our focus on reducing costs in order to ensure the business can deliver attractive levels of free cash flow generation.
This will form a key part of our ongoing Operational Review.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Beyond the day to day operational challenges of our business, for a large At North Mara, it was pleasing to see the expected increase in production part of the second half of the year we also dealt with several additional levels on the prior year as we accessed the higher grade zones in the factors resulting from the discussions between Barrick and China National Gokona pit in the second half of the year.
This reduced the reliance on Gold with respect to Barricks majority stake in ABG.
These included a lower grade stockpiles to provide feed to the mill and led to increased head detailed due diligence process and site visits as well as other factors such grade and a 13% increase in production compared to 2011.
Operations asdealing with the uncertainty caused among our employees and also the saw some impact from an increase in illegal mining activity during the communities in which we operate.
We implemented a range of measures second half of the year but this has now subsided and returned to more to deal with these additional challenges and were largely successful in normalised levels.
Production during 2012 was from the Gokona and limiting the disruption to our business.
With the discussions now Nyabigena pits, with operations at the Nyabirama pit subject to the terminated, we need to ensure everyone in the business remains focused necessary land acquisitions and relocations which are a key focus for mine on delivering the significant potential of our asset base.
Our share price performance in 2012 was set against a backdrop of At Buzwagi, significant progress was made across both mining and continuing underperformance by gold equities relative to the underlying processing activities during the year.
Production was 16% below the level commodity.
The key focus from investors has centred on the lack of free of 2011, a result of the expected 30% decline in grade as the mine operated cash flow leverage in the industry to the gold price, either through rising at close to its reserve grade.
This impact was slightly offset by operational operational costs or increasing investment in new projects which do improvements, with a 33% increase in total tonnes mined, which includes notmeet hurdle return rates.
In the three years since ABG listed as an a 19% increase in ore tonnes, and a throughput increase of 24%.
Site independent company we have been successful in generating substantial management are now firmly focused on ensuring these improvements free cash flow and have maintained the view that capital returns to aremaintained during 2013. shareholders are of critical importance: with the proposed final dividend At Tulawaka, the processing plant operated on batch milling due to the for 2012, we will have returned in excess of US$150 million to shareholders lack of sufficient ore to run it full time, which was a consequence of relying over that period and have also invested in two early stage projects which on underground material during 2012.
As a result, throughput was down we believe have the potential to deliver significant long-term value to the substantially on 2011 with a corresponding fall in production levels.
Nonetheless, during 2012 the increases in our operating expenses have successfully extended the life of this operation consistently in the last and in the level of capital we invested in our assets meant that the business three years: however, as a part of the Operational Review we have taken consumed capital, which is not sustainable over the longer term.
As such, the decision not to further extend the mine life and to phase out the the Board of ABG has asked management to conduct a full Operational operation in 2013.
We are currently starting to implement our closure plan Review of the business with the aim of recalibrating our operations so as to for the operation and will engage with our employees as we move through drive improved returns from the asset base whilst enhancing the certainty this process.
As a result of this, and in combination with the downward of delivery.
The review commenced in January 2013. revision of reserves, we have incurred a non-cash impairment charge at More recently, Kevin Jennings, our Chief Financial Officer, has given the mine of US$44.5 million for 2012. notice that he intends to leave ABG in order to take up a similar role at another mining company.
Whilst we are naturally disappointed to see Growth projects Kevin leave us, we understand his wish to pursue this new opportunity We have continued to make very good progress on our growth projects and wish him the very best for his new venture.
over the year: we are progressing the construction of the Bulyanhulu CIL Expansion project, and the Board has approved the ordering of certain Operating performance long lead items required for the acceleration of mining at the Upper East At an individual mine level, Bulyanhulu remained our largest producing Expansion project at Bulyanhulu.
These two projects will add meaningful asset and is set to remain so with the existing mine plan and the growth long-term production to our core operating asset.
In 2012, production was 10% lower than in 2011 as we experienced power supply issues earlier in the year which impacted on hoisting capacity, while later in the year the delivery of ore to surface was reduced by a lack of paste fill availability which led to increased reliance on lower grade stopes and a shortage of skilled personnel resulting from resignations in the face of proposed changes to pension fund legislation in Tanzania.
We have several initiatives in place to deal with these short-term factors in order for Bulyanhulu to get back to its expected run rate as 2013progresses.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Chief Executive Officers statement continued Key challenges andmitigants Challenges Mitigants r Unreliable grid power r Optimising use of back-up power Power supply r Ongoing review of alternative sources for power generation r Incidences of trespass, theft, corruption r Upgrading security infrastructure Security, trespass and vandalism at operations and vandalism r Development of security personnel r Progressing dialogue on law and order r Operational and reputational impact of r Continue to build on existing community Community relations legacy issues as a result of prior management relationships of relations with local communities r ABG Maendeleo Fund r Development of social management plans r Impact of land acquisition cost and delays in r Engagement with local and central government Land acquisition completing such acquisitions on current mining to address land speculation activities, particularly at North Mara r Challenge of developing and retaining r Continuing investment in training and development Developing commercial a skilled workforce miningindustry r Continued progression of programmes for workforce localisation On our greenfield exploration portfolio we continued to increase the size as we solved a range of taxation, permitting and licensing issues, some of the Nyanzaga resource, which now has an in-pit resource of over 4.6 ofwhich dated from several years back.
million ounces Moz of gold Au consisting of 3.75 Moz at 1.42 g t As we move into 2013 there remains much to be done and it is vital we Au Indicated and 0.85 Moz at 1.81 g t Au Inferred.
We are currently enjoy the ongoing support of the government in these areas.
Across our finalising the pre-feasibility study and expect to take a decision on whether asset base, the lack of availability of reliable power is a key issue for us and to progress to a full feasibility study by the middle of the year.
one which is receiving attention at the highest levels within the Tanzanian We also acquired an interest in over 2,800 square kilometres of under government, and we look forward to the government delivering on its explored, highly prospective licence areas in Kenya for an initial initiatives to alleviate this issue.
At North Mara, we have seen good consideration of US$22 million, including exploration funding.
The support over the last few months in relation to improving law and order licences add more than 20 existing targets from grassroots through to the but need to resolve a number of land access issues to ensure we have the drill testing stage into the exploration and development pipeline and will appropriate footprint for our operations and we look forward to the be the focus for a significant proportion of our exploration budget in 2013. governments support in achieving this.
Elsewhere, we are encouraging the government to help resolve the pension fund issue which has impacted Drilling at North Mara has continued to highlight the potential for our workforce.
From a taxation perspective, we are working closely with underground development at both the Gokona and Nyabirama pits and the appropriate authorities to ensure we minimise the level of working we are undertaking the technical trade-off analysis in order to establish capital tied up in indirect tax payments which are recoverable under the how best to sequence the underground potential with the existing open pit terms of our Mineral Development Agreements.
operations in order to maximise the life of mine return from the mine.
Licence to operate Government relations From an operational perspective, ABG has a high quality and well Notwithstanding the acquisition of AMKL in 2012, the majority of our investedportfolio of assets which positions us strongly for the long term.
assets and our cash flow remain in Tanzania.
During 2012, we continued However, without the accompanying licence to operate and a stable tobuild on the constructive dialogue we enjoy with the Tanzanian working relationship with all stakeholders, the quality of our assets could government as our operations delivered significant benefits and value to be significantly impacted.
For this reason, the achievements we have made our host communities.
The decision to voluntarily move to a royalty rate with the government and with our host communities on issues relating to of4% from 3% was one that ABG instigated but it was also recognition of our operating environment are of key importance.
We have benefited from the improved level of cooperation we saw from the Tanzanian authorities a full year of operation of the ABG Maendeleo Fund which has supported a range of projects across our operations throughout the year.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Shareholder information In terms of the individual operations, the key challenges are centred on With US$135 million of capital being allocated to expansion projects, North Mara and we have made significant progress in 2012 in order to principally at Bulyanhulu, we have set our sustaining capital budget at secure the long-term future of the mine.
In addition to the signing of US$100 million, including land, and we have allocated US$210 million to VBIAs with the local communities, we have invested 39% of the ABG capital development inclusive of deferred stripping.
The adoption of IFRIC Maendeleo Funds annual expenditure towards new infrastructure around 20, which recognises eligible production phase deferred waste stripping North Mara, including rehabilitating the local health clinic, the provision costs as assets on a stage-by-stage basis as opposed to the previous single ofclean water and the launch of a major school desk programme.
pit basis, will increase our deferred stripping capitalisation by approximately US$70 million over 2012.
We were also pleased to receive the renewal of the special mining licences SMLs at North Mara.
The renewals are on the same terms and Overall, our key objectives for 2013 are: conditions as the previous licences and are both for a period of 15 years.
r achieving attributable Group production of between 540,000 The original SMLs were issued in February 2000 and had expired in 600,000ounces: September 2011, since which time the mine continued to operate on the same basis due to the rollover provisions contained in the Tanzanian r maintaining total cash cost including royalties of between US$925 Mining Act.
US$975 per ounce sold: r total capital expenditure of US$445 million, comprising US$100 million The life of mine footprint continues to be a challenge at North Mara of sustaining capital, US$210 million of capital development inclusive asland acquisition is increasingly expensive due to the high levels of ofdeferred stripping and US$135 million of expansion capital: speculation.
This has led to the ongoing suspension of operations in the r completing the Operational Review and implementing outcomes from Nyabirama pit.
We are engaging with local and central government in the process: order to find a solution.
During the year we received waste rock permits necessary for the immediate operations of the site and we continue to r substantially completing construction planned for the Bulyanhulu apply for permits to meet ongoing requirements.
CILExpansion: r obtaining Board approval for the Bulyanhulu Upper East Expansion: We continue to work with the relevant authorities to progress the lifting of r optimising Group throughput and recoveries: the Environmental Protection Order at North Mara in order to be able to discharge water.
NEMC, the environmental regulator, has recently visited r achieving growth in our overall resource base: the operation for a final review and we are now awaiting their approval.
r improving further our safety record: r continuing the development of our sustainability practices: and Outlook r continuing our disciplined focus on opportunities for strategic ABG enters 2013 with a high-quality portfolio of assets and significant acquisitions throughout Africa.
financial strength as a result of our net cash position of over US$400 million.
However, we did not generate acceptable returns from the Finally, I would like to thank all of my colleagues for their commitment, business in 2012 and with the production level forecast for this year we enthusiasm and hard work throughout what has been an important year need to implement efficiencies in our operating cost base as well as inthe development of our business.
I would also like to thank our Board applying capital more selectively to the business following the heavy for their unwavering support, their wise counsel and their commitment investment made over the past three years.
These objectives will form the throughout the year.
key pillars of our Operational Review, together with a detailed assessment of our life of mine plans to establish the optimal mining rates as we move forward.
Our operating environment has evolved substantially in recent years, as have our assets, and we need to ensure the organisation is properly set to maximise returns against this backdrop.
Greg Hawkins, At the mine level, our expectation is for broadly similar production levels Chief Executive Officer to 2012 at our Buzwagi and North Mara operations, with lower production at Bulyanhulu as we implement our recovery plan at the mine through the first half of the year and Tulawaka as it comes to the end of its life in the second quarter of the year.
As a result of our Operational Review, we are targeting reductions to our cash cost per ounce as we go through the year.
While we estimate the cash cost per ounce for the year, including royalties, will be between US$925- 975 per ounce sold including a reduction of US$120 per ounce sold due to a change in accounting for waste stripping IFRIC 20, we anticipate the run rate will be below this level by the end of the year.
