06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief Executives report Ultras robust business model and inherent agility, has enabled the Group to be positioned for growth Rakesh Sharma, Chief Executive The prime objective Executing the strategies for growth In June, Ultra acquired specialist UK cyber The Boards prime objective continues to To increase Ultras portfolio of specialist security companies Barron McCann be to outperform the market in terms of capabilities, the Group continues to invest Technology Limited and Barron McCann annual increases in shareholder value by over 5% of revenue in internal Payments Limited BeMac.
BeMac provides delivering above average increases in development.
This investment is to commercial-grade cryptographic and key earnings and by communicating effectively generate further specialist, differentiated management services to the UK with shareholders and the financial offerings in the niche market sectors Government, military, law enforcement community.
The Executive Team has the where customers preferentially focus their agencies and the finance sector.
BeMacs responsibility for developing and expenditure.
These activities are led by the proprietary products are accredited by implementing the strategies and plans that businesses and are robustly reviewed by CESG GCHQ, the UK governments will deliver against this prime objective.
the Executive Team and the Board.
national technical authority for secure electronic communications.
BeMac has Ultras strategic framework In parallel, Ultra continues to invest in been integrated into Ultras AEP Networks The strategic framework, pictured below, is value adding acquisitions which bring business to form a centre of excellence for focused on ensuring that Ultra meets its complementary, world-leading niche baseline and enhanced-grade cryptographic prime objective.
This is achieved through technologies and market access to the and secure communication products and the strategies for growth which are Groups portfolio.
This business is also part of Ultras described on pages 8 and 9 allied with three specialist businesses.
In May the Tactical & Sonar Systems division.
the business model described on pages Group acquired GigaSat, a UK company 12 to 17.
Underpinning these are Ultras that develops, manufactures, sells and In August the Group acquired RFI, a strategic tenets described on pages 18 supports xed, mobile and transportable specialist US electronic component and 19 which help to shape and define satellite earth stations, or satcom company that manufactures high-voltage, the values and behaviors embodied within terminals.
Their products and services are power conversion sub-systems and a Ultras culture.
Ultras culture is described provided to the military, government and variety of other products designed for on pages 36 and 37. commercial markets around the world.
industrial, military and commercial GigaSat is part of Ultras Tactical & Sonar applications.
RFI has been integrated into Systems division.
Ultras EMS business and is a part of Ultras Information & Power Systems division.
Objective Delivered Underpinned through by Strategies for growth Strategic tenets see page 08 see page 18 To outperform the market in terms of annual increases in shareholder return Robust business model Culture see page 12 see page 36 40.0 38.5 34.6 31.2 26.0 124.5 120.2 107.9 96.4 80.1 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Underlying earnings per share Dividend per share 124.5p 40.0p KPI 3.6% 3.9% 2011: 120.2p 2011: 38.5p 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 The four main strategies for growth are: Augment the number of long-term Increase the Groups platforms and Broaden the Groups Widen Ultras portfolio of specialist programmes on customer base geographic footprint capability areas which Ultras specialist capabilities are specified As a consequence of this continuous Building and sustaining Executing against the growth strategies, investment, the Groups 28 businesses now long-term relationships shown above, requires consistency of cover more than 180 specialist capability The ability to execute these strategies management focus and drive.
The areas across Ultras core markets of successfully is entirely reliant upon the continuity of Ultras management team defence, security, transport and energy.
Ultras reputation as a ensures that the expertise and experience This broad diversity gives significant global leader in electronics and software is retained to maintain growth momentum resilience to Ultras financial performance for defence, security, transport and energy in the Group.
The members of the and drives the Groups growth momentum.
applications is built on the endeavours of Executive Team understand through its exceptional employees and their ability experience what makes Ultra different and Augmenting this wide diversity of capability to develop long term value adding how to focus the Groups businesses on is Ultras constant determination to relationships with customers.
In the current maintaining competitive advantage in the broaden its customer base and to widen its climate of changing market dynamics, it is various specialist market sectors in which geographical footprint.
Both of these even more important that the Group Ultra operates.
activities are carried out in a measured and continues to differentiate itself through its controlled manner with due consideration Summary behaviours and attitudes.
New markets and geographical Early recognition of current changes in Ultra has developed a number of internal sectors take time to enter and Ultra has market dynamics, coupled with Ultras initiatives and tools that help it gain a therefore made the strategic decision to robust business model and inherent agility, better understanding of customers real focus its resources in a prioritised number has enabled the Group to be positioned needs and hence improve its ability to offer of regions and sectors with high growth for growth in these challenging times.
Ultra, as an independent, I am confident that Ultra is extremely well solutions.
One of these key initiatives is non-threatening partner, is able to support placed to execute successfully the LAUNCH: see page 36. all of the main prime contractors and local strategies and plans to meet the Boards industry partners with its unique Underpinning all of Ultras behaviours is prime objective.
Ultra is therefore a strong ethical policy that is mandatory well positioned to bring its specialised for all employees across the entire Group.
equipment, systems and services to new In addition to educating employees on long-term platforms and programmes in anti-bribery and corruption policies, new markets and regions.
Further details including gifts and hospitality practices, the on Ultras robust business model can be training also gives guidance on identifying found on pages 12 to 17. warning ags to ensure potential issues are raised immediately and can be dealt with appropriately.
In the period Ultra decided not to pursue business in certain areas Rakesh Sharma where its ethical standards might be at risk.
Chief Executive KPI Key Performance Indicator, see pages 10 and 11 for details 7.
