Unilever transformation on track Despite commodity cost increases of over 1.5 billion, and the heavy investments CHIEF Our prediction that 2012 would be another made in supporting our brands, growth challenging year for the global economy was profitable, with 0.3% improvement EXECUTIVE turned out to be accurate.
We saw in core operating margin to 13.8%.
continued volatility in the worlds markets resulting in commodity cost rises High impact innovations, rolled out OFFICERS significantly in excess of expectations.
globally at speed, continue to be key The threat of the worlds largest economy growth drivers.
With the addition of REVIEW going over a fiscal cliff and the euro Magnum and Sunsilk last year, we now crisis added uncertainty and undermined have 14 brands with sales of more than fragile consumer confidence.
1 billion a year, and these brands accounted for almost 50% of Unilevers Overall it is a bi-polar economic world growth in 2012.
We delivered on our one of sluggish growth in most developed white space market strategy too.
The markets contrasted by still relatively launch of TRESemm in Brazil last year healthy consumption and growth in was one of Unilevers most successful emerging markets.
ever, adding almost 150 million in turnover.
Simultaneously we are facing challenges to the worlds social and environmental We continue to strengthen our portfolio, equilibrium.
Growing issues of inequality thanks to strategic acquisitions since 2011 and rising levels of unemployment in Personal Care including Sara Lee, especially among young people place Alberto Culver and Kalina in Russia added strains on social cohesion.
But the and disposal of several slower-growing biggest challenge is the continuing threat businesses, notably in Foods.
This to planetary boundaries, resulting in combination added over 1% to turnover 1 Paul Polman extreme weather patterns and growing growth in 2012.
Chief Executive Officer resource constraints.
These have an increasing impact on our business.
The delivery of the Compass strategy and the embedding of the USLP are not Volatility and uncertainty only benefiting citizens and communities the new normal but also shareholders who have seen a 1 We remain convinced that businesses Total Shareholder Return TSR of close that both address the direct concerns of to 100% over the past four years.
citizens and the needs of the environment will prosper over the long term.
Companies The year ahead need to show leadership to rebuild citizens We expect 2013 and beyond to be as trust currently at an all time low.
We believe this thinking lies at the heart of the Unilever further validates our Compass strategy Sustainable Living Plan USLP and our with the USLP at its heart.
Re-establishing Compass vision of doubling the business trust with citizens and meeting the needs of while reducing our environmental footprint society will be the keys to ongoing success.
and increasing our positive social impact.
Our brands should be a force for good in As it becomes embedded, there is growing addressing global challenges be it access evidence that it is also accelerating our to water, hygiene and sanitation or growth.
It certainly contributed to another sustainable and nutritious food.
strong year for Unilever in 2012.
For example, the Lifebuoy handwashing Strong business performance in 2012 campaigns target one of the biggest Turnover increased by 10.5%, taking killers of children under five diarrhoea.
Unilever through the 50 billion barrier, Domestos is helping improve sanitation a significant milestone to becoming an in some of the most impoverished parts 80 billion company.
We have grown by of the world through a combination of nearly 30% in just four years.
Growth was educational programmes and simply the broad based across all our markets and building of toilets.
Pureit is bringing safe categories and high quality, with a good drinking water to an increasing number balance of price and volume.
Dove is addressing one of the markets continued to be the prime engine, biggest issues facing adolescent girls growing for the second consecutive year around the world, self-esteem.
Through by more than 11% and now accounting for our sustainable sourcing programmes, 55% of total business.
Rainforest Alliance certification of Lipton tea and Knorrs Sustainability Partnership Growth was ahead of our markets, with Fund, we are helping to improve the approximately 60% of the business gaining livelihoods of farmers and helping to share.
Personal Care and Home Care guarantee future supplies.
As our ambitions showed double digit growth, in line with are high, working in partnership with others our strategic priorities.
4 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 ABOUT UNILEVER GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION UNILEVER LEADERSHIP EXECUTIVE ULE 2 Doug Baillie Chief Human Resources Officer 3 David Blanchard Chief Category Research & Development Officer 4 Professor Genevive Berger Chief Science Officer 5 Kevin Havelock Refreshment 6 Jean-Marc Hut Chief Financial Officer 2 3 4 7 Alan Jope North Asia 8 Kees Kruythoff North America 9 Dave Lewis Personal Care 10 Harish Manwani Chief Operating Officer 11 Antoine fide Saint-Affrique Foods 12 Pier Luigi Sigismondi Chief Supply Chain Officer 5 6 7 13 Ritva Sotamaa Chief Legal Officer 14 Keith Weed Chief Marketing and Communication Officer 15 Jan Zijderveld Europe 2012 HIGHLIGHTS 8 9 10 Our business model Our Compass strategy with the USLP at its heart contributed to another strong year for Unilever.
50 billion We added nearly 5 billion of turnover in 2012, pushing through the 50 billion mark 11 12 13 in the process.
Driving growth Emerging markets now account for 55% of our business.
1 billion brands We have 14 brands with sales of more than 1 billion a year.
Board member Business with purpose Re-establishing trust with For ULE biographies, 14 15 please see page 43. citizens and meeting the needs of society will be the keys to ongoing success.
Our evolving business model named sector leader in the Dow Jones work of our 173,000 colleagues and many With scale comes responsibility so Sustainability Indexes for the 14th partners around the world.
They are we must continue to play a leadership consecutive year: listed as the worlds demonstrating the power of purpose, role in seeking solutions for global fifth most desired company to work for making Unilever again fit to win.
transformational issues like climate by LinkedIn: and recognised for our work change, food security and poverty on diversity by The Catalyst organisation.
This is why I agreed to join We are proud now to be seen as the the UN Secretary Generals High Level preferred employer in many of the key Panel to review the post-2015 Millennium markets in which we operate.
We are on track to become a sustainable Our approach is gaining widespread growth company.
But this would not be Paul Polman external recognition.
We were again possible without the dedication and hard Chief Executive Officer Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Report of the Directors About Unilever 5
