Overview Message from our Chief Executive The listing of Vesuvius plc on the London Stock Exchange, followed by the Our primary demerger of Alent plc, was the dominant event of 2012 for our company.
objectives for The demerger process involved a heavy workload and occupied much of the the coming time of the corporate teams, but it did not affect the focus of the operational crews, who instead had to cope with a downturn in their markets, which two years will started around the middle of the year.
This led to major restructuring to adapt our cost structure and increase the flexibility of our business.
be to retain a strong balance Meanwhile the new strategy for Vesuvius, involving an increased focus on providing technical services, principally to the steel and foundry industries, sheet, to restore was presented to the investment community during the demerger process and was well received.
We have a focused Board with a number of new our margins, Directors, and clearly stated objectives the longterm future is very to grow our promising.
presence in THE EMERGENCE OF VESUVIUS PLC Vesuvius is a global leader in metal casting engineering.
Our profitable China and business model derives from a presence across the world at all major to develop customers facilities.
Vesuvius has established with them over the years a relationship of trust and partnership based on the true value we create our strategy in our customers processes with our unique technological product and service offering.
dedicated to providing This relationship of trust is essential, as we provide products and solutions that are on the critical path of the molten metal casting process superior with considerable impact on the safe and efficient performance of our customers plants.
technical services for Our new existence as an independent company allows us to concentrate our considerable assets and talented workforce on the development of this the steel service offering to our customers with a clear message and total focus.
Our strategy will be consistent and clear and our commitment to it will now be and foundry more evident to our customers, as well as to our shareholders.
Our business is well prepared to cope with the cyclicality of our endFRANOIS WANECQ, markets.
While market growth rates were high for nearly a decade up CHIEF EXECUTIVE to 2009, recent years have been more varied.
Nonetheless, Vesuvius has been able to exceed the underlying growth rates of its end-markets over the longterm.
This is due to our unique technological offering that brings value to our customers process and allows us to make continuous improvements to the consumable products and related systems which we supply.
To a certain extent, our customers are more in need of our market-leading solutions when the market conditions they face are more challenging, as we ultimately bring more efficient and therefore more cost-effective solutions to our customers.
com Stock Code: VSVS 09 Message from our Chief Executive continued GROUP 2012 MARKET EVOLUTION also activated many flexible employment agreements REVENUE After a promising start to the year, when the which had been negotiated following the crisis m prospects of our steel and foundry end-markets of 2008 2009 to reduce employment costs whilst appeared positive, by June there were clear signs avoiding the permanent loss of skilled workers.
1,686 that the economy was weakening.
Whilst many 1,548 commentators suggested this was due to a shortDuring the same period, we reduced capital 1,495 term inventory adjustment, we saw in September expenditure and developed a Group-wide programme 1,392 a clear deterioration that led us to reduce our of inventory reductions that has allowed us to reduce 1,131 expectations for the full year.
The downturn was our net working capital in the year.
Cost control particularly marked in Foundry and was principally and cash generation will remain at the centre of related to the weakness of the car market in Europe our management actions in 2013 to maintain our and the truck market globally.
As expected, steel flexibility and restore our margins.
markets slowed down as well.
Overall, for the entire year, world steel production increased marginally, OVERVIEW OF GROUP RESULTS 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 as it did in 2011: however, the geographic split of With the trading results of Alent and the Precious world steel production since 2008 has now stabilised Metals Processing division being reported as in three distinct groups: China, which has grown by discontinued operations for 2012, Group revenue GROUP 40% since 2008: Europe and NAFTA, which declined from continuing operations in 2012 of 1,548 million TRADING PROFIT by close to 20% over the same period: and the rest was 8% lower than 2011 on an as reported basis m of the world, which has stayed around the same level and 4% lower on an underlying basis, which adjusts 183.5 as seen in 2008. for the SERT and Metallurgica acquisitions in 2011 176.8 170.8 and 2012 respectively, the sale in 2012 of the lowTHE SOLAR MARKET margin Andreco-Hurll business and foreign exchange 133.0 During 2012 the market for the production of differences.
The underlying decline in revenue reflects solar panels did not recover.
Whilst the installation the marked slowdown in trading in the second of solar panels around the world, especially in half of the year, when steel production in the key Germany, continued at a high level, the inventories markets of the EU and North America fell by almost accumulated in previous years and the overcapacity 10% compared to the first half: but also reflects 60.6 affecting all segments of the supply chain have the ongoing strategy to exit lower-margin business continued to weigh on prices for the moderate and a 2% reduction due to further erosion in Solar volumes of Solar Crucibles sold.
In addition, the Crucibles revenue.
2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 substantial reduction of government subsidies for Headline performance renewable energy projects is expected to act as a Trading profit from continuing operations of drag on the market going forward.
Furthermore, the 133.0 million was 27% lower than that reported decrease of energy prices in the USA due to increased in 2011, reflecting the lower revenues, Solar shale gas availability may discourage the appetite for Crucible losses and increased bad debts.
Without renewable energy supplies in the USA and elsewhere.
Solar Crucibles and the higher bad debt charge, As a result of these various market forces, early in the reduction would have been 16%.
The Groups 2013 the Board decided regretfully to exit the Solar reported return on sales margin from continuing Crucible business.
A RAPID ADAPTATION TO MARKET CHANGES A NEW STRATEGIC INITIATIVE When the first signs of a slowdown began In November we presented to the investor appearing in June, we prepared an action plan that community our ambitions for Vesuvius plc, with a was triggered in September when the continued strategy designed to deliver superior returns to our downward trend was confirmed.
During the last four shareholders built around five key objectives: months of 2012 we closed or sold five plants three manufacturing Solar Crucibles, and two in the Steel maintaining our existing technology leadership division and secured the sale of one low-margin position: construction business.
Headcount was reduced by enlarging our addressable market through the 850 close to 8% in the second half of the year: we penetration of product and service solutions: Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 10 Overview leveraging our strong positions in developing aligned with our future strategic direction.
We are now in 2012 REVENUE markets to capture growth: the process of disposing of this business to Possehl mbH, BY CUSTOMER LOCATION for whom the business will be more complementary.
This improving cost leadership and margins: will leave Vesuvius with a much clearer focus on its core building a comprehensive offering in metal areas of technological leadership and end-markets, with casting engineering: the objective to grow as the global leader in metal casting solutions and services.
and to achieve these whilst maintaining a rigorous focus on cash flow generation.
OUTLOOK We currently expect the trading environment during the This strategy is being rigorously implemented, as first half of 2013 to be broadly similar to that experienced evidenced by a number of recent developments.
For in the second half of 2012, with some improvement in example, we will be building three new research n EUROPE 33% general market conditions anticipated later in the year.
centres in the next two years in Pittsburgh, US, n ASIA-PACIFIC 29% Enschede, the Netherlands and Visakhaptnam, India.
n NAFTA 25% Following the significant restructuring of our operations n ROW 13% and disposals, we anticipate that Group revenue in 2013 We have also recently succeeded in achieving the will be lower than in 2012.
The expected disposal of first industrial installation of our innovative robotic Precious Metals Processing will enable Vesuvius to focus tundish technology in Hyundai Korea and we have 2012 REVENUE primarily on the steel and foundry markets.
already introduced 12 of our Initek systems, for the BY OPERATING LOCATION computer-controlled inoculation of ductile iron, since We have undertaken a range of self-help actions bringing this new technology concept to market to adjust our business to the current trading globally in 2010. environment and to increase our operational flexibility.
We expect the benefits of these actions In China, we have completely reorganised our to start to drive a recovery in our trading margins local structure to give more autonomy to our local towards the end of 2013. management and to accelerate expansion whilst at the same time developing a business model based Our primary objectives for the coming two years on the superior quality and performance with which will be to retain a strong balance sheet, to restore Vesuvius has succeeded in all other parts of the our margins, to grow our presence in China and to n EUROPE 41% world.
In Brazil and in the Middle East we have develop our strategy dedicated to providing superior n NAFTA 25% gained significant market share.
technical services for the steel and foundry industries.
n ASIA-PACIFIC 23% n ROW 11% Furthermore, we have reduced our cost base and improved our productivity through a Group-wide Headline performance Lean Manufacturing initiative.
FRANOIS WANECQ Chief Executive Overall, we are building a strategy directed towards 28 March 2013 providing superior technical services for the steel and foundry industries based on our constant presence at customers sites, our intimate knowledge of all processes industry-wide and our growing expertise in real time data capture and interpretation.
This fundamental business initiative is aimed at developing the Group to be less capital-intensive and with better margins, putting technology leadership at the core of everything we do.
PRECIOUS METALS PROCESSING We have been exiting businesses that are not core to our strategy Precious Metals Processing comes into that definition.
It is a good business, with healthy market positions and a strong management team, but it is not www.
Vesuvius plc Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 12
