Directors Report: Review of the year Chief Executives Strategic Review Keith Cochrane The Group has developed and enhanced its market presence in 2012, resulting in a good financial performance despite facing challenging conditions in upstream pressure-pumping markets.
This highlights the many levers available to the Group to create sustainable, profitable growth, with some key themes underpinning our 2012 performance: the strategic focus on broadening our product portfolio and offering this through an expanding sales and service network: the pace of new product introduction: the ability to successfully integrate acquisitions and quickly realise benets: and, exing capacity and leveraging the Groups collective skills and supply chain.
Behind all these factors stands the contribution of Weirs 14,000 employees.
I thank them all for their efforts this year.
Our markets in 2012 An uncertain macro-economic environment in 2012 contributed to commodity price volatility, with mixed conditions in Weirs principal end markets.
In mining, emerging market commodity demand continued to grow, supporting ore production and historically high levels of capital spending.
Despite second half customer caution on commitments to new greeneld projects due to lower commodity prices, existing committed projects continued, with strong ore production levels, particularly in those commodities to which Weir has greatest exposure, such as copper and gold.
A softer market for iron ore and coal in the final six months of 2012 impacted projects in Australia and Brasil.
In oil and gas, North American upstream markets were challenging as US natural gas prices fell heavily in the first quarter and remained at historically low levels for the full year, prompting a switch from dry gas to oil and liquids rich shale formations, resulting in a low double digit decline in US onshore rig count with a rising oil-focused rig count partially offsetting the large reduction in dry gas rigs.
Lower pressure-pumping market demand, combined with forward ordering in late 2011 in anticipation of higher activity levels, resulted in excess frac pump capacity A DEVELOPED AND ENHANCED PRESENCE 12 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 1 Revenue Operating profit I 2,538m 486m 11% 18% II III IV with aftermarket demand also affected by over capacity This financial performance was underpinned by good as well as lower utilisation rates and falling frac intensities.
project activity in key mining equipment markets, The pressure control market, where Seaboard operates, particularly South America and Africa, despite a South remained strong in the first half of the year, albeit activity African market affected by industrial unrest.
Sales grew slowed slightly in the second half as rig count fell in the of the Minerals divisions broader product portfolio, US and Canada.
Outside North America there were early enhanced during the year by the development of our signs of encouraging growth in international pressureown screens range and new product introductions, pumping markets and Middle East service markets were including the innovative Multio Highwall dewatering buoyant as Saudi Arabia increased production and the pump.
In Oil & Gas, despite the challenges in North refurbishment of Iraqs oilelds continued.
Power markets American pressure-pumping markets, Seaboard remained mixed, with global nuclear activity subdued as performed well in the pressure control markets and Middle post-Fukushima safety reviews concluded.
The low price East Service operations delivered a strong performance.
for US natural gas has provided impetus to new gas red We also saw the first benets from the restructuring of power projects in North America while opportunities in the the downstream business.
Despite a relatively subdued hydro renewables market improved in the later stages of global power sector, strategic momentum in the Power the year.
General industrial activity remained subdued in & Industrial division delivered strong input, output and Europe and North America.
2012 performance We continued to invest in our growth plans during 2012, Overall order input in constant currency was down carefully targeting those areas with potential for strongest 2% with original equipment input down 13% as the fall short and medium term returns.
At the same time, we in demand for frac pumps was offset by procurement have implemented cost reduction measures in certain for greeneld and browneld mining projects and areas without jeopardising the ability of the business to a first contribution from the Seaboard and Novatech capture longer term growth opportunities when markets acquisitions.
Aftermarket input was up 9%, reecting improve.
Capital expenditure of 116m supported plans strong production levels in mining markets and market to expand foundry capacity in Minerals and aftermarket share gains across a broader aftermarket-focused component production and servicing in Oil & Gas.
product portfolio in minerals and oil and gas markets.
In Power & Industrial, we invested in a new aftermarket facility for the hydro business in Montreal.
Group revenues were up 12% on a constant currency basis while the proportion of revenues from aftermarket Working capital levels this year have been higher than sales increased to 55% with strong organic Minerals those targeted at the beginning of 2012.
A number of revenue growth offsetting the revenue impact of North factors contributed to a build-up of inventory, the largest American pressure-pumping markets.
The Group being the rapid change in North American pressureproduced another record profits performance in line with pumping markets.
To address this, initiatives were our mid-year guidance, illustrating the resilience of our launched in the second half of the year, with significant business model and diverse end market focus.
Operating benets expected to be seen in the next year.
Despite margins improved due to the revenue mix, continued this, free cash ow from continuing operations was 62m operational efficiencies and effective cost control as well and our return on capital employed was broadly at on as reacting quickly to changing market conditions by a like for like basis.
Our balance sheet remains strong realigning capacity and reducing headcount in those and we retain the financial exibility to pursue organic businesses most affected.
We delivered on the key and acquisition opportunities in line with our strategy.
priorities set out 12 months ago, expanding our reach and improving capabilities across the Group.
Continuing operations adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangibles amortisation.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 13 Directors Report: Review of the year Chief Executives Strategic Review continued PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION WORLDWIDE Better pump performance Processing and pumping abrasive material such as mining slurry needs to be carried out as effectively as possible.
This reduces the prospect At the Weir Advanced Research of unplanned maintenance, Centre, our engineers are working minimises power use and alongside leading University of enhances throughput for Strathclyde academics to develop customers.
A number of variables and apply the optimum CFD codes affect this pressure and velocity for slurry handling.
An important distribution of the fluid used and part of the process involves the internal geometry of the closely monitoring equipment pumps and associated equipment.
in the laboratory and in the field to validate the differences in For a number of years, performance.
Through this computational fluid dynamics fundamental research, Weir CFD has proven effective when believes this will create the most water is used in informing the accurate code to date for software design of pumping equipment.
that helps to design and produce However, existing CFD software ever greater efficiency and proves to be less accurate performance for our customers.
in measuring what happens to fluids within pumping plant when handling slurry.
BETTER PUMP PERFORMANCE A QUESTION OF CRACKING THE CODE 14 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II III IV Driving growth The Weir Way The Group has successfully pursued its strategic priorities during the year, strengthening our ability to become a partner of choice for our global customer base.
We have integrated Seaboard and Novatech into the Oil & Gas division, with both businesses performing well in challenging market conditions.
Seaboard supports our strategy of diversifying the Groups upstream exposure to pressure-pumping into an adjacent market which will also benefit from the long term growth prospects for unconventional production.
Growth opportunities for Seaboard have been validated and the product range is already being taken to international markets.
The management team has been strengthened with senior additions to deliver on these opportunities.
At the end of the calendar year, we extended our pressure control presence in the drilling phase of the well lifecycle through the acquisition of Mathena, Inc. Flow control production capacity was added at Weir SPM, with the development of a bundled product offering gaining traction in the second half of the year.
An initial phase of planned foundry expansion increases our ability to serve global minerals and oil sands markets with capacity additions underway at our European foundry centre in the UK.
The innovation framework developed in the last two years continues to bring new products to market.
The highlight in 2012 has been the five new products launched for oil and gas customers, increasing our addressable market by some US$500m and leveraging market-leading technology from all our divisions into the North American upstream oil and gas sector.
Value chain excellence In this years report, value chain excellence is recognised as the fourth pillar driving Weirs growth.
This acknowledges its critical importance in helping the Group achieve its strategic objectives as we increasingly focus on replicating the strong progress made in the continuous improvement of our operational performance across all areas of the organisation.
This year, good progress has been made on supply chain and procurement initiatives and the ongoing development of the people who work for Weir.
While more needs to be done as we continue to strive for zero accident workplaces, a strong improvement was also made in our safety performance this year.
Gavin Nicol, Director of Operations Support and Development, and Pauline Lafferty, Director of Human Resources, provide more details on pages 20 to 23.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 15 Directors Report: Review of the year Chief Executives Strategic Review continued PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION WORLDWIDE Collaboration in action The Gladiator Slurry Pump is the latest proof of what can happen when our divisions collaborate to focus pooled technological expertise on the needs of customers in one specic market.
These are the first pumps of Using similar technology to that equipment life in the worlds their type produced by Weir for which has been used to great harshest mining environments.
frac operations, blending and success in our market-leading Compared to known slurry pumps, transferring a slurry mixture of pumping products used in mining the new hydrodynamic design also water, gel and proppant.
While applications, they enhance our extends the life of the critical wear developed for the oil and gas presence across the oil and gas components as well as making industry, these pumps owe surface equipment market, directly the pump more robust and easy to their technological competitive plugging in to our existing product operate.
Conceived and delivered advantage to the decades of footprint across the frac site.
through collaboration between the expertise in slurry applications Oil & Gas and Minerals divisions developed in our Minerals division.
The wear resistant spare parts of the Weir Group, we believe that of the Gladiator Slurry Pump are the Gladiator Slurry Pump can offer manufactured using the same customers a longer operational life alloy materials which are already than existing alternatives.
proven to significantly extend The Gladiator Slurry Pump COLLABORATION IN ACTION THE GLADIATOR SLURRY PUMP 16 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II III IV Innovation Investment in research and development increased by 26% to 23m as the Group continues to invest in a pipeline of new products and product enhancements for our markets.
The Group has led around 40 patent applications this year, matching last years record number of new invention lings.
In addition, in 2012 a number of collaborations have been formed with external companies to extend the technical capabilities of the Group.
Our innovation efforts reinforce the critical sources of our technological advantage, chiey the intellectual property associated with developing wear and pressure resistant materials, engineered hydraulics and, increasingly, technology that enables our customers to more effectively plan maintenance requirements.
Taken together, this technology focus addresses key factors affecting our customers operational performance in Weirs end markets.
Across the Group, we have a product and technology development organisation to meet both short and long term strategic business objectives.
Shorter term product development activity, with a time horizon of one to two years, is carried out at our many worldwide Design Centres of Origin, where a specic product family is continuously developed.
Core technology platforms, such as materials development, are the focus of our global technology centres.
Finally, fundamental research work is carried out at the Weir Advanced Research Centre WARC in Glasgow, as well as at various universities worldwide.
Our global technology centres have continued to focus on improved materials for our markets and more efficient and robust pump design.
At WARC, good progress has been made on a major project that seeks to minimise wear, corrosion and erosion, increasing our understanding and helping to identify optimum solutions across manufacturing, materials selection, surface treatment and application processes and yielding patent pending technology related to uid end design, a key component used in pressure-pumping.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 17 Directors Report: Review of the year Chief Executives Strategic Review continued PARTNERS IN PRODUCTION WORLDWIDE From country to continent During 2012, the Power & Industrial business developed a strategic relationship with Minerals colleagues in South Africa, taking its products from a single country, power sector focus to growing sales across the African continent and to customers in other sectors.
Traditionally, the business had Participation in sales conferences, Development of this broadened focused on power industry training and joint marketing capability has seen input from customers close to its facility initiatives have all supported this Power & Industrial South Africa in Johannesburg but dialogue effort and the Power & Industrial increasing by almost 30% and between the two divisions in service centre in South Africa output by nearly 70% in 2012.
South Africa resulted in the is now located on the Minerals The business will continue to Minerals sales team promoting divisions Middelburg site where harness the Weir resources Power & Industrials range of the facilities work hand-in-hand.
that exist across the region as it valves.
Weir Minerals boasts wide expands into new geographical geographical coverage across the Tapping into the Groups broad territories and industries.
African continent, with access to capability in Africa has also a greater number of customers.
Power & Industrial is Cross-selling has benefited both now part of a bigger entity with divisions.
Minerals has successfully stock and inventory management introduced BDK industrial valves transferred to Weir Minerals, to the mining industry, while Power meaning greater buying power & Industrial has secured orders and resource utilisation across for Isogate slurry valves from local the two businesses.
FROM COUNTRY TO CONTINENT GLOBAL CAPABILITY DELIVERS RESULTS FOR P&I 18 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 I II III IV Collaboration Outlook Providing engineering solutions works best when Across the medium term, the Group is positioned to delivered in partnership with customers.
Weir seeks to benefit from the growth prospects of our end markets achieve this by ensuring that the structures are in place despite an uncertain global economic environment: to ensure all our end markets benefit from pooling the Demand for the nite resources of minerals and oil and full potential of each of our divisions.
During 2012 we gas is underpinned by the continuing population growth have focused effort on reducing operational costs and and industrialisation of major developing economies.
complexity for customers, recognising the impact of more Development of the worlds unconventional oil and gas challenging economic conditions on their businesses.
resources will provide greater energy security for many This has translated into a number of responses: providing countries and support industrial competitiveness.
greater depth of service and expertise closer to where Power infrastructure in both the developed and it is needed to ensure minimum operational disruption: developing world will require refurbishment and creating new delivery models to suit customer budgets, replacement due to environmental concerns and such as equipment rental contracts: and putting ageing plant, with new build power stations required customers and Weir engineers together at an early stage to address predicted structural power shortages as we develop new products, with extensive eld testing in developing markets.
carried out during the year, enabling first-hand customer feedback.
Weir has also assisted clients in building skills In 2013, we aim to grow ahead of our end markets by: capacity, for example working with Shell-operated PDO continuing to enhance supply chain performance to Oman to upgrade and manage their workshops, with increase customer responsiveness and benefit from Weir mentors training young Omanis to gain professional Group leverage: certication.
Divisional collaboration efforts have also capturing North American and international pressure underpinned successful realignment of capacity in the US.
control growth opportunities: Our Excellence Committees continue to serve the Group extending Minerals presence in comminution markets: well, with functional cross-divisional teams ensuring the implementing and driving growth through an dissemination of best practice in those areas fundamental integrated global valves platform: to strategic delivery: engineering, procurement, talent delivering an enhanced IT platform to support development and environment, health and safety.
collaboration: improving working capital performance to Global capability enhance returns.
The Group has continued to grow its worldwide presence, ensuring that our ability to partner with In 2013, despite more challenging markets, the Group customers wherever our solutions are needed is not will continue to deliver profitable growth through new constrained by capacity, expertise or technology.
product introductions and a range of operational initiatives.
Investment began this year to expand Minerals foundry Assuming a gradual economic and end market improvement, capacity, providing a stronger manufacturing presence we expect to deliver low single digit revenue growth and in every key global mining market and enhancing broadly stable margins in 2013 with lower first half profits customer lead times.
Our aftermarket activities continue offset by growth in the second half.
Alongside substantially to be supported by a growing service network, which higher cash generation the Group plans the eighth now numbers more than 150 facilities, with additions consecutive year of double digit dividend growth.
As well as adding new locations to this network, investment has been made in machining, tooling and technology to deepen our aftermarket Keith Cochrane capabilities, offering customers greater support and Chief Executive further developing our competitive advantage.
Product 27 February 2013 localisation has been a strong feature of the year, with two examples being Weir International South Koreas contribution to the development of a global valves platform and the production in India of our own mechanical seals range.
Across the Group, effective use has been made by all divisions of the shared global footprint, with Minerals facilities in South Africa and Australia being successfully used by Power & Industrial to gain a strong foothold in these markets.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2012 19 not live image
