4 Business and strategy review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Chief Executives business and strategy review Dalton Philips Chief Executive Our strategic objectives Page 12 How our KPIs link to our strategy Page 26 See our report visit: www.
co. uk corporate ar2012 Operational highlights This has been Morrisons best year yet, with another good financial Customer numbers performance and growth ahead of up 0.4m per week the market.
Customers were having a tough time, but we responded with Market share a new M savers brand for budget % 12.8 conscious shoppers, promotions that customers understood, and industry Stores opened including one replacement leading service.
37 We know that 2012 will be tough, Gross profit and we will be working hard to deliver % even better value for our customers.
1,217m up 6 At the same time, we have ambitious Average basket spend plans for the long term development of the business, through new 22.67 supermarkets, convenience stores and the development of our multi-channel capabilities.
Source: Kantar Worldpanel Source: ONS Economic & Fiscal Outlook, OBR, November 2011 Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 5 Turnover analysis Like-for-like Other 2011 12 2010 11 stores sales Total Total In-store m 13,112 324 13,436 12,937 Fuel m 4,009 30 4,039 3,426 Other sales m 188 188 116 Total turnover ex-VAT m 17,121 542 17,663 16,479 In-store sales Sales per square foot 21.05 12.83 20.74 20.80 Customer numbers per week m 11.0 0.4 11.4 11.0 Customer spend 22.82 17.69 22.67 22.67 Business and strategy review Inflationary effects took their toll on disposable incomes during 2011 12 was another good year for Morrisons.
Against the year, with the unwelcome impact of high oil prices feeding the backdrop of a difficult environment for the consumer, through, not just at the petrol pumps, but also throughout the our unique fresh, quality and value offer made Morrisons supply chain.
Other core commodities increased in price too, a natural destination and more customers visited our stores adding to the pressure.
Market prices for beef and lamb rose than ever before.
We continued to improve our financial by 15% and 11% respectively over the year, and average wheat performance whilst investing for future growth.
The increase in fuel prices alone reduced our customers disposable income by some 600m, Turnover growth income that could otherwise have been spent in our stores.
Total turnover was 17.7bn, an increase of 1.2bn 7%.
In this environment, consumers looked around for value and Our store sales excluding fuel grew by 3.9% to 13.4bn, found it at Morrisons, where our sharp pricing, supported with a record 11.4m customers coming into our stores each by innovative promotions, was welcomed by customers.
Sales from new stores contributed 2.1% of our total growth.
Like-for-like sales grew by 1.8%, customer numbers We maintain a prudent approach to adding new space to our were up by 1.3% and average basket spend up 0.6%.
Whilst estate and only approve investments that meet the required sales growth was strongest in London and the South East, financial hurdle rate.
As a result, our space opening programme, we were pleased with our sales performance in all regions whilst being ahead of our published targets, was less, in relative of the country.
terms, than our major competitors.
Despite this, with good like-for-like sales, we maintained our market share.
For the second year in a row, consumers were faced with increases in the price of oil, exacerbated by ongoing Sterling Throughout the year, we noted the rise of the professional weaknesses.
With unleaded prices at the pump up by 15.4p shopper, with customers taking time to shop around and look per litre and diesel increasing by 18.5p, motorists were paying very carefully at pricing and offers in order to search out value.
an average of 15% more per litre at the pump than they This trend played to Morrisons strengths.
Our value proposition did last year.
The demand for fuel is relatively inelastic of everyday low prices, coupled with industry leading offers, and, whilst motorists continue to use their cars in times of and the flexibility of our vertical integration enabled us to meet austerity, they take time to shop around for the best deals, our customers need for great fresh food at affordable prices.
such as our Fuel Brittania programmes.
As a result, Offers such as our 49p produce deal and our two loaves of our volume sales increased by 4.8%.
Overall, like-for-like bread for 1 promotion helped our customers manage on tight fuel sales were up 18% in the year.
The market remained highly promotional, and our innovative promotions such as Pay Day Price Crunch and Morrisons Millions really caught the mood of the nation.
A clear strategy is in place that is delivering our objectives The strategy we have pursued, and the investment choices we have made, have set our business up to produce sustainable rates of growth.
6 Business and strategy review Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Chief Executives business and strategy review continued Operating results 2011 12 2010 11 Change Summary income statement m m % Turnover 17,663 16,479 7 Gross profit 1,217 1,148 6 Gross profit margin 6.9% 7.0% 0.1 Other operating income 86 80 8 Administrative expenses 329 323 2 Underlying operating profit 974 905 8 Property transactions 1 1 Operating profit 973 904 8 Operating profit margin 5.5% 5.5% Net finance charges 26 30 13 Taxation 257 242 6 Profit for the period 690 632 9 Gross profit grew by 6% to 1,217m during the year.
The gross Market overview profit margin was 6.9%, a fall of 10bps against last year due to The UK grocery market continues to operate in a very tough the increased proportion of low margin fuel sales in the mix this economic climate, with consumer confidence close to record year.
After cost of goods sold, the Groups two largest cost areas lows during the year.
In 2011, the market was worth 97bn, are store wages and distribution costs.
We continued to manage up by 4.2% on the previous year.
Whilst this appears to costs and improve efficiency in both areas whilst maintaining be solid growth, it should be noted that space growth was excellent standards and customer service levels.
As a result, approximately 4%, a historically high figure.
Within these we again improved our store labour costs relative to sales, figures, online grocery grew disproportionately, with 17% with in-store labour productivity up by 2.9%.
Distribution of UK adults buying food or groceries online, up from 10% productivity improved by 4.3%, reflecting the benefits of the three years ago.
The convenience market, which is measured investment we have made in systems improvement.
separately, grew 4.6% to 34bn in 2011, and is expected to continue growing at a faster rate than the traditional grocery Other operating income grew by 8% to 86m, primarily because market for some time to come.
Retail grocery volumes were flat in the year and it was inflation, Administrative expenses increased by 2%, well below the rate averaging 5.5% through the year, which drove growth.
CPI of profit and sales growth in the year.
This reflects the strong food inflation, as measured by the Office of National Statistics, cost control culture that exists throughout the business.
was above 6% for much of the year but started to come down through the last quarter, reaching 3.4% in January 2012.
Although the operating margin of 5.5% was in line with the prior Categories that saw particularly high inflation include oils years, the underlying result was an improvement of 20bps, after and fats 10%, coffee and tea 10%, and meat 6%.
adjusting for the increased proportion of low margin fuel sales.
Value at the forefront of shoppers minds Household incomes were squeezed throughout 2011, due to the previously mentioned commodity and energy price pressures, and also as a result of the Governments fiscal measures, particularly the rise in VAT to 20%.
Cost pressures ran well ahead of wage settlements, with the result that disposable incomes overall fell 2.3% in 2011.
A general unease about current and future expectations for the economy and for personal finances also saw shoppers managing more closely to a budget.
As a result, pricing and overall value have become increasingly important factors in purchasing decisions.
More shoppers now regard price as their first consideration when choosing between products, compared with a year ago, with almost seven out of ten now saying they make the majority of their grocery shopping decisions before they get to store.
This is an increase of 40% since 2008.
Promotions are increasingly important when shoppers are deciding which stores to shop at and what products to buy.
70% of shoppers say promotions play a very important role in determining which stores they shop in, compared to 64% of shoppers in December 2010.
The grocery retail market has responded to these customer needs through an increased weight of promotional activity on branded goods.
Additionally, retailer own brand sales, which carry a lower average unit price, have been performing more strongly than branded products as shoppers look for ways to manage their expenditure.
Source: IGD Source: IGD ShopperVista Source: Kantar Worldpanel Source: ONS Economic & Fiscal Outlook, OBR, November 2011 Business and strategy review Performance review Governance Financial statements Investor information Annual report and financial statements 2011 12 7 Strategy Our strategy reflects our view of how the market will evolve, In 2010, we outlined our vision to make Morrisons Different what will be most appealing to our customers and how we make and Better than Ever.
We are proud of what makes us different best use of our internal capabilities.
It is based on six convictions a distinctive offer to customers centred around fresh food, about the type of business that our customers want us to be.
craft skills and vertical integration through our manufacturing business: the way we lead and support our colleagues: and our 1 Food focused not generalist unique heritage.
Being different means building on these We want to be the number one destination in the UK for fresh advantages, which set us apart from all our competitors and food at outstanding value for money.
Fresh food is at the position us to win.
Being better than ever is about improving heart of the supermarket shopping experience and customers the way we do business doing more of the things that matter are seeking freshness, quality and provenance at great value for our customers making great food, offering outstanding as well as becoming more conscious about healthy eating.
service and being more efficient so we can pass on the best savings possible.
It also means seizing opportunities to grow Our manufacturing capabilities, unique craft skills, in-store the business profitably through new formats, channels and food preparation, flexible supply chain and farming links categories, to meet more of our existing customers needs all give us competitive advantage.
We will continue to build and to reach new customers.
on these to create a unique shopping experience offering customers the best fresh food in the UK, unrivalled value for money and fantastic service.
2 Experiential over purely functional Customers are seeking a deeper engagement with food and food shopping and moving away from a purely functional experience.
They want to see, touch and smell the food.
We want it to look different and feel different when customers shop at Morrisons.
3 Value is forever The world is changing but some things are for ever value is one of them.
This means offering an experience which is fun and frugal through a combination of great range, quality and service, combined with great prices on everyday products and industry leading deals.
We are already well known for delivering great value and we will keep this at the heart of our offer.
4 Skills not just drills Our great store colleagues are a competitive advantage we can build on.
Customer experience is driven by friendly, knowledgeable service delivered through a skilled and engaged workforce who are all committed to offering customers a fantastic shopping experience.
5 General merchandise clicks not bricks General merchandise is increasingly migrating online, and always from big box supermarkets and the traditional high street.
We believe therefore that the future for general merchandise is in clicks not bricks.
6 Multi-format, multi-channel We will serve the evolving needs of our customers by expanding into new channels and formats, tailoring Above our offer to suit the needs of different customers.
Fresh food with exceptional customer service is helping Better technology and busy lifestyles are changing the way us be better than ever.
Different customers in different locations want different products.
They shop using different channels, We have developed a clear set of strategic objectives to deliver going online, via kiosks and on their smartphones, and also our vision and strategy, these along with our 2011 12 initiatives visit different formats, doing their weekly shop in larger are set out on page 12.
KPIs and the risks to achieving our vision stores, topping up in convenience stores and seeking are set out on pages 26 to 29. out specific products or expertise in speciality stores.
To serve more customers, more of the time, we need to be multi-format and multi-channel, tailoring our offer to suit the needs of different customers.
