Wolseley plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief Executives review inthe USA.
Trading profit of 665 million In a year of slowing economic In summary 2010 11: 622million, which included growth and considerable 7million 2010 11: 26 million Like-for-like revenue uncertainty in the Eurozone, frombusinesses sold or held for sale, growth of 3.8 per cent.
Iampleased to report that 2011 12 was another decent year Further improvements During the year we continued to manage thebalance sheet conservatively.
Cash was in customer service.
Underpinning this tightly controlled enabling us to increase were three main factors: better capital expenditure to 135 million 2010 11: Trading margin customer service by our 93 million to ensure organic expansion of increased from 4.6 per the business.
We continue to place a great business units: continued likecent to 5.0 per cent.
deal of emphasis on driving strong cash for-like revenue growth trends generation with a particular focus on working particularly in the USA and Reduction in net debt capital discipline.
Operating cash ow by 568 million in Canada: and our ongoing continued to be strong at 747 million theyear.
focuson operational efficiency which has delivered further Group strategy and improvements in the trading businessmodel margin of40basis points, Our strategy remains unchanged.
We will despite challenging markets.
continue to extend our position in plumbing and heating and building materials Results distribution.
These are generally fragmented markets and the structural growth The Group delivered a good overall result opportunity is significant.
Our process against a backdrop of continued weak oftop-down resource allocation to those demand in Continental Europe and businesses which have or can achieve steadymarket conditions in the USA market leadership will give us the best andCanada.
The Group generated revenue returns.
In addition, through bottom-up in the ongoing businesses of 12,716 million detailed business unit strategies we want 2010 11: 12,061 million, 3.8 per cent tomake sure we grow our best businesses ahead oflast yearon a like-for-like basis.
This parallel Theongoing gross margin was slightly lower pathof resource allocation and performance principally due to commodity price deation management is outlined in our value creation and a one-off supplier rebate settlement model opposite.
Over the medium term we will progressively move our business to a local service common process model aswestandardise core processes to achieve benets of scale and productivity.
Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 There is an important correlation in our geographies, so that we can integrate business between building scale and our theseacquisitions rapidly with our strong ability to make attractive returns.
During businesses and deliver attractive returns.
theyear we have continued to exit those This year we made nine small bolt-on businesses where we do not see a path acquisitions, including a Blended Branches The Group delivered tomarket leadership, which included Build business in Chicago, a Waterworks business a good overall result Center, Bathstore and Encon in the UK, in California, a PVF distributor in Louisiana against a backdrop Brossette in France, and our remaining and several single branch businesses in of continued minority holding in Stock in the USA.
addition, we announced in July our intention weak demand in to review thestrategic options for our Implementing our strategy Continental Europe remaining businesses in France.
driving productivity and growth and steady market We want to drive profitable growth in each Now that we have focused the portfolio conditions in the business unit and during the monthly onastrong set of business units, we are USA and Canada.
performance reviews we review like-for-like continuing to evolve our business unit revenue growth, balancing this with a focus strategies and in doing so we are on protecting gross margin.
Given the tough increasingly reviewing the business models economic backdrop in many of our markets employed by each.
Here our objective is we are keeping a keen eye on operating always to have the most efficient, lowest costs to ensure that we convert revenue cost platform in the industry and to drive growth strongly into trading profit.
Finally, continuous improvement by better process over the past three years we have management.
Over the past three years, deleveraged the balance sheet and this has certain processes and activities for example been achieved through driving strong cash strategy review, people development, generation.
You can see several examples finance and IT have already been mandated ofthe progress we have made in driving as common across all business units and profitable growth in the operating reviews we have benefited greatly from this as a onpages 26 to 37.
In addition, we have ensured that While organic growth remains the key every business unit, and in turn every priority, over the last two years we have branch, measures customer service invested over 50 million in selected small because we know that high customer bolt-on acquisitions.
Our strong preference service scores correlate to strong financial istoexpand in this way in our existing performance.
Value creation model How we drive profitable growth How we drive value in each across the Group business unit Gain Gain share of existing customers and gain market new customers share Best Best Preferred Expand Improve profitable customer branch vendor gross margins productivity growth service staff relationships Improve returns and Most efficient operating model cash Learn how we are doing this across all regions See pages 26 to 37 Wolseley plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief Executives review continued Focusing on overall quality ofservice See pages 1213 Focusing on rate and speed ofservice See pages 1415 Focusing on product availability See pages 1617 Focusing on relationships with employees See pages 1819 We are now evaluating the best core Best customer service processes in our most successful business The central theme of this years annual report units to see how we can derive further is Best customer service, every day.
It is a benets from a more common approach critical element of our value creation strategy across our business units.
Forexample, We will continue to since we deliver for our customers through wehave developed a single platform for extend our position our people every day we want highly business to consumer B2C internet in plumbing and engaged employees at the front line and in businesses based on our successful the support functions, who work together heating and Build.
This year todeliver excellent customer service.
wehave successfully deployed this model building materials inthe UK and are nowevaluating other We are making progress in improving distribution and markets for suitability.
In addition, we have customer service in our businesses, aim to deliver now established in all business units a whichissomething we measure critical level of SKUs stock keeping units growth ahead systematically.
The overall scores have to be maintained in the branch with 100 per continued to improve across the majority of ofthe markets.
cent ll rates high levels of availability of our businesses and you can see our scores awide range of SKUs is critical to our this year for our biggest business Blended customers businesses.
While the top Branches in the USA above.
The elements SKUsare therefore immediately available of service that are valued by our customers inbranches, the remaining SKUs are readily are reasonably consistent throughout available from hubs or distribution centres.
Over the medium term we will progressively Clearly, we have some real strengths and move to alocal service common process thesurveys we see show us that we deliver business model as we standardise core great service in many of our branches.
processes to achieve benets of scale However, they also show us areas for andproductivity but these will be executed improvement down to specic branches and at the right level and location in each customers, which is data we can really act business unit.
The feedback has also reinforced the Overview Performance Governance Financials Information Wolseley plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 message that price as a choice factor strong values and behaviours compared Our values continues to rank relatively low on many with best in class companies.
Equally as customers priorities behind product important though are areas where we know We act with integrity availability, staff knowledge, next day we can improve, such as diversity and We conduct all our delivery and breadth of the product range workforce planning, and we have set up activities with fairness, showing that some customers are willing to best practice teams in order to address honesty andintegrity.
pay more for these benets.
This gives me these important issues.
great confidence that as we continue to We drive for results improve service we can also incrementally Priorities andimprovement improve gross margins.
We have seen As we look forward we remain optimistic similar customer responses in many other We listen and respond about the opportunities to grow and develop markets.
On pages 12 to 19, for each to the needs of our the business.
Whilst the current economic ofthemajor elements of service, we have customers, thenexceed uncertainty is likely to put ongoing pressure demonstrated how we are working across their expectations: we are on like-for-like sales volumes in parts of the the Group to make improvements.
not happy withthestatus business, the opportunities to grow the quo, and constantly strive business remain very positive and Wolseley to improve.
Corporate Responsibility is well placed to take advantage of this given The Board and Executive Committee the strength of our balance sheet.
Our We value our people believes that the integration of Corporate exible cost base will enable us to respond We understand, respect Responsibility CR across the Group quickly and effectively to any economic and value personal and andtheinclusion of broader social and headwinds which we may face in the year cultural differences: we environmental issues into our decision ahead.
We will also continue to drive our are open and honest making will help Wolseley to achieve our productivity initiatives to ensure that we in all our dealings with business goals, act as a building block for operate the lowest cost platform in the our people.
growth in shareholder value and benefit the industry underpinning our expectation of communities in which we operate.
We are further improvement in the trading margin now in our third year of measuring our over the medium term.
Strong cash ows progress and our drive for continuous should enable us to continue to reward improvement is set out on pages 48 to 61. shareholders and invest in organic growth aswell as value-creating bolt-on acquisitions.
The elements of our CR programme are really part of the way we do business.
Finally I would like to build on Gareths Thenew initiatives we have developed are comments about our employees.
It is an intrinsically linked to improving productivity.
enormous privilege to lead this Company For example, we have focused on and I would like to take this opportunity to improvinghealth and safety performance, thank all our employees worldwide for their inpart by reducing lost work days: we are dedication and commitment.
People are the delivering better customer service through lifeblood of our business it is through them acommitment to staff training and that we deliver the exceptional customer development: and for the first time this service I so often see in our branches.
yearwe are setting Group-wide targets toreduce energy and fuel consumption which in turn will reduce costs.
Given the importance of people to our business, a major accomplishment over thepast year was the creation of our first People Strategy covering all Wolseley employees worldwide.
Our analysis showed Ian Meakins Chief Executive that we have high levels of engagement,
