08 Introduction Chief Executive Ofcers Statement Our strategy is clear and the Group is well positioned to deliver further growth in the year ahead.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Introduction 09 We are proud to be engineering London for 2012 www.
com twenty-twelve Business position and a small loss in our Peter Brown as we push to improve productivity and I am pleased to report that the year to construction management at risk profitability, we should never forget that 31 March 2012 was another good year business in relation to some legacy issues.
The implementation in terms of our financial performance.
The Middle East region continued to enjoy of our safety standards worldwide is Turnover grew by 9% to 1,711.1m.
strong market conditions while client a leadership responsibility at all levels Reported profit before tax was 135.5m, relations remain challenging and the scale in the organisation.
with the benefit of 30.9m from pension and complexity of the major projects gains, as we continue to actively manage require heightened attention with regard We have formed a strong senior our pension liabilities and 7.2m to change management and payment leadership team and with a highly skilled generated from the sale of our UK asset terms.
With projects like the Central and motivated employee base we will management business in November 2011.
Planning Ofce in Doha we are continue to do what Atkins does best: Excluding these benets, together with positioning ourselves strategically as the listening carefully to the project needs amortisation of intangible assets on key expert for integrated infrastructure of our clients and designing and acquisition of 4.2m, gives a more consulting in the region.
The Asia Pacic engineering the best possible representative underlying profit of and Europe business continued to deliver solutions for their requirements.
101.6m, which is comparable with last a steady performance and Faithful Gould year.
Taking into account the departure traded well with tailored service solutions Priorities for major international corporations in of around 550 staff following the sale Our objective is simple: to drive of our UK asset management business Asia, Europe and North America.
Our shareholder value with unrelenting in November 2011, underlying headcount Energy business achieved strong organic focus on operational excellence and increased through the year, with a closing growth, which was augmented by the to implement our growth strategy with headcount of 17,420 at the end of strategically important acquisition of the priority on portfolio optimisation March 2012.
Pyrys oil and gas business during and focused sector, as well as the year.
The Group profit after tax for the year of 106.8m 2011: 72.6m is shown Atkins continues to demonstrate the Our medium term goal is to generate in the Consolidated Income Statement highest levels of technical excellence and more than 75% of revenue from our non page 96. expertise as it delivers the worlds most UK and Energy businesses and to generate challenging and time critical infrastructure a margin above 8%.
We will grow The Groups liquidity remains strong, projects.
The London 2012 Olympic and organically and through acquisitions that driven by a good cash performance in the Paralympic Games is a perfect example add new skills or a regional presence.
second half of the year as a result of our of Atkins at its best as we are the ofcial strategic focus on operational excellence engineering design services provider to Conclusion and cash ow.
Net funds at the end the Games.
This project showcases British We have made good progress in the last of the year were 122.6m.
engineering expertise on a world stage twelve months despite the challenging and demonstrates the breadth and depth economic environment.
During the These results include the first full year of Atkins capabilities.
Atkins engineering second half we continued to diversify the of our acquired North America business.
is considered to be some of the best in business, improved cash ow, reduced Integration has gone well and we have the world, and it is from this heritage, our pension liabilities and are returning started to share resources and knowledge with engineering design excellence and to growth.
We remain focused on driving across the Group which is improving our our employees passion to perform operational excellence throughout the competitive and market share position and exceed clients expectations, that business to improve margins, optimise our in North America.
we will continue to grow internationally portfolio and meet the evolving needs of in the future.
Our strategy is clear and the The UK region ended the year well and, Group is well positioned to deliver further as anticipated, saw modest growth in We remain committed to safety in the growth in the year ahead.
underlying headcount in the second half workplace and on all of our project sites.
The North American region Safety forms part of our commitment to Dr Uwe Krueger reported a slight margin improvement quality and reliability.
It is derived directly Chief Executive officer despite challenging market conditions from the values of our Company and, 13 June 2012 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2012 Introduction
