CEOs strategic review 2012 was a transformational year for Xstrata across a number of Margaret mine in north-west Queensland, Australia.
Our organic growth strategy, the third phase of Xstratas will add around 30,000 tonnes of annual copper in concentrate strategic development following our acquisition and asset production to Ernest Henrys production profile.
Expansion of the transformation stages began in earnest in 2009 as we committed concentrator and associated mine at our Antamina copper zinc joint to grow our capacity by 50% in copper equivalent terms by the end venture mine in Peru was successfully commissioned in the first quarter of 2014.
The development of our project pipeline reached its zenith of 2012 and throughput rates are consistently exceeding the planned in 2012, with ten major projects entering commissioning.
Commercial grade production from our new also marked the peak of our expansionary capital expenditure Antapaccay mine commenced in November, in line with budget and programme at $7.6 billion.
schedule and we are on track to achieve our steady state concentrator throughput rate of 70,000 tonnes per day by mid-2013.
The mine is In addition, in November, our shareholders approved our merger expected to produce an average of 160,000 tonnes of copper in with Glencore International plc, heralding the next significant concentrate per annum, plus gold and silver by-products, in the first development in Xstratas history and the creation of a unique natural five years of its 20-year life.
In December, the Lomas II project at Lomas resources group with an improved ability to capture returns and Bayas in Chile commissioned on schedule, extending the mine life by fully-integrated along the commodities value chain.
16 years at existing production levels of 75,000 tonnes of copper cathodes per annum.
Economic environment Our businesses faced difficult operating conditions during the Xstrata Zinc commenced production at the high-grade Lady Loretta year, as the combined impact of falling commodity prices, ongoing mine in Queensland, Australia, more than one year ahead of inflationary pressure on operating costs and continued strong schedule and on budget.
At full production, Lady Loretta will be producer currencies relative to the US dollar put pressure on delivering an estimated 1.6 million tonnes of ore per annum, while our margins.
first ore was delivered six months ahead of schedule at the 1 million tonnes per annum mine expansion at George Fisher zinc mine.
The global growth rate in 2012 slowed relative to the post-credit crunch recovery in 2010 and 2011, with lower inventory restocking Xstrata Alloys commissioned the 600,000 tonne per annum and the impact of fiscal consolidation starting to be felt.
The Tswelopele pelletizing and sintering plant, on time and on budget.
economies of OECD countries grew marginally, while emerging Xstrata Nickel completed construction on Line 1 at the Koniambo markets, such as China and India, decelerated from their previous ferronickel operation in New Caledonia and all major components record levels of growth, impacted by the fall in exports to the US and have commissioned successfully.
Sovereign debt concerns in the eurozone continued, while commercial-grade ferronickel in the second quarter of 2013, a second round of quantitative easing in the US failed to deliver ensuring Koniambo is well positioned to deliver the two-year meaningful growth.
production ramp-up to achieve its nameplate 60,000 tonnes As a result, commodity prices were significantly impacted, with of nickel in ferronickel per annum run rate by the end of 2014. realised Australian export thermal and coking coal prices falling by Looking ahead, completion of these projects fide-risks Xstratas 7% and 25% respectively and the average LME nickel price by 23% organic growth pipeline, with the Las Bambas copper project in compared to 2011. southern Peru being our sole remaining major greenfield project First evident in late 2012 and continuing into the early part of 2013, under construction.
Las Bambas continues to mitigate project risk a gradual global recovery appears underway, particularly in China through the advance purchase and delivery of major plant and and the US.
Chinese fiscal policy easing and clear statements by the processing equipment, its use of the standard concentrator design, US Federal Reserve regarding their intention to continue stimulating already successfully constructed at Antapaccay, and the transfer of the US economy have boosted confidence in these economies and skills and experience from our Antapaccay project.
We have recently are supportive of a marginally improved environment for commodity confirmed a definitive estimate of $5.2 billion for Las Bambas, demand in 2013. reconfirming the projects status as a world class, Tier 1 copper asset that will deliver substantial value.
Las Bambas is now in Operating performance full construction with over 90% of engineering works and 80% of Against the backdrop of a deteriorating global economy in 2012, procurement completed by the end of 2012.
Las Bambas is set to I am nevertheless pleased with the operating performances delivered produce 400,000 tonnes of copper per annum from 2015 for at least by our team.
Our ongoing focus on reducing costs, both through the first five years of its more than 20 year projected mine life.
The incremental changes to operational processes and through larger mineralised district that hosts our Las Bambas project orebodies cost saving initiatives, allows me to report, for the eleventh and Tintaya and Antapaccay mines has enormous potential for consecutive year, a reduction of costs in real terms.
The $176 million further mineral resource expansion and prefeasibility studies are of cost savings achieved in 2012 was predominantly realised through already underway at our Coroccohuayco project as a potential a combination of cost efficiency initiatives and the benefit of brownfield expansion to our Antapaccay mine.
increased volumes in our coal and zinc businesses.
This mirrors further substantial increases in our copper Mineral The highlight of our operating performance, however, was the Resources across the portfolio, mainly due to a significant 19% commencement of commissioning of the ten major organic growth increase in total Mineral Resources at our Collahuasi joint venture in projects we promised when we initiated this phase of our growth Chile to 9 billion tonnes: a 20% increase in total Mineral Resources at strategy in 2009. our El Pachn project in Argentina to 3.3 billion tonnes: and a 27% increase in total Mineral Resources at our new Antapaccay mine in In Xstrata Coal, we completed, on schedule, the first stage of Peru to over 1 billion tonnes.
the 8 million tonne per annum Ravensworth North thermal coal operation in New South Wales, and its second stage, the expansion 2013 promises to deliver a further transformational expansion of our of the existing coal preparation plant, is on schedule for completion production capacity as our growth programme nears completion.
Operations began at the 1.5 million tonne per annum Ulan plan to commission a number of new projects in 2013, including the open cut thermal coal mine in New South Wales and are on schedule Fraser Morgan nickel mine and the Bracemac McLeod zinc operation to reach full production in 2013. in Canada, Stage 2 of the Ravensworth North expansion in Australia and completion of the Lion II ferrochrome expansion in South Africa.
Following the start-up of the new underground decline mine in In addition, we will commence commissioning of the hoisting shaft December of 2011, Xstrata Coppers Ernest Henry Mining commenced infrastructure to expand the new Ernest Henry underground copper processing first ore in September from the nearby satellite Mount mine in Australia.
com In New South Wales, the Ravensworth North and Ulan West major Merger with Glencore brownfield expansion projects are currently underway.
An expansion The combination of Glencore and Xstrata provides the opportunity of the coal preparation plant at Ravensworth North will enable the for our shareholders to benefit from the creation of a unique natural operation to ramp up to 8 million tonnes per annum and is on track resources super-major, forged from the amalgamation of the worlds for completion in 2013.
Following longwall commissioning in 2014, leading commodities marketer and one of the largest global Ulan West will produce 7 million tonnes per annum.
In Queensland, diversified mining groups.
Phase 1 of the Rolleston expansion, will increase annual production My executive team and I are content in that we will hand over to from 9 million tonnes per annum to 12 million tonnes per annum and the new Glencore Xstrata a company with a strong legacy for value will begin commissioning in the second half of 2013.
In South Africa, creation and growth, a high quality portfolio of operations and we are continuing to progress the expansion of the Tweefontein growth options, supported by a very healthy balance sheet.
As open cut mine, which will increase volumes from 4 million tonnes importantly, we are certain that each of our 80,000 employees and per annum to 7 million tonnes per annum.
The expansion includes contractors will bring to the new merged entity the unique set of the construction of a new beneficiation plant that includes coal capabilities and values which have made Xstrata so successful and, and product handling facilities and will be completed in 2015. in particular, an approach to sustainability which is looked to as the The Fraser Morgan project in Sudbury is progressing on schedule and model for the industry.
At Xstrata we have been proud not only of will achieve first development ore in April 2013 and bulk mining will producing the vital building blocks of society, but also of the way we commence in the third quarter of 2013.
At Raglan, the project to have gone about doing so with a clear understanding of the need increase nickel in concentrate production up to 40,000 tonnes per year to do so in an entrepreneurial, sustainable and responsible manner is progressing with the underground development at Qakimajurq mine that creates shared value for all stakeholders.
I look to my colleagues achieving 1,580 metres of lateral progress and now operating on two to keep this legacy alive within the new Glencore Xstrata for many headings.
The mill upgrade project is in execution with detailed years to come.
engineering and long lead item procurement underway.
Conditional approval has been received from the Northern Territory government for the $360 million expansion at the McArthur River Mine.
This project will increase production to 380,000 tonnes per annum of zinc in concentrate from 2014.
The introduction of a number of new world-class operations into ML Davis Xstratas portfolio delivers not only significant volume increases and further improves the relative competitive position of Xstratas Chief Executive Officer portfolio through the introduction of structurally lower real unit cost operations, but lays the foundation for further attractive brownfield growth for many years to come.
Our businesses continue to improve their health, safety and environmental performances.
It is particularly pleasing for me that the commitment to improve safety, demonstrated by all of our employees, has reduced our total recordable injury rate by 15% on the previous year.
Our knowledge of the behavioural contributions to safety incidents improves each day as we continue to analyse near miss incidents, principal hazards and incidents themselves to put in place pre-emptive actions.
Despite this, and our commitment to ensuring that our employees and contractors working at our operations return home safely each day, it saddens me to report that five people lost their lives while working at Xstrata in 2012.
This tells me that our work in preventing fatalities is far from done as we seek to eradicate the loss of life and serious injury from our operations.
Balance sheet During our current phase of expansionary capital expenditure, required to deliver our organic growth strategy, we have maintained gearing below 30%.
Despite a peak capital expenditure of $10.3 billion in 2012, our balance sheet remains robust, with net debt at year end at $14.7 billion and gearing at 24%.
We further strengthened our balance sheet by taking advantage of favourable conditions in the debt markets late in 2012 to issue both US dollar and euro notes.
Together, these two multi-tranche bond issues raised $7.4 billion, which was used to fully repay drawings under our revolving bank loan and maturing commercial paper.
Our refinancing risk has been actively managed and we have no material debt maturities in the near term.
With the financial benefits from our organic growth investments over the last four years beginning to positively impact the profitability of Xstrata, the company is now in an excellent position to enjoy improving cash flows and a return to normalised returns on capital.
