CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW The Groups geographic breadth of business has provided, and is expected to continue to provide, resilience at a time when some of its markets are constrained by economic pressures.
Ian King Chief Executive DELIVERING ON A CLEAR STRATEGY BAE Systems has continued to deliver on a clear strategy during received.
The merger would have been an exciting development, but 2012.
The Groups geographic breadth of business has provided, no agreement acceptable to all parties could be reached.
and is expected to continue to provide, resilience at a time when Focus on the underlying business performance was sustained as a some of its markets are constrained by economic pressures.
priority while the merger discussions were underway.
The Groups Following a period of growth, defence budgets in the US have continued strategic aim is to drive shareholder value through a flattened and are expected to remain constrained in response to combination of meeting our customers requirements, further reducing overseas operations and measures to address federal improvements in financial performance and enhanced competitive deficits.
In the UK, the defence market has stabilised following positions across the business.
The focus of the Groups Strategic changes to programme priorities outlined in 2010 through the UK Actions in pursuit of these goals includes: growth in its cyber, governments Strategic Defence and Security Review.
intelligence and security businesses: addressing growth Growth opportunities in some segments of the US and UK markets opportunities in electronic systems: driving further value from the are identified, but the overall outlook in both countries is expected Groups broad base of platforms and services positions: and to continue to be constrained.
increased business in international markets outside of the UK and US.
In wider international markets, the Group is seeing good growth in order intake leading to anticipated growth in international sales.
In The evolution of BAE Systems has seen the Groups business 2012, order intake outside of the US and UK was 11.2bn, develop from an equipment supply-centred model to one that now compared with 4.8bn in 2011. embraces a services culture.
In 2012, 50% of the Groups sales were generated in services across a wide range of activities and BAE Systems has a clear strategy, focused on enhancing its geographies.
position as a premier global defence, aerospace and security company.
Consistent with that strategy, discussions between Services activities include in-service support in the UK for the Royal BAESystems and EADS were held between June and October of Air Forces trainer aircraft and fast jet fleets, and the Royal Navys 2012.
The discussions involved extensive engagement with many surface fleet.
In Australia and Saudi Arabia, the Group provides a of the Groups government stakeholders, including in the UK, US broadly-based range of support services to the armed forces.
and Saudi Arabia, and we were grateful for the positive support 8 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Strategic review conservative assumptions and continues to address its cost base BAE Systems provides extensive support to US armed forces accordingly.
through provision of land vehicle reset and upgrade programmes, rotary wing and other aircraft support, and naval ship repair UK services.
The Group also manages complex facilities including Defence budgets in the UK are expected to remain flat, but the ammunition production in the US and the UK.
recent stabilising of equipment and services requirements and the budget outlook has established a more predictable planning BAE Systems services activities also include the provision of environment.
extensive cyber and intelligence capabilities.
The Groups strategy includes growing its positions in the cyber and intelligence services The Groups UK maritime business is experiencing a high level of markets for governments, and pursuing organic growth activity.
Growth is anticipated in the submarines business on the opportunities in commercial cyber and security applications and back of the multi-year Astute Class submarine programme and the systems.
build-up in engineering workload for the Successor programme.
Affordability is a key consideration for all the Groups customers BAE Systems received further Successor funding during the year, and BAE Systems has been successful in reducing costs over a with approximately 1,000 people now working on the programme.
Whilst necessary to address lower demand in Also in the UK maritime business, the last ship of the six-ship some business areas, cost reduction has also been targeted to Type45 destroyer programme completed sea trials.
Good progress achieve competitive advantage.
A regrettable but unavoidable continues to be made on the Queen Elizabeth Class Carrier element of these cost reduction measures is the impact on programme with delivery of major blocks underway for the assembly employment.
Excluding M&A activity, net employee headcount of the first of these two ships.
Work continues on the design of the including contractors reduced by approximately 3,600 during the Type 26 ships to replace the UKs Type 23 frigates from early in the year, bringing the total net reduction across the past four years to next decade.
Type 26 production is expected to utilise a lower level approximately 26,000.
In addition, site rationalisation has of UK ship build capacity following the currently high levels on the continued.
These efficiency improvements lead to benefits for Carrier programme.
Discussions continue with the UK government customers as well as underpinning the Groups value proposition to determine how best to sustain the capability to deliver complex for shareholders.
warships in the UK in the future.
US In the military air sector, European Tranche 2 Typhoon deliveries BAE Systems business in the US contributed approximately 40% of have continued and international prospects for Typhoon remain Group sales in 2012.
The US business has felt the dual pressure of good with the potential to extend production into the next decade.
reduced activity in support of deployed operations in Iraq and The Group continues to deliver assemblies for the US-led F-35 Afghanistan, and measures to reduce US federal budget deficits.
In Lightning II programme under Low-Rate Initial Production contracts.
particular, the US land vehicles business has, as forecast, seen significant year-on-year reductions from the peak of activity in 2008. International In addition to its US and UK operations, BAE Systems continues to The US elections have introduced some additional defence build on its positions in international markets.
As well as procurement uncertainty with the administration entering a established operations in Saudi Arabia, Australia and more recently six-month period of Continuing Resolution from the end of India, the Group is pursuing multiple new business opportunities September 2012. worldwide.
Overhanging the US defence sector into 2013 is the potential Defence remains a high priority in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
impact of a sequestration or other budget reductions that could BAESystems has a large involvement in the support of established result in indiscriminate funding cuts.
The Group bases its plans on Our global defence market position $bn Total Performance 70 BAE Systems Mission is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value through its commitment to Total Performance.
60 Total Performance encompasses: 50 44.0 Customer Focus: 40 Programme Execution: 30.7 30 29.1 25.5 Financial Performance: and 23.1 21.4 20 16.1 14.6 Responsible Behaviour.
12.5 11.0 10 Total Performance is explored in more detail throughout the 0 Directors Report.
Top ten global defence companies based on 2011 defence revenue Source: Defense News In 2011, BAE Systems was the third largest global See page 16 for the Group Strategic Framework for 2013 defence supplier.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 9 Lockheed Martin Boeing BAE Systems General Dynamics Raytheon Northrop Grumman EADS Finmeccanica L-3 Communications United Technologies CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED M&A activity Royal Saudi Air Force RSAF and Royal Saudi Navy programmes in The Groups business portfolio is reviewed regularly to determine the Kingdom.
whether greater value can be created from the sale of a business Deliveries of RSAF Typhoon aircraft are contracted to recommence rather than its retention, and three small business disposals were in 2013, following a contract amendment to enable UK final made during the year for a combined consideration of approximately assembly of the balance of 48 aircraft under the original contract 111m.
In March, the Group completed the sale of BAE Systems Safety Discussions to formalise Typhoon price escalation under the Salam Products Inc. and Schroth Safety Products GmbH Safety Products.
In July, the Safariland, LLC Safariland business and the assets comprising BAE Systems Tensylon High Performance Materials Inc.
Discussions have commenced on the next phase of support, Tensylon were sold.
following on from the three-year agreement that formed part of the arrangements for initial entry into service of the Typhoon aircraft.
BAE Systems continues to seek bolt-on acquisitions that enhance Under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme, orders routes to market or which provide rapid access to relevant totalling 3.4bn were awarded for support through to 2016, including technologies and capabilities.
the provision of manpower, logistics and training to the RSAF.
In In November, the Group agreed the acquisition of Marine Hydraulics addition, a 1.6bn contract was awarded in May to support the International, Inc. a US marine repair, overhaul and conversion RSAFs future aircrew training requirements involving the supply of, company, for cash consideration of approximately $69m 42m.
and initial support for, Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer and Pilatus The acquisition is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2013. training aircraft.
Pension funding BAE Systems is the leading provider of equipment and support to Triennial funding valuations of the Groups two largest UK pension the Australian armed forces.
The Groups largest programme in schemes, the BAE Systems Pension Scheme and the BAE Systems Australia is the Canberra Class programme to build two 27,000 2000 Pension Plan, were completed as at 31 March 2011.
In 2012, tonne Landing Helicopter Dock vessels for the Royal Australian agreement on revised deficit funding plans was reached with the Navy.
trustees of those schemes and the next valuation BAE Systems continues to develop its business will commence in April 2014.
The Group continues in India.
The Indian government has recently Total Performance to build on the good confirmed its intention to buy the M777 artillery The Group continues to build on the good progress system and negotiations for a third batch of 20 progress in recent in recent years to establish a Total Performance locally assembled Hawk aircraft are expected to years to establish a culture across its business operations.
BAESystems, Total Performance is not just about Total Performance In Oman, a 2.5bn contract for 12 Typhoon and what the Group does, but how it is done.
Total culture across its eight Hawk aircraft and associated training and Performance places emphasis on delivering business operations.
support has been awarded, and we are shareholder value, meeting the needs of progressing opportunities for Typhoon in Malaysia customers and, at all times, acting responsibly.
and the United Arab Emirates.
In addition to delivering against its Financial Performance In June, the business was awarded a $750m 462m CV90 objectives, the Group sets targets for the achievement of noncombat vehicle contract in Norway.
financial performance measures, including Customer Focus, Programme Execution and Responsible Behaviour.
Balance sheet and capital allocation The Group recognises the importance to investors of a clear capital BAE Systems is committed to achieving and sustaining high allocation policy, consistent with sustaining a strong investment standards of business conduct and continues to reinforce a culture grade credit rating, as part of its value proposition.
Mandated policies and processes within the Groups Operational Framework are updated routinely to ensure In addition to meeting its pension funding obligations, the Group they reflect the Groups Responsible Trading Principles.
All expects to continue organic investment in its businesses to sustain employees receive training to help them apply the Groups global and grow, plans to continue to pay dividends in line with its policy of Code of Conduct, with mandatory refresher programmes a long-term sustainable cover of around two times underlying undertaken during the year.
earnings and to make accelerated returns of capital to shareholders when the balance sheet allows.
Consistent with this The Groups people strategy of through-career capability approach, in February 2013, the Group initiated a three-year share development and emphasis on promoting high levels of employee repurchase programme of up to 1bn.
Full implementation of this engagement seeks to maximise the contribution that its workforce programme is subject to satisfactory resolution of Salam Typhoon makes to a culture of Total Performance.
It enables every member of price escalation negotiations.
Discussions with the Groups UK the team to fulfil their personal potential.
The success of this strategy pension scheme trustees have commenced to address any is measured ultimately in the success of the business as a whole.
implications for deficit funding plans.
Investment in valueBAE Systems has talented people who are committed to enhancing acquisitions will continue to be considered where excellence, doing work that is truly inspired.
market conditions are right, where they deliver on the Groups strategy and where they offer greater value than repurchasing the The safety of our employees and those using our products is critical Groups own shares.
to our business and a fundamental responsibility.
I am deeply 10 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 Strategic review saddened to report the death of one of our employees whilst at work Summary BAE Systems is a resilient business with talented people and the in Saudi Arabia in a road traffic accident.
resources to continue to develop within a clear strategic framework.
Safety continues to be a priority for the Group, with businesses The strategy has seen the Group focus on defence, aerospace and continuing to drive consistently high standards of safety.
security markets across a broad geographic base.
BAE Systems Performance in safety was underpinned this year by the Group aims to deliver attractive returns to its shareholders through its achieving a 30% reduction in the Recordable Accident Rate.
positions on priority programmes and in services with high relevance to its customers.
Management In June, Tom Arseneault was appointed Executive Vice President of the Product Sector businesses headquartered in the US and Chief Technology Officer for BAE Systems, Inc. Also in June, Lynn Minella was appointed Group Human Resources Director following the retirement of Alastair Imrie.
On their appointment, both Tom and Lynn joined the Groups Executive Committee.
With effect from 30 March 2013, Larry Prior, Executive Vice President of the Service Sector businesses headquartered in the Ian King US and Chief Operating Officer for BAE Systems, Inc. and member Chief Executive of the Groups Executive Committee, will leave the Group to pursue other opportunities.
In February 2013, David Herr was appointed Executive Vice President of the Service Sector businesses and joined the Groups Executive Committee.
Executive Committee key objectives 2013 The Board reviews and updates the Group Strategic Framework annually.
The Group Strategic Framework integrates the Groups major goals and actions into a cohesive document defining the direction and shape of the Group over the long term.
There are agreed annual objectives which focus on specific deliverables in support of both delivery of short-term results and the overall strategy.
The Executive Committee has set the following objectives for 2013 and a review of performance against these objectives will be contained in the Annual Report 2013.
Financial Performance Meet 2013 financial targets 2.
Customer Focus and Programme Execution Continued focus on improving customer satisfaction and programme execution 3.
Responsible Behaviour Progress towards recognised leading positions 4.
Electronic Systems Be agile, sustain revenues and deliver strong bottom line performance 5.
Cyber, Intelligence and Security Enhance and grow our positions in cyber, intelligence and security 6.
Platforms & Services US Drive value from our land portfolio and deliver sustainable, profitable growth in the services sector 7.
Platforms & Services UK Deliver sustainably profitable through-life businesses in the air, maritime and combat vehicles sectors 8.
Platforms & Services International Grow our Platforms & Services International business 9.
Engagement Inspire and engage our people to deliver success See page 16 for the Group Strategic Framework for 2013 BAE Systems Annual Report 2012 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Executive Committee key objectives 2012 performance The Executive Committee set objectives for 2012 which focused on specific deliverables in support of both delivery of short-term results and the overall strategy.
The specific in-year performance indicators used to measure performance against the Executive Committees key objectives are discussed below.
Objective 2012 performance 1 The target for underlying earnings per share was not achieved as formalisation of price Financial Performance escalation on the Salam Typhoon programme remains outstanding.
The targets for average and Meet 2012 financial targets 2 year-end net cash debt were exceeded.
See page 30 for more information The Group continued to deliver on its commitments to customers and delivered an overall Customer Focus and improvement in outturn margin across its major programmes.
Programme Execution Continued focus on improving customer satisfaction and programme execution See page 18 for more information The corporate responsibility agenda has been embedded further into the Groups operations in Responsible Behaviour line with its commitment to Total Performance.
Group targets in respect of business conduct, Progress towards recognised safety, diversity and inclusion, and environment have been achieved.
leading positions See page 39 for more information 3 Whilst sales have been impacted by the Continuing Resolution and lower operational tempoElectronic Systems 3 4 driven activity, order backlog has increased and return on sales was 14.2%.
Programmes are Be agile, sustain revenues back on schedule after recovery efforts following severe flooding at Johnson City, New York, in and deliver strong bottom 2011.
The Commercial Aircraft electronics business has achieved good growth.
The business line performance has continued to focus on cost reduction and the evolving priorities of its customers.
See page 56 for more information The Intelligence & Security business in the US remains stable despite delays in awards on a Cyber, Intelligence significant bid pipeline of contract re-competes and new opportunities.
Growth in BAE Systems and Security Detica has been impacted by routes-to-market issues in the Global Communications Solutions Establish a leading position business.
BAE Systems Deticas Security Operations Centre became fully operational, providing in Cyber, Intelligence and Security services to detect and remediate advanced cyber attacks.
See page 60 for more information In Land & Armaments, the cost base was reduced further to reflect the lower level of activity and Platforms & Services US business disposals were completed as portfolio streamlining continued.
A $750m 462m Drive value from our land portfolio contract was awarded for CV90 armoured combat vehicles to Norway.
In Support Solutions, order and deliver sustainable, profitable 3 4 backlog increased as the munitions facilities management, and aircraft sustainment and growth in the services sector modernisation businesses achieved key contract wins.
The $69m 42m acquisition of Marine Hydraulics International, Inc. is expected to complete in the first quarter of 2013, complementing See page 64 for more information the ship repair business.
3 Order intake in Platforms & Services UK was strong, including 2.5bn on Typhoon and Hawk Platforms & Services UK aircraft for Oman and 1.6bn on Hawk aircraft for Saudi Arabia.
Progress was made on Typhoon Deliver in the UK sustainably export campaigns to Malaysia and the United Arab Emirates, and rationalisation activity to profitable through-life businesses address programme changes was implemented.
In maritime, major UK programmes progressed in the air and maritime sectors in line with planned milestones and two of three Offshore Patrol Vessels were delivered to the See page 68 for more information Brazilian Navy.
Platforms & Services In Saudi Arabia, orders were received under the Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme International for support to the end of 2016.
Salam Typhoon price escalation and future support negotiations remain ongoing.
In Australia, good progress was made on the Landing Helicopter Dock LHD and Increase our Platforms Air Warfare Destroyer programmes, with the first LHD hull arriving in Australia for completion.
In & Services International India, the government confirmed its intention to buy 145 M777 howitzers.
business See page 72 for more information 1 Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, See page 13 for the Groups Key Performance Indicators for 2012 non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, and non-recurring items see note 8 to the Group accounts.
See page 16 for the Group Strategic Framework for 2013 2 See page 32 and note 10 to the Group accounts.
3 Including share of equity accounted investments.
4 Excluding the impact of exchange translation.
