Our Business | Chief Executives Review Chief Executives Review We are realigning our business to sharpen our focus on growth markets in key geographies and industry sectors.
Combined with our spread of capabilities across the lifecycle of the infrastructure asset, this will differentiate us from competitors and allow us to benefit from markets where growth is buoyant.
Focusing on growth markets For the past 15 years, we have The reshaping of our business will been on a journey from a UKcontinue through 2013 as we focus based construction business to itmore closely on our chosen growth aleading, global infrastructure geographies and industry sectors.
We have already made good progress with provider.
This journey has had, building our credentials in these markets.
and continues to have, a Successes in 2012 included signicantly profound effect on how we increased activity in the power and water sectors and in growth geographies such deliver value to our clients as Australia.
whenwe operate in this way, Our traditional markets in the UK and and on our exposure to higher theUS remain a bedrock on which the growth markets.
For the past 15 years, business will be based.
In these markets our construction businesses were We have focused on economic we have been on a impacted by the continuing economic infrastructure as we believe this willdrive journey from a UKdownturn, which hasreduced the investment in the long term.
Infrastructure based construction numberof larger, more complex and markets are resilient because sustainable higher margin projects where we excel.
economic growth will always require business to a leading, But the impact was mitigated by the infrastructure investment.
In developed global infrastructure broadening of our capabilities beyond economies this will be driven by ageing provider.
I am proud construction, and ourProfessional infrastructure which needs replacing Services and Infrastructure Investments to have led the Group andthe sustainability carbon agenda: businesses nished the year with inemerging economies it will be driven on this journey and I performance in line with expectations.
am confident Balfour This reinforces our view that our focus Infrastructure is high on government Beatty will continue oninfrastructure is sound even when policy agendas virtually everywhere.
markets become less buoyant: and to go from strength Our long term vision thatitwill remain so as we expand into to strength as it Our strategy for growth remains othergeographies at different stages basedonbuilding a platform of asset continues this journey ofthe cycle.
knowledgeand capabilities that span in the future.
In mature markets we are particularly theinfrastructure lifecycle with the ability targeting opportunities where we can to finance and develop projects, focusing provide end-to-end services rather than on strategic market sectors.
Our services just being part of the value chain.
In are delivered via local country businesses, emerging markets where we anticipate harnessed together to deliver value to significant long term investment in infrastructure owners around the world.
infrastructure, such as India, Brazil These asset owners are predominantly andSouth Africa, we are establishing national or regional organisations that relationships and showcasing our skills generally own assets in a single market tofuture clients, particularly in the sector.
To deliver our strategic vision transportation, mining, and power wemust bestructured better to suit andenergy markets.
So we are reshaping our The resilient performance of our operations into country led business Professional Services and Infrastructure unitsthat deliver afull range of services Investments businesses gives us inspecic infrastructure market sectors.
confidence that over the medium to These business units will be able to longterm our position in infrastructure putour global expertise at their clients markets, our competitive advantage in disposal.
We connect them through ourfocus market sectors of transportation, efficient knowledge transfer and support power and energy, water and mining, them with the necessary specialist skills andour initiatives to expand our current and resources from market sector access in growing markets such as experts: leadership for specic sectors Australia, Canada, South Africa, Brazil isbeing provided on a global basis.
andIndia will deliver sustainable growth and a more robust business base.
06 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our Business Our Business | Chief Executives Review Addressing short term pressures Leading change Meanwhile, for the near term we have It has been my privilege to shape been managing our business on the basis BalfourBeatty over the past few years.
that market conditions would be tough, Andrew McNaughton has worked and this has proved an effective strategy.
alongside me indeveloping our strategy We have concluded an operational and and future business model.
Now is the strategic review of our Mainland European time for meto hand over to Andrew and rail business and we will be divesting all let him continue to evolve the business ofthis business over time.
tobeing atruly global organisation, recognised as one ofthe worlds In August 2010, we announced the  businesses and creation of a shared service centre in acclaimed for the qualityof service that theUK, with a target of 30 million of we deliver toour clients.
The end-to-end annual savings bythe end of 2012.
This knowledgethat we have across the programme wasrealised as planned and wholeinfrastructure lifecycle differentiates has reached its targeted run rate at the usfrom our competition.
The second phase of our asan asset owner and in our developing cost efficiency activity was announced in country led organisations will allow us March 2012.
This programme is broader tobuild relationships with clients which and deeper and targets an additional will continue to change our industry.
It goes without saying that I have been We have already made good progress in proud to lead this business.
The UK construction business with a great team of dedicated people at has been rationalised into three business all levels of the business and a supportive streams, with a structure of regional Board and senior management team.
We are gaining efficiency confident the Group will continue to go and exibility by reducing back ofce from strength to strength in the future support functions and the number of under Andrews leadership.
The US construction business is movingto a unied operating model, encompassing buildings, rail and infrastructure operations.
They have reorganised from five to three regional business streams.
As part of the structural realignment, a national Capability Centre Ian Tyler was also formed to harness expertise, Chief Executive capture best practices and deploy that knowledge across the national business.
The new structure focuses on sharing resources and contributes savings.
Our Support Services business is currently implementing cost reduction measures and our Professional Services business is transferring its support functions from New York City to Lancaster, Pennsylvania to improve cost efficiency.
These initiatives have already reached 36million of savings in 2012.
We are aiming for a total of 80million of savings by the end of 2015.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2012 07
