CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW DRIVING PROGRESS Capcos clear and focused business model and strategy have delivered strong results in2012 and the assets continue to off er the potentialfor outperformance going forward.
Ian Hawksworth, Chief Executive 2012 was a year of continued progress for OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW ground level has enabled the strategy to Capco as our focus on unlocking value Valuations expand into premium residential conversions generated further momentum to deliver The Group bene ted from strong of the upper oors.
This has continued to superior returns for shareholders.
Capco has revaluations across its business during 2012, deliver value uplift with the overall estate aclear business model focusing on retail and with a like-for-like valuation increase of 16.7 valued at 952 million, an increase of 7.2 per residential London property.
This delivered per cent representing the main component of cent on a like-for-like basis.
signi cant uplift at the Group level, with a total property return of 21.7 per cent.
In line with the successful repositioning adjusted NAV per share up 22 per cent.
strategy at Covent Garden, the equity placing Covent Garden increased in value re ecting Capcos creative asset management and in September raised capital for further rental growth as well as the continued strong place-making skills at Covent Garden investment in the district.
The ERV target was demand for prime assets from a wide range of continued to drive value, whilst our ability also revised to 60-65 million by the end of investors.
The Earls Court and Seagrave Road todeliver complex planning projects was 2015.
In 2012 89 million of acquisitions were land interests experienced a signi cant evident in the signi cant milestones achieved completed growing Capcos ownership in the valuation increase due to the positive with the Earls Court Masterplan and Seagrave area by 13 per cent, creating a scale in line with momentum of each project as well as the Road project in 2012. historic London landed estates.
strong central London residential market.
Other assets, mainly comprising Empress A strong balance sheet allowing Capco to retain Capcos active asset management approach State and the last remaining asset in GCP, high levels of liquidity alongside conservative achieved landmark lettings including the first increased in value re ecting the strong gearing ratios underpins Capcos estate permanent stand alone fragrance and beauty investment market for those properties.
This year 320 million was realised concept from Chanel and a agship store for mainly from disposals within the non-core Jo Malone.
Balthazar, Keith McNallys French Covent Garden investments of GCP and China as well as the brasserie concept backed by Caprice Holdings, Since taking ownership in 2006 over 50 new completion of the Seagrave Road joint venture.
Further growth is brands have opened in the Covent Garden In May, a new five-year 70 million revolving expected through the tenant engineering area making it one of Londons most vibrant credit facility was agreed, establishing a more strategy which drives the continued estates.
There have been a number of new exible nancing structure, and in September, repositioning of other areas of the estate as lettings in 2013 demonstrating continued the equity placing raised gross proceeds of well as the introduction of new larger-scale demand for space on the estate.
The successful 149 million to be invested in Covent Garden.
introduction of new retail and dining at the developments and interventions.
8 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE GOVERN OUR BUSINESS OUR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VALUATION Market value Market value Market Dec-12 Dec-11 Value ERV Initial Equivalent 1,2 1 m m change change yield yield Covent Garden 952 808 7.2% 4.2% 3.8% 5.1% Earls Court 336 195 57.6% 3 Seagrave Road 104 116 61.5% Olympia London 126 121 4.1 % 4 Other 203 384 9.8% Total Properties 1,721 1,624 16.7% 1 Like-for-Like 2 Valuation change takes account of amortisation of lease incentives, capital expenditure and xed head leases.
3 Represents Capcos 50 per cent share.
4 GCP Capcos 50 per cent share, Empress State Building Capcos 50 per cent share and peripheral assets.
Earls Court & Olympia scheme in the next 12 months.
The progress in potential for outperformance going forward.
taking forward this project has led to Capcos The Earls Court Masterplan received resolutions The fundamental drivers of long-term growth 50 per cent interest increasing in value by 62 to grant outline planning consent from the in London are strong, however we remain London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham per cent on a like-for-like basis during 2012 mindful of the short-term risks presented LBHF and the Royal Borough of Kensington to 104 million.
bythe challenging macroeconomic conditions &Chelsea RBKC in September and November as we progress our plans.
In January 2013, the Conditional Land Sale respectively.
We are now working towards Agreement CLSA was signed with LBHF In Covent Garden we will continue the creative obtaining formal planning consent in the first enabling the inclusion of its land in a place-making, active asset management and half of 2013, which will require the issue of comprehensive redevelopment of the Earls strategic acquisitions as well as initiating theStage Two report by the Greater London Court & West Kensington Opportunity Area selective development.
At Earls Court, we will Authority GLA and nalisation of the Section ECOA.
The Council is applying for approval look to deliver the formal planning consents 106 agreements.
The valuation of Capcos Earls of this deal from the Secretary of State and a for the Earls Court Masterplan, create the Court interests has increased considerably to decision is expected in the coming months.
detailed design of the first phase of the 336 million as at December 2012, an increase Discussions continue with Transport for redevelopment and nalise a transaction with of58 per cent in2012.
London TfL for a regear of Capcos existing TfL in relation to our land interests whilst leasehold interests at Earls Court, as this was Formal planning consent for the Seagrave assisting the local authorities as appropriate Road development was received in March.
not concluded in 2012. torespond to the judicial review challenges The 50:50 joint venture with the KFI in faced.
The Seagrave Road project will focus Olympia has offi cially relaunched as Olympia respect of this project completed in August onachieving a successful launch under its London following a signi cant 30 million realising net cash proceeds to Capco of 65 newbranding of Lillie Square.
investment over the past two years.
The joint venture has now moved the focus of the Groups exhibitions business, into its implementation phase, resulting in providing dynamic and exible events space to certain proposed enhancements to the design cater for the needs of the exhibitions industry.
of the scheme as well as a detailed planning application to extend the scheme up to Lillie OPPORTUNITIES AND OUTLOOK Ian Hawksworth Road which will be submitted shortly to Capco is well positioned within its core Chief Executive LBHF.
The sales and marketing strategy is central London retail and residential property being nalised with a view to launching the markets, and our assets continue to off er the 28 February 2013 WWW.
