REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GROUP OVERVIEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ith a rapidly improving performance across the Group we have W made substantial progress in achieving our objectives of rebuilding profitability and reducing overall indebtedness.
In the year, we have achieved a14.1% increase in revenues, a1.6% increase in operating margins before operating exceptional costs, a 159.3% increase in pre-exceptional pre-tax profits and we have almost halved our net debt.
Despite continued uncertainty surrounding the wider UK market and constrained levels of mortgage finance, we expect tomake further good progress SUSTAINED DELIVERY in2012 13 with more than half ourcompletions forecast to be delivered from recently acquired OF OBJECTIVES AND higher margin land.
Performance STRONG GROWTH Group revenues for the year wereup 14.1% to 2,323.4m Our objectives of rebuilding profitability and reducing overall indebtedness have delivered a rapidly improving performance across the Group.
1 08 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
Montreal House and Toronto House viewed from the Albion Canal at Maple Quay, Southwalk.
2011: 2,035.4m, with before tax and exceptional DELIVERING OUR completions excluding joint items increased by 159.3% OBJECTIVES ventures up 14.1% to to 110.7m 2011: 42.7m.
We have enjoyed In the year we reported Our objectives are: more stable trading conditions exceptional items of 10.7m, throughout the year and were relating to the acquisition Rebuilding profitability ableto deliver a strong start to of apartners 50% interest Optimise selling prices oursecond half following a small inaresidential development, improvement in mortgage lending.
consequently profit before tax Improve operational We have seen higher sales rates after exceptional items was efficiency as an increasing proportion of 100.0m 2011: loss 11.5m.
Targeted land buying completions are being delivered Our improved operational from our more recently acquired efficiency, continued tight control sites.
As at 30 June 2012, we hada over the timing of land expenditure 1 substantially strengthened forward and working capital commitments, sales position, with private forward and receipts from land sales sales excluding joint ventures up enabled us to reduce net debt Reducing overall indebtedness 35.5% to 366.9m 2011: 270.8m.
to167.7m as at 30 June 2012 Return cash on old land Profit from operations before 2011: 322.6m.
Reduced average investment operating exceptional items per site increased by 41.6% from 135.0m Our objectives to 191.1m, with a significant Our strategic objectives remain improvement in operating margin clear to rebuild profitability and before operating exceptional items reduce overall indebtedness 2 to 8.2% 2011: 6.6% for the andwe have made considerable Also see Our Progress fullyear and to 9.5% 2011: 7.9% progress in both of these areas pages 16-17 in the second half.
Our strategic We have set out three priorities to enable us to rebuild profitability: objectives remain clear optimise selling prices: to rebuild profitability improve operational efficiency: and and reduce overall deliver targeted land buying.
indebtedness and Optimise selling prices wehave made We have embedded disciplines considerable progress within the organisation to ensure in both of these areas we continue to focus on securing during the year.
the best price for every sale thereby maximising value rather than just driving volumes.
Average selling prices increased to 180,500 2011: 178,300, with private average selling prices increasing by 1.5% to 201,800 2011: 198,900, driven by a small positive change in mix.
Overall, underlying prices have remained broadly stable, with continued variations by region.
There is, in particular, agreater robustness in pricing inLondon and the South East.
During the year we had higher sales rates across the Group with average net private reservations per active site per week increasing to 0.52 2011: 0.44.
Sales rates have been more consistent during BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 09 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GROUP OVERVIEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW the year reflecting a greater stability in market conditions than we have seen for some time.
We saw aparticularly strong start to the 2012 spring selling season and took advantage of this to deliver additional completions from our older, lower margin land.
Our sales strategy is focused on offering our customers the highest quality products and service.
For the third year running we have achieved theHBFs 5-Star status, meaning that more than 90% of our customers were satisfied with the service they received.
Our site managers havewon more NHBC Pride in the Job awards than any other housebuilder for the eighth yearrunning.
Both the Barratt and David Wilson house ranges have been re-designed and updated following customer research to be even more attractive to potential buyers.
We now have the new house types on 125 of our developments.
We continue to focus on ourpredominantly web-based marketing strategy with our Barratt Homes and David Wilson Homes websites receiving on average around 160,000 visits per week.
Our online presence has been substantially enhanced through the launch of our new look websites, which give consumers significantly more information about individual properties and the locality, as well as additional services such as mortgage calculators and school finders.
Improve operational efficiency Driving operational efficiency hasremained a significant focus for the Group.
We continue to retain a firm control on costs, inparticular capitalising on our scale and technical resources tomaximise efficiency.
Our supply contracts for materials continue to be reviewed and renegotiated as appropriate, and we purchase an increasingly significant proportion of our materials centrally.
10 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 CASE STUDY Delivering new land At the edge of Coxhoe, a former mining village south of Durham, you willfind our development The Limes, comprising 80 attractive houses with a mix of 2, 3 and 4 bedroom homes of traditional and contemporary design.
Todays bright future for the site, with both new housing and commercial use, disguises its chequered past.
The site had remained derelict since 1980 after the closure of the Steetley Lime Works, which opened prior to the First World War.
Beforethis, the site had also been used for mining and as a railway siding.
To develop the site was a challenge.
Detailed investigations confirmed that theground contained demolition debris and spoil heaps, underlain by glacial clays and coal seams, which had previously been worked at shallow depth.
Working in partnership with another local developer, we obtained planning permission for a mixed use development, and a comprehensive remediation programme was completed.
This included the removal ofcontaminated debris, earthworks, the treatment of contaminated soil on site and the removal of Japanese Knotweed.
A clay capping layer and top soil for the public open space and garden areas were also provided.
Today, The Limes is set to become a thriving community.
CoxhoeVillage has a range of local amenities, including a school, shopsand a medical centre, and it is also close to the A1 M motorway for easy access to the major business centres of the North East and further afield.
The goodlocation and the quality ofthe development mean that, asat 30June 2012, 36 of the houses have been sold and justover athird of the homes alreadyoccupied.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GROUP OVERVIEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW We continue to review our Targeted land buying supply chain to create efficiencies Our aim is to optimise the value by introducing new suppliers and and cash generation from our altering build specifications where existing land holdings, whilst appropriate.
Standard house-type bringing more recently acquired costs are benchmarked across higher margin land into production the Group continuously to ensure as quickly as possible.
the lowest cost is achieved We have a disciplined and whilstmaintaining the quality targeted land buying strategy that ofour homes.
has clearly defined risk-related Going forward, it is likely that hurdle rates.
During the year, we some pressure will continue to be agreed terms on 578.1m of land felt as raw material prices rise due purchases, totalling 12,085 plots.
to underlying commodity price We have maintained our discipline increases.
However, we will seek of not chasing prices up and have to mitigate this by continuing to continued to adopt an acquisition drive further efficiency savings strategy that is not unduly and reductions in operating costs concentrated on any specific across the business.
We have The Group promotes and continued to see prices for land shares best practice in the build firming in the South East as other process across all divisions and, housebuilders target this area.
to date, significant cost savings Total cash expenditure on have been identified through landin the year was 397.4m thiswork.
alsobeen identified by agreeing We favour deferred terms, changes to processes and withthe objective of matching introducing new technologies ourrevenue and costs as closely which improve our efficiency.
Thebenefits of these savings Land creditors as at 30 June 2012 willcontinue to be realised in were 726.1m 2011: 700.7m.
Land creditors due within the next 12 months total 368.1m 2011: 349.1m, with 358.0m 2011: 351.6m due thereafter, 1 and in overall terms these equate Private average selling price 201,800 2011: 198,900 Operating profit after exceptional items Agreed terms land purchases 191.1m 578.1m 2 2011: 127.3m 2011: 454.1m 12 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
Derwenthorpe is a community of 64 contemporary, energy efficient homes on the outskirts of York, designed in partnership with the Joseph Rowntree Trust.
Showhome kitchen in the David Wilson Emerson housetype a 5 bedroom detached house at Haresfield Chase, Gloucester.
our owned and unconditional smaller sites of, on average, 110 Inthe period to 30 June 2013, landbank, when seen relative plots predominantly for houses weexpect land creditors toremain toprior year completion volumes, rather than flats.
The new sites fairly constant as aproportion of at around three-and-a-half years have greater potential for the land bank, dependent upon supply, and the conditional land standardised product and lower the satisfaction of contractual bank at around one years supply.
infrastructure expenditure, which conditions, for example, the The land bank owned by Group result in a significantly lower grant of planning permission.
joint ventures is 1,120 plots 2011: average investment per site.
We are making good progress 1,625plots.
in moving our land bank from In addition, we have c. 10,500 Sizing our business and older to newer land, with impaired 2011: c. 11,400 acres of strategic target funding structure plots falling to 6,666 as at 30 June land which are regularly We have reviewed the size and 2012 2011: 10,292, representing reassessed until the necessary structure of our business taking 12% 2011: 17% of the total planning consents are obtained.
account of current market owned and conditional land bank This land is carried at the lower conditions, including mortgage by plots.
We expect impaired ofcost and net realisable value, availability.
We are confident that plotsto reduce to around 4,500 minimising our exposure to risk.
our current operational structure by 30June 2013.
During the year Inthe year 701 plots were isfit for purpose and that it is we sold parcels of impaired land, transferred from strategic land to realistic, over time, to move to where it made economic sense our operational land bank.
Strategic around 450 active sites 2012: to do so, incurring an operating land is expected to produce average of 387 sites, which loss.
We will continue to review anincreasing proportion of our wouldresult in around 15,000 potential land sales on a limited operational land in future years.
completions including those number ofsites where we fromour joint ventures JVs consider that asale would realise Reducing overall 2012: 12,857. a greater net present value indebtedness In light of these plans for the than development of the site.
Our second key objective is business and our ongoing focus In the year, more than a third reducing overall indebtedness.
to reduce overall indebtedness, ofcompletions were from more At 30 June 2012 net debt itis our intention that by 2015 recently acquired land and we hadfallen to 167.7m, down from wewill achieve a target funding continue to expect this proportion 322.6m at the same point in the structure with no net debt at to increase to just above 50% previous year.
The better than thefinancial year end date.
in2012 13 and around two-thirds expected performance on Accordingly, our shareholders in 2013 14.
This newer land reducing net debt was the result andland vendors in the form of continues to perform in line with, ofa number of factors, including land creditors will fund our land or above, the minimum hurdle strong control of working capital, bank and long-term work in rates set on acquisition, namely higher completion numbers, timing progress whereas our lending In the year, more than a20% gross margin and a 25% of land acquisitions, a lower syndicate will fund our annual return on capital based on investment per site and realising working capital requirements.
a third of completions operating profit.
were from more recently We have detailed planning We were able to take Government policy acquired land and we consents for 96% of expected advantage of stronger market The Government sees the continue to expect this completions for 2012 13, and conditions during the second half acceleration of housebuilding as outline consent on a further 2%.
of the year to increase sales on an important economic objective.
proportion to increase We have targeted a shorter impaired sites which generated The Governments housing to just above 50% in land bank to improve capital additional cash.
We also sold strategy, published in autumn 2012 13... efficiency and, as at 30 June three sites acquired before 2008, 2011, contained a number 2012, the Groups owned land which had subsequently been ofinitiatives, including proposals bank totalled 43,897 plots 2011: impaired, for total cash proceeds to improve the availability of 47,917 with an additional 10,312 of 15.2m and a net operating mortgage finance via a mortgage plots 2011: 12,166 plots under loss charged to normal trading of indemnity scheme, to reform the conditional contracts, giving 4.6m.
We will continue to target planning regime and to release atotal of 54,209 plots 2011: additional sales to generate cash further public sector land.
This equates to from impaired sites where we The NewBuy mortgage approximately 4.3 years 2011: consider such a sale will realise indemnity scheme was 4.8years of owned and controlled a greater net present value than subsequently introduced in land based on 2011 12 completion thedevelopment of it.
March2012 and has the potential volumes.
Over the next couple One of the key factors driving to significantly improve the loan ofyears, we expect to maintain down debt has been the focus on tovalue offered in the new build BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GROUP OVERVIEW GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW sector.
However, whilst initial Although planning reform billion either using the Developer oflenders.
There have been some customer interest has been wasintroduced via the National Panel approach or via the OJEU.
changes in their respective market promising, we will not be able to Planning Policy Framework, it is In September 2012 the shares during the year, primarily assess the schemes full potential unlikely that this will have a material Government announced driven by the return of building until the autumn selling season.
short-term effect on the Group.
furthermeasures to stimulate societies and the changes in The mortgage interest rates Wecontinue to move to a more housebuilding, including additional lending criteria from certain associated with the product localist approach in the way in FirstBuy funding, initiatives mortgage providers.
Some willalso be an important factor which we seek to secure planning, targeting the private rental market, lenders still provide a lower indetermining its impact.
with new procedures for earlier reforms to planning and a LTVonnew build houses when During the year, FirstBuy, the and fuller consultation with local reduction in the public funding compared with second-hand Government-backed shared equity residents.
In the year, our scheme requirement onmothballed properties there was typically scheme, was an important tool and at Pickering Park in Yorkshire was developments.
aLTV of 90% on second-hand we completed 1,573 sales under the winner of the National houses and 85% on new build the scheme.
Our success in utilising Housebuilder Best Community The mortgage market houses.
However, the majority the product meant that our initial Initiative Award.
The availability and affordability ofmortgage providers are now allocation of 24.9m was increased The release of public land ofmortgages is a key catalyst for moving to a position of equality by 13.8m during the year.
remains an important part of the underlying housing demand.
The between the second-hand and Shared equity remained Governments strategy to increase level of mortgage approvals has new build markets.
For example, animportant selling tool given housing supply.
This land is reduced dramatically from the Lloyds Halifax increased their thecontinuing constraints on particularly attractive where it is peak seen in 2007, however LTVto 90% on certain new build mortgage finance availability.
brought to the market with the wehave seen a stabilisation houses in early 2012 and such During the year, 20.5% 2011: potential for build now pay later ofmortgage lending over the moves should continue to have 22.0% of total completions were terms.
Since 2009 we have pastcouple of years.
apositive impact on mortgage supported by shared equity and, secured more than 9,000 plots The mortgage market for new availability for our customers.
of this, around two-thirds used across 33 sites with a gross build housing continues to be The Government continues Government-backed schemes.
development value GDV of 1.7 dominated by a limited number tostimulate the lending market 1 14 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 1.
Chestnut Fields, Chilton, Oxfordshire comprising 275 high quality homes on a former RAF airfield.
and has launched the indemnity DPPs that were established Commercial developments committed to enhancing health scheme NewBuy, which has in2010 by the Homes and Commercial development revenue and safety and have an Executive underpinned the return of 95% Communities Agency.
Health and Safety Committee, mortgages in the new build we have been successful on three Thisincluded revenue from the which reports to the Board, sector.
This is likely to be an bids, and we are actively involved design and build of a foodstore todrive further improvement.
important support for the in six ongoing bids.
The project was We aim to secure a position mortgage market at higher levels We believe the Governments completed in April 2012. asthe lowest cost provider of LTV, and provides the sector intention to increase the release Operating profit from the complying with the Code for with an important advantage ofpublic land to build up to commercial development Sustainable Homes the Code.
against the much larger, 100,000 new homes is a positive business during the year During the year we built 3,820 second-hand market.
homes to Code Level 3 or above, record ofworking with public We were also successful of which 868 complied with Code Partnership and joint sector partners and we are during the year in completing an Level 4.
We are establishing ventureopportunities wellpositioned to capitalise agreement for the redevelopment improved and lower cost methods During the year we have made onthisinitiative.
of part of Wokingham town which allow us to continue to progress in securing land through We continue to explore JV centre.
The redevelopment will reduce the cost of compliance.
opportunities which allow us either bedelivered in partnership with We are also progressing our Barratt Partnerships, our to access projects that may not our housebuilding operations development at Hanham Hall, specialist partnership team, working otherwise be available, or to reduce andis one of a number of theUKs first large-scale zero with our divisions, secured 1,676 the investment required and schemes where our commercial carbon housing development.
units on five sites during the year improve the return on capital and housebuild businesses are Wehave completed the external through public sector partnerships employed through construction working together to deliver renovation of the original listed with aGDV of c. 425m.
enhanced returns for the Group.
Hanham Hall building and we We have continued to bid for In prior years, we established arenow well advanced with sites through the three area-based aportfolio of JVs in London and Quality, service and design thefull development of the site.
Development Partner Panels the South East.
Our JV partners In 2010 and 2011 we updated include London & Quadrant boththe Barratt and David Wilson Outlook L&Q, one of the countrys Homes house ranges with internal The Group has made significant largest Housing Associations, layouts designed around modern progress in both rebuilding and the Wates Group, one living.
The new designs continue profitability and reducing oftheUKs largest building tobe well received by consumers indebtedness during the year andconstruction companies.
andwe continue to roll out both justended.
Despite continued We have added to this new ranges.
Our commitment uncertainty surrounding the portfoliowith two more JVs: todelivering thehighest quality outlook for the wider UK market In March 2012, we signed a product and excellent customer and constrained levels of mortgage conditional contract to purchase service has been confirmed by our finance, the industry has enjoyed a two-acre edge of the City site customers both through our internal aperiod of relative stability.
The survey where 98% 2011:98% of Since 1 July 2012, our sales purchase of the site, which is customers would Recommend performance has been in-line being acquired in a 50:50 JV usto a Friend and ourachievement withnormal seasonal trends.
In between the Group and British ofHBF 5-Star status for a third thelast nine weeks, net private Land, is conditional on securing successive year.
Our high quality reservations per active site per In September 2012 a revised planning consent for housing products have assisted week have averaged 0.50 2011: the Government a residential-led mixed-use ourongoing drive toimprove 0.50 and our private forward order development.
profitability, through achieving book excluding JVs currently announced further In July 2012, in partnership optimum selling prices and stands at 609.6m 2011: 528.7m.
measures to stimulate withL&Q, we acquired an improving operational efficiency.
Our strategy is capable of housebuilding, including 8.5acre site at Fulham Wharf, delivering significantly enhanced additional FirstBuy London.
The site, which is on Health, safety and the returns without any improvement the north bank of the Thames, environment inmarket conditions, and in the funding, initiatives has a GDV of 420m with The safety of our employees, current financial year we expect to targeting the private planning permission for contractors, customers and the make further good progress, with rental market, reforms 463riverside apartments wider community is fundamental over half of completions forecast to toplanning and a andanew supermarket.
to the way in which we operate.
be delivered from our more recently In the year, our JVs delivered During the period, our Injury acquired higher margin land.
reduction in the public 220 2011: 93 completions and Incidence Rate IIR was 511 funding requirement we anticipate that completions 2011: 539 per 100,000 persons onmothballed willincrease further as our new employed, which is a 5% Mark Clare developments.
We remain GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
