Grainger plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief executives review Our UK assets continue to outperform the market indices: the portion of profit derived from rents and fees has increased: our sales margins on normal trading sales have been maintained: our net asset values have increased and our gearing has reduced.
Local Planning Authorities already have the Market Overview power to determine the amount of affordable housing The residential market in 2012 continued to show marked each development proposal should build and there are regional variations in valuation movements.
In London, already signs that some Local Authorities are considering where 50% of our assets by market value are located, the opportunities the recommendations provide on land we saw year-on-year growth of 7.4% with Central in their ownership.
London showing the highest growth at 12.0% and Inner These changes in tenure mix, development focus and Outer London showing increases of 6.4% and Andrew Cunningham and attitudes to renting provide a huge opportunity for 3.0% respectively.
Our assets in some Northern regions Chief Executive multi-disciplined residential investors and developers of the country saw further falls in value Scotland -1.7% such as Grainger.
Indeed we are already creating and North East -1.7% compared to the smaller falls opportunities as evidenced by our innovative agreement marginal increases in other regions South West -0.3% with the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea, and East Anglia 1.0%.
More recently, however, there announced recently, and our ongoing development of are some signs of stability in the regions as confidence activities in the build to rent sector.
improves at the lower end of the market where much The final area of the residential market that is of Graingers stock is priced.
growing with central and local government support One significant area of growth in the housing is the affordable housing or Social Housing Sector market is the private rented sector PRS.
The sector which isowned by Local Authorities 47% and Registered comprises 3.65m households, a rise of over a million Providers RPs formerly called Housing Associations in the last 10 years and in London the PRS is estimated 53%.
The Governments Welfare Reform Act, in its to now exceed 25% of households or 800,000 homes, desire to see the delivery of more new affordable housing, with the sector expected to continue to grow.
includes an ability for RPs to charge Affordable Rents The Montague Review, set up by the Housing of up to 80% of open market rents subject to caps that Minister in December 2011, highlighted the need to impact some London Boroughs making affordable build more homes for rent and to increase the level of housing much more viable than previously.
The Act also institutional investment in the sector.
The Review made allows private sector companies to become For profit a number of recommendations including better use of Registered Providers FPRP of social housing in the hope public land, the creation of an enabling fund to bridge that the private sector can assist in the building of new the gap between conception and completion of purpose stock.
This blurring of the dividing lines between the built rental stock and a reduction in the requirement private and public sector provides opportunities for for the provision of affordable housing on build to rent organisations such as Grainger to build on its existing schemes.
The Government embraced the report and infrastructure and expertise to operate in this arena.
shortly afterwards announced a 200m enabling fund Consequently, as announced on 9 November, we have for the PRS specically and a 10bn loan guarantee for formed our own FPRP by re-incarnating the name the acquisition of new homes built for rent private or 17 Grainger Trust as a subsidiary of Grainger plc which Leveraging people and processes as well as our assets Read more on pages 22and23 was formally registered by the Homes and Community We manage assets largely or entirely owned Agency in November 2012.
Its first properties will be by third parties to the value of 706m which Sales generated 10.0m of fees during the year the 77 affordable units in the first phase of Berewood, Read more on pages our 2,500 unit development site inHampshire, currently The three income streams in our business have the 24and25 being built by Bloor Homes.
following characteristics: Rents Business Overview The trading element comprises sales of largely Grainger operates as owner, manager and trader reversionary assets including home reversion assets, Read more on pages of residential properties and has three main sources of along-term strategic land bank and low risk 26and27 income: development schemes.
The UK residential portfolio Fees Receipts from the sale of assets profit from sales: has a reversionary surplus of 500m.
This represents 78m: 2011: 81m a pipeline of future added value which does not Rents net rents: 63m: 2011: 62m carry any planning, development or construction Fees from co-invested and or managed vehicles total risk.
The total value of these assets, including the fees: 10m: 2011: 6.9m reversionary surplus, amounts to 1,917m.
In addition to this, there is a development pipeline of gross We have repositioned the business over the last two development value with current planning permission years to reduce gearing and to increase the proportion of 243m.
This increases to 496m to include schemes of our income from rents and fees.
progressing to planning permission We have continued to outperform the general The rental element comprises a market rented residential market.
In the year ended 30 September portfolio of 743m of assets UK and Germany, 2012 the average of the two major housing indices producing an overall gross yield of 6.6%.
This part of as provided by Halifax and the Nationwide showed a the business incorporates market-focused but multiple fall of 1.3%.
By contrast, Graingers UK portfolio tenure types.
This value is before a reversionary increased in value by 3.9%.
The valuations are supported surplus of 44m by sales results in the year.
Sales of property with vacant Fees primarily arise from co-investment vehicles or possession were made 6.1% above last years valuation.
where our returns are based upon portfolio On a vacant possession basis, since 2004 our residential performance which enhance recurring profits and portfolio in the UK has shown cumulative valuation increase our overall return on capital.
The joint venture increases of 14.5% compared to the average index with Heitman announced after the year end which increase of 2.5%.
will be managed by our German platform is our most This outperformance has come from active recent example management of the portfolio: Geographic weighting to areas of stronger On 9 November 2012, we announced that we had economicactivity signed an agreement with global real estate investment At 30 September 2012 62% of our UK portfolio rm Heitman to create a joint venture, to invest in was situated in London and the South East of c. 3,000 German rented residential units which are England.
In Germany, 82% of our properties were currently wholly owned by Grainger.
The JV will be in four of the more afuent areas of the country 75:25 owned by Heitman, on behalf of a global before the Heitman transaction and 90% after it institutional investor, and Grainger, respectively.
The JVs Strategic sales long-term strategy is aimed at maximising returns During the year lower performing assets or assets through income growth and active asset management.
in areas of lower expected economic activity The deal is subject to a set of Conditions Precedent were disposed of, generating 83m in sales and and is expected to complete soon.
11m inprot, which further assists the geographic Our accounts for the year ended 30 September re-weighting of the Companys portfolio 2012 recognise this transaction with the assets of Refurbishment, development and other added 182m and liabilities of 130m classied as held-for-sale valueprojects and we have written down the investment property During the year we sold refurbished, high assets to be transferred by 6.9m 5.2m net of tax.
value and development assets totalling 54m, generating 19.6m profit Grainger plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief executives review continued 1 2 Near term objectives Strategic objective Strategic objective Maintaining our Locating our assets We will leading positionin in areas of higher improve total residential property economic activity returns to Achievements in 2012 Achievements in 2012 Contributed to Montague Review through Continued to shift the focus of our UK and shareholders executive director Nick Jopling, who was a German portfolios to areas of higher member of the Review Group economic activity.
by: Launched For profit Registered Provider Outperformed the Halifax and Nationwide UK House Price indices Published the Rental Review and Public Attitudessurvey Sold 83m of assets that were lower performing or in areas of lower expected A warded Asset Manager of the year and activity.
BestHome Reversion provider for the 7th year running Equity Release awards 2012 Celebrated 100 years in business.
How we are measuring success How we are measuring success The proportion of our UK and German assets Recognition by our peers, our stakeholders located in areas of higher economic activity: and by government Regular contributions to the development 62% of UK portfolio in London and the of thinking about the future of UK housing and SouthEast solutions to pressing issues 82% of German portfolio in four of the more attractive areas The number and type of opportunities that are presented to us as a result of our position.
Outperformance of general UK house price indices: UK portfolio increased in value by 3.9% Average of Halifax and Nationwide indices fellby 1.3% Priorities for 2013 Priorities for 2013 Continue to focus on delivering Continue to focus on sustainable long-term outperformance of our assets through business relocation and portfolio optimisation.
Continue to develop our activities and inuenceas recognised in our maxim Grainger Residential Aim to exceed the expectations of our stakeholders Continue to evolve our brand and maintain our reputation as a professional and caring landlord.
19 3 4 Strategic objective Strategic objective Outcome By changing the proles of Increasing the Reducing our our asset base and income proportion of financial and streams and by reducing non-trading income operational gearing gearing, we have been repositioning our business Achievements in 2012 Achievements in 2012 for the future.
We will Increased the proportion of operating profits In 2012 net debt reduced to 1.19bn composed of rents and fees andconsolidated group LTV to 55%.
retain this focus which will Continued success of relationship with Lloyds enable the Group to take Banking Group through G:Ramp 1,595 units under management at year end advantage of opportunities 1,110 units sold since start of agreement as they arise.
New opportunities through German joint venture with Heitman and agreement with Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea.
grainger residential How we are measuring success How we are measuring success The proportion of operating profits Debt reduction both in absolute terms The Grainger of the future composed of net rents and fees: and by consolidated loan to value: will have a greater proportion 2012 48.4% 2011 46.1% By the end of 2013 we are targeting net debtof below 1bn and consolidated Growth in net rental income: of its activities in the rented groupLTV of approaching 50% 2012 63.5m 2011 62.4m Our average cost of debt at 30 September sectorand will supplement Growth in fees and other income 2012 was 6.0%.
We anticipate it remaining 2012 11.0m 2011 8.0m these by leveraging itsasset ataround this level in 2013.
We anticipate removing 5% of costs, on a run and property management rate basis, by the end of 2013. platform inco-investment vehicles and fee income Priorities for 2013 Priorities for 2013 business.
As our debt and LTV ratios reduce we will: Continue to grow the proportion of operating profits composed of rents and fees through Match our operational gearing to our developing relationships with existing and business model future partners and building operating and efficiently and transparently manage interest management platforms.
rate derivatives Build on opportunities arising in all parts of the residential property market using our core skills in property and asset management.
Grainger plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief executives review continued These business activities together with the prevailing Strategy and Future Outlook economic conditions dictate that we will operate at Historically Graingers business was in the trading of lower levels of gearing.
In the last 18 months we have reversionary residential assets, primarily those subject reduced debt by 376m in a controlled and managed toregulated tenancies.
The scale and quality of this way, whilst increasing the net asset value of the business portfolio will continue to provide healthy cash ows and by 54m.
We intend to continue this policy of debt opportunities to produce added value for many years to reduction so that by the end of 2013 our overall come.
We are constantly seeking ways to maintain and Groupdebt will fall below 1bn.
At equivalent levels maximise returns from this portfolio.
ofvalue our group loan-to-value LTV at that point will The expertise and infrastructure that Grainger has approach 50%.
built up in accumulating and managing this portfolio Once we reach these targeted levels we will also has ensured that we have the platform in place that consider further our dividend policy.
In the meantime positions the business strongly in terms of long-term weintend to continue our recent policy of increasing sustainability and the potential for accretive growth.
The Grainger of the future will have a greater proportion Alongside this debt reduction programme we plan of its activities in the rented sector and will supplement to remove 5% of costs, on a run rate basis, from across these by leveraging its asset and property management the business by the end of 2013. capabilities to manage and expand its co-investment vehicles and fee income business.
This reects the changing nature of the housing market.
The continued imbalance between supply and demand has led to pressure points.
For example, in value Andrew Cunningham terms, areas of strong economic performance such as Chief Executive London, the South East and parts of Germany show 6 December 2012 resilience and growth, with demand for good quality, well priced rental property continuing to climb.
In these areas we see particular opportunities in the build to rent sector including affordable housing.
