Chief Executives Report The year to 31 December 2012 has been very active.
properties had a gross value of $1,502 million, equating to a Alongside continuing lettings we have made some significant fully let yield of 11.9 % and a capital value of $1,155 per sqm.
acquisitions, continued our construction programme in Moscow, prolonged near term debt maturities and raised We are well advanced on the construction of new phases of further preference share capital.
48,000 sqm at Klimovsk and 36,000 sqm at Noginsk and expect completion at the end of the second quarter 2013.
The same market dynamics we saw in 2011 continued through These already have signed PLAs and LOIs for $4.1 million and 2012 and into 2013.
The key factors for us have been strong will add $10.9 million in total when fully let, increasing the tenant demand and limited new supply.
potential annualised NOI from the portfolio to $190.4 million.
The portfolio is virtually fully let and rents have reached During the year, we acquired assets at Pushkino and $135 per sqm in Moscow.
New leases are being signed for Sholokhovo in Moscow.
Grade A warehouses, fully let to strong 5 to 10 year terms with high quality tenants.
tenants with current initial yields of 11.8% and 12.1% respectively.
After deducting the cost of bank interest and Our completed investment portfolio comprises 1.3 million sqm preference dividends which financed the acquisitions, they of completed Grade A warehousing.
It currently produces NOI contribute $11 million to profits on an annualised basis.
They of $170.1 million per annum from a group of high quality contributed $15.1 million to NOI in the second half of 2012. tenants.
PLAs and LOIs increase that to $175.5 million and it will reach $179.5 million when fully let.
At the year end, these Pushkino 6 Chief Executives Report continued We also acquired 38 hectares of land at Padikova on the Nova I will also take this opportunity to reiterate our policy on tender Riga highway to the north west of Moscow.
Over time, we can offer buy backs, repeating what I said at the half year.
committed to tender offer buy-backs whilst this can be achieved at discounts to NAV.
In the medium to long-term this In addition to the projects and land above, we have sufficient will add value to shareholders.
A shareholder tendering shares permitted Moscow land to add at least another 150,000 sqm will receive cash equivalent to the quantum of a dividend and, to the portfolio in due course.
assuming the tender offer is fully taken up, will retain the same percentage shareholding.
Even though the number of shares A potential annualised rent roll of $190.4 million will give a held reduces, the percentage holding of the shareholder strong income base for a growing distribution per share.
This remains the same and NAV per share will rise as shares are remains our main financial objective.
If we can demonstrate a cancelled at a discount to NAV.
clear record of growing distributions going forward, that will go a long way to demonstrating the real value of our assets.
The perception of Russia is that it is high risk and volatile.
It is our job to demonstrate it is not.
We hope to do this by A big question for us is how much to accelerate development producing steadily increasing distributions to shareholders.
beyond our existing organic plan of 50,000 to 100,000 sqm per annum.
The direct property market would suggest Glyn Hirsch aggressive expansion but we don't want to jeopardize our now Chief Executive Officer solid investment income foundation and we want to grow 10 March 2013 distributions per share.
The main constraint is funding.
