Group Chief Our business development activity Executives review of recent times began to show in the Review of improved results of 2012.
We are operations increasingly well placed, thanks to our core strengths in both the commercial and prime residential sectors, to expand our business by meeting the developing needs of our worldwide client base.
Jeremy Helsby Group Chief Executive 14 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 Our business Our governance Our results Savills geographic and business diversity were key to Our strategy achieving the years result.
Our performance analysed by region was as follows: 1.
Maintain financial strength Unallocated Cost n a n a n a 8.6 7.8 10 5.
Strength in both prime residential and Total 806.4 721.5 12 60.8 50.4 21 commercial property Our Asia Pacific business represented 41% of Group revenue Operating highlights 2011: 41% and our overseas businesses as a whole continued to represent 51% of Group revenue 2011: 51%, despite a year of strong revenue growth in the UK.
Our Commercial Transaction Revival in prime commercial property: UK commercial Advisory businesses in both Asia and the UK grew strongly on the transactions profits up 52% reflecting increased back of increased international inflows of investment capital.
Our market share in Prime Central London transactions Residential Transaction Advisory business represented 14% of Group revenue for the year 2011: 16%.
Total underlying profit margin increased to 7.5% 2011: 7.0% Overall our Prime Commercial and Residential Transaction business revenues together represented 38% of Group revenue Record level of reported profits from our Property 2011: 38%.
Our Property and Facilities Management businesses Management segment continued to perform well, growing overall revenue by 8% to represent just above 37% of revenue 2011: 39%.
Consultancy Asia report record level of profit of 32.6m increased slightly to 21% of revenues 2011: 20%.
Continued geographic expansion of our On the following pages we provide an overview of the Groups Residential operation progress over the last five years using the KPIs we have developed.
The strength of our key commercial and residential market positions drove an improved performance for Savills in 2012.
Operational development As anticipated, we experienced a quieter first half followed by During the year we have focused on integrating the various small progressive improvement thereafter, with Group revenue acquisitions and the teams and individuals we had recruited growing to a record 806.4m 2011: 721.5m, 12% ahead around the world over the course of the market downturn.
benefit of this was seen in substantial improvements in revenue and profitability in key transaction markets such as Central Our business in the Asia Pacific region had a record year and the London.
Our Consulting and Property Management teams also two main UK businesses, in their last year as separate entities benefited from past acquisitions and we undertook significant before the merger into Savills UK, also posted strong results structural reorganisations in both the UK and Hong Kong with a particularly significant improvement in the Commercial businesses, which are designed to enhance client service and Transaction Advisory business.
The US business saw a slight create improved operating platforms for future growth.
In the UK decline, but we anticipate a stronger performance in 2013. we commenced the merger of our two main businesses, which Cordea Savills underlying business continued to grow, but had hitherto operated separately, to form Savills UK Limited.
profitability was affected by expansion costs.
In Continental This took significant preparation during 2012 and the merger took Europe we substantially reduced losses in markets which effect on 1 January 2013.
As part of the merger, we also plan to remained challenging during the year.
This was due to amalgamate the two West End head offices and move into one improvements in a number of countries as the Group new head office at 33 Margaret Street.
The building, currently at benefited from previous restructuring activities.
Overall, the fit out stage, will be occupied from mid May 2013 and will not only strength of the Group enabled us to increase our underlying profit be a physical manifestation of Savills UK, but will create significant before tax underlying profit by 21% to 60.8m 2011: 50.4m.
opportunities to improve our client service across the Company.
On a statutory basis, profit before tax increased 36% to 54.2m People 2011: 40.0m.
I am delighted that Savills business was awarded property agency of the year awards in the UK, Hong Kong, Singapore and Vietnam.
Also in the UK, Savills was named the Property Industry Superbrand of the Year and we won the Times Graduate Recruitment Award for Property for the sixth consecutive year.
These awards are a testament to the strength of our people and I thank them for their commitment, loyalty and hard work.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2012 15
