20 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Chief Executives Review We are pleased that another very good set of results this year reinforces our position as the UKs leading regeneration specialist.
Our strong and robust business strategy coupled with our teams of highly skilled employees have ensured that we remain well positioned to deliver profits whilst withstanding market challenges.
bIll OlIvEr, Chief Executive CONTINUING THE DISCUSSION wHaT, IN yOUr vIEw, HaS bEEN THE bIGGEST SUCCESS STOry Of 2012 fOrST.
Q: There have been many highlights in 2012, however being selected by the Covent Garden Market A: Authority CGMA to redevelop New Covent Garden Market is a real success story for the business.
Notonly does it underline our growing presence in London and the South East but it is testament to ourtrack record of regenerating complex and brownfield sites and is a true example of regeneration which is set to deliver excellent returns over the long term.
THE bUSINESS HaS pErfOrmED wEll OvEr THE laST 12 mONTHS, HOw DO yOU INTEND Q: TO bUIlD ON THIS SUCCESS DUrING 2013?
We will continue to adhere to our robust business strategy of adding long-term value to the properties A: we control via remediation, planning gain, asset management and delivery.
The real benefit our highly diversified and low cost land bank affords us is the ability to move with market demands and focus our attention on those opportunities that generate the most value at any one time.
At present, those opportunities are in London and the South East and the residential market and it is here that we will continue to focus our efforts during 2013. yOU SUCCESSfUlly laUNCHED a rETaIl bOND IN 2012, arE yOU INTENDING TO pUrSUE Q: aNy OTHEr SImIlar OppOrTUNITIES IN 2013?
Our financial base is secure and we are continually exploring options for asset specific funding and A: alternative sources of finance in the long term.
IS THE laND baNk prESENTING aNy NEw OppOrTUNITIES fOr THE bUSINESS IN 2013?
Q: Already this year, we have signed the development agreement with the CGMA for the 2bn A: redevelopment of New Covent Garden Market and we have agreed terms for the provision of the first phase of Swansea Universitys New Science and Innovation Campus on our 65 acre site in South Wales.
We are constantly working hard to extract maximum value from our land bank of over 1.1bn of assets and will continue to do so throughout 2013, realising opportunities right across the country.
21 St. Modwen Properties PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 We are pleased that another very good of which has development potential that working with a number ofexceptional setof results this year reinforces our largely covers the running costs of the can-do authorities who welcome position as the UKs leading regeneration business while we invest in commercial developers and encourage much needed specialist.
Our strong and robust business andresidential assets which we believe can growth and we are proud of the productive strategy coupled with our teams of highly deliver significant long-term returns.
working relationships we have forged with skilled employees have ensured that we officers, members and communities across This proven strategy and the flexible remain well positioned to deliver profits many regions of the UK.
These types advantage that our highly diversified and ofcollaborations should underpin all andcreatevalue whilst withstanding low-cost land bank affords us have both developments under the new regime market challenges.
played a major role in our ongoing resilience butsadly, we are also suffering from We have made excellent progress with to thedifficult economic climate and we theopposite: the no-can-do approach ourmajor projects this year and increased intendto build on this success over the adopted by certain other local planning our commitments in London and the South coming years.
authorities that frustrates growth, East with the signing of the development increasesthe housing shortage, agreement with the CGMA for markET OvErvIEw alienatesdevelopers and leads to redevelopment of the 57 acre New Covent stagnation in the property market.
London and the South East are recovering Garden Market site.
We have also agreed faster than other areas and, with a third of terms with Swansea University for the our portfolio and 50% of our residential bUSINESS OUTlOOk provision of the 150m first phase of the th assets located in this region as at 30 New Science and Innovation Campus.
This has been another successful year November 2012, we are in a good position Thisdevelopment will be situated on our during which we have achieved some to benefit from the ongoing resilience of this 65acre Transit site, one of the holdings significant milestones right across our market throughout 2013. within the 2,500 acre portfolio acquired portfolio and, in particular on our major from BP in 2009 and which has since The market outlook in the regions is weaker development projects.
Both projects but specific development opportunities can underline our growing presence in the willfurther enhance our pipeline be found where land ownership, planning London and South East market and ofdevelopment profits.
expertise and funding can be brought provethat there are still opportunities together playing directly toour skills, intheregions for well-placed and Furthermore, across the country, we suchasSwansea University.
continue to add value to our 5,800 acre land bank by successfully working our While London and the South East is the Looking ahead to 2013, we will continue assets hard and securing planning strongest marketplace, the regional UK tounlock value within our land bank.
The permissions, predominantly for housebuilding market is improving.
We are regions remain important, and this is where residential-led opportunities.
seeing improvement in housing sales, our long-term approach to development which is due in part to low interest rates, comes to the fore, as the time will come The retail bond issue in October 2012 Government initiatives to encourage first when these marketplaces will start to see raised 80m on seven year terms.
Itfurther time buyers and the movement by the afuller recovery and we will be best placed enhances our financing structure and banks to offer more flexible mortgage to take advantage of this, whilst provides us with an alternative source of terms.
However, there is still some way simultaneously helping to support these finance to bank funding.
The successful togo before a full recovery starts to set in.
result of the issue demonstrates the strength of the business as a whole and is The lack of available housing land has In the meantime, we cannot ignore the a testament to our income producing worked in our favour, as our oven ready upsurge in investor appetite for portfolio which proved extremely attractive residential land bank enables us to carefully development activity in London and the to investors throughout the transaction.
select where and when we start on site or South East or the prospects arising from sell land into the market.
We will therefore These activities and our performance focus our attention throughout the coming throughout the year have culminated On the back of this and our increasing year on these areas in order to drive inaprofit before all tax of 52.8m London presence, our residential business optimal returns, as well as driving forward 2011:51.7m.
We have our largest schemes, including the therefore made a number of new redevelopment of New Covent Garden appointments to ensure that we are well STraTEGy OvErvIEw Market and development of Swansea resourced to build on the success achieved Our land bank of over 1.1bn assets Universitys New Science and so far by St. Modwen Homes and our joint provides us with flexibility to move with InnovationCampus.
market demands and focus on those opportunities that will generate the most We continue to be successful in securing value at any one time.
planning approvals for sites across the country but our frustrations with the UK We continue to implement our strategy planning system remain as the process ofadding value to the land bank through stillappears to be difficult.
TheNational Bill Oliver remediation, planning gain, asset Planning Policy Framework isfounded on a Chief Executive management, development and delivery.
th collective approach driven byengagement 4 February 2013 Allof this activity is supported by our and co-operation.
We are fortunate to be portfolio of income producing assets each Additional Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Overview
