Berendsen plc Report and 14 Accounts 2012 Chief Executive Officers review Positive momentum.
We grew our underlying revenue by2% and underlying adjusted operating profit by 8% to 145.8 million 2011: 139.0 million in2012.
Wedelivered another year of adjusted operating margin improvement, up 70bps to 14.8% andan all-time high.
As a result, adjusted earnings per share were 52.2 pence compared with 48.4pence last year.
Our free cash ow was 34% higher than Self help in a tough Momentum is good and last year at 125.1 million 93.1 million economicenvironment aconversion of 142% of our adjusted ourprogress in 2012 has Against a backdrop of difficult profit after tax, which is an excellent beenexcellent.
As a consequence our encouraging thing however Europewe have performed well.
netdebt was reduced to 463.7 million Muchofthe explanation of our success isthe opportunity and compared with 513.6 million as at istobefound in the work that has been potential that lies ahead 31December 2011.
We also improved our donewithin the company to improve return on invested capital by 60bps from Peter Ventress processes and develop new approaches Chief Executive Officer 7.9% in 2011 to 8.5%.
Increasing these to customer service.
The resilience returns towards double digit remains ofthecompanys business model has akey objective of our Strategic Review.
onceagain been demonstrated and theingenuity and dedication of our employees has again helped us to Progress implementing delivera strong performance.
ourstrategic plan Sales momentum Business line structure The past 12 months saw a more intense 2012 was the first full year we operated focus on sales capability and efficiency under our new business line structure.
A well planned Inkeeping with expectations the reduction in the sales force helped organisation was more clearly focused, togalvanise the company to achieve benchmarking and best practice sharing greater sales efficiency.
2012 was a were easier and there was a higher pace goodyear for new sales achievement.
in the implementation of our key plans Particularly pleasing was the proportion and initiatives.
The response from our of new sales which came from previously people was positive and external non-outsourced parts of the market.
Our feedback indicates that people like sales pipeline has never been stronger.
theimproved clarity our organisation brings and nd it easier to understand the complexities of our business.
Berendsen plc Strategy and Business Corporate Financial Report and Overview performance line review Risk Our people responsibility Governance statements Accounts 2012 15 Shaped for service excellence We serviced more than 200,000 contracts in2012, and experience shows us that 94% ofthese customers will stay with us in 2013.
Service excellence is at the heart of our business.
That means we deliver approximately 130 million garments each year and 10 million mats, and wash840 tonnes of at linen laundry each day inthe UK alone, all to make sure our customers have the textiles they need in the right place attheright time.
Manage for Value businesses and we see more opportunity for similar The year ahead makeprogress initiatives.
Our Vision and Values have It is only a year since we changed our been well communicated internally and In those businesses where we do not organisation.
While a great deal has been while local autonomy is vital to our seethe opportunity for strong growth achieved as reected in our results, there business model, we sense a growing orwhere market positions inhibit good is a real sense that we have only just got culture of One Berendsen.
margin generation we have set new going.
Throughout the business we have priorities.
We continue to invest in these yet to see the full results of the changes Management capability businesses but management focus is we have made.
In every part of the During 2012 we invested heavily strongly on margin improvement and business there are plans for further cash generation.
2012 was a good year inmanagement development.
improvements in processes and Acoordinated programme of training, for our Manage for Value businesses.
Our sales pipeline is at New management in some areas helped performance management, coaching itsbest level ever and we see a strong and support helped to develop an us to take a fresh look at the challenges momentum in our sales performance.
we face and deliver improvements.
integrated approach to the way we build Across the company there is a great our capabilities for the future.
Where we desire to achieve more.
One Berendsen recruited we ensured that we were not 2013 will see us continue to build on the merely lling a post but rather hiring with A great deal of effort was applied to good work started in 2012.
We do not an eye rmly on our future development ensure that we capitalise on the scale anticipate further major organisational as a business.
We set out a policy of ofthe group and the wealth of changes.
Like the GB Olympic Team we diversity with the goal of ensuring that knowledge and experience we possess.
subscribe to the view that Better Never infuture our company better reects A number of group-wide programmes Stops.
By making hundreds of small thecommunities in which we operate.
were successfully launched and results improvements in all parts of our business are encouraging.
Our Capital Efficiency and by continuing to focus strongly We do what were best at programme delivered excellent results onwhat really matters we anticipate reected in the years strong cash Our Vision clearly puts our customers delivering further growth on both top generation.
In Procurement savings were atthe heart of everything we do.
Our relentless pursuit made by taking a more coordinated purpose is to provide unsurpassed of a strong Return on Invested Capital approach to what we buy and where service so that our customers can colours all our key decision making and with many more opportunities in the concentrate on what they are best at.
We launched a Pricing and We provide peace of mind to thousands Momentum is good and progress Commercial Terms initiative which will of customers every day, enabling them in2012has been excellent.
The most see over 300 managers and commercial tocarry out their core tasks knowing that encouraging thing however is the staff trained in techniques and process they are fully supported by our services.
opportunity and potential that lies designed to enhance margins in all parts All of our 15,000 employees accept ahead.
The year ahead will see us of the business.
Operating models from responsibility for the customer and continue to make progress towards one part of the business have been feedback from our customer surveys ourstrategic goals through delivering transferred to others with great success tells us that we are doing a good job.
unsurpassed service in a focused anddisciplined manner.
