I n v e s t o r s s e e y o l p m E U n i v Chief Executives review The Groups strong financial performance has been underpinned by the substantial and sustainable improvements we have made to our operating platform.
Mark Allan Chief Executive officer 0VS PCKFDUJWFT GPS XFSF UP DPOUJOVF Financial highlights 2012 2011 growing recurring profit and cashflow NPC 19.1m 11.0m through the delivery of rental growth, Adjusted earnings per share portfolio activity and cost savings: pre UMS for 2011 9.9p 2.6p to establish a sustainable capital NAV adjusted, fully diluted 350p 318p structure and to enhance our portfolio Full year dividend 4.0p 1.75p RVBMJUZ GVSUIFS UISPVHI PVSPOEPO Total return 11.3% 8.1% focussed development activity and See through loan-to-value ratio 52% 54% non-core asset disposal programme.
Operating cashow 17.2m 13.8m We successfully achieved these objectives, a continuation of the positive progress we made in 2010 and 2011, despite a more challenging environment as Government policy changes took effect.
As a result we were able to grow rents, earnings and net asset value meaningfully while also reducing leverage and investing in our portfolio and development pipeline.
Market-leading service platform 1 Achieved by focusing on developing our people, processes and technology in an integrated, scalable 1 and sustainable way.
These improvements will drive Market-leading improved efficiency and increased service levels, service platform measured by our customer satisfaction survey.
Aligned with a clear brand identity and positioning, this will also form the basis for longer term growth opportunities.
Progress in 2012 Sustainable growth t People We reviewed the t Technology We invested 2 3 activities our front-line staff heavily in the latest technology Improving Sustainable carry out to ensure they all including handheld devices portfolio quality capital structure add value to the student for maintenance teams experience, and improved and a new student website.
our learning and development See p. 24 programmes.
t Process We signicantly improved the consistency of our operating processes.
16 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 e r s i t i e s s t n e d u t S C o m m u n i t i e s O Ov ver ervie view w Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information The progress we have made in recent years is evidenced both by the Total return on equity level of returns we have achieved an average annual total return of Components of total return on equity 2012 2011 2010 10.3% over the past three years and the more balanced prole of those returns, with recurring earnings accounting for 27% of returns Adjusted EPS yield 3.1% 0.9% 0.7% in 2012 compared to 11% in 2011 and 6% in 2010.
Capital growth 5.4% 4.9% 6.6% A balanced return prole with modest risk will continue to be a feature Development profits 4.6% 7.0% 6.5% of our strategy going forward.
Our portfolio is of a high quality and will continue to support healthy capital growth in the years ahead: we will Other 1.8% 4.7% 2.2% continue to pursue accretive development activity on a prudent and Total return 11.3% 8.1% 11.6% highly selective basis and we intend to continue growing recurring earnings meaningfully and steadily reduce leverage.
Other factors relate primarily to swap close-outs in 2012 and UMS costs in 2011 and 2010.
We continue to target low double digit returns on equity and are Calculated as NAV growth plus interim and declared final dividend.
aiming to grow our adjusted EPS yield to in excess of 4.5% by the end of 2015 as a result of further rental growth, new openings and continued cost vigilance.
Our focus on growing adjusted earnings has allowed us to grow our dividend substantially this year, to 4.0 pence per share for the full year and we intend to maintain dividend cover at its current levels in excess of 2.5 times operating cashow for the time being given the attractive investment opportunities we see for our business.
2 Improving portfolio quality 3 Sustainable capital structure Achieved through portfolio enhancing development Achieved by bringing gearing down over time activity, with our London pipeline delivered through through targeted disposals and retained profits, LSAV, as well as selective disposals of non-core assets.
extending replacing core JVs, removing non-core vehicles and diversifying the sources and maturity Progress in 2012 prole of debt finance.
t Opened four new t Investment in properties We opened Shefeld, Plymouth Progress in 2012 Moonraker Point, Wellington and Manchester t L&G We completed a new t New Carnegie Court Lodge and North Lodge We completed three 121 million debt facility with We sold our leasehold interest in London, and Kelvin Court significant refurbishments Legal & General, representing in New Carnegie Court to in Glasgow.
See p. 29 at properties in Manchester, their first real estate debt PRUPIM for 33 million.
Plymouth and Shefeld, t Asset disposals nancing deal.
See p. 33 See p. 37 with our share of capital We successfully achieved t Extended JV partnership t Retail Bond We issued expenditure amounting our non-core asset disposal We extended our existing joint 90 million Sterling Bonds to 1 million.
See p. 31 venture UCC and created a due in 2020.
See p. 25 new partnership LSAV with t USV joint venture GIC Real Estate.
See p. 34 We acquired the minority stake in this JV, consistent with our aim to simplify our balance sheet.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17 Chief Executives review continued The Groups strong financial performance has been underpinned Crucially, success in our sector is linked to strong University by the substantial and sustainable improvements we have made relationships and during 2012 we continued to build on existing to our operating platform: clearer, more accountable management partnerships as well as forge new ones.
Accommodation provision structures, investment in technology and infrastructure and customeris a strategically important matter for Universities: it is capital intensive focused training and development for our front line staff.
Customer at a time of funding constraints but it has a significant bearing on the satisfaction levels are now at an all-time high, as are operating student experience which is so vital to a Universitys long term margins and profitability.
As a result, our operating platform is a source success.
We believe we have a deep understanding of these twin of genuine competitive advantage that we will be building on further factors and this level of market understanding, coupled with our in the coming years.
portfolio scale, is proving increasingly valuable.
At the heart of our progress is the committed team of people we have Capital availability was a prominent topic for most businesses across the business, both front-of-house and in support roles: I would in 2012 and it is pleasing that we were able to make substantial like to thank them and congratulate them on their achievements.
Leverage reduced to 52% loan-to-value as a result of asset disposals and capital growth in the core portfolio, Our strong performance also reects the quality of our property average debt maturities increased to 4.9 years 2011: 2.6 years and portfolio and we enhanced it still further in 2012, through a we successfully diversied our sources of debt finance.
43% of the programme of London-focused development, selective non-core asset Groups debt including its share of co-investment vehicles is now disposals and on-going refurbishments.
These activities, together with from non-bank sources.
We expect leverage to fall to 50% loan-tothe rental growth achieved through our consistent focus on only the value in 2013 as a result of further disposals and capital growth strongest Universities and locations, contributed to the 10% increase and intend to reduce it steadily further in the medium term.
in adjusted NAV to 350 pence per share.
As market forces in the Higher Education sector increase, those Universities with the Outlook strongest brands, domestically and internationally, are those most UNITE has entered 2013 with a healthy, cash generative and exible likely to prosper.
Our portfolio has always been targeted towards operational business, a strong capital position and an exciting pipeline these Universities and consequently we remain well placed of opportunities in its property portfolio.
This combination leaves the to perform strongly.
business well placed both to benefit from further opportunities in its market as well as respond proactively to any challenges that may arise.
Our development plans for the coming years are clear and we are making good progress.
We have three committed development Recent Government policy announcements have been supportive projects in place, two in London for 2014 delivery and one in Bristol of the Higher Education sector in the UK and the most recent for 2015 completion, and we expect these projects, together with applications data from UCAS showed that demand amongst young UNITEs share of the LSAV development pipeline, to contribute adults for University education remains strong: a 3.5% increase a combined 19 pence per share to adjusted NAV by 2015. year-on-year.
These are clear signs that the recent instability in the sector resulting from tuition fee increases is beginning to abate.
We have also made encouraging progress with our LSAV development plans.
We secured our first LSAV development project, Our focus for the year ahead is to build further on the successes a second scheme in Stratford, East London, in October 2012: 759 of recent years: to keep growing recurring profits and cashow beds targeted for completion in 2015.
We have also recently secured in a sustainable way, taking advantage of our increasingly valuable an exclusive position on a second project, subject to contract and brand: to continue improving portfolio quality through highly selective planning and offering the potential of 950 beds for 2016 delivery.
development and divestment activity: and to manage the Groups Taken together, these two projects would account for approximately financial position prudently.
London will continue to be our primary 40% of LSAVs planned development pipeline and both are forecast development focus but we are also beginning to see interesting to achieve our target 9% yield on cost.
Outside of LSAV and London, opportunities in a select number of high quality University cities an increasing number of interesting regional opportunities are elsewhere in the UK.
18 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 O Ov ver ervie view w Strategy Business Governance Financial Other review statements information The Group is well poised to deliver further growth in earnings and U NITE has entered 2013 net asset value in the future.
We consider the outlook for rental growth to be consistent with recent years, we have three committed with a healthy, cash development projects on balance sheet which we expect to deliver a combined 19 pence per share of NAV uplift by 2015, we are making generative and exible good progress with our longer term LSAV development plans and the full effect of cost efficiency measures taken in 2012 will ow through operational business, into 2013 earnings.
Our market has been going through a period of transition as a strong capital position Government policy changes take effect.
However, with much of the initial impact already absorbed in the 2012 13 academic year and our and an exciting pipeline business in a strong operational and competitive position we continue to look forward with confidence.
of opportunities in its property portfolio.
Mark Allan Chief Executive officer 6 March 2013 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19
