2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 CEOs Strategic Overview Financial Statements Pages 58 100 WE HAVE A LOVE OF SPORT.
WE ARE PASSIONATE ABOUT BETTING.
WE ARE PROUD OF OUR HISTORY.
AND EXCITED ABOUT OUR FUTURE.
Stephen Morana Interim CEO Betfair was founded by people with a love for sport and passion for Not everything has gone right, though.
One disappointment was a sports betting, who were convinced there was a better way for people technical failure during a race at Leopardstown, triggered by a unique to bet than the outdated bookmaker model.
We have kept true to the sequence of events, which resulted in bets being matched at false odds.
original founding principles and the Betting Exchange will always remain We quickly xed the underlying technical issue and offered compensation central to Betfair.
And its why well continue to succeed.
This had never happened before in hundreds of billions of bets and the system has remained robust in the hundreds of Equally, the business needs to adapt to changes in the market and offer millions since.
all products on which customers want to bet, through whatever channel they want to use.
Since its earliest days, Betfair has evolved to offer a Our employees made a tremendous effort to resolve this incident and wide range of gambling products alongside the Exchange, and the latest I would like to thank them for their action and, indeed, for their efforts evolution sees an expansion of our xed odds products.
This is central to and support throughout the year.
Over the past decade, Betfairs our strategy of creating a one-stop shop for sports betting.
Our strategic success has been a direct result of the engagement, dedication and priorities also centre on putting customers at the heart of our business, passion of its people.
allowing them to bet how and when they want, and investing to achieve scale in key international markets.
It has also been a year of change.
David Yu stepped down after 10 years with the business, including six as CEO.
David made a massive It is becoming increasingly clear that betting is going mobile.
As contribution to Betfairs success and we all owe him a huge debt of smartphone penetration increases and more people gain familiarity gratitude.
I am delighted to have had the opportunity to lead the and confidence with the channel, mobile betting could accelerate the business in this interim period and proud to be handing incoming CEO shift away from ofine channels.
We invested early across a range of Breon Corcoran a business with momentum, great people and solid mobile platforms and geographies, leaving us well placed to take foundations for growth.
I am pleased with Betfairs performance this year in financial terms, such as Core Betfairs double-digit net gaming revenue growth in each of the past three quarters, the completion of the major technology re-architecture project and our strong mobile performance.
The Exchange remains the main driver of growth and has continued to deliver market Interim CEO leading odds.
More information Learn more about our passion at: www.
jobs Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 88% 2012 Business Review CEOs Strategic Overview continued OUR STRATEGIC Customer People VISION IS FOR BETFAIR TO BE Putting the customer at Ensuring our people are the heart of everything Inspired, Engaged and THE NUMBER 1 we do Developed GLOBAL ONLINE SPORTS BETTING OPERATOR.
Strategy: Strategy: Betfair started out championing a better Betfair strives to be a high performing and deal for our customers and it is they who highly engaged organisation.
Our focus is on WE WILL ACHIEVE are vital to our continued success.
Indeed, understanding, supporting, growing and they are integral to the quality of our core developing the people that will help us to THIS THROUGH Exchange product: they provide the execute and deliver our strategic objectives liquidity that makes it the best sports for the year.
OUR BEST IN proposition in the market.
It follows that we need to put customers at the heart of Engagement is critical to our success and is a CLASS EXCHANGE everything we do.
Our strategy is to focus key element in delivering high performance.
on value, convenience and differentiation to We know that people who are engaged are TECHNOLOGY, maximise customer satisfaction.
involved, enthusiastic and committed to contributing to the success of the Company.
WHICH DRIVES Value: We are a global company with ambitious This includes best odds but theres more to plans to grow further and we acknowledge AN UNRIVALLED it than that.
We also work hard to create a that attracting and retaining talent is vital great customer experience through and we have highlighted this in our Principal EXPERIENCE FOR excellent service, content and Risks and Uncertainties section on page 36. communication.
THE SPORTS We invest in our employees.
We have a Convenience: wide range of training and development BETTOR, AND We aim to offer a full range of fast, reliable programmes that equip our people to deliver and easy to use products.
We have a clear and OUR CUSTOMER, regular recognition and feedback process in Differentiation: place and succession planning is embedded PRODUCT, We continue to innovate to provide a throughout the organisation.
CHANNELS AND We listen to our employees, respond to their feedback and communicate the actions we GEOGRAPHIES have taken.
We also ensure that those who deliver exceptional performance are STRATEGIES.
OUR PEOPLE ARE KEY TO THE SUCCESS OF THIS STRATEGY.
Performance: Performance: resulting in a large share of our revenue for employee survey year on year coming from existing customers: FY12: 88%, FY11: 85% programmes implemented during the year Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 14 85% 2011 47% 44m 2012 407 2012 2012 2012 Overview Pages 01 09 Business Review Pages 10 37 Governance Pages 38 57 Financial Statements Pages 58 100 Product Channels Geographies Offering all products Enabling customers to Targeting a top-three that our customers bet anywhere, anytime position in priority markets demand, centred around our Betting Exchange Strategy: Strategy: Strategy: The Betting Exchange will remain at the We are agnostic about how our customers Betfair is the leading online sports betting centre of our product offering.
It gives us access our products.
Our belief is that they operator in the UK and this remains our our competitive advantage and provides should be able to bet anywhere, anytime and most important market.
While almost half the best betting experience for our across a range of channels.
of Core Betfair revenue is generated from customers, leading to exceptionally high outside of the UK, we dont currently have levels of customer loyalty.
We believe that The fastest growing channel is mobile.
We a significant position in any other market.
the Betting Exchange is the only truly saw the mobile sports betting opportunity As well as driving revenue growth, achieving differentiated and defensible product in early and invested to achieve a broad product higher in-country market shares will result the sports betting market and we will reach across all major operating systems, in improved operational efficiency and drive continue to invest to innovate and further devices and geographies.
development capability allows us to introduce frequent enhancements to our Along with the UK, we have identied Italy We recognise, however, that many mobile platform and we will continue and Spain as attractive in terms of scale, customers want to use other products in investing and innovating to maintain our growth potential and regulatory outlook.
tandem with placing bets on the Exchange.
product advantage and deepen our We intend to focus resources on, and aim We believe that developments in nonproduct breadth.
to achieve a top-three position in, these exchange gambling products are quickly priority markets.
replicated: our strategy is therefore to offer We recognise that customers have different all such products demanded by customers betting styles and strategies and it is and to react quickly to any innovations in the impossible for any single interface to satisfy marketplace.
We will continue to introduce all needs.
Equally, it is not possible for us to new products to our portfolio to ensure we develop a sufficient range of interfaces to offer a full suite of gambling products.
Therefore, whilst maintaining have offered casino, poker, multiples and a direct relationship with the end user, we tote betting for a number of years and have will continue to provide open access to recently introduced xed odds sports bets to the Exchange via Betfairs application complement the Exchange.
This one-stopprogramming interface API, allowing shop strategy should further increase customers and software developers to create customer loyalty and drive a higher share bespoke betting applications.
efficient product development model fosters innovation and harnesses the creativity of our customers and developer community to further differentiate Betfair in the marketplace.
Performance: Performance: Performance: ARPU increasing by 18%.
doubling of the number of mobile bets.
