Admiral Group plc 08 Annual Report 2012 Chief Executives statement completely miss the third part of the triangle: margin.
Turnover Profit before tax Prices in the market fell more than 10% in 2012.
We chased it some of the way down but not all the way down.
As a 2,215m 344.6m result we kept some integrity with regard to margin.
2012 2,215m 2012 344.6m Webelieve that to have chased the market further, such that we could present greater year-end policyholder 2011 2,190m 2011 299.1m growth, would have meant sacrificing profit in both the shortand long-term.
Earnings per share Full year dividend per share The UK car insurance market has, historically, been violently cyclical: some profitable years followed by big losses.
There is no reason to believe that the market will 95.1p 90.6p stop being cyclical, although the extent of the future 2012 95.1p 2012 90.6p violence is as yet unknown.
Therefore there will be far 2011 81.9p 2011 75.6p better opportunities to grow at the next turn in the cycle, when rates begin going up faster than claims inflation.
Weve done the heavy lifting: the first 20 years.
Weve put the hole in the ground and weve got the cranes in place.
Admiral is in the enviable position of being profitable All thats left to do is to build the metaphorical skyscraper.
This allows us to choose when we grow and how much we grow and what margins Weve had our ups and downs, good moments and, well, we maintain.
less good moments, over the first 7,304 days we started on 2 January 1993 and there have been five leap years It was also a good sign that Confused.
com, for the first along the way, but whos counting?.
In 20 years, weve time in four years, made more profit than the year before.
done a lot of car insurance total turnover?
13 billion, our However, the trading environment for Confused will be combined ratio over the first 20 years?
84%, weve had a even more challenging in 2013.
The rate of aggregator lot of laughs, lost quite a few hairs and gained a few growth in the market is slowing.
This isnt a surprise for pounds.
But the net result is my belief that the next 20 two reasons: first, so many people are already using years will make the first 20 seem downright pedestrian for price comparison that there arent that many new people Admiral Group.
And if I do my job well, then when the next left!
Secondly, as rates tumble in the market consumers wave of management takes over, it will inherit a very strong get renewal notices with premiums lower than last year.
foundation upon which to construct their skyscraper.
This only serves to dampen their enthusiasm for shopping.
Confused is doing a lot of interesting things however to Before we attack the next 20 years, lets take a look at try and insulate itself from the vagaries of the car insurance the 20th!
It has, for example, a very sophisticated offering of credit cards and it has developed a very nifty app to In 2012 the return to form of the UK business was hearthelp drivers find parking wherever theyre at in the UK.
We enjoyed substantial reductions in the actuarial view of bestestimate for the back years, 2012 saw Admiral take a big but small step.
After 19 years, which has in turn allowed us to release some reserves 11 months and 16 days of having car insurance as the and increase the reserve stock for the future.
The upshot onlystand-alone, underwritten product, we launched of all this is a 15% increase in profits at Group level.
household insurance in the UK on 18 December, 2012.
Its a big step because we have, for the first time, diversified In addition, we did not chase growth.
A common the product range which we underwrite.
Its a small step misconception seems to surround the question of because the business is intended to be very small in the policyholder growth and profit growth.
If one tries to first year or two.
Test and learn, test and learn makea simple link between these two it would The results outside the UK were mixed.
The insurance businesses made some strides towards being growing, profitable, sustainable businesses, however, these strides were not as long as anticipated.
Henry Engelhardt, CBE Overall the opportunities are well worth the investment Chief Executive Officer but we do need to pick up our game and make more progress, more quickly.
The non-UK price comparison businesses each had a good year.
The results for Rastreator and LeLynx, in Spain and France respectively, were better than expected.
These two businesses are poised for great things, but achieving greatness is never easy.
Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other information Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2012 09 2012 Winner For more information: Best Large UK Business Review Workplace UK Car Insurance Go to page 12 Voted 4th Best Workplace in Europe Following on from the success of Rastreator and LeLynx, Our business model just after the end of the year we launched the beta version of a price comparison site in the US, Comparenow.
Profitable Until now no one has done European-style price Focused on delivering year on year growth.
comparison in the US and so Comparenow will plough new ground.
Comparenow is attempting to change 2.
Growing normal shopping patterns on a big scale and success 100% organic, long-term approach to growth is sure to be challenging and exciting in equal parts.
that adjusts according to market conditions.
Admiral Groups strategy is not complicated.
Low risk thepremise that the internet is an irresistible force, our No debt, cash balances conservatively strategy is to continue to progress in the UK market while managed and loss protection through the taking what we know and do well, which is internet and use of coand reinsurance.
telephone delivery of car insurance, beyond the UK.
Translation: keep doing what were doing but do it better 4.
Cash generative than we did it last year.
Strong cash flow and high dividend payout ratio.
And that in itself will be challenging because the bar was 5.
Aligned interests raised again in 2012 with a new record for profits which Significant share distribution throughout weve done every year since we went public in 2004 and the organisation.
actually a few years before and a return on capital of60%.
High return on capital Financial milestones are great but one of the most Enabled by a capital light strategy.
rewarding moments of the first 20 years came in 2012 when we were named the best large company to work for in the UK and the 4th best multinational company to Our strategic priorities work for in Europe, by the Great Place to Work Institute.
We have a simple philosophy at Admiral: if people like 1.
Grow profitably our share of the UK private motor what they do, theyll do it better.
Sowe go out of our way insurance market.
to make this a good place to work.
The result: happier staff, record profits.
Exploit the knowledge, skills and resources attaching to our established UK businesses to Finally, it was a year marked by a long-overdue action.
In promote our expansion overseas in both private the last half of December David Stevens, co-founder and motor and price comparison.
COO, several other senior managers and I went through an entry-level sales training course and then got onthe 3.
L earn by taking relatively small and inexpensive phones with customers.
So after 19 years and 50 weeks, steps to test different approaches and identify I made my first sale!
This experience was a real eye-opener.
Operate a capital-light business model great deal about our business doing this but the biggest transferring a significant proportion of our learning point was first-hand knowledge of how great the underwriting risk to reinsurance partners, people who work for us are.
It was a pleasure to be trained whichinturn allows Admiral to distribute by them, helped by them, play games with them and learn themajority ofour earnings as dividends.
We all came away with a huge respect for ourstaffs ability to tackle the challenges created by a 5.
Give all our staff a stake in what they create by complicated product, systems, regulation, etc.
and still making them shareholders.
give great customer service every day.
We also came awayreinforced in our belief that if you treat customers 6.
Recognise the responsibility we have to the well they appreciate it and will treat you well too.
communities of which we are a part.
In sum, 2012 was the year of the kangaroo: it bounced around a little bit but it turns out to be pretty big, strongand energetic with the babies protected in 2012 was the year of the themothers pouch.
Lets get on with the around a little bit but it next 20 years.
turns out to be pretty big, strong and energetic with the babiesprotected in themothers pouch.
Henry Engelhardt, CBE Chief Executive Officer 5 March 2013
