08 Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2012 www.
com CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CHRIS FINLAYSON CHIEF EXECUTIVE We have many significant milestones todeliver in BGGroups major growth andbase assets during 2013.
Australia andBrazil are on budget and on schedule, and the Group expects to see significant volume growth and cashflow increases from these assets in 2014 and2015.
In December, I was given the honour In 2012, BG Group continued to deliver excellent 3.
The delivery of our key projects, with clear andprivilege of becoming only the second performance in exploration and appraisal, quarterly milestones, including: ChiefExecutive in the Companys history.
with 18 successful wells out of 19, including in Brazil, having a third producing FPSO Ilookforward to leading BG Group through afurther four successes in Tanzania, delivering vessel onstream in the second quarter: thenext phase of its development.
an additional 800 million barrels of oil equivalent mmboe of discovered resources.
Elsewhere, in Australia, having first gas to start BG Group is a company with deep commercial we matured 350 mmboe of resources to commissioning the LNG plant around and technical expertise.
Our strategy will reserves and the Groups risked exploration theend of the year: and continue to build on our distinctive strengths resources grew bymore than 20%, with new in total, bringing seven major projects which differentiate us from the majors in the licences acquired in Uruguay, Egypt, India onstream within the Groups overall industry: world class exploration, a unique andTrinidad and Tobago.
LNGmodel and our commercial agility.
A 3% increase in production was consistent 4.
A key priority is to place continued emphasis Following the markets reaction to our third with our revised production outlook and onexploration.
I have increased BG Groups quarter results, when we revised our production wecontinued to make good progress with exploration budget to $1.6 billion in 2013 outlook for 2012 and 2013, Irecognise that we ourlonger-term growth projects in Australia and promoted Malcolm Brown, our Head need to rebuild trust in BGGroups ability to andBrazil, which are expected to deliver ofExploration, to the Group Executive execute, and to do that wehave outlined clear significant volume growth and cash flow Committee GEC, reporting directly to me.
Achieving these will be increases in 2014and 2015.
I will also be pushing for the tight management ourimmediate focus.
Firstly, however, I will of cost, and completion of the Groups current summarise our results for2012.
Priorities for 2013 portfolio rationalisation programme.
We have much to do in 2013, and I have Group operating performance identified andcommunicated my Safety For the full year, BG Group delivered earnings keypriorities: Safety is my first priority.
Cash flow from operations was that every accident and every injury is avoidable.
First and foremost, a relentless focus Sadly, two people died working for BG Group performed well, with total operating profit up onsafety: that includes both personal in2012: one in an incident involving a supply 13%, demonstrating the value of BG Groups safety and major accident hazards.
vessel in Aberdeen Bay, and the second in a flexible LNG model, which allowed us to capture 2.
Production delivery in BG Groups base vehicle accident in our Pennsylvania operations.
increased margins by diverting cargoes to assets, in particular Egypt and the UK.
Both incidents were investigated thoroughly higher-value markets.
and lessons learnt were shared around theGroup.
For a reconciliation between business performance and total results, see note 1, page 93 and note 9, page 103. Business review Chief Executives statement continued 09 In Australia, there were too many minor injuries However, new project contributions will Focus on cost and portfolio as hours worked ramped up over the year.
This beoffset by the Groups strategic decision The tight management of cost and the completion increased BG Groups overall total recordable toreduce the rig count further in the USA, of our current portfolio rationalisation programme case frequency to 2.26, well above the Groups natural decline in Egypt, a major maintenance will be high priorities in 2013.
Excluding QGC, the Group met programme in Karachaganak, and the reduced continue to keep our portfolio under active its safety target in 2012, and inaggregate interests in QCLNG upon completion of fully management and review.
wastop quartile in the industry.
termed agreements following the Heads of Agreement with China National Offshore Oil Summary QGC has an extensive action plan to address Corporation see page 27 and a footnote on We have many significant milestones to deliver itssafety performance, including ensuring page 20 for further details.
inBG Groups major growth and base assets bettercontractor safety management, during 2013.
Australia and Brazil are on budget andistargeting a 50% improvement this On balance, a production range of 630 kboed and schedule, and the Group expects to year.
Therest of the Group has a target to660 kboed 230 to 241 mmboe, excluding any seesignificant volume growth and cash flow tofurther improve its safety performance further disposals, reflects fairly the risks and increases from these assets in 2014 and 2015. through consistent application ofenhanced opportunities BGGroup faces in 2013.
Internally, Wehave the people, the opportunity set safety management tools.
the Group willcontinue to drive for 660 kboed andthe know-how to deliver industry-leading 241 mmboe.
Despite the In addition to personal safety, we are also challenges of 2012, we can, and will, deliver extremely focused on process safety and asset Progress our major projects onthis promise.
In 2012, the Group ran In Australia, we remain on track to deliver first ahigh-profile campaign to raise awareness of LNG in2014.
I visited QCLNG in October and major accident hazards and conducted training was pleased to see the good progress being Chris Finlayson for more than 350 people, including members made.
We expect to achieve a significant Chief Executive of the Board.
We will seek to build on this milestone with first gas to be commissioned progress in 2013.
Further information on our inthe LNG plant on Curtis Island around safety performance and priorities are set out theend of 2013. on page40.
In Brazil, which I visited in November, we are Improve production from base assets alsomaking good progress.
BG Group has The majority of BG Groups base assets excellent relationships with Petrobras and the delivered volumes close to budget expectations partnership is working well.
Egypt and the UK were the major and will ramp up in the second half of the drivers of the Groups production shortfall.
year, while FPSO 3 is also on schedule to start production from the Lula NE field in the In Egypt, we have put in place a four point second quarter of 2013. recovery plan to: Continue to grow our LNG business improve the predictability of field performance In BG Groups LNG business, sales to the by gathering more reservoir data to improve Singapore market, where we are the LNG sub-surface understanding: aggregator, are expected to commence this year, following completion of the terminal facilities.
increase production from existing well stock, We will continue to build on the success of with a series of workovers and acid stimulations: ourunique LNG trading model and, overall, sanction the next phase of development weexpect LNG Shipping & Marketing operating ofWest Delta Deep Marine subsequently profit in 2013 to beinthe range $2.5 billion to sanctioned in February 2013 : and $2.7billion, at market conditions in January 2013, slightly ahead oflast year.
target near-field exploration with two wells in2013 which, if successful, can be connected Continue our exploration success rapidly to existing infrastructure.
In 2013, BG Group plans to drill key exploration wells in Egypt, Brazil and the UK, and the In the UK, we will seek to replicate the production Groups first Kenya well will be spudded around efficiency improvements achieved on Armada the end of the year.
Appraisal programmes in in our other operated assets.
Additionally, we Australia, Brazil and Tanzania will continue, will work closely with our partners to improve and two further appraisal wells are planned production efficiency on Buzzard and our onIara totest well designs for the development other non-operated assets.
The first of two drillstem tests to be carried out on our major DeIiver projects coming onstream in 2013 discoveries inTanzania was successfully BG Group has seven projects coming onstream completed in March 2013.
This will be one of the Groups busiest core to our growth strategy and the Group ever years, with teams from the UK, Brazil, hassignificant exploration and appraisal Kazakhstan, Thailand and Bolivia tasked with programmes across atotal of eight countries completing projects and shutdowns safely, thisyear.
International Association of Oil & Gas Producers industry benchmark 2011.
