8 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Chief Executives Review Building products to meet specific needs 5IF $IBJS XSJUFT PG PVS PCKFDUJWF UP CVJME QSPEVDUT UP NFFU investors needs and this has driven many of the changes that we have undertaken during the last five years.
We have streamlined the investment portfolio and process.
We have undertaken a major overhaul of Alliance Trust Savings which is now well positioned to grasp the opportunities presented by the Retail Distribution Review RDR and have, in Alliance Trust Investments, a viable asset management business.
While the investment portfolio will drive the Net Asset Value NAV in the medium term, the two whollyowned subsidiaries provide a differentiated offering in the investment trust market place and will provide value to the Trust going forward.
We have moved up the peer group performance rankings and, as a result, we can tell a more confident story than we could have done in 2007.
Underpinning all these changes has been a desire to ensure In a year when trust in the financial that all that we do, how we do it and how it is paid for is clear for all to see.
As a self-managed trust, the costs of managing sector has been undermined further, it the Trust are much more visible as they are itemised in the makes me particularly proud to be able profit and loss account, rather than simply being wrapped up to deliver a Total Shareholder Return of in the management fee that managed trusts will be charged.
The advantage of this structure to our shareholders is that 12.4% and an increase in our dividend more of the benefits of the performance of the portfolio will for the 46th consecutive year.
Once again accrue to the shareholder.
We are also providing much more we have been able to deliver the dividend detail in these accounts on the key metrics which drive the business plans of our subsidiaries, Alliance Trust Investments from our current year earnings and I hope and Alliance Trust Savings, in order that the reader can that our long term sustainable approach develop a better understanding of the revenue drivers for to investing can preserve the transparent them and ultimately for the Trust itself.
and trusted relationship we have with our Long-term, consistent and strong shareholders.
"investment performance During the year, the total return of the NAV and the Katherine Garrett-Cox share price was 12.1% and 12.4% respectively and since $ISJTUNBT CPUI UIF ""7 BOE UIF TIBSF QSJDF IBWF HPOF on to reach all time highs, whereas many market indices remain below levels reached in 2008."
We do not have a fixed benchmark as we believe that this would constrain our ability to shape the portfolio to protect our shareholders capital.
However, we recognise that many like to measure the Trust against an index.
By way of comparison, during 2012, the total return of the Global Growth Investment Trust sector was 12.3%, FTSE All-Share Index was 12.3% BOE UIF.
PTU PG these gains accrued in the second half of the year following the announcement of the bailout of the Spanish Banks, the EFDJTJPO CZ UIF &VSPQFBO $FOUSBM #BOL UP CVZ &VSPQFBO government bonds and latterly, the decision by the US to extend the debt ceiling in early 2013.
Over the last two years, we have reduced the level and the volatility of the discount thereby providing our shareholders with much greater levels of confidence about the ongoing Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 | 9 relationship between the NAV and the share price.
At Income generation the end of the year we had almost 90% of the portfolio Over the year we have reduced our exposure to UK listed invested in equity markets, as we believe that this asset companies and, in particular, have invested more into class will be the best performing over the long term.
We undertake detailed analysis to understand the select stocks which we believe will best protect and preserve difference between where a company is listed and where our shareholders capital, while providing the potential to it derives its income as we believe that this is a much more generate good returns over the long term.
accurate indicator as to the future prospects for the income At the same time, interest rates have languished at their XF SFDFJWF.
"BOZ ""TJBO &VSPQFBO BOE 64 DPNQBOJFT BSF lowest levels since records began for the last four years now returning value to shareholders through dividends to and we are not forecasting an early return to base rates of the extent that we have been able to diversify the portfolio 5%."
Against such a backdrop, we are constantly reminded away from the UK market, where the bulk of the dividends by our shareholders of the importance that they place on are concentrated in a handful of stocks, to a much broader base of quality international companies.
In addition we sustainable income, both in its own right, but also as a component of total return.
have also increased our allocation to fixed income, which now stands at over 9%, and this will allow us to focus the Investment team and portfolio structure equity portfolio more on delivering capital growth, while still yielding income to the Trust.
We anticipate that UK interest In December 2008, we announced our intention to rates will remain close to the current low levels, so being refocus Alliance Trust on its core competencies, which we able to pay a growing dividend from current year earnings defined as being investment in global equities and fixed will remain one of our key future objectives.
JODPNFBTU VMZ XF UPPL UIF MBUFTU TUFQ JO UIJT QSPDFTT when we announced a radical change to the way in which Borrowing we manage the equity portfolio of the Trust.
Since 2004 The Trusts low risk and liquid portfolio enables it to secure we had managed the portfolio on a regional basis, but the most competitive rates for our borrowing facilities.
The we concluded that this was failing to recognise that the average rate for our current borrowings is 1.6%, which world is becoming ever more interconnected and that it compares favourably with the rates available to other was not delivering the best return for the level of risk to XIJDI UIF QPSUGPMJP IBT CFFO FYQPTFE $POTFRVFOUMZ XF institutions.
The level of net debt at the end of the year stood at 6.6%, broadly similar to the start of the year.
combined all the equity portfolios into one and appointed The net amount of borrowing invested in the markets was Ilario Di Bon to the role of Head of Equities, with direct reduced in the first half of the year as concerns in Europe responsibility for managing the equity portfolio.
"DPOUJOVFE ""T UIF PVUMPPL JNQSPWFE JO VMZ GPMMPXJOH UIF One of the consequences of this change is that we have commitment to stabilise the financial sector, we increased been able to reduce the number of direct equity holdings net debt."
We will continue to replace and renew our to around 100 at the year end.
This concentration of borrowing facilities to ensure we maintain the flexibility positions allows us to benefit from greater exposure to our to enhance returns by selectively borrowing to fund the best ideas.
The impact of these changes can be seen in portfolio investments.
In 2012 borrowings contributed 0.8% the shape of the portfolio.
For the first time since 1987, the to the total return.
largest position in the portfolio is not a UK company and at the end of December 2012, none of the top three holdings Focusing on client relationships and had their primary listing in the UK.
We explain more about customer service these changes in the portfolio review section on pages We believe that Alliance Trust provides a valuable service 13 to 17. to the private investor and bridges the gap between the This change in approach led to a reappraisal of the financial and the non-financial community.
We employ a staffing needs of the investment team.
This has also team of professional investors to build, manage and monitor been restructured to reflect the change in focus and, as a portfolio of assets, in order to provide our shareholders a consequence, we have reduced the headcount of the with exposure to equities from all over the world on a cost Trusts investment team by about one-third.
We now run effective basis.
Investment trusts were originally created an integrated team of global sector specialists and regional for the investor of moderate means and that still holds income experts.
Over the last 18 months we have been true today as around 68% of the shares are either directly able to be more flexible about where the investment team or beneficially held by private individuals.
We consider the is based and half of the investment team is now based feedback from our large and diverse shareholder base as we in our London office, with the balance split between our formulate our strategy, aware that consistency of returns is Dundee and Edinburgh offices.
equally, if not more important, than short-term performance.
10 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 Chief Executives Review Alliance Trust is unique in that there is no other investment Investments and Alliance Trust Savings.
We will be rolling it out across the entire business over the next six months.
trust with our structure, with our two wholly owned subsidiaries, providing products and services to the wider A focus on people investment community.
Over time we expect that these will provide added value to the shareholders of the Trust.
In At Alliance Trust we are dedicated to developing the talent particular, Alliance Trust Savings provides a savings platform at all levels within our business.
The key to our success as a for over 62,000 retail investors and in the last year has business depends upon the engagement and dedication of won awards or been commended for all that it does: for its our people and we are committed to unlocking potential customer service, for its products and for the platform upon and providing our people with rewarding and challenging which the products sit.
It has undergone significant change careers.
We achieve this through a combination of formal over the last four years and is well positioned to perform leadership programmes, which develop leadership styles profitably throughout 2013.
This comes at a time when the and techniques, ongoing in-house training for all staff, Retail Distribution Review is challenging the structure and comprehensive graduate recruitment programmes and provision of investment products and we expect that our internships.
We were delighted to be able to attract a business model will stand up well under such scrutiny.
visiting Harvard Professor to deliver a thought provoking QSPHSBNNF GPS PVS TFOJPS MFBEFST JO VOF 8F BMTP Business development target the leadership development of our emerging leaders to ensure that we are nurturing the next level of Since the year end Alliance Trust has entered into an management for the future, through various programmes outsourcing agreement with its existing supplier of JODMVEJOH BO.
"#"" SVO JO DPOKVODUJPO XJUI 4USBUIDMZEF PVUTPVSDFE JOWFTUNFOU BENJOJTUSBUJPO TFSWJDFT # :."
We devote time and energy into The agreement extends the scope of services provided by developing our key people and careful selection is made # :.
"FMMPO UP JODMVEF NJEEMF BOE CBDL PGDF BDUJWJUJFT GPS of established and emerging leaders to participate in key CPUI ""MMJBODF 5SVTU 1-$ BOE ""MMJBODF 5SVTU OWFTUNFOUT projects."
We realise that the best ideas come from all levels of our business and our culture encourages contribution This decision was taken, following an extensive supplier and challenge.
selection exercise, in order to allow us to focus on our core competencies and outsource some of the portfolio Outlook administration functions.
We envisage that while this will not result in significant cost savings in the short term, Equity markets have started 2013 in a positive mood, with the arrangement will provide a single, scalable and costthe best market performance for over 10 years, despite a effective solution.
In addition it will allow us to shorten number of fundamental global monetary imbalances and the time to market for new products and services, and economic activity remaining subdued.
Alliance Trust has had enable management to focus greater effort and investment its best start to a year in terms of share price performance and on those critical value adding activities of investment NAV performance for over 20 years.
This highlights one of the key issues faced when positioning the portfolio for the long term.
If we look in isolation for Transparent communication cyclical economic changes to determine which countries Over the last 12 months we sought the views of a wide and sectors will do best, then we are likely to increase range of private investors, investment analysts, advisers and portfolio turnover, thus increasing costs and run the risk of journalists on Alliance Trust.
We were seeking to understand misreading the economic signals and being held hostage to whether our current shareholders, investment analysts, macro and political misadventure.
advisers and journalists felt that the Alliance Trust brand was This is why we remain committed to our rigorous and robust enough to attract the next generation of investors.
thematic bottom up approach to ensure our investment This is of special relevance today as the Retail Distribution decisions are focused on finding high quality companies Review alters the investment landscape.
with consistency of earnings, sound management teams and We are seen as independent, solid, committed and trusted compelling business models as these companies are best by many loyal investors.
But, at the same time, in the eyes placed to weather changes to market sentiment.
The formal of some, we have appeared dull, old-fashioned and boring.
investment process is made up of four interconnecting We recognised that we had two tasks.
The first was to elements of idea generation, idea validation, portfolio ensure that all our staff are better informed about all parts construction and risk management.
We have targeted a of the business and the second was to look at how we portfolio of around 100 stocks, which means that we invest appear to the outside world.
The logo on the front cover with greater conviction than we have in the past.
"This is the product of this project and it works to bring a more spreads the investment risk sufficiently but still allows us to VOJUFE QSFTFOUBUJPO PG ""MMJBODF 5SVTU 1-$ ""MMJBODF 5SVTU deliver above market returns over the long term."
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 | 11 We cover the details of this thematic approach later in The economic backdrop to this fundamental approach this report.
In essence we have continued to add to our is less gloomy than last year and we forecast that the high conviction holdings such as Pfizer and Qualcomm, global economy will grow in 2013, albeit marginally.
and have taken profits in stocks that have realised their.
BOZ HPWFSONFOUT BOE OBODJBM JOTUJUVUJPOT XJMM GBDF UIF potential and initiated new holdings in companies with challenge of repairing their balance sheets and policy sustainable long-term prospects.
makers will be faced with difficult decisions between austerity and stimulating growth.
Recent market moves Looking forward into 2013, we continue to assert that equities and the strong flow of funds into equities from bonds remain good value relative to other asset classes, particularly suggest that investors feel more confident that the outlook government bonds.
At a company level we are analysing a is improving and confidence will play a part in global range of interesting opportunities which meet our investment recovery.
However, while we do not expect the current rally criteria and we continue to meet with management of well to run for the rest of the year at the current pace, we are run businesses with strong balance sheets and valuations that confident that our portfolio of companies is well placed to are consistent with above average returns, particularly for long-term investors such as Alliance Trust.
drive returns for the Trust.
Portfolio Performance Analysis Performance The low interest rate environment allowed the Trust to borrow at attractive interest rates of 1.6% on average.
The The Net Asset Value NAV total return for 2012, including average level of gearing was just under 10%.
The cost of reinvested dividends, was 12.1%.
"Although we do not have borrowing was low in relation to the returns that were a formal benchmark this compares favourably with a return earned on the Trusts investments, leading to an Allocation of 11.7% for global equity markets, represented by the gain a contribution to relative performance of over 0.8%.. 4$ ""MM $PVOUSZ 8PSME OEFY JO 4UFSMJOH UFSNT Expenses of 18.7m had the effect of reducing NAV by Equity investments, representing on average 95% of net 0.8% during the year."
assets, contributed 10.3% to the NAV total return.
The attribution analysis table overleaf gives more information on Share buy-backs, mainly in the first half of the year, led to how this performance was generated from a global sector gains of just over 1% of NAV.
In total, 31.7 million shares perspective as this is more representative of how we invest were repurchased at a weighted average discount to NAV than a geographical analysis.
Investments in fixed income provided over 1% to the total $POUSJCVUJPO return.
"The allocation to fixed income was increased during ""WFSBHF 3BUF PG UP 5PUBM the second half of the year to over 9%, and the investments $POUSJCVUJPO ""OBMZTJT &YQPTVSF 3FUVSO 3FUVSO provided a total return of nearly 23%."
It was a strong Equities 95.3 10.9 10.3 year for fixed income markets in general, and the Trusts Fixed Income 5.5 22.8 1.2 JOWFTUNFOU JO UIF.
POUIMZ ODPNF #POE 'VOE XIJDI Other Assets 6.6 1.9 0.1 accounted for the majority of the Trusts investment in fixed $BTI '9 Gearing cost of borrowing -10.0 1.6 -0.2 income, had a relative positive return of 4% compared to Expenses -0.8 UIF #PYY 4UFSMJOH $PSQPSBUF #POE ZFBS JOEFY XIJDI JT Share Buy-backs 1.0 the benchmark for that fund.
NAV Total Return 12.1 Other Assets which include Private Equity, Real Estate and Effect of Discount 0.3 Subsidiaries made a small positive contribution to NAV Share Price Total Return 12.4 growth, while cash balances made a negligible return due UP UIF DPOUJOVJOH WFSZ MPX MFWFM PG JOUFSFTU SBUFT $VSSFODZ.
"4$ ""$8 5PUBM 3FUVSO hedging added 0.3% 7 million to net assets during Private Equity, Real Estate and Subsidiaries the year."
Source: Alliance Trust 12 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts December 2012 Portfolio Performance Analysis Attribution Our investment approach is now predominantly based on stock selection rather than taking deliberate active positions The Attribution Analysis table below breaks down the on a sector basis, but this provides a useful insight into the performance of the Trust by sector and identifies the extent structure of the portfolio.
to which each part of the portfolio contributed to the Trusts overall return relative to the chosen reference index, 4UPDL TFMFDUJPO XBT SFMBUJWFMZ TUSPOH JO.
BUFSJBMT BOE JO UIJT DBTF UIF.
"4$ ""MM $PVOUSZ 8PSME OEFY U TIPXT UIF 6UJMJUJFT CVU SFMBUJWFMZ QPPS JO &OFSHZ $POTVNFS weighting of the assets in the portfolio and the index to Discretionary and Financials."
From a sector allocation identify where the Trust is overweight or underweight and perspective, the underweight positions in the highthe return of each sector or asset class in the portfolio in the QFSGPSNJOH 'JOBODJBMT BOE $POTVNFS %JTDSFUJPOBSZ TFDUPS index.
The chosen reference index has no exposure to cash, were both minor detractors from relative performance, so no weight or return is shown.
while the underweight in Telecommunication was beneficial as this sector lagged the broad market.
The degree of out underperformance is then attributed to: In the course of the year, as the portfolio was restructured, t 4UPDL TFMFDUJPO o 5IJT NFBTVSFT UIF EFHSFF UP XIJDI UIF UIF XFJHIU JO FBMUI $BSF BOE OGPSNBUJPO 5FDIOPMPHZ stocks that we held in each sector did better or worse JODSFBTFE XIJMF UIF XFJHIU JO &OFSHZ.
BUFSJBMT BOE than the sector e. g. although we were overweight in Industrials decreased, based on our analysis of the.
BUFSJBMT XIJDI EJE OPU EP WFSZ XFMM SFMBUJWF UP UIF JOEFY as a whole, we selected good stocks in that sector attractiveness of the companies in those sectors.
"t ""TTFU BMMPDBUJPO o F H XF IBE MFTT JO 5FMFDPNT UIBO UIF Index futures were used for hedging purposes in the first half index, and Telecoms did not perform as well as the index of 2012 and for efficient portfolio management in the second as a whole."
half of the year while the portfolio was being restructured.
We have analysed the portfolio by sector as this reflects the The table also highlights the positive effect of both the BEPQUJPO JO VMZ PG B TJOHMF HMPCBM FRVJUZ QPSUGPMJP allocation to fixed income as an asset class and the fixed approach for the majority of the Trusts assets.
income stock selection relative to the reference index.
"4$ ""MM $PVOUSZ 8PSME OEFY 4FDUPS ""TTFU 4UPDL 5PUBM ""WFSBHF 5PUBM ""WFSBHF 5PUBM ""MMPDBUJPO 4FMFDUJPO 3FMBUJWF ""UUSJCVUJPO ""OBMZTJT 8FJHIU 3FUVSO 8FJHIU 3FUVSO &GGFDU &GGFDU &GGFDU $POTVNFS %JTDSFUJPOBSZ $POTVNFS 4UBQMFT Energy 10.9 -8.7 11.3 -1.4 0.1 -0.7 -0.6 Financials 17.7 22.0 19.5 23.8 -0.2 -0.3 -0.5 FBMUI $BSF Industrials 13.0 10.9 10.4 11.6 -0.1 -0.1 -0.2 Information Technology 9.6 12.3 12.6 10.7 -0.2 0.2 0.1."
"BUFSJBMT Telecommunication Services 2.5 0.4 4.6 4.3 0.2 -0.1 0.1 Utilities 2.8 11.3 3.7 -1.3 0.1 0.3 0.4 Index Futures 2.1 16.1 0.0 - 0.0 - 0.0 &RVJUJFT Fixed Income 5.5 22.8 - 18.2 0.3 0.2 0.5 $BTI '9 0UIFS ""TTFUT Gearing -10.0 1.6 - - 0.8 - 0.8 5PUBM Source: Alliance Trust Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Information for Shareholders Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2012 | 13 Portfolio Review Source of Revenue We analyse our portfolio to determine where companies in which we have invested are generating the revenue that will be the source of the dividends that they pay to their shareholders."
We believe that this analysis gives a much more accurate indication of the outlook for the companies than relying solely on where they are listed.
Analysis excludes segmental non-specific income such as Rest of the World 9.3% as the definition varies from company to company.
"Source: Alliance Trust $MBTTJDBUJPO PG OWFTUNFOUT Source: Alliance Trust PSUI &NFSHJOH 5PUBM 5PUBM ""NFSJDB 6, &VSPQF ""TJB."
4$ TFDUPST 5IF EBUB IBT CFFO SFDPOHVSFE UP QSPWJEF BO BQQSPYJNBUF DPNQBSBUPS
