Chief Executive Officers Report I am pleased to report that BHP Billiton delivered a solid The diversification of the BHP Billiton portfolio continues to set of results in FY2012 against a backdrop of challenging be our defining attribute.
The quality of our people, our asset industry and macro-economic conditions.
Our commitment base and our unchanged strategy of owning and operating large, to investing through the cycle allowed us to reach new long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified production records at 10 of our operations and was key by commodity, geography and market, together with our ability to our financial results.
and commitment to investing through the cycle and delivering projects on budget and to schedule, is what sets us apart We continue to focus on safety with a commitment to from our peers.
establish best practice in this area.
In this regard, our total recordable injury frequency rate declined by six per cent in In line with this strategy, over the next two years we will continue FY2012.
However, despite this rate now being at its lowest to invest in and grow our business.
With 20 major projects level on record, the tragic loss of three colleagues over the currently in execution, these well advanced, low-risk, brownfield past year is a stark reminder of the inherent risks in our industry projects will deliver substantial volume growth and underpin our and the need to relentlessly pursue the elimination of all fatal industry-leading returns in the future.
As a result of our disciplined risks.
Any fatality has a devastating effect on family, friends investment strategy and our commitment to maintaining our and colleagues, and the impact of this is felt in every corner strong balance sheet, we are largely committed for FY2013 of this Company.
We truly believe that BHP Billiton can and do not plan to approve any additional major projects be a business that operates free of work-related fatalities, in this period.
and it is for this reason that fatality prevention remains We remain confident in the long-term outlook and future our number one priority.
demand for our products, which will continue to be driven From a global perspective, FY2012 was characterised by by the urbanisation and industrialisation in the developing uncertainty and volatility surrounding the European debt crisis world.
As current capital commitments reduce, we will allocate which, in turn, affected global economic growth and the key future capital to projects that maximise shareholder value markets for our products.
The resulting weaker commodity and balance both short-term and long-term returns.
We are prices coupled with stronger producer currencies and capital in a fortunate position, with growth options unparalleled in the and operational cost pressures presented challenges for the global resources industry, and together with our proven strategy, global mining industry.
we will continue to deliver sustainable and superior long-term returns for our shareholders.
In response to the prevailing market conditions, over the past year we have implemented prudent measures that will safely Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to thank our host and substantially reduce operational costs and non-essential communities, who continue to support our activities, and our expenditure across our entire business.
FY2013 will see the shareholders, customers, suppliers and the many others who benefits of these significant cost reduction measures, along with help contribute to our success.
I would especially like to thank substantial volume growth, flow through to our financial results.
our more than 125,000 employees and contractors around the world.
It is their commitment to giving their very best efforts Despite the volatility in global economic conditions and to us each and every day that is the cornerstone of the success commodity prices we have experienced in the past financial year, of this Company.
we see significant opportunity for our Company in the near term.
While we achieved pleasing production results and production records at 10 of our operations, three of our key assets operated below capacity in FY2012 due to temporary, one-off issues.
This was largely due to industrial action in our Queensland Coal business, shut-ins at our non-operated joint venture fields in the Gulf of Mexico and a temporary decrease in grades at our Marius Kloppers Escondida copper operation.
With these businesses expected Chief Executive Officer to return to full capacity, we are confident we will continue to produce industry leading returns for our shareholders now and into the future.
