Chief Executives review Driving the business forward 2012 Highlights r Improved performance across the Group r Good momentum to underwriting earnings for 2013 r Better risk-reward expectation for 2013 as a result of retrocessional cover purchased r Enterprise Risk Management upgraded to Strong by Standard & Poors The lower increase in net written premiums, The claims ratio reduced 12 points to 57% Summary of 2.3% to 2,058.6 million 2011: 2,013.2 2011: 69%, while the expense ratio increased In 2012, the Group delivered a strong financial million, reflects a decision to reduce risk appetite four points to 38%, reflecting higher commissions performance despite the losses incurred from in 2012 following the severity of overall losses in associated with increased business sourced from Hurricane Sandy and a challenging economic 2011 and a desire to protect Amlins ability to at managing general agencies.
Good progress was made across least maintain its dividend.
Outwards reinsurance the Group and, importantly, Amlin Europe Amlin Europes much improved combined ratio expenditure increased by 56.1 million.
Return of 98% 2011: 113% reflects action taken since on equity, at 17.4%, was above our cross-cycle The profit attributable to underwriting at 207.1 the acquisition of Fortis Corporate Insurance to target of 15%.
million 2011: loss of 146.0 million, resulted improve performance, particularly in its marine from improved performance in each business.
business, and a lower level of large losses than in Our weighting to classes of business where rating 2011.
Amlin France, which is now part of Amlin is either strong, has improved or is improving, Amlin London and Amlin Bermuda recorded Europe, had an excellent year with a combined together with the expectation of continued significantly improved combined ratios of 91% ratio of 87%.
Excluding this, Amlin Europes progress at Amlin Europe, is encouraging for and 74% respectively 2011: 102% and 112%, combined ratio was 100%.
Amlin Europes claims 2013s underwriting returns.
While the with significantly lower claims ratios of 53% and ratio, at 59% 2011: 80%, has returned to a investment return outlook is not as bright, we 56% respectively 2011: 67% and 94%.
This was believe that 2013 offers the opportunity for respectable level, given the competitive despite claims incurred from Hurricane Sandy.
However, the effect another return on equity of near to our crossThe combined reinsurance accounts in London cycle target.
of its re-underwriting on net written premium and Bermuda benefited from average rate increased the expense ratio to 39% 2011: 33% increases of 7.5% and delivered an underwriting Much has also been achieved in 2012 to increase which is too high and is being addressed.
profit of 130.5 million, more than compensating the scalability of the Group and to prepare for for reinsurance losses incurred in 2011 and future growth.
Amlin Re Europe, in only its second full year, demonstrating the strength of Amlins franchise delivered a better than planned combined ratio Financial results in this area.
The improvement was Gross written premium was up by 4.4% to driven by a reduction in its expense ratio as its Amlin Londons marine business again delivered 2,405.6 million 2011: 2,304.1 million with a success in penetrating the Continental reinsurance a strong result with broadly flat pricing and its 3.7% renewal rate improvement, a retention ratio market increased net earned premium by 154.1%.
property & casualty result improved, benefiting of 84% and 386.0 million net of brokerage, of new from an average 3.7% rate increase.
Its aviation Investment returns, of 165.3 million, equivalent to business generated.
Good growth of 19.3% and result was again marginal, with market conditions 11.6% was achieved in Amlin UK and Amlin London 4.1% of average invested funds, were significantly continuing to be difficult.
respectively, in classes where rating conditions ahead of initial expectations, despite the challenging improved, and in Amlin Re Europe as it continued economic backdrop.
Given the low yields on Amlin UK benefited from the stronger pricing in to gain traction in Continental reinsurance markets.
its fleet motor account achieved over the last two government bonds, and the medium term The overall increase was depressed by the 19.1% years and good results from investments made to downside interest rate risk, we both shortened the reduction in Amlin Europes premiums as it grow its property account.
It delivered a highly duration of the portfolio and increased our continued to address its profitability.
weighting to risk assets, which paid off.
12 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements In 2012, despite Hurricane Sandy claims of 142 million, Amlin returned to robust profitability and generated a strong return on equity.
Recent growth is building earnings momentum and with profits from our non-catastrophe businesses improving, we are well positioned to continue to expand into more favourable market conditions.
Charles Philipps Chief Executive The Groups pre-tax profit was 264.2 million significant rises following 2011s events, were reduced outwards reinsurance expenditure for and, with an effective tax rate of only 6.2%, flat.
We consider catastrophe reinsurance pricing 2013 by nearly 30 million and this has to be strong.
coincided with an opportunity to reduce helped by the strength of Amlin Bermudas retentions for catastrophe reinsurance events performance, earnings were 247.7 million.
Amlin UK, which improved its combined ratio within our excess of loss accounts, resulting in a from 103% in 2011 to 95% in 2012, experienced Net tangible assets increased 6.5% to 1,280.0 significantly better risk reward equation for an average 5.0% rate increase in 2012 with its million at 31 December 2012, after the payment 2013 than has been possible in recent years.
112.1 million fleet motor account achieving an of 115.4 million of dividends, equivalent to 9.6% This places us in a good position to grow income average rate increase of 9.7%.
We expect of opening net tangible assets.
A final dividend of if suitable opportunities arise.
continued upward momentum in 2013 given the 16.5 pence per share is proposed, bringing total increased signs of stress amongst competitors.
While we have had a better than expected start to dividends in respect of 2012 to 24.0p per share the year for investment returns, the extremely low The average combined ratio for UK commercial 2011: 23.0p, an increase of 4.3%.
This reflects 1 motor in 2011 was 106%.
Given the low volatility yields on cash and bonds will make it difficult to our desire to return to our policy of steadily achieve a similar investment return to 2012. associated with Amlin UKs business, its increasing the dividend, while maintaining a improving performance is important in offsetting However, the reality of a lower return environment strong balance sheet which is capable of is becoming increasingly realised in the insurance the volatility of our catastrophe exposures.
industry and we believe it should only be a matter In most other areas our renewal rates are broadly Outlook for 2013 of time before this is compensated for by efforts to flat.
Aviation business, which represented only improve underwriting margins.
Gross written premium to 2% of Amlins gross written premium in 2012, 31 January is up 7.3% and we have recorded an Strategy continues to suffer from excessive, and possibly average renewal rate increase of 1.2%, with an nave, competition which is resulting in continued Business development overall retention ratio of 90%.
Nearly 30 million downward pressure on rates.
Conversely, US A strategic priority for 2012 was to improve Amlin of savings have been achieved in our outwards property business is continuing to strengthen Europes performance and to continue to bring its reinsurance and the investment return has been following average renewal rate increases of 7.6% business practices and risk management more in strong at 23.0 million or 0.5% of invested funds in 2012. line with the rest of the Group.
Significant in the first month.
In addition to continued We expect further earnings momentum from We also recorded an average 3.7% renewal rate re-underwriting, Amlin Europe successfully continued improvement in Amlin Europes increase during 2012 which will positively affect transitioned onto its new systems in May 2012: it underwriting performance, as the benefits of earned premiums in 2013. enhanced its underwriting controls in many areas: its re-underwriting over the last three years and continued to successfully embed Amlins risk come through, and continued progress at Approximately 21% of Amlins business is management framework, significantly closing the Amlin Re Europe.
Following Hurricane gap in its adoption of many of Amlins policies Sandy, US catastrophe renewal rates in January Having reduced our risk tolerances for major and standards that have been a cornerstone of were up 4.2%, with more significant increases in catastrophes during 2012, the strong good risk control and performance.
Non US catastrophe performance in the year has allowed us to reinsurance renewal rates, having experienced increase tolerances for 2013.
Towers Watson UK Motor Industry Report 2012 Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 13 Chief Executives review continued Amlin Europes management team was also which is relevant to the particular Practice Area.
Employees further enhanced during 2012 by the transfer Their aim is to have a shared underwriting It is the talent, experience and dedication of of Andreas Luberichs from London to lead its strategy, to leverage knowledge and broker our employees that provides the potential for non-marine underwriting, and the hire of Bert relationships, and to help drive best underwriting Amlin to deliver excellent performance and to Nelen, from ACE, to lead its marine underwriting.
practice across all relevant parts of the Group.
manage a larger and more international Group.
The focus during 2012 was on the Marine & In 2012 we made it a strategic priority to grow Amlin Europe is now a fundamentally stronger Aviation and Reinsurance Practice Boards, where our general management capabilities and to business than when acquired, and with this we benefits are already being realised, with increased materially enhance our talent management efforts.
decided that the time was right for Amlin France co-ordination of marine underwriting between We established a Talent Board to provide greater to be integrated with Amlin Europe so that we London and the Benelux, and more joined up governance to, and impetus behind, employee have a single Continental European insurance marketing and pricing of reinsurance between development.
This has focused to date on platform.
We believe this will result in revenue London, Bermuda and Zurich.
We believe that employees who we believe demonstrate high synergies as a number of Amlin Frances niche this organisational structure and the development potential, including prospective members at products are suitable for the Benelux market.
of the Group Underwriting function will reinforce Group Management Committee level, and whose Amlin Europe also developed its strategy during high performance across a larger Group and will development therefore warrants a particular focus.
2012 so that, with the many operational enable stronger underwriting oversight and A number of initiatives for this group are underway, improvements made over the last three years, integration of future acquisitions.
ranging from detailed assessment and one-on-one it is now able to more actively target growth in coaching to business school attendance.
Vision We also conducted a further employee survey in While a particular focus was Amlin Europe, the We also continued to make good progress 2012.
88% of employees across the Group remainder of the Group continued to develop its towards our Vision of becoming the reference participated in the survey, which is well above the capability through hires of high quality people point for quality in each of our markets.
UK norm of such surveys and provides high levels and selective investment.
Amlin Re Europe, still in r Our reputation for excellent client service, of confidence in the accuracy of the results.
There its infancy, increased its team by nine while Amlin Amlin London having been top ranked for its were high scores for job satisfaction and pride in London added expertise in international casualty claims service by the 2011 Gracechurch the Company, relative to both the financial underwriting and set up Amlin Reinsurance survey, was further boosted when Haven services and insurance industry norms, albeit that Managers Inc. based in New Jersey.
Led by Paul Knox-Johnston, our UK yacht insurer, was these scores were not as high as they had been in Brauner, a highly experienced underwriter 1 awarded the Outstanding Service Award our previous survey in 2009.
The amount of formerly of Harbor Point Alterra, this agency will from the motor boat industry and their clients, change, some of which was associated with target US casualty business on behalf of Amlin and when Amlin Europe was also top ranked in Solvency II and at Amlin Europe, affected the London.
It will remain highly cautious until the Netherlands for claims handling by global results.
Importantly, the survey has provided casualty pricing improves sufficiently, but will be 2 broker Willis in November 2012. management with helpful indicators of where we capable of significant growth when market need to focus further to ensure that we are, in conditions are right.
r We have continued to invest in effective risk each of our entities, the place to work in the management, which helps optimise returns for Amlin UK continued to support its distribution industry, and action is being taken to improve our the risks we take.
We are increasingly realising partners in which it has invested over the past five employee engagement.
benefits from investment in our internal model.
years, in particular increasing its support for the Examples include savings in outwards Manchester Underwriting Agency which was a reinsurance costs and the ability to write more start-up in 2010 and which, in 2012, sourced business in certain lines where we have better 11.6 million of Amlin UKs business.
Our progress in risk Organisation management was recognised by Standard & Another strategic priority for 2012 was to Poors which, in December 2012, upgraded continue to enhance our ability to manage a their assessment of our enterprise risk larger, more geographically diverse Group and to management to Strong, an assessment ensure that we are better able to integrate future which Standard & Poors has given to only 5% acquisitions.
In 2011 we established a Group of re insurers.
Underwriting function to monitor the quality of r In line with our aim to be the place to work in underwriting and adherence to Amlins the industry, we conducted a further employee underwriting policies and standards across the survey and substantially increased our talent Group.
In 2012 we took this a step further with management work in 2012.
These are the appointment of Simon Beale to the role of commented on further below.
Group Chief Underwriting Officer and the creation As the Group has expanded through acquisitions of four Underwriting Practice Boards, one for each of Reinsurance, Marine & Aviation, and new business start-ups, it is important that our new businesses share our Vision and align International Property & Casualty, and Commercial & Domestic lines.
These Boards, their objectives with it.
Both Amlin Europe and which are chaired by Simon, comprise the Amlin Re Europe have become increasingly leading underwriters from each regulated entity aligned with our Vision and Values during 2012.
Motor Boat of the Year Awards 2013 2.
The Willis Quality Index Report November 2012 14 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements People Priorities for 2013 Amlin has been through significant organisational Our resolve to deliver both good returns to shareholders and our Vision, means that we are always change in 2012.
This placed an additional burden seeking to improve what we do and to find means of enhancing our returns and potential.
Among on many employees and required a number of our priorities for 2013, over and above the delivery of our business plan, are the following: people to step into larger roles.
r We will remain focused on ensuring that Amlin Europe continues to deliver improved underwriting Simon Beale has ably taken on the role of Group performance and that it is making the progress we expect in its strategic development.
Chief Underwriting Officer and Kevin Allchorne has r Embedding the organisational changes referred to above so that we maximise the potential of assumed the leadership role in Amlin London in his each Practice Area.
This will include the development of Practice Area strategies for Marine & place, with Mark Clements becoming Head of its Aviation and Reinsurance in particular, given that similar business, much of which is international, Property & Casualty business.
is written in more than one Company.
Richard Hextall has taken on responsibility for r With the increasing interest of pension funds in the catastrophe reinsurance market, we intend to Operations and Actuarial as well as Finance to explore how we can use the strength of our reinsurance franchise and Leadenhall Capital, our increase co-ordination between these three specialist fund management joint venture which invests in insurance linked securities, to enhance functions and this has meant larger roles for his our return potential.
Leadenhall Capital now has approximately $800 million under management direct reports.
and has built an excellent performance track record over the last three years.
A review of the governance of Amlin Underwriting r We will explore opportunities for increasing our Asian business using our Singapore platform as Ltd, which manages Syndicate 2001, resulted in well as opportunities for growth from Latin America.
changes to its Executive with additional r Achieving the planned milestones on a major change programme, called Nexus, which is aimed responsibilities for some.
Also, the integration of at making key financial and risk processes more consistent and efficient and materially reducing Amlin France with Amlin Europe has increased reporting timescales.
the managerial scope for some of the Amlin r We will continue our focus on talent management with a view to reinforcing our capabilities to Europe management team.
successfully manage a growing and more international company, as well as ensuring that Amlins future leaders are properly equipped.
I have been pleased with the manner in which r We will respond to the findings of the 2012 employee survey and seek to make material employees have stepped up when requested.
It is also pleasing that we have the strength and depth improvements to our employee engagement.
of talent to be able to fill important roles and to be developing the careers of high calibre individuals so that their talents are more fully used.
I am also pleased with the amount that was achieved by our employees in 2012 and thank them for their resourcefulness and hard work.
They continue to make Amlin an ever stronger Group and we look forward to 2013 with confidence.
Charles Philipps Chief Executive Amlin plc Annual Report 2012 15 Amlin provides a full range of marine coverage from our ofces in London, Rotterdam and Singapore.
2012 global marine gross written premium of more than 430 million places us in the top ten marine insurers worldwide.
