Chief Executive Officers Report The results for the year ended 30 June 2012 provided a Investment performance demonstration of the continuing resilient nature of Ashmore Overall negative investment performance was primarily driven by Group in a difficult year for investing.
The business is now a more the negative performance in equities and local currency exceeding diversified one with the full range of Emerging Markets investment positive investment performance in the external, corporate and themes in place.
This provides for an unrivalled depth of Emerging blended debt themes.
Markets fund products for which the distribution architecture is The sharp declines in equities indices, particularly in the first and significantly developed.
The expected increased levels of management fourth quarters, impacted AuM levels significantly in both the fee income largely offset the anticipated reduction in performance dedicated equities and multi-strategy themes.
The Group was successful in completing the integration dollar denominated external, corporate and blended debt mandates of the Emerging Markets equities business AshmoreEMM, with maintained positive performance given their relative attractions the consideration structure providing a reduction in the expected over developed world debt.
In contrast, the declines in a number level of contingent payments, as global equity indices declined and of Emerging Markets currencies due to the climate of risk hence levels of equities AuM reduced.
Overall therefore the profit aversion ensured that local currency debt indices were negative, before tax for the Group was 243.2 million, a reduction of 1% notwithstanding the same underlying relative attractiveness.
This on the previous year.
led to negative investment performance in the local currency debt theme and of course impacted currency overlay AuM.
At an overall AuM Development Group level the percentage of funds outperforming benchmarks During the year, although average AuM increased by US$17.5 billion at 30 June 2012 was 23% over one year reflecting our consistent 38%, AuM decreased by 3% from US$65.8 billion to US$63.7 billion approach of adding risk in the risk off environment at the end of as overall negative investment performance of US$3.4 billion the first quarter and 86% over three years.
This strong long-term exceeded the level of net subscriptions achieved of US$1.3 billion.
investment performance profile, particularly in the debt themes, Gross subscriptions totalled US$13.0 billion FY2010 11: continues to underpin the Groups position as one of the leading US$23.0 billion principally into all the debt themes with further specialist Emerging Markets fund managers, which has again this large segregated mandates from both new and existing clients year been recognised with a number of awards.
Gross redemptions increased in absolute terms to US$11.7 billion FY2010 11: US$7.5 billion which at an overall level of 18% of average AuM remain on the low side by industry standards, although slightly up on the prior year.
The absolute increase over levels experienced in prior periods was due to a combination of equities outflows in the first year after acquisition, and from retail multi-strategy assets raised in Japan in the prior period, For more information on undoubtedly amplified by the extreme market volatility our financial performance see p. 2027 experienced during the year.
In facing all of our challenges together I continue to be impressed by our team, and by the significant levels of emotional capital they invest in what we do.
8 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial performance Finance income during the period increased as a result of adjustments Revenue to the contingent consideration for the acquisition of AshmoreEMM.
Net revenue for the year of 333.3 million was in line with the prior As in the first half, the further reduction during the second half in year.
This resulted from a 21% increase in management fee income to levels of AuM within the business, including outflows and negative 302.6 million, driven by an increase in average AuM levels offset by investment performance, resulted in a downward revision of the level the reduction of average revenue margins which were largely in line of the contingent payment at 31 May 2012, as well as reductions to with the levels reported at the interim stage FY 2011 12: 74bps, the expected levels of the two further contingent payments scheduled H1 2011 12: 76 bps, FY 2010 11: 86bps.
As reported at the interim for 31 May 2013 and 2014.
This underlines the benefit of a significant this fall resulted from theme and mix effects including the respective component of the overall consideration being in the form of weighting of the Groups higher and lower margin themes as they contingent payments.
Incorporating finance charges arising from the were differently impacted by flows and performance, the inclusion unwind of the discount of contingent payments and gains upon the of the equities theme for the full period with lower margins than the Groups seed capital, the overall finance income was 18.1 million Groups previous average, and further segregated account gains.
fall in performance fees to 25.4 million FY 2010 11: 85.4 million Profit after tax for the year was 185.7 million FY 2010 11: was expected as it is determined by levels of absolute investment 190.2 million.
Earnings per share for the year was 26.82p performance, which reduce as is normal at this point in the cycle after FY2010 11: 28.08p.
peaking immediately following the credit crisis, and they were further reduced through the significant market sell offs at the end of the first Strategic progress quarter which largely eliminated performance fees for funds with year Equities acquisition update ends thereafter.
The acquisition of AshmoreEMM was completed at the end of the Cost structure prior financial year and integrating the business successfully was The Group has maintained its cost structure, and continues to focus the focus for the current year.
Immediately following change of on ensuring this remains a key strength, with the year on year changes control the distribution responsibilities for the equities theme were largely reflecting the increment arising from the increase in staff and undertaken within Ashmores global distribution team and during the other costs resulting from the inclusion of the AshmoreEMM business year this included the establishment of business development, for a first full year, together with the amortisation and share-based institutional account management and product specialist functions accounting charges arising from the transaction.
through firstly familiarisation, then ongoing focus and training and targeted recruitment.
The seeding and launch of daily dealing The structure of staff costs has been maintained, whereby fixed SICAV and US mutual funds on the Ashmore platforms for both the salaries and benefits are set at a capped and low basic level, with the broad global active and global small cap strategies were completed majority of staff costs arising from variable compensation, including providing efficient access to these two key conduits.
Full investment a significant component of equity based long-term incentive share responsibility for the Groups equities theme was transferred to the awards.
This remains a core characteristic of Ashmores business AshmoreEMM team during the year and thereafter there has been model.
In the year to 30 June 2012 variable compensation as a a focus on further developing the equities investment process.
percentage of earnings before variable compensation VC EBVCIT The integration of AshmoreEMM onto the Groups core portfolio was 18% FY 2010 11: 19%.
The VC EBVCIT fell by 1% from the management and fund accounting systems was completed on level of the prior period reflecting the less good overall performance schedule.
This implementation gives consistent systems across the metrics of the business in particular short-term investment Group and provides greater transparency and enables more effective performance and shareholder return.
and efficient group-wide support for the AshmoreEMM business.
Other expenses increased by 50% to 34.4 million FY2010 11: AshmoreEMM is now fully integrated into the Group with the local 22.9 million.
The increase reflected largely the costs of the acquired governance structure reflecting Ashmores global operating model and with local functional units reporting into the respective global business and the amortisation of intangible assets 6.2 million arising within it.
Finally, in July 2012, immediately after the year end, the physical infrastructure was enhanced with the move to a new As a result operating profit for the year is 225.1 million FY 2010 11: purpose designed office, open plan in nature in line with the Groups 239.4 million.
In line with the statement made in the report last global standard, providing for the adoption of the optimised groupyear, the Groups margins have reduced, although by slightly less than wide technology infrastructure.
expected due to the lower variable compensation charge to an EBITDA margin of 71% for the year FY 2010 11: 73%.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012 9 Chief Executive Officers Report continued Investment theme developments Local asset management developments We continue to seek investment themes and sub-themes for investors The Group believes strongly that, in addition to the AuM sourced from to allocate capital across the Emerging Markets where we can provide developed world investors who are increasing their allocations to the both diversification of risk return profiles and depth and growth of Emerging Markets in line with the trend of growth of these markets, investable asset pools.
The period has seen a widening adoption of its own long-term growth will be enhanced by successfully mobilising Emerging Markets investment grade products, the initial establishment Emerging Markets capital in line with the third phase of the Groups of dedicated local currency corporate debt funds, and the set up of strategy.
This recognises the absence of a history of the high leverage conduits to allow wider access to our equity product suite, including that is prevalent in the developed world, the economic growth in particular our small and mid cap and frontier markets expertise prospects, demographics and enviable savings rate dynamics of these where we have outstanding track records across the Middle East, Asia countries as well as the relatively early stage of development of asset and Africa.
As expected with the inversion of credit quality between management industries within many of these Emerging Markets.
developed markets and Emerging Markets sovereigns, we have seen The Group has previously reported the establishment of local asset increasing momentum within Emerging Markets investment grade management subsidiaries in Brazil, Turkey and Colombia and real products as investors find the universe of developed world investment estate joint ventures in China and Russia which during the year have grade debt reduces, whilst it increases in Emerging Markets.
We have continued investing successfully and made progress in raising AuM, also now launched investment grade bond products denominated in although much needs to be done.
At the same time the Group has local currency.
This enables investors to take advantage of attractive been looking throughout the period at further opportunities which local currency exposure whilst diversifying away from Dollar, Euro, aim to extend the geographic and asset class breadth.
Yen and Sterling denominated bond assets which have traditionally dominated the investment grade space.
Not all fixed income managers This has resulted in July 2012 in the establishment of a further new have the appropriate combination of interest rate, credit and foreign local asset management venture for Ashmore in Indonesia.
We look exchange skills to manage such a product successfully over the cycle, forward to reporting on the developments within this new venture and we have been pleased with our immediate outperformance here.
alongside the existing ones in the coming years.
One of the most significant product initiatives in the year was not in Overall the key now is to start seeing significant performance and the form of new product, but in new conduits for our existing global asset growth from our local asset management operations.
We now have both SICAV and US 40 Act mutual funds in place for our broad global active, global small cap and People and culture frontier Emerging Markets equities products.
These conduits open At the end of the year the Groups headcount has increased to 257 up the chance of investing with us to a far larger audience of both 30 June 2011: 246 reflecting the increase in both distribution and institutional and retail clients and we expect great things from both some of the key support functions which was offset by a small our investing and distribution teams in these sub themes.
reduction arising from synergies achieved within the integration of AshmoreEMM.
Whilst AuM levels overall have reduced by 3%, gross Distribution platform update inflows of US$13 billion have resulted from the significant efforts In line with the progress reported over the previous two years, this across the Group in winning mandates and bringing them on board year saw the final elements of the organisational structure added efficiently by strong cross functional collaboration.
Our investment to the distribution platform, coupled with a deepening of resources professionals have continued to ensure that their exclusive focus within all the key functions.
The addition of product specialists on the Emerging Markets and our long standing and rigorous completes the architecture providing clients with access to individuals investment process provide for the maximum potential for investment who are focused entirely upon the efficient communication of the outperformance, in a year where global markets have provided many investment management strategies and results.
This function enables further challenges.
In summary, last year judged through our KPIs, the investment management team to maximise their time managing investment performance and shareholder return would probably assets yet ensuring the client or prospective client has full access to be assessed as satisfactory.
We, of course, like to do much better individuals participating in the respective investment committees and than this.
who are fully aware of every nuance of the resultant performance.
Further progress was achieved in both the institutional and retail areas of the business.
In terms of institutional clients, the global reach of the business development team delivered a broadening of the client base both in terms of client type and geographic location.
Meanwhile further progress was made in the buildout of the Groups retail activities with the Group securing access to a number of intermediary platforms in the US and Europe which are beginning to show encouraging early signs.
The distribution headcount at the end of the year was 41 30 June 2011: 32 substantially completing the rapid growth phase of the team and ensuring the Group is positioned to raise assets and service clients globally from developed world and Emerging Markets with a highly experienced team of professionals focused on the Emerging Markets for all asset classes.
10 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2012
