6 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Group chief executive officers statement Investment thesis: cashflow and growth Mark Wilson Aviva is a company with a rich legacy, some strong Group chief executive officer businesses, an outstanding brand, a large customer My intention is that base and very talented people.
Aviva will have a robust balance sheet I joined Aviva because I believe there is This plan has successfully addressed with strong and significant potential to be unlocked.
Aviva the immediate capital and focus issues.
predictable cash is a turnaround story.
We now need to take Aviva to the next flows, diversified In my first few months at Aviva I have had the phase of its turnaround.
earnings and capital, opportunity to visit a number of our businesses and lower leverage.
and to speak to many customers.
What strikes Investment thesis: cashflow and growth me is the dedication and professionalism of It is clear to me that Aviva has not articulated those colleagues who look after customers why investors should buy or hold Aviva shares needs every day.
Our customer service in many what investors should expect of us.
parts of the business is a genuine differentiator.
I believe there is a clear space in the market However, in recent years Aviva has not for a simple proposition: a diversified insurer lived up to its potential and has disappointed that can provide sustainable and growing shareholders.
In 2012 our Chairman, John cash flows and that has good options for McFarlane, highlighted these issues and set out growth.
Whilst many will focus on valuation a clear plan.
The actions in 2012 to focus the methodologies such as MCEV, TEV and business, strengthen the balance sheet, and EV Aviva will focus the business on progressive improve performance have been the right ones cashflow generation.
and progress has been made.
My intention is that Aviva will have a robust Aviva has delivered a large part of the disposal balance sheet with strong and predictable cash programme.
In line with the plan laid out in July flows, diversified earnings and capital, last year, in 2012 we narrowed the focus of our and lower leverage.
business through the announced sales of our Following the progress made on the most significant non-core businesses, including disposal programme, we are now a more the sales of Delta Lloyd, USA, Sri Lanka, Malaysia focused portfolio of businesses.
Some are cash and lastly Russia.
In addition we have agreed generators, such as the UK, France and Canada, to transfer Aseval to Bankia for 500 million.
with upside potential whilst others provide As a result our capital position has improved opportunities for growth such as Poland, Turkey, markedly, with the economic capital surplus and Singapore.
strengthening from 3.6 billion to 7.1 billion, Put simply, our investment thesis is about giving a coverage ratio now of 172% on a progressive cashflow and growth, in that order.
proforma basis, well within our target range of 160%175%.
Our 2013 priorities: Cashflow Simplicity Balance sheet Focus the business on remitting Deliver in excess Improve operating cash flows to Group of 400 million performance, including cost savings turning around the amber cells Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 7 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Group chief executive officers statement continued Cashflow Robust balance sheet Key statistics in 2012 Three core businesses Our focus is to ensure that we have a robust Aviva has scale positions in the three core balance sheet which underpins the cash flows business lines of life and savings, general by managing our balance sheet exposures insurance and fund management all under actively, focusing on economic capital as the 23bn a strong brand.
We have businesses in attractive, principal measure.
The outstanding issue to be Gross written premiums established markets which generate strong addressed is our internal and external leverage cash flows and which offer cross-sell potential.
We have a clear plan to tackle this.
Aviva is world class in many core areas of 3 1 1 bn insurance.
For example, our underwriting, Financial simplicity Total funds under analytics and claims expertise, especially The insurance business is perceived as complex.
management in Canada and UK general insurance, are Aviva has also for some time been criticised for impressive.
And we have clear strengths the complexity of its financial disclosure and in distribution including direct, through business structure, and this problem has been intermediaries, and through bancassurance exacerbated by our internal leverage.
Our plans 172% where we have over 100 agreements.
to reduce internal leverage and reorganise our Estimated proforma structure will provide some of the clarity our economic capital Focus on cashflow shareholders desire.
surplus ratio, as at We will manage the established markets for 31 December 2012 cash and ensure that the subsidiaries remit Growth progressive cash dividends to the Group.
Product Insurance expertise and scale drives cashflow development will be driven by a clear focus on growth in our established markets sustainable cash flows.
For example, in the UK Our established markets not only provide we have managed the volume and pricing of good cash flows but also offer potential for our annuity business so that cash flows are growth.
Managing our substantial back books brought forward and capital strain is lowered.
and focusing on improving persistency levels It is also about our scale: we have will increase the value from our existing approximately 34 million customers, annual life customer base.
and general insurance gross written premiums of around 23 billion and over 300 billion Valuation upside from gradual UK & total funds under management.
European recovery The majority of Avivas business is concentrated Significant diversification benefits in the UK and Europe.
Over the last 12 months Diversity, spreading the risk from one to many, we have spent considerable time improving is a central tenet of insurance.
Avivas diversity our risk profile.
As a result, we are well across our three core businesses and across positioned to benefit from a gradual UK selected markets gives earnings stability and and European recovery.
For example, product line and geographic diversification brings a significant Exposure to growth markets in Europe and Asia reduction in our economic capital requirements.
We have a number of businesses which offer growth potential in markets such as Poland, Improve operating Grow the value of life Continue to strengthen Simple, clear metrics performance, including new business and improve the management team turning around the general insurance COR amber cells 8 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Group chief executive officers statement continued Turkey, and Singapore.
These will be managed The fide-risking and strengthening of our with a view to value growth under strict balance sheet is entirely aligned with our capital controls.
investment thesis and cashflow focus.
The immediate priority, therefore, is to Reducing expenses reduce the Groups leverage and to pay We will continue to focus on improving cost an appropriate dividend.
efficiencies and, particularly, on reallocating resources to initiatives where we can earn the Rebased dividend highest returns and strong cash flows.
We will For our cashflow and growth investment deliver in excess of 400 million cost savings.
thesis to be delivered we must tackle the issue of leverage.
As such we have only one course Upside from operational improvement of action.
The dividend needs to be rebased with We have previously highlighted to the market reference to growth in cash flows and earnings.
there are elements of the Group which have For analysts covering the stock I am cognisant underperformed for some time, where cash that there are two schools of thought.
On the flows have not been optimised and where one hand, we have those that would suggest our expenses are too high.
The turnaround of that with our successful disposal programme these amber cell businesses gives opportunity we have enough liquidity to pay dividends at to create value for shareholders.
Others would suggest that the business earnings are not sufficient to fund the Balance sheet dividend and therefore the dividend is too tight.
Avivas corporate structure was overly complex The reality is that both of these arguments are and far from optimal.
Our internal leverage right we have enough short term liquidity to be through the interdivisional balance was too able to pay the dividend, but cash flows from the high and created an unsatisfactory long-term business are too tight to sustain the historic level.
exposure for the UK general insurance business.
The recent disposals have resulted in our This internal leverage, together with external leverage ratio increasing further with the leverage, must be addressed.
This leverage issue must Pat Regan explains the change to our be addressed and leverage will be reduced.
corporate structure in more detail in his As a result of this, we have declared a CFO statement.
In summary, we have replaced final 2012 dividend of 9 pence per share, the interdivisional balance between Group from 16 pence.
This brings the full-year dividend and UK general insurance with a formal loan down to 19 pence per share, from 26 pence.
and we plan to reduce this by 600 million In addition we have also decided to eliminate in total over the next three years.
I acknowledge that whilst rebasing the We have kept the FSA informed of our dividend will disappoint some shareholders, this thinking in relation to these issues and they will be mitigated to some degree by eliminating are supportive of the actions we are taking.
This is a difficult With respect to our external leverage, we have decision and is absolutely necessary to ensure a medium term target ratio of below 40%.
Aviva is put on a sound footing for the future.
The removal of the scrip will stop further Our 2013 priorities: Cashflow Simplicity Balance sheet Communicate a clear Completion of the Strategic realignment customer proposition disposal programme of Aviva Investors, a core business Essential read Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Other information 9 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2012 Group chief executive officers statement continued shareholder dilution, given that the scrip has Our priorities in 2013 Key statistics in 2012 had a dilutive impact of 16% over the last Cashflow eight years.
This measure improves earnings Focus businesses on cash flows to Group per share growth, is consistent with improving Deliver in excess of 400 million cost saves financial simplicity, and gives clarity to cash flows Improve operating performance 34m and the dividend.
Grow the value of life new business and Customers worldwide Looking ahead, Aviva will have a progressive improve general insurance COR dividend policy, with reference to growth in cash flows and earnings.
We would expect the Simplicity 29bn 2013 interim dividend to rebase in line with the Continue to strengthen the management team Paid out in claims and percentage reduction in the 2012 final dividend.
Communicate a clear customer proposition benefits due in 2012 Continue the disposal programme People Strategic realignment of Aviva Investors, Achievement of Avivas turnaround necessitates a core business a strengthened management team.
100 The appointment of Nick Amin as Group Strength Bancassurance transformation director improves our ability to Reduce external and internal leverage agreements deliver the turnaround plan.
The appointments Maintain economic capital surplus within of David McMillan as CEO of Aviva Europe target range 160%175% and Jason Windsor to the Group Executive, Actively manage and further reduce strengthen our executive team.
balance sheet volatility The appointment of Khor Hock Seng as CEO of Aviva Asia, reaffirms our commitment Outlook to selected markets in that region and gives To move forward, Aviva has had to make us strong Asian leadership with deep market some difficult choices.
The decisions we have experience.
Christine Deputys appointment made are realistic, provide clarity and address as our new Group HR Director gives us the the uncertainty that has surrounded our stock.
necessary leadership and experience for our It is now up to Aviva to deliver the performance.
In addition, given the economic climate and the recent performance of the Group, I have implemented a pay freeze for the top 400 managers and focused our resources towards other levels.
I believe very strongly in Mark Wilson paying for performance.
Our overall spend on Group chief executive officer bonuses at senior levels will match the business performance and will be based on rigorous differentiation between performance levels.
We will focus the money available on our top performers who made the largest contribution.
Reduce external and Maintain economic capital Actively manage internal leverage surplus within the target and further reduce range 160%-175% balance sheet volatility
