Performance: Chief Executive Officers statement Leveraging our offer for the long term 2012 was a momentous year for Georgia as well.
Following the parliamentary elections in October 2012, we witnessed a democratic passing of power for the first time in the countrys history.
The new government has asserted its commitment to improve further Georgias investor and business friendly policies and in December 2012 the newly-elected Parliament approved a well-balanced budget for 2013 that forecasts 6% real GDP growth, further improvements in general government debt ratios and a continuous focus on infrastructure sector development.
In Q4 2012, the uncertainty in respect of the change of political leadership resulted in a relative slow-down of corporate business lending growth throughout the Georgian banking sector.
While we may continue to see this trend of slower growth over the next few months, we have been encouraged by higher levels of business activity in the first few months of 2013.
Our revenue in 2012 totalled GEL 498.3 million, up 21.9% revenue adjusted for a one-off currency hedge gain in 2011 Irakli Gilauri compared to 2011.
The significant increase in revenue was Chief Executive Officer of Bank of Georgia Holdings due to the robust performance of our businesses and the effects of our diversified sources of growth.
Strong interest income was driven by growth in both the retail and corporate loan books, especially in the first nine months of the year.
In 2012 your Company reported another record profit of Fee income increased 14.8% to GEL 86.5 million, reflecting GEL 179.6 million, an increase of 32.3% from the profit our leadership in money transmission payments and the delivered by Bank of Georgia in 2011.
This strong progress superior fee generating capabilities of our Corporate Banking continues to reflect the strength of the Banks earnings business.
We enjoy an estimated 50% market share in card power and resulted in a ROAE of 19.1%, up from 18.3%, acquiring business in Georgia, have unmatched client reach and EPS growth of 17.6% to GEL 5.22, reflecting astrong through the largest network of ATMs and Express Pay business performance, significantly reduced cost of funds terminals and American Express card exclusivity in Georgia.
and improved efficiency across the business.
During 2012, Bank of Georgia launched contactless Express On 28 February 2012, Bank of Georgia Holdings started cards for the first time in Georgia, and further developed our trading on the LSE Main Market and in June 2012 became a Express cards and associated loyalty programmes that are FTSE 250 constituent company.
This has markedly improved unique in Georgia and increasingly serve as the metro, bus the liquidity of your stock, positively affecting the price of and mini-bus transportation payment systems.
The Bank BGEO LN, which grew 86.0% since the premium listing has also significantly enhanced its already market leading almost one year ago on the back of an average trading branch network, adding 30 Express branches to bring the volume of approximately 103,000 shares per day total Express and Metro branches to 63, and also more than GBP 1.5 million.
We have a well-diversified shareholder doubled the number of Express Pay terminals, which are base which includes our long-time investors across various increasingly being used for bank transactions such as geographies and the addition of many new non-emerging credit card and consumer loan repayments, cash deposits, markets focused institutional investors, who now make up utility bill payments and mobile telephone top up payments.
approximately 15% of our investor base.
As the Chairman Our Insurance and Healthcare businesses, which had an mentions in his statement, we were particularly pleased eventful year in terms of M&A activity, contributed 11.0% with the recent successful placing of the East Capital to the consolidated revenue and 8.7% to the consolidated private equity stake, with a diverse range of high quality profit and is becoming an increasingly meaningful source institutional investors.
22 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Our affordable housing business successfully completed funding.
Overall, the Banks cost of funds decreased to 7.3% its pilot project, contributing GEL 15.5 million to the from 8.0% last year, and was as low as 6.6% in the fourth mortgage loan book and m2 Real Estate, our real estate quarter of 2012. subsidiary, realised a profit of GEL 1.7 million.
Non-interest In 2013, we do not expect any changes to the fundamentals of income amounted to 43.0% of revenue, an achievement that our business strategy.
We intend to continue to focus on the is particularly striking compared to four years ago, when Georgian market, with Retail Banking and Corporate Banking this ratio stood at 34.3%.
The full effects of our recent scaling up of We have become more efficient.
For the past five quarters the business are still to be realised, as more customers shift to we have consistently delivered strong positive operating electronic channels.
The introduction of a sophisticated CRM leverage, as our operating costs have regularly increased system will enhance product penetration and boost revenues at only half the rate of our revenue growth.
Several factors per client, thus further improving our efficiency.
behind this achievement are described below.
In Corporate Banking we intend to expand our export We successfully strengthened and expanded further and trade finance businesses and to build on our strong our retail franchise through our Express Banking strategy, fee generating capabilities, supported by research which entails the rollout out of cost-efficient small-sized and advisory services.
We are set to build our regional express branches, avoiding the need to build costly flagship asset management business on the currently of assets branches, to continue to serve our ever-increasing client base.
under management US$365.3 million-strong wealth With Express Banking in place, we have pushed further management platform.
the ongoing shift to transactional banking by means of a The potential health insurance reform in Georgia, the wide-range of electronic channels, away from regular or structure of which is still under consideration, envisages flagship branches, which are now focusing on selling more the provision of basic healthcare coverage for the entire value-added products and services.
We have continued to Georgian population in addition to existing state-subsidised invest in IT to minimise and, in certain cases, eliminate socially vulnerable groups.
We expect these reforms to be document flow, and stepped-up optimisation of the centralised a positive factor for the healthcare revenues of Aldagi BCI, retail banking back office.
These developments coupled with the countrys leading healthcare provider.
the ongoing cost control measures that we already have in place, have resulted in a substantial improvement in the Retail While we are pleased with our progress in cost optimisation Banking cost to income ratio to 44% from 51% last year while in 2012, we see lots of opportunities to further improve the Corporate Banking cost to income ratio improved to 33% efficiency and to ensure that our costs continue to increase from 43% in 2011.
The increasing benefits we are delivering at a lower rate than our revenue growth.
In 2013, we will be from these improved efficiencies are expected to underpin vigilant of our asset quality and continue to enhance our further improvements in our cost to income ratio over the risk management practices.
It has been a rewarding and exciting At the end of December 2012, the Banks Total Capital ratio, experience to observe the effects of economies of scale.
on a Basel I basis, was 27.0% and the Tier I Capital ratio Credit quality has continued to be robust, albeit the cost was 22.0%.
This reflects a very strong capital position with of credit risk was at the top end of our expected range, capital ratios significantly exceeding the Banks minimum increasing by GEL 22.5 million to GEL 44.7 million, or capital requirements.
The Group is well positioned to improve its 1.3% of the loan book.
This largely reflected the absence performance in 2013 and this, combined with continued strong of last years releases and recoveries, and an increase in profitability and capital ratios, has led the Board to review the Retail Banking impairment charge as a result of the job the Groups dividend policy.
The Board has decided to reductions made by a large payroll client during the first half recommend an annual dividend of GEL 1.5 per share of the year.
We did however see an increase in corporate payable in British Sterling at the prevailing rate subject to provisions in the fourth quarter, reflecting the impact of a approval by shareholders at the AGM.
This represents a provision of GEL 14.2 million relating to one single corporate significant increase of 114.3%, compared to the annual dividend credit.
This was offset however by the impact of the 2008 of GEL 0.70 per share last year, a payout ratio of 28.7% and a and 2009 stress years dropping out of our Retail Banking dividend yield for shareholders of 5.5%, calculated based on the provision methodology.
Groups 2012 results and using the 31 December 2012 share price of GBP 10.30.
Going forward, the Board will aim to Buttressing the Chairmans comments in his letter, I would maintain a dividend payout ratio in the 25%-40% range.
also like to highlight the excellent progress we have made against our liability management objectives.
Throughout the The success of the Group continues to be built on the strong year we have consistently sought to optimise our funding contributions of thousands within the management and structure and cost base.
Our strong branding and preemployee teams, and I am grateful for all their efforts and eminence in the retail segment has enabled aggressive achievements during 2012.
Their consistently superior work deposit pricing on the back of the Banks growing retail over the last few years has, I am confident, positioned Bank deposit base, while the more competitive corporate of Georgia to continue to perform strongly in the future, as environment led to the outflow of expensive Lari corporate the leading bank in Georgia.
deposits, allowing us to replace them with less-costly long-term international borrowing.
The funding profile of Corporate Banking has improved markedly as the Corporate Banking cost of deposits declined to a historic low of 6.2% in the fourth Irakli Gilauri quarter of 2012, also benefiting from superior access to trade Chief Executive Officer of Bank of Georgia Holdings finance lines, which provides substantially cheaper long-term 10 April 2013 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC Annual Report 2012 23
