Business review Chief executives review Beazleys businesses performed very strongly in 2012, recording a profit before income tax of $251.2m 2011: $62.7m on gross premiums of $1,895.9m 2011: $1,712.5m.
The impact of superstorm Sandy, which hit the north eastern United States at the end of October, was absorbed by our broad-based portfolio that had even succeeded in generating an underwriting profit the year before, when catastrophe claims were far heavier.
Our combined ratio in 2012 of 91% 2011: 99% is a return to the level achieved from 2006 through 2010.
The year was also characterised by premium growth in many areas as our underwriters moved to take advantage of rate rises across the classes of business we transact.
Following the extreme claims experience of 2011, rates rose most strongly for our reinsurance and property teams 5% and 6% respectively.
Growth in our open market property division at Lloyds, where large and complex international risks are insured, was particularly strong at 7% to reach $139.4m.
But rate rises Andrew Horton were not confined to catastrophe exposed, short-tail business.
Ch ief executive Specialty lines, our largest division, also saw rates rise by 3% the first rate increase across the portfolio since 2006 and premiums grew by 14% to $808.4m.
For the group, prior year reserve releases were $126.0m 2011: $186.5m which were boosted by the release of margins in catastrophe related business.
Beazley continues its philosophy of reserving prudently and on average we expect reserve releases as we settle claims.
Recent years have been challenging for insurers of medium-tail casualty business due to extremely low investment yields.
My observation is that many insurers have not adjusted their pricing to take into account the very weak investment returns.
In the course of 2012 we saw signs of stress increasing in the marketplace, with competitors withdrawing from lines of business or re-underwriting accounts at higher rates.
We expect premium rates to continue to rise modestly across our specialty lines portfolio in 2013.
Beazley 16 Annual report 2012 Business review The controlled diversication of our portfolio of business has been central to our strategy for more than two decades.
In the economic conditions that applied in 2012, growth was Sandy was distinguished more by its breadth nearly 1,000 not always easy to achieve, particularly for lines of insurance miles in diameter than by its intensity when it came ashore that are discretionary.
Our political risks underwriters saw in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut, the most densely demand for cover inuenced by two opposing forces.
On the populated part of the eastern seaboard.
Claims affected our one hand, the banks that finance international trade and property and reinsurance divisions and, to a lesser extent, our investment are encouraging their customers to buy political contingency team as a result of event cancellations.
On the other hand, the overall level of lending in from Sandy, in what was otherwise a year of relatively few Europe and the US remained subdued.
These two factors catastrophe events, will have at most a localised impact on broadly cancelled one another out so, although political risk a very well capitalised insurance market.
In December, we rates fell by 1%, premiums in this line of business grew by 14% estimated our net losses arising from Sandy at $90m, based on to $116.6m.
market losses of between $20bn and $25bn, this estimate remains unchanged.
Our marine division was once again highly profitable in 2012 with a combined ratio of 75%.
Globally, freight volumes remain Investment performance depressed and many ships are in lay-up.
Nevertheless, our At a time of historically low interest rates, a conservatively underwriters continued to be successful in identifying growth positioned investment portfolio such as Beazleys will generate opportunities where available, most notably in the energy modest returns.
We nevertheless succeeded in increasing our market where we secured a rate rise of 7% and premium growth return to 2% 2011: 1%, which was achieved by increasing our of 27% to $125.2m.
allocation to credit and also the duration of our xed income portfolio at the start of the year.
During the year interest rates The controlled diversication of our portfolio of business has came down further and credit spreads tightened which is why been central to our strategy for more than two decades.
This we saw these positive returns.
Our alternative asset allocation diversity enables us to invest appropriately in promising lines also contributed to the overall performance of the portfolio, and of business that offer good growth potential.
An example is our remains conservatively positioned given the uncertainty in US accident & health business, which offers gap protection financial markets.
In line with our cautious investment strategy, medical and disability insurance for the employees of the overall credit quality of investment assets remains high companies who feel inadequately protected by their employers with 84% held in Aor better rated securities, with no direct existing benets programme.
This is a highly regulated and exposure to sovereign debt issued by distressed specialist market, and obtaining admitted status for our European countries.
products and establishing a robust online platform for employee enrolment requires considerable investment.
But we expect that healthcare reform in the US, upheld last year by the Supreme Court and confirmed by President Obamas reelection, will increase demand for the range of gap protection products that we can now offer across 36 states.
Claims update The first three quarters of the year saw a normalised level of claims activity across all of our divisions.
From a meteorological perspective, however, the 2012 storm season in the north Atlantic was a very active one, with 18 named storms and ten hurricanes.
It was not until late October that one of these storms Sandy made landfall in the United States.
Beazley Annual report 2012 17 Business review Chief executives review continued Geographically, we continue to see the strongest growth Growth opportunities opportunities in the US, both for business placed at Lloyds The year saw significant additions to our product range, in London and for business underwritten locally by our US capitalising on our ability to attract talented underwriters with underwriters.
Locally underwritten US premiums increased strong track records and entrepreneurial air.
announced plans to establish an aviation team under the leadership of David Oates, who will join us later this year.
The As far as Europe is concerned, we have been focusing on the team began underwriting business at Lloyds in November.
French market, where we are locating an increasing number of underwriters.
We have French language wordings for 12 of our Premium rates for the major commercial airlines are currently products and see growth opportunities in a variety of lines low but our focus is on the smaller accounts where competition including political risks, technology errors and omissions, is less intense.
A strategy based on rigorous risk selection has professional indemnity, and data breach insurance.
served our marine underwriters well through often challenging market conditions and we are confident that David and his team who will operate within Clive Washbourns marine Broker relations Strong broker relationships have been essential to the success division possess the underwriting expertise and market standing to replicate this success for aviation business.
of our underwriters in 2012, as in previous years.
Our broker relations team, under the leadership of Dan Jones, has been Also within our marine division, we have been delighted to successful in exploring and developing mutually profitable growth opportunities in both London and the US.
David Price welcome Michael Sharp, who will be building a kidnap & ransom K&R insurance account as well as taking charge of the returned to London from Chicago in March to lead our broker relations programme at Lloyds and we have been expanding development of our marine piracy business.
We have long been a leading provider of piracy cover to shipowners and operators our network regionally in the US.
plying dangerous sea-lanes in areas such as the Gulf of Aden.
The combination of insurance and expert advisory and One offering of value that we can provide to senior broker executives to strengthen relationships is high quality training for negotiation services required in the market for piracy cover is similar to that required in the terrestrial K&R market.
In 2012, we supported the second annual Andrew Beazley Broker Academy at Lloyds, run this time Other growth opportunities derive from taking products that have performed well in one geographic market and offering as a market-wide initiative hosted by the Corporation of Lloyds and enjoying strong support from the market as a whole.
Thirty them in other markets where demand is emerging.
In 2012, we launched a new data breach offering in Europe and Latin one young brokers from US rms came to London for a tightly scheduled week to stand in the underwriters shoes and the America, building on the success of our Beazley Breach Response product in the US.
These regions possess two of the response was extremely positive.
three main drivers of demand for data breach cover that have underpinned the success of our US product in the past two years: a massive proliferation of sensitive personal customer data held by companies and a surge of negative publicity arising References to growth have recurred frequently in this review of the past year, but it would be misleading of me to suggest that from high prole data breaches.
The third driver of demand exacting regulatory requirements on how and when data breach the only growth that is a source of pride and satisfaction to us at Beazley is premium growth.
Indeed, premium growth is really victims should be notied does not yet exist but is in prospect in the European Union and elsewhere.
no more than a welcome consequence of other forms of growth growth in the diversity and capabilities of our people and in the career opportunities that we can offer them.
Beazley 18 Annual report 2012 Business review Locally underwritten US premiums US $m 400 300 200 100 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Surplus business Admitted business At the end of the year, Beazley numbered over 840 employees.
Of these, only 32 have been with the company for longer than a decade.
This is not a reection of high turnover but of the rapid growth of the company this century.
A decade ago we had only 78 employees in total and none in the US, now home to 322 of our staff.
The success of Beazley in 2012 is broadly based, reecting the expertise and professionalism of our claims, operations and support teams around the world, as well as that of our underwriters.
I am committed to ensuring that, for all of our people, opportunities for personal and professional growth will continue to expand at Beazley.
Andrew Horton Chief executive 6 February 2013 Beazley Annual report 2012 19
