Business review Andrew Horton reviews Beazleys performance and describes the risks and opportunities he foresees in 2013.
Q&A with the chief executive The pressures on us to be less discriminating in all of these areas are quite high.
We could grow quite fast if we were willing to portfolio underwrite and say to a broker, Well take 20%, or 30%, of whatever youve got.
We have very experienced and knowledgeable underwriters who are experts at appraising individual risks, and we know from 27 years of experience that the model works.
Weve never incurred an annual loss and over the past five years weve achieved a cumulative return on equity of 75% with considerably less volatility than many of our peers.
So given these constraints, we can grow in three ways: by nding new geographic markets for our products: by identifying new lines of business that make sense for us to underwrite: and by developing new products that meet a real need among our clients.
We were particularly gratied to see a major survey of Andrew Horton brokers in the London market ranking us number one for C hief executive innovation in the past year its a capability we know brokers value.
On pages 22 and 23 of this report we describe some of our recent product and service innovations.
Beazley grew last year, but you still face How do you motivate people in a low some sti economic headwinds.
Looking growth environment for the group?
forward, how do you plan to continue to achieve profitable growth in a low growth economy?
Well, first its not such a low growth environment.
We grew by 11% last year and we are aiming to grow a Our ability to grow profitably is determined by many further 5-10% in the coming year.
Thats faster growth than things, some of which we control in whole or in part weve seen in the past five years.
I naturally prefer to focus on the things that we can control, but to get the full picture you also But the key really is for people to understand growth in the right need to look at the factors that are beyond our control.
A year in which a team saw premiums static or even falling is not necessarily a bad year.
It may actually be a good We do not control the speed any given economy grows: we do year for that team in those circumstances.
And wed want them not control the insurance cycle, or cycles: and, nally, we do not to celebrate their achievement if they delivered a great service to control the trends, whether they be social, economic, political or clients and brokers and secured a good underwriting return in meteorological, that inuence our claims experience.
only adapt to them, like a sailor adapts to the wind.
Its really all about the timescale.
Premium growth is a long-term What can we control?
Obviously we can control the lines of and medium-term goal for all our teams.
It is not, and never business we write, the territories in which we write them, and the should be, a short-term goal that obscures the focus on terms on which we write them.
And we can control which profitability.
individual risks we write and which we avoid.
There are other very important ways in which we seek to motivate our people.
Our working environment is absolutely critical.
It is essential that we remain friendly, approachable and supportive towards each other.
There are inevitably pressures and stresses in all our jobs I dont want to add to them by hidden agendas, unnecessary hierarchies or arcane bureaucratic procedures.
All of those things can be unwelcome by-products of growth and we aim to avoid them.
Beazley 20 Annual report 2012 Business review Your investment return was 2% this past How would you summarise the progress of year.
Is there a temptation to chase returns your life, accident & health team during the in a low investment environment?
Yes, there is, although there is a danger in adding more We invested signicantly in our admitted US accident investment risk to gain higher yield.
We have a xed & health business in 2012, which is why the combined investment risk budget and we are not going to change that to ratio for the division exceeded 100%.
The life, accident & health achieve a higher yield in the short term.
business we underwrite in London performed well.
Our vision is to be, and to be recognised as, the best performing What are your thoughts on the changing specialist insurer.
Its insurer, not asset regulatory environment?
So we have a conservative approach to the management of our investments, an approach that is reinforced by the relatively high gearing of our invested assets to our equity, Regulatory change is a fact of life that we will continue which means that each 1% investment return generates a 4% to address.
This was our approach to Solvency II and I return on equity.
believe Andrew Pryde, our chief risk officer, and his team have done an excellent job in preparing us.
We have good We have a professional team from Falcon Money Management relationships with our regulators around the world and we focused on the management of our investments and were benefit from the comparably good relationships that Lloyds delighted to welcome Philip Howard who joined us as our chief enjoys.
I am actually more of a glass half full person when it investment officer last year.
Philips role is to provide investment comes to regulation I think that if you maintain good, open leadership and ensure assets are invested in line with our relationships you can open up opportunities and resolve investment strategy and within our risk parameters.
potentially contentious issues more quickly.
You announced last year a move into How big would you like to see Beazley aviation insurance at a point when a number become?
of market commentators were suggesting that We do not have a size goal for the group.
We look aviation premium rates were hitting a new low.
carefully at the potential headroom for our various Does this concern you?
product lines in the various markets in which we specialise.
And when we add those opportunities up, I see a lot of potential.
I Whilst it is the case that rates are very low at this stage, see brokers who want to do more business with us because we with the right team of people there are nevertheless offer them distinctive products that their clients really need.
I opportunities to write business in the current market.
We will not see clients whose risks are becoming ever more complex and be competing head to head for the major commercial eet challenging.
And, internally, I see underwriters brimming with business that has been the focus of the most intense ideas and creativity.
Its exciting, but everyone at Beazley knows competition.
Instead we still see attractive niche opportunities.
that we are not going to force the pace.
Growth is important but timing is crucial.
Also, we always hire good people, when they are ready to join us, providing it makes sense, strategically, for us to enter the line of business in question.
We have been able to recruit an extremely skilled and experienced team of aviation underwriters.
But of course we will not be driving them to grow the top line in a soft market.
Beazley Annual report 2012 21 Business review New moves In a busy year for Beazleys underwriters, the group expanded by geography, by product line, and by innovating in existing product lines.
Our claims professionals also worked hard to provide a supportive service and deliver against our commitments, particularly in the aftermath of superstorm Sandy.
Cleared for takeo In June Beazley announced plans to establish a specialist aviation underwriting team.
For some years, Beazley has underwritten a book of aviation war risks through its marine division: the plan is to expand the account to provide broader cover to owners and lessors.
The team, which began underwriting at Lloyds in November, forms part of Beazleys marine division, reporting to Clive Washbourn.
Cover for the major commercial airline eets has recently been highly competitive, but Beazley will focus on smaller airlines where competition is less intense.
Aviation, Mr Washbourn said, is a class of business that can sometimes be challenging to underwrite, but I am confident that with the teams expertise and strong standing in the London market, we will be able to build a focused and profitable account.
By land and by sea Next stop Tokyo Singapore grows Kidnap is a hazard that is all too familiar to Warranty & indemnity insurance also known further as Asian hub ships plying the troubled waters off the Horn as representations & warranties, or reps & of Africa and one for which Beazley has long warranties insurance for M&A transactions Beazley increased its commitment to offered cover.
But from 2013, the company in Japan.
Singapore as a major hub for insurance will begin offering protection on land as well.
business in the region with the appointment In January 2013, Beazley welcomed an in October 2012 of Ben Liang to establish a Kidnapping for ransom remains a scourge agreement reached by Lloyds Japan and the treaty reinsurance platform in the city state.
affecting businesses and wealthy families in Japanese Financial Services Agency JFSA many parts of the world, said Michael Sharp, enabling Lloyds-based insurers to insure such Mr Liang follows other Beazley underwriters who joined Beazley in June 2012 to develop risks in Japan.
who already insure property risks including the companys kidnap & ransom K&R construction and engineering business business.
The key is to have access to In just three years, Beazley has become a and political risks from Singapore.
Patrick experienced negotiators with local knowledge.
leading insurer of cover designed to reduce or Hartigan, head of Beazleys reinsurance We have partnered with an exceptional team at extinguish the impact of liabilities arising from division, said the move was designed to Hazelwood Street who possess the skills and a merger or acquisition, including breaches of enable Beazley to provide better access connections to achieve favourable outcomes representations, warranties or indemnities, to brokers and clients in the region.
adverse tax consequences and contingent liability claims.
Beazley now underwrites M&A In 2008, Beazleys treaty reinsurance team Explaining the rationale behind this and a transaction insurance in more than 80 made a similar investment in a new ofce number of other Beazley products, Beazley jurisdictions globally with limits of up to in Munich, designed to capture a share of CEO Andrew Horton told Insurance Day in July: $30m per risk.
European reinsurance business that was We are always looking to see if we can attach not normally shown to Lloyds underwriters a service because insurers cannot cover in London.
That move has proved successful everything through indemnity alone.
with around $19.9m in premiums underwritten in 2012.
Beazley 22 Annual report 2012 Business review When the going gets tough Evacuation is not a step that long term violence motivated by political anger or expatriate employees of major companies economic resentment, Mr Parker said.
take lightly, says Chris Parker, head of In extreme cases, they can be held hostage Beazleys terrorism and political violence for political or financial gain.
They may have strong roots in the country and local commitments In the face of such risks, as well as in and loyalties.
situations of acute medical risk where local treatment facilities are inadequate, on the But conditions can sometimes deteriorate to ground capabilities and expertise are essential.
the point where swift evacuation is necessary.
We have teamed up with specialist rms that This is one of the scenarios provided for by a have proven global capabilities in all these.
new Beazley policy that provides expert advisory and evacuation services in three scenarios: a deteriorating political environment or a natural catastrophe in which a clients employees are at risk: a medical emergency: and a kidnap.
Expatriate or visiting employees working for foreign rms are frequently the targets of When the show simply cannot go on Event organisers were not immune to the Christian Phillips, an experienced member of effects of superstorm Sandy, with a number the team that has built Beazleys contingency of high prole events cancelled due to the business in London to the point where it is one storm.
This formed the backdrop to of the markets leading underwriters in the Beazleys decision to begin underwriting class, will be spearheading the growth of the event cancellation and other forms of US account.
Based in Beazleys ofce in contingency business locally in the US Philadelphia, he will focus on servicing existing from January 2013. coverholder relationships and on developing new business that is not normally seen by Lloyds underwriters in London.
Victim of Sandy: New Jersey rollercoaster A bridge to simplicity Brokers have until now faced challenges in Lloyds market, Beazley is well placed to take Insurance products are not always obtaining such cover.
Normally a separate advantage of the unique network of insurance distinguished by their simplicity and one of policy will need to be issued for each covered licences that Lloyds has built up over more the most complex areas for multinational territory and premium taxes assessed and than three centuries.
Beazley Bridge has companies and their brokers has historically paid for each policy.
The task of coordinating been carefully designed to provide easily been directors and ofcers D&O cover for this complex and time consuming process understandable and painlessly placed widely dispersed operations.
usually falls to the corporations broker.
protection for directors and ofcers, introducing simplicity and exibility into In February 2012, Beazley unveiled an Beazley Bridge simplies the process of the insurance purchase.
innovative solution: Beazley Bridge, a product obtaining cover for these risks by leveraging to help brokers secure robust D&O insurance Lloyds global network of insurance licenses.
coverage for US multinational corporate Neal Wilkinson, global head of Beazleys clients through a single insurance management liability team, said, As the contract to cover executives outside leading insurer of D&O insurance in the the United States.
