4 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Chief Executives report year underperformance is due to Caledonias dividend pay-out being below that of the market.
We are addressing this strategically through our increased emphasis on income from the portfolio, which should be relected in increased dividends to shareholders.
Discount The discount at which our shares trade compared with our underlying NAV has widened, ending the year at 25%.
This is approaching the level at which many private equity investment trusts trade and is considerably wider than the average of the Global Growth sector in which we are categorised.
We purchased 12.6m of shares during the year and we continue to believe that investing in the existing portfolio through share buy-backs at such a wide discount is both accretive and good value for all shareholders.
We will once again ask for the necessary permissions to buy in shares at the AGM, though our ability to conduct such a strategy for a sustained period is Markets remain only fairly valued and constrained by the holding of the Cayzer Concert Party.
are likely to show volatile movement However, the real driver of the discount is the underlying performance of the portfolio which, in recent years, has for some time to come.
The strategic initiatives to address this were continue to invest Caledonias balance outlined a year ago and are well underway.
We are sheet with great care and allocate our particularly pleased with the strong performance of some of the newer investments, which outperformed the most precious commodity, our capital, benchmark by 5%.
I am conident that this trend will only to well run and attractively continue and that shareholders will beneit from an overall improvement in performance.
Strategy Will Wyatt Chief Executive I laid out our strategy in my report a year ago.
The core message was that Caledonias excellent model of long term supportive capital was as relevant and it for purpose as Results ever, but was in need of certain adjustments.
The economic backdrop of recession in Europe in Our strategy review identiied four key areas where we particular, artiicially low interest rates combined with would focus our attention: the unprecedented iscal problems of many EU countries O The yield derived from the portfolio was too low.
We have has caused investors rightly to be nervous.
This was addressed this both by creating an internally managed demonstrated by a light to the relative safety of cash and Income & Growth pool and through a more stringent bonds in the autumn of last year, which has left several of yield requirement.
I am pleased to report good progress our investments trading at signiicantly lower valuations with underlying income rising as the portfolio is as investors have been cautious in respect of equities.
We envisage further progress over the next More positively, this has allowed us to deploy capital into two years without detracting from Caledonias core our new Income & Growth pool at reasonable prices.
approach, which seeks to invest in growth, rather than Caledonias long term investment approach of taking large dedicated income, companies.
This supports our stated stakes in companies has often resulted in uneven intention to pay a higher dividend to shareholders, as performance, especially when compared with an index outlined by the Chairman.
whose composition is less concentrated than our portfolio.
O Short term swings in valuation within the portfolio are to We had too many subscale investments.
Since the strategy be expected and are acceptable, provided there is not an was adopted, we have sold, or are in the process of underlying diminution in intrinsic valuation of the selling, eight subscale investments and have identiied a respective investment.
However, a decrease in the net further seven for disposal.
In addition, management of asset value per share total return NAV TR of 7.0% over three subscale businesses has been transferred to a the past year has had a large proportional effect on our private equity irm.
This will leave us with a core ive year NAV TR, which has underperformed our portfolio of 40-50 investments, which is optimal for our benchmark, the FTSE All-Share TR, by 14.1% over the current management resource and will allow us to keep same period.
We have continued, however, to outperform our ongoing charges ratio to around 1%.
We have this index over the past ten years.
The majority of the ive implemented a minimum size threshold for new Overview Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2012 5 investments of 10m overall, though listed stakes luctuation in value.
The underlying inancial performance may be built up over time, and 20m for unquoted of most of our investments has remained healthy, so we companies.
This does not apply to purchases by the expect that value will accrue to investors in due course.
Income & Growth pool, for which the portfolio criteria The following table summarises the portfolio movements are by their nature different.
The time weighted return takes O A change in the way we manage our portfolio.
account of the timing of investments, disposals and The portfolio has been reorganised into six distinct income receipts throughout the year.
pools of capital managed by investment executives InvestTime with relevant experience and skill.
There is necessarily Value InvestChange Value ment weighted 2011 ments Disposals in value 2012 income return an element of matrix management as several of the Pool m m m m m m % pools contain both unquoted and quoted investments.
Asia 159.0 29.8 20.5 20.6 147.7 2.0 11.4 O ur investment and divestment process required reining.
Income The pool structure has added focus and responsibility.
& Growth 12.1 111.3 15.3 2.5 110.6 2.8 7.8 The investment size limits have helped reine our Portfolio 1,183.2 247.8 129.7 117.3 1,184.0 33.3 6.7 research and investment towards fewer but more Pool commentary suitable opportunities.
Our solid, bottom-up analysis, married to Our deal low has been enhanced through increased a value oriented style, is tailored to the identiication of marketing and specialist resource.
long term equity growth stories.
Four new investments The yield requirement has seen a subtle shift in our ideal in Spirax-Sarco, The Weir Group, Hill & Smith and Greggs target portfolio company, resulting in less early stage were made during the year.
investments and a move towards a more mature proile Unquoted pool.
The portfolio holdings have shown a than in the recent past.
Our investment criteria are now healthy 16% growth in underlying proits overall in the focused on a strong market position, strong margins and year, though valuation metrics have reduced.
We have cash lows, and high barriers to entry, combined with an witnessed excellent deal low with over 200 opportunities established and proven management team.
Companies that assessed and have made one new investment in Bowers & possess such qualities are an excellent it with our style of Wilkins, an audio equipment manufacturer.
We have been investing and will result in less risk with equally attractive granted exclusivity in a further deal and have a healthy return characteristics, if bought at reasonable valuations.
We have moved away from an absolute requirement for a Asia pool.
In the quoted arena, we made investments in board seat, particularly through the Quoted pool.
This will Jardine Matheson and one of its associated companies.
result in an increased level of liquidity as well as holdings In India, our shareholding in First Blue Home Finance in companies with larger market capitalisations.
will be merged with another of our holdings, Dewan The board has signalled its conidence in this strategy Housing Finance, during the next year.
We made a new by substantially increasing the inal dividend and its commitment to an Asian fund of private equity funds.
intention is to continue Caledonias progressive dividend Property pool.
We sold several Edinmore Investments policy, but from a higher level, in the future.
property companies and assets during the year, whilst Investment activity Brookshire, the specialist industrial property team, During the year, we invested 248m and realised 130m made several new acquisitions.
We added to our holding of assets.
The Income & Growth pool was the principal in London & Stamford.
recipient of funds during the course of the year, investing Funds pool.
We will select managers with top quartile 111m at opportune moments in what was a volatile year performance records for both private equity and for markets.
Our strategic aim is to increase the size of quoted funds to give us targeted geographical and this pool to 15-20% of the portfolio, representing up to a sector exposure with a controlled risk reward proile.
little over 200m, over the next two years.
Excluding the We have made further commitments to private equity Income & Growth pool, we made eight new and eleven funds in the UK and US.
follow-on investments and fully or partially sold twelve holdings during the year.
Over the year, the returns from Income & Growth pool.
This pool has produced an all but the Income & Growth pool were disappointing impressive irst year outperformance, laying solid though, in a volatile market, a concentrated portfolio such foundations for future yield and capital appreciation as ours will inevitably experience a greater degree of as well as enhancing our global exposure.
6 Annual report 2012 Caledonia Investments plc Chief Executives report continued The pool reviews that follow this report provide further complement our investment in Capital Today China and details of our portfolio of investments.
have made initial investments in Jardine Matheson and Hongkong Land.
We have also deliberately increased Asset class exposure to North America during the year.
We retain an approximate 60:40 split between listed and unlisted companies, which is a slightly higher exposure to We have followed closely the disturbing announcements listed companies than last year, but not dissimilar to our by the Indian government regarding potential long term average.
This rhetoric is making India a less attractive country in which to invest and 2012 2011 foreign investment lows have slowed considerably.
Asset class m % m % We will continue to monitor events closely, though we Listed equities 718.1 61 719.3 57 view India as a strong long term structural growth story, Unlisted companies 333.3 28 338.8 27 albeit with many of the normal attributes of an emerging Private equity funds 130.5 11 117.3 9 economy, both good and bad.
Caledonia has always taken substantial stakes Total assets 1,179.0 100 1,258.7 100 in companies, often built up over a period of time.
Borrowings 45.0 Retaining our successful investment for the longer term Net assets 1,134.0 1,258.7 has been a key plank of our investment style, so usually there is relatively little change in the composition of the top ive or ten holdings from year to year.
We did however Outlook sell down some of our holding in British Empire Securities The corporate sector continues to produce strong results during the year and transferred the funds to the Income and to nurture healthy balance sheets.
This is in direct & Growth pool.
Cobehold is a privately held Belgian contrast to many Western economies, which are over investment vehicle with net assets of approximately indebted, underperforming and being kept alive with 1.2bn in which Caledonia owns a 10% holding.
It has artiicially created money.
Markets remain only fairly invested in a high quality portfolio of about 15 growth valued and are likely to show volatile movement for some orientated companies, mostly in continental Europe.
We will continue to invest Caledonias It has grown to be our second largest investment and we balance sheet with great care and allocate our most continue to see substantial underlying growth from its precious commodity, our capital, only to well run and portfolio, which bodes well for the future.
Total Years I would like to end by expressing, on behalf of the board, Value assets in the our sincerest thanks to James Loudon for his hugely Name m % portfolio signiicant contribution to the company over a long period Close Brothers 154.2 13.1 25 of time and, particularly, for stepping up to Chairman on Cobehold 85.0 7.2 8 the untimely death of Peter Buckley three and a half years Bristow Group 72.9 6.2 20 ago.
We wish him a long and fulilling retirement.
British Empire Securities 50.0 4.3 21 AG Barr 40.2 3.4 35 402.3 34.2 Geography In previous years, we have set out our desire to increase overall exposure to Asian economies.
We have been investing in India for a number of years, but lacked Will Wyatt exposure to the rest of South East Asia.
We have therefore Chief Executive selected two Asian funds of private equity funds to
