Close Brothers Group plc 4 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement Strone Macpherson, Chairman left and Preben Prebensen, Chief Executive.
Solid Overall Performance in the Close Brothers has delivered a solid financial Current Market Environment performance and made good strategic progress in Overall, adjusted operating profit increased 2% to 134.2 million 2011: 131.2 million the 2012 financial year.
and adjusted basic earnings per share increased 4% to 67.3p 2011: 64.8p.
This reflects continued strong profit growth in Our strong balance sheet and the market positions Banking, while profit in Securities reduced substantially due to the difficult external of our businesses leave us well placed to deliver trading conditions and Asset Management sustainable profit growth and shareholder returns made a further small loss as it progressed with its restructuring.
We recorded net exceptional income of 5.6 million on the partial sale of Mako, principally reflecting foreign exchange gains realised on disposal.
The prior year included net exceptional charges of 46.9 million principally related to an impairment of our investment in Mako and restructuring in Asset Management.
As a result, operating profit before tax, after exceptional items, increased significantly to 134.9 million 2011: 78.5 million and basic earnings per share increased to 68.6p 2011: 29.6p.
Close Brothers Group plc 5 Annual Report 2012 We have maintained a prudent funding our strategic priorities of building our client The Banking division has position and continue to have access to a franchises and driving sustainable profits.
continued to grow strongly, diverse range of funding sources.
We We undertake a detailed strategic review of raised or renewed over 900 million of each division on an annual basis, and at while maintaining its wholesale funding in the year, as well as this years review we concluded that distinctive lending model and continuing to grow our deposit base, and existing strategic priorities remain the loan book was 142% 31 July 2011: appropriate, and execution remains on the quality of its loan book.
157% covered by available funding at the track.
We have also maintained a good level of high quality Strong growth with maintained model in In Securities, Winterflood has liquidity in the form of deposits with the Banking Bank of England and UK gilts, while at the The strategic priority in the Banking maintained its strong market same time reducing our holding of less division continues to be to capture growth position and capacity despite liquid debt securities to optimise balance opportunities while maintaining our sheet efficiency.
distinctive, specialist lending model and a difficult market environment.
the quality of our loan book.
The operating We have maintained a strong capital position environment for the division remains with a core tier 1 capital ratio of 12.8% favourable, with strong demand for In Asset Management, we 31July 2011: 13.1%, and a leverage ratio specialist lending services and limited of9.7% 31 July 2011: 9.5%, despite a 20% supply of competing sources of credit, have substantially completed increase in the loan book and reduced and we have achieved significant growth our restructuring and are now profits in Securities.
These ratios are in our loan book while maintaining comfortably ahead of all applicable consistent lending criteria.
positioned to return to regulatory requirements and industry benchmarks and are not expected to be This is reflected in three years of strong profitability.
materially affected by Basel III.
loan book growth while maintaining all key ratios well within their historical ranges.
In The board is recommending a 1.0p the 2012 financial year, the loan book increase in the final dividend per share to increased a further 20% to 4.1 billion 27.5p 2011: 26.5p, resulting in a full year 31July 2011: 3.4 billion, the net interest dividend per share of 41.5p 2011: 40.0p, margin remained strong at 9.4% 2011: up 4%.
This reflects the groups solid 9.8% and the bad debt ratio improved to performance in the 2012 financial year and 1.5% 2011: 2.1%.
As a result, the divisions our continued confidence in the prospects adjusted operating profit increased 27% to of our businesses.
Good Strategic Progress in Core Loan book growth is principally driven by Businesses continued expansion of our core client Following a number of disposals over the franchises, and we remain focused on last three financial years, we are now building lending relationships directly with focused on developing our core small businesses and with distributors businesses, which have the capacity to such as motor dealers and insurance deliver high quality, sustainable earnings brokers.
During the year we have further over time.
expanded our sales capacity with a net increase of around 40 front line staff, As we continue to grow and develop, we bringing the total to nearly 500, and the are committed to maintaining the key opening of a further motor finance branch attributes of our business model, which are in the UK.
Our local, service and expertise simple and straightforward business led approach ensures we maintain strong activities: a prudent approach to managing relationships with borrowers and our business and balance sheet: the intermediaries, and we continue to expertise of our people: and strong generate high levels of repeat business relationships with clients and across the division.
These attributes underpin Close Brothers Group plc 6 Annual Report 2012 Corporate Overview Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement continued and small-cap stocks, and adjusted operating profit reduced significantly to a The group is well positioned for ten year low of 16.0 million 2011: 43.2 million.
Notwithstanding the difficult trading conditions, Winterfloods loss days remained relatively modest at 13 days We are undertaking significant investment Maintained market positions and 2011: one loss day out of 253 2011: 251 to support our growing business, ensure capacity in Securities trading days, reflecting the experience and our growth remains safe, and maximise The Securities division has continued to expertise of its traders and tight risk our long-term efficiency.
This includes the deliver against its strategic priorities of controls.
Importantly, Winterflood has recent launch of a division wide credit maintaining its leading market positions maintained its leading market position and management information system, which and maximising profitability in all trading remains the largest market-maker to UK allows us to more effectively monitor and conditions.
However, overall adjusted retail brokers.
In addition, its focus on analyse credit risk at the divisional, operating profit for the division reduced market-making and variable cost structure business or individual loan level.
We have substantially to 24.5 million 2011: 54.8 have allowed it to maintain its trading also upgraded our infrastructure and million reflecting difficult market conditions capacity while reducing its costs by 30% information systems in the areas of finance throughout the period.
to reflect the reduction in trading activity.
At the same time, we have a As a result, although trading conditions number of projects underway to Winterflood has again demonstrated the remain difficult, it remains profitable and streamline and refine processes across strength of its business model, which well positioned for any increase in activity.
the division to ensure we maximise underpins a 25 year track record of efficiency while maintaining the local profitability.
However, its results were Winterfloods primary focus remains its expertise and integrated model which affected by low retail investor risk appetite core UK market-making activities, but it underpin our customer proposition and and reduced client trading activity across continues to explore growth opportunities business model.
all sectors, particularly in the less liquid AIM through Winterflood Business Services Close Brothers Group plc 7 Annual Report 2012 which offers outsourced execution and to 8.3 billion 31 July 2011: 9.6 billion, of Board Changes custody services, and through its recently which the significant majority now relates We have further strengthened our board opened office in the US.
with the addition of Shonaid JemmettPage as a non-executive director, and Close Brothers Seydler has also During the year we completed the Elizabeth Lee as an executive director and experienced difficult conditions in the development of our new client group head of legal and regulatory affairs, German market, and its adjusted propositions and technology platform, both with effect from 1 August 2012. operating profit reduced significantly to with a total investment of 20 million over 1.3 million 2011: 9.0 million as a result the last three years.
In November 2011, we Shonaid Jemmett-Page is currently a of low market volumes and reduced debt launched the new proposition for advised non-executive director at GKN plc, APR and equity capital markets activity, clients, which has been well received by Energy plc and Amlin plc and has particularly in the first half of the financial advisers and clients with a steadily previously held executive positions at year.
However, the business has a strong building pipeline.
In May 2012, we Unilever plc and CDC Group plc.
Elizabeth client franchise and remains well placed launched our offering for self directed Lee joined Close Brothers in 2009 as for any recovery.
clients which provides direct access to our group legal counsel and company investment portal.
During the year, we agreed the phased sale of our entire 49.9% investment in We also completed our range of Outlook Mako to the management team, and at investment management solutions and In an uncertain market environment, we 31July 2012 our holding in Mako had now offer a full range of directly invested, remain confident in the business model reduced to 27.3%.
multi-manager and passive funds, as well and position of each of our businesses.
as separately managed accounts and Significant strategic progress in bespoke portfolio management services, In the Banking division, we see prospects Asset Management all managed by our integrated investment for continued loan book and profit growth.
In Asset Management we have team.
Performance of our new investment substantially completed the restructuring management products has been strong, Winterflood has continued to experience of the division to build a leading private with all five of our direct funds achieving a low levels of market activity but remains client business in the UK.
As expected, first or second quartile performance in the well positioned for any improvement in the division made a small adjusted year to 30 June 2012.
In addition, over half trading conditions.
operating loss of 4.3 million 2011: loss of of our bespoke portfolio AuM achieved 8.6 million.
first quartile performance within their Asset Management has substantially respective ARC peer groups over the completed its restructuring and is now The private client business continued to same period.
positioned to move into profitability during grow, reflecting both continued organic the course of the 2013 financial year.
Net inflows of With our client propositions, technology private client assets were 284 million and business model now in place, our Overall, the group is well positioned for the 2011: 249 million in the year, driven by focus going forward is on driving revenue current financial year.
both our advised business and sales of and asset growth through our new client our investment products through third propositions while stabilising and party IFAs.
We added a further 330 optimising the cost base.
Initially the focus million of Assets under Management will be on selling our new integrated advice AuM through acquisitions, principally and investment management offering to Scott-Moncrieff Wealth Management, an existing advised clients, with an increasing IFA business based in Scotland.
focus on new organic growth over time.
With the restructuring substantially behind Consistent with our strategy, institutional us, Asset Management is now in a AuM continued to reduce reflecting position to move into profitability during redemptions of institutional client assets the course of the 2013 financial year and, and the closure of non-core funds.
In subject to market conditions, we currently March 2012 we also completed the expect the division to achieve an operating disposal of OLIMs property funds margin of at least 15% by the 2015 business with 355 million of AuM.
result, at 31 July 2012 overall AuM reduced
