Chief Executives review 2012 has been another year of good progress.
Improving business mix and the part-year benefit of acquisitions have enabled further improvements in performance and enhanced the Groups geographic balance.
Stephen Harris l Group Chief Executive Trading overview Strategic Progress Bodycote delivered another strong performance in what was a 2012 marked a year of excellent strategic progress for Bodycote.
Sales growth of 17.1m included Our initiatives aimed at improving market focus and increasing a contribution of 22.4m from acquisitions but was impacted by efficiencies through deployment of enhanced business processes 19.6m of foreign exchange translation headwind.
Notwithstanding all worked together to help drive profitable growth.
Indeed the the difficult trading environment Bodycote continued to expansion of Group margins and growth in ROCE underscores the demonstrate its pricing power and ability to improve the mix of quality of earnings and resilience of the business.
1 business, resulting in headline margins increasing to 16.6%.
While there are many examples of the successful deployment The Aerospace, Defence and Energy business took full advantage of Bodycotes strategy, activities in Brazil and in Eastern Europe of the strong markets and delivered sales growth of 11.5%, of disappointed in 2012.
In Brazil the currency rose strongly, disrupting which 4.2% came from acquisitions, with margins expanding Brazils position in the global supply chain.
Progress was particularly pleasing in dropped, mainly due to manufacturers choosing to sustain their the Automotive and General Industrial segments.
Even though facilities in France and Germany, bearing the brunt of cutbacks in revenues declined by 2.9%, notwithstanding adding 3.8% from parallel plants in Eastern Europe.
acquisitions, margins remained constant at 13.3%, providing 3 continued evidence of the improved resilience of Bodycotes In contrast, the growth in S P was very pleasing, overcoming profitability.
many of the capacity constraints that had hampered this business following its strong growth in 2011.
Late in the year capacity was Return on capital employed increased to 19.5% 2011: 16.9% on increased in the HIP Product Fabrication business and the benefits the back of the higher level of profits and carefully managed net should be seen in 2013. capital expenditure of 47.7m, which was 0.9 times depreciation 2011: 0.9 times.
Capital expenditure was lower than expected A number of businesses were acquired in 2012.
North America has due primarily to longer than anticipated approval and regulatory been under-represented in Bodycote, with the business heavily processes.
Capital expenditure was targeted at expansion of weighted towards Western Europe.
Acquisitions in North America aerospace capacity and greenfield sites in emerging economies were high on the priority list as a result.
together with a focus on specific technologies such as Specialty 3 Stainless Steel Processes S P, HIP Product Fabrication, Corr-i-Dur In April the heat treatment division of Curtiss-Wright was acquired, and Low Pressure Carburising.
adding eight sites to the Groups footprint in North America.
One major attraction of this business is its high degree of aerospace and Headline operating cash conversion was once again very strong at energy work.
Three of the acquired sites are located in the Wichita, 113% demonstrating the Groups commitment to cash generation Kansas aerospace hub, an important centre that previously did not as a primary focus.
Net debt finished the year at 34.2m after have a Bodycote presence.
The remaining sites dovetail very well spending 84.7m on acquisitions during the year.
On 18 February into the pre-existing North American network.
2013, the Groups 125m revolving credit facility was refinanced to 1 March 2018.
1 Headline margin is defined as headline operating profit as a proportion of revenue.
Headline operating profit is reconciled on page 15.
12 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2012 In October seven sites were acquired from Bluewater Thermal Processing LLC.
Six of these sites constituted the business formerly known as Carolina Commercial Heat Treating, which has a strong competitive position in the so called right to work states of the South Eastern USA.
This region, spanning from North Carolina down to Georgia and across to Tennessee, has enjoyed higher than average growth in the USA having been the target for significant inward investment for some time.
It is not only benefiting from the arrival of many new foreign companies, but also from businesses that are relocating away from the union dominated north.
The fledgling aerospace supply chain that is being established in the region provides a further attraction for Bodycote.
Other acquisitions included a small business comprising three sites in Michigan and Indiana, which was acquired from a private owner on 31 December 2012.
They bring to the Group some of the best practitioners of Low Pressure Carburising and sophisticated vacuum heat treating technology in the world and are a welcome addition to the Group.
As we enter 2013 all of the businesses acquired are performing in line with expectations.
Summary and outlook 2012 has been another year of good progress.
Growth in our global Aerospace and Energy business outweighed the decline in Automotive and General Industrial markets in Europe.
2013 has started slowly and we are mindful of the near term macroeconomic environment.
Nevertheless, at this early stage in the year the Board expects modest progress in 2013.
Looking further ahead, the improvements made to the business in recent years give the Board confidence that Bodycote will continue to deliver good profits and cash through the business cycle.
S. C. Harris Group Chief Executive 27 February 2013 13 Stock code: BOY www.
com Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
