Chief Executive Ofcers review Unlocking value It has been a momentous year for Direct Line Group and our people have worked diligently to deliver good progress towards our strategic targets Overview of financial performance Welcome to our first Annual Report & Accounts as a listed company in our own right.
I am pleased to report that we have made good progress against our business transformation plan and delivered an operating profit from ongoing operations of 461.2 million for 2012, an increase of 9.3% compared to 2011 421.9 million.
All divisions were profitable in 2012.
This was driven by a return to underwriting profit, demonstrating the effective use of our pricing and data, improved claims processes, as well as the strength of our distribution platform in serving our customers.
Helping our customers As one of the leading motor and home insurers in the UK, our responsibility to motorists and homeowners is more than just processing a claim when an accident or loss has occurred.
We consider road safety to be an important element of our work within the community.
As such, we have developed partnerships with key road safety stakeholders, such as Paul Geddes, Chief Executive officer the charity, Brake, working with them to raise motorists awareness of road safety issues.
Moving from the roads and into the home, some of our home insurance customers have had to endure another unprecedented year of rainfall and ooding.
Our advisers were immediately on the ground in heavily affected areas to help customers through the claims process and provide them with alternative accommodation where needed.
Separation from RBS Group Following the implementation of a comprehensive programme of initiatives, we are now operating on a substantially stand-alone basis from RBS Group.
These initiatives included appointing the Direct Line Group Board of Directors, harmonising employee service contracts, developing a stand-alone risk and compliance department, and agreeing an arms length TSA with RBS Group for residual services.
We have also recently appointed Capgemini to support the migration of our IT as well as to design, deliver and run a new IT infrastructure to support the business.
10 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review: Strategic review The otation of Direct Line Group on the London Stock Exchange marked an important milestone in our history.
Our strong business model and transformation plan proved attractive to the market despite considerable economic and market headwinds.
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive officer Listing on the London Stock Exchange As a result of these actions, we have strengthened and In October, we successfully completed our IPO on the improved our business, making good progress towards London Stock Exchange.
RBS Group sold 520.8 million achieving our strategic targets.
Ordinary Shares in Direct Line Group, representing 35% The strategic plan of our issued share capital, generating gross proceeds of With the first part of our transformation plan to return to 911 million for RBS Group.
In December, Direct Line Group profit complete, we have redened our strategic plan became a constituent of the FTSE 250 Index.
through five key pillars: distribution, pricing, claims, costs, The journey so far and Commercial and International.
In the midst of tough economic and competitive conditions, Distribution we have delivered a clear turnaround in performance, most We renewed existing strategic partnerships, including Nationwide visibly a 667 million improvement in operating profit from Building Society and RBS Group, and secured new ones, notably ongoing operations since 2010.
We have maintained a focus Sainsburys Bank.
We also launched our Churchill and Privilege on underwriting for profit by methodically reducing our level motor and home products on comparethemarket.
com, which of risk, taking stringent steps to improve our pricing capability, means we have a presence on the four major UK PCWs.
and exiting lines of business that have proven unprofitable.
Pricing Since the beginning of our transformation plan in 2010, we have Since 2010, we have fide-risked the motor portfolio and repriced taken action to improve our capital efficiency and to benefit to reect the risk and cost of bodily injury claims, particularly from our scale by consolidating four underwriting entities into with younger drivers and certain postcodes.
We built capability one, U K Insurance Limited.
We received an A credit rating through implementing a new pricing model and rating engine from Standard & Poors and an A2 credit rating from Moodys, across the Motor and Home divisions, contributing to significant issued 500 million of long-term subordinated debt and prior improvements in our loss ratio performance.
to the IPO returned 1 billion in dividends to RBS Group.
The right team to deliver the evolving customer agenda We now have the right structure in place to help us specically we are well placed to respond to the changing landscape address our customers needs and to protect their interests.
of how businesses interact with their customers.
In light of the new structure of the Financial Services Authority For more information see p. 58 FSA and the creation of the Financial Conduct Authority Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012 11 Chief Executive Ofcers review continued Claims Regulatory environment We have undergone a significant transformation in our claims We are operating in an industry that is preparing for function, including a strategic investment in a new claims system, substantial regulatory change.
With the ongoing debates ClaimCenter, which is now operational for the majority of Motor in the motor market surrounding referral and legal fees, the and Home claims.
The benets are being realised through increase in whiplash claims and the implementation of the improved claims processes, including shorter settlement times gender directive, we aim to be leaders through this period for customers and improved legal case management.
of change and lobby for reform to provide the best outcome for our customers and shareholders.
Costs The first phase of our cost reduction programme focused on Outlook our operational cost base.
We reduced the number of our The UK personal lines market remains competitive, particularly sites from 32 locations to 16 and delivered 15% efficiency in the Motor division.
In this environment, the Group will continue savings across our UK sales operations.
In August 2012, its strategy of disciplined underwriting that prioritises maintaining we announced the target of gross annual cost savings of margin over volume.
We expect to see improvements to the loss 100 million in 2014. ratio in 2013 as investments in pricing and claims capabilities, together with the improved risk prole of the underwriting portfolio, Commercial and International especially in Motor and Commercial, are recognised.
In 2014 We are working towards reducing our costs and improving we expect to have delivered the 100 million gross annual operational efficiency in Commercial, targeting a COR cost savings and we will continue to look at our expense below 100% in 2014.
In International, we are leveraging base as market conditions evolve.
Overall we continue to our UK expertise in pricing and claims as well as driving target a 98% COR for ongoing operations in 2013. through operational efficiencies to produce returns consistent with our strong market position as a leading direct insurer Investment markets remain tough with continued low reinvestment in both Italy and Germany.
yields and therefore, within our risk appetite, we are planning various actions intended to mitigate pressures on investment Priorities for 2013 returns.
We will continue to invest in the business with the During 2013 we aim to make progress towards delivering objective of both sustaining our leadership position and the strategic financial targets we set out at the time of the IPO.
In particular we aim to deliver a 98% COR in 2013 and to make progress towards our 100 million gross annual cost We have made great strides since the beginning of our savings target.
I am extremely grateful for the hard work, dedication and expertise demonstrated by We aim to achieve this by, for example, deploying the our people, and I am excited about developing the business capability built in our pricing and claims functions over the even further for the next phase of our journey.
last couple of years and, in 2013, we aim to supplement this by prioritising our distribution and cost initiatives.
To enhance our distribution, we are already ne-tuning our propositions with the implementation of new offers and pricing structures adapted to the evolving needs of our customers.
Paul Geddes, Chief Executive officer We will continually monitor the business to ensure we are addressing the needs of our customers, the competitiveness of the markets in which we operate, the engagement of our staff and the returns expected by our shareholders.
12 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2012
