Booker group plc aNNUal rEPOrt & aCCOUNts 2012 CHiEF ExECUtivEs rEviEW Our plan to Focus, Drive and Broaden on the prior year.
Progress has been Our plan to Focus, Booker is on track.
made across the range, for example we reinvigorated Chefs larder Cheese.
Drive and Broaden FOCUS Our speciality cheese is now sourced the business is commenced November 2005 from award winning creameries.
the Booker seeks to become the most flavours, texture and packaging have on track.
efficient operator in our sector.
satherley and his team continue to improve Prices Down business efficiency.
We stop, simplify and Ours is a very price competitive market.
standardise work and invest most of the Every week we monitor prices versus savings in customer service.
During the year our price cash management we have now increased index remained competitive.
Customer net cash from 27.1m last year to 63.4m satisfaction for our pricing has made this year.
DRIVE Better Service commenced March 2006 stock availability further improved to be Booker Wholesale, our cash and carry the best we have achieved in six years.
business, served 465,000 customers Our people are doing a brilliant job.
this year up from 444,000 last year.
guy Our customers rate Booker people Farrant and the team continue to Drive highly.
Business Centre teams have choice, price and service.
Each year we been trained in PriDE to help improve survey 40,000 customers to identify where the Parking, reception, inside, Delivery improvements can be made.
satisfaction improved again this year and Catering our customer count has increased again, Catering sales grew by 6.1% to 1.2bn, up by 21,000 customers.
because our choice, price and service Choice Up continued to improve.
Our catering in 2007 we launched Euro shopper as development sales force continues to an entry price brand for independent serve our existing customers and to retailers.
it now has retail sales of introduce new customers to Booker.
the range has 60 products During the year the catering customer and retailers achieve a minimum of 30% count increased by 14,000. margin.
Our Euro shopper soft drinks Premier are doing particularly well.
Premier, Bookers symbol group, grew in 2010 we launched Farm Fresh.
the estate grew to 2,702 in the year were 45m.
the retail development team freshness of the produce is second to none has put a lot of work into compliance and can be delivered to our customers and building the sales and profits of within 48 hours of being harvested.
Chefs larder is our own label brand for caterers.
sales were 183m, up 15% 4 Booker group plc aNNUal rEPOrt & aCCOUNts 2012 BROADEN Booker Direct Ritter-Courivaud EXTRA BRAnCH commenced April 2007 Classic Chef Direct in the UK, Booker seeks to offer the Mark aylwin and his team are building best choice, price and service to our delivered wholesale business.
caterers and retailers and to become Booker Direct has great customers the suppliers preferred route to market.
including the prison service in England We also want to sell new products and and Wales, Marks & spencer and most services and reach new customers.
in india we seek to become the best in 2010 we acquired Classic, an supplier to Kirana stores.
to achieve on-trade wholesaler supplying pubs these objectives, we are Broadening and licensed customers mainly in the the business.
We are taking some of the Classic range into Booker and have Improving the cash and carry saved rental costs by moving some of business centre experience the Classic range into a neighbouring We have now converted 142 of our Booker business centre.
in July we 172 business centres to the Extra launched Classic in Brighton and it has format.
this features a lighter, brighter become the second largest on-trade business centre environment and an wholesaler in that market.
We will be improved choice, price and service.
rolling Classic out to a further 5 sites the conversion pays back in around in the year ahead.
a year and we plan to convert a further in 2010 we acquired ritter-Courivaud, 20 business centres to Extra in the a leading speciality food supplier to year ahead.
if you visit Brighton you restaurants.
through combining the will see one of our latest Extras.
it logistics expertise we have in Booker has an outstanding fresh foods offer, Direct, with the catering knowledge ritter speciality foods section and a from ritter and the groups buying Classic on trade section.
the lessons scale, we are now launching Chef from Brighton will be rolled to the rest Direct.
Chef Direct will be based in of the business over the next five years.
Didcot and will become the new force Harnessing the Internet in foodservice.
co. uk were 635m, in the last year Booker group delivered up from 526m last year and 15m 1.1bn of product to retailers and in 2005. all these sales are delivered caterers in the UK.
With the inclusion to our customers premises.
We of ritter-Courivaud we can become have 170,000 customers registered a major force in foodservice and with on the website compared to 102,000 Classic we can become a significant last year.
Customers can view their player in on-trade.
account details, use an iPhone app and order products.
5 Booker group plc aNNUal rEPOrt & aCCOUNts 2012 CHiEF ExECUtivEs rEviEW continued BookER InDIA Booker India People in september 2009 we opened our the progress at Booker has been first business centre in Mumbai.
We achieved by our great team of people.
now have 10,000 customers and the We are committed to continuing to customer reaction has been excellent.
make Booker better and safer for We have also launched 118 Happy colleagues.
We are also developing shopper symbol retailers which harness talent.
For example, there is a shortage the lessons from Premier in the UK of butchers in the trade, so we have for the Kirana stores of Mumbai.
in partnered with the University of West 2011 we opened our first joint venture london to develop a formal butchery business centre in Pune.
31 new butchers in Pune is satnam arora, who has graduated this year and 50 signed up expertise which complements our own.
We developed a in 2012 we opened our second branch similar scheme for greengrocers with 33 in Mumbai which is performing well.
We colleagues graduating this year and 50 look forward to developing the Booker signing up for the coming year.
offer in other cities to become the best For the sixth year running, the choice, price and service supplier to performance of the business means Kirana stores and caterers.
our people have shared in our success through our bonus system.
Sustainability With this great team of people Booker Booker was the first UK food wholesaler will continue to make progress in the to be awarded the Carbon trust year ahead.
standard and remains the only wholesaler to achieve recertication.
Our Our plan to Focus, Drive and Broaden the absolute carbon foot print reduced by business is on track.
Customer satisfaction 4% over the three year period despite improved further, we served 22,000 more growing sales by 21%.
this helped customers and grew sales by over 260m.
us achieve 71st place out of 2,100 internet sales grew 21% to 635m.
companies in the governments first Booker Direct is trading well and we are CrC league table.
in the process of launching Chef Direct.
We are pleased with the performance of We have recycled 5.4m litres of used Booker india.
We remain committed to cooking oil from our catering customers.
helping our 481,000 customers prosper We have sent 15% less to landll, in the year ahead.
in spite of increasing sales by 7%.
recycling has increased by 18% and we now have 65 branches who send food waste to anaerobic Digestion Charles Wilson Chief Executive We have customer packaging recycling centres in all business centres and are helping our customers save money, increase recycling and support more sustainable communities throughout the UK.
