Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2012 Chief Executives review We present our results for the year ended 30 June 2012.
Bearing in mind the headwind of a market fall of 7%, In summary Hargreaves Lansdown has again delivered we report a commendable 7% increase in client assets good growth, with record revenues 15% and operating under administration from 24.6 billion to 26.3 billion.
In addition new, innovative services have furthered growth in assets and client numbers.
Ian Gorham - Chief Executive We remain committed to an asset badly.
2013 sees the first phase of gathering strategy.
Our motivated staff Association IMA net retail sales figures pension auto-enrolment in the UK, which and strong business model deliver value, for funds showed a fall of 58% for the is advantageous to this division.
efficiency and excellent service to retail year to 30 June 2012 compared to the investors.
95% of clients rate our services comparative period last year.
Our mission is to retain our position as the 15% as good, very good or excellent, and client best place in the UK to buy investments.
increase in revenues recommendation remains one of the key As investor confidence is heavily During the year we improved our sources of recruiting new clients.
influenced by stock market momentum, stockbroking services both in pricing and our continued strong growth is a testament scope including Investment Trusts, passive We are focused on our clients and three to the diligence of our company in focusing funds and ETFs.
Our share of the UK areas of major potential growth: the private on clients and investing in new and stockbroking market rose to 14.3% for the second quarter of 2012.
We also introduced and occupational pensions market: our innovative services.
investment supermarket: and digital media our Junior ISA and have gained a 15% share and the internet.
Within this framework Hargreaves Lansdowns 2012 results of the entire UK Junior ISA market.
we have invested and continue to invest in We are delighted to report a record profit a wide portfolio of new initiatives.
before tax of 152.8 million, up 21% on last Digital media offers a new means of 21% years 126.0 million.
We continue to invest in increase in Review of the economic background to these excellent results have been the advanced online technology and expertise.
Last years report commented that the success of new services, careful husbandry Our iPhone app has now been downloaded operating profit political environment was turbulent and of existing resources and cost control.
over 60,000 times and 2012 will see us uncertain and noted that much of Western launch complementary iPad applications.
Bearing in mind the headwind of a market Mobile investing will be a key part of the society was heavily indebted, both at a sovereign and personal level.
These fall of 7%, we report a commendable future of Hargreaves Lansdown.
statements remain equally valid for the 7% increase in client assets under None of this success would be possible year under review, indicative of the fact administration from 24.6 billion to 26.3 45,000 we are in a drawn-out recession.
Adjusting for the effects of markets, without the support of our clients.
We about the economy, the future of the euro net new client investments for the year were continue to work hard to retain client loyalty investors became new clients and debt exposure of countries, banks and 3.2 billion and 45,000 investors became and deliver high service levels.
In 2012 individuals are consistent themes.
new clients during the year.
Hargreaves Lansdown has been a shining example that a reputable company focusing In our previous financial year to 30 June Our Corporate Vantage service continues on clients can delight the UK public.
2011 we benefited from a 21% stock market to expand, with 47 schemes live or in rise.
This year, the succour of a stock market implementation, a 74% increase in 2012 market outlook rise disappeared, with the FTSE All Share schemes which has been accompanied It is difficult to see the economic storm by a 182% increase in Corporate Vantage clouds dissipating in the next 12 months.
reversing by 7% in the year to 30 June 2012, leaving it at our year-end at the level assets.
Although still in its early stages, We believe austerity will continue despite it achieved 14 years ago in February 1998. this project remains long-term, but we the political clamour for countries to focus on growth.
In time a more positive are delighted with the success to date All in all, it is not surprising that the and it is clearly on the path to becoming environment might develop, but we do not general retail investment market fared a material part of Hargreaves Lansdowns expect short term improvement.
8 9 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
