HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Group Chief Executives Business Review Group Chief Executives markets.
The growth in these markets was a factor Business Review in generating a record reported profit before tax in Commercial Banking as we maintained our position as the worlds largest global trade finance bank, as reported in the Oliver Wyman Global Transaction Banking Survey 2012.
The collaboration between Commercial Banking and Global Banking and Markets delivered incremental gross revenues of over US$0.1bn in 2012.
Wealth Management achieved more than US$0.5bn of additional revenues, although further progress is required to achieve our strategic goals.
The restructuring of the US business progressed in 2012 as we continued to run off the Consumer and Mortgage Lending portfolio, resulting in a US$14bn reduction in the value of average risk-weighted assets and a reduced loss before tax of US$3.1bn, reflecting improved loan impairment charges.
Following our agreement with the US authorities and the FSA in December 2012, we are adopting global standards as part of our effort to raise our practices HSBC made significant progress in 2012 despite a to an industry-leading level.
This is part of our challenging operating environment characterised by wholehearted commitment to protect the integrity of low economic growth and a changing regulatory the organisation and the financial system, and to do landscape.
We continued to pursue the strategy our part to fight financial crime.
outlined in May 2011, announcing the sale or closure of 26 businesses or non-core investments, surpassing We further simplified the Group structure in our sustainable savings target and recording 2012, bringing the total number of announced underlying revenue growth in the majority of our disposals and closures of non-strategic businesses faster-growing regions.
We also reached agreement or non-core investments to 47 since the beginning with the US authorities and the FSA in relation to of 2011, including 4 in 2013. past inadequate compliance with anti-money During 2012, we completed the disposal of the laundering and sanction laws.
Although reported Card and Retail Services business and the upstate pre-tax profit fell by 6% to US$20.6bn in 2012, New York branches in the United States, and the underlying profit, which includes the impact of fines sale or closure of our retail businesses in Thailand, and penalties and UK customer redress provisions Honduras, El Salvador and Costa Rica, as well as totalling US$4.3bn, grew by 18%.
This was the full service retail brokerage businesses in primarily due to revenue growth, notably in Global Canada.
Additionally we announced the sale of our Banking and Markets and Commercial Banking, and operations in Colombia, Peru, Uruguay and lower loan impairment charges in North America.
We regard this as a good performance.
Following completion of all the announced Our strategy is founded on a clear sense of transactions we will have completed the refocus purpose to be where the growth is, connecting of our Retail Banking and Wealth Management customers to opportunities and enabling businesses RBWM presence to our 20 home and priority to thrive, economies to prosper and individuals to markets, which represented 98% of the RBWM, realise their ambitions.
This has given us clear excluding US CRS and the US run-off portfolio, parameters around the way that we behave and profit before tax in 2012, plus a limited number conduct business and where and how we compete.
of important network and smaller markets.
Since 2011, we have created a consistent global Notably, on top of the above, we reached structure with strong governance, consisting of four agreement in December 2012 to sell our stake in global businesses and 11 global functions.
In 2012, Ping An for an aggregate cash consideration, the we continued to execute our strategic priorities to equivalent of US$9.4bn.
This transaction completed grow, restructure and simplify HSBC.
in two tranches, in December 2012 and February We grew our business in 2012, achieving 2013, generating a profit of US$3.0bn.
In 2012 underlying revenue growth in most of our priority our share of Ping Ans earnings was US$0.8bn.
8 We also made progress in eliminating excluding Japan.
We now also rank in the top five of unnecessary organisational layers and streamlining equities brokers in Hong Kong.
We reinforced our various processes, achieving an additional US$2.0bn leading position in the renminbi market in 2012, in sustainable cost savings.
This takes our total supporting a number of significant client transactions annualised savings to US$3.6bn, surpassing our and, as an entity, issuing the first international cumulative target of US$2.5bn to US$3.5bn of renminbi bond outside Chinese sovereign territory.
Taken together, these Reflecting our capabilities in Latin America, the changes have made HSBC much easier to manage Middle East and Asia-Pacific, HSBC was recognised and control.
as the Best Global Emerging Markets Debt House at the 2012 Euromoney Awards for Excellence and Although we made some good progress in 2012, was also recognised as RMB House of the Year at the cost efficiency ratio at 62.8% and ROE at 8.4% the 2012 Asia Risk Awards.
were outside our target ranges.
These were both affected by UK customer redress provisions, as well I would like to thank all of our employees for as payments we were required to make as part of the their dedication and endurance throughout a difficult settlement of the investigations noted above.
They have shown a real sense of passion, pride and duty in the face of critical and Implementing our strategy can add significant often deeply embarrassing media headlines and I value to HSBC.
We are on the right track and remain too am very grateful for their efforts.
fully committed to achieving our ambition of being the worlds leading international bank.
Group performance headlines We are investing to build this distinctive Reported profit before tax was US$20.6bn, international competitive position.
US$1.2bn lower than in 2011, including In Retail Banking and Wealth Management, US$5.2bn of adverse movements in the fair we accelerated the transformation of the Wealth value of our own debt attributable to credit Management business in HSBC with infrastructure spreads compared with favourable movements investment to improve customer experience and so of US$3.9bn in 2011.
This variance of drive growth.
Technology solutions improved the US$9.1bn was partially offset by an increase of customer offering in foreign exchange services and US$7.5bn in respect of gains from the disposal we introduced enhanced risk profiling and strategic of businesses, notably from the sale of the US financial planning tools.
Card and Retail Services business and the agreement to sell our stake in Ping An.
In Commercial Banking we maintained our Underlying profit before tax was US$16.4bn, up investment in the faster-growing regions in support of the strong network that helps connect customers US$2.5bn, mainly due to higher revenues and with both developed and developing markets as they lower loan impairment charges and other credit expand internationally.
A great deal of attention is risk provisions.
These factors were partially being devoted to the increasing internationalisation offset by an increase in operating expenses, of the renminbi.
During 2012, we were the first bank primarily reflecting the settlement of the to settle cross-border renminbi trade across six investigations into past inadequate compliance continents with capabilities in over 50 countries, with anti-money laundering and sanction laws offering a competitive advantage to our customers as and increased provisions for UK customer the renminbi positions to be a major global trade and redress programmes.
We have expanded our global Underlying revenues rose by 7%, led by Global network of dedicated China desks to cover our top Banking and Markets where the majority of our markets, representing about half of the worlds GDP.
businesses grew, notably Credit and Rates in These are staffed by Mandarin-speaking experts who Europe, as spreads tightened and investor support mainland Chinese businesses to identify new sentiment improved following stimuli by central opportunities to expand overseas.
Commercial Banking also In Global Banking and Markets, we invested recorded revenue growth as customer loans and in selective recruitment to support key strategic advances increased in all regions, with over half markets.
We continued the successful build-out of of this growth coming from our faster-growing our equities and e-FX platforms to broaden our regions of Hong Kong, Rest of Asia-Pacific and product offerings.
In Hong Kong we led the market Latin America, driven by higher trade-related in Hong Kong dollar bond issuance and were the lending.
Customer deposits also rose as we leading bookrunner for high yield bonds in Asia, continued to attract deposits through Payments 9 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Overview continued Group Chief Executives Business Review and Cash Management products.
In addition, increase was driven by capital generation and a Retail Banking and Wealth Management reduction in risk-weighted assets following experienced revenue growth across all fasterbusiness disposals.
growing regions, in particular Hong Kong and The Basel III capital rules began their staged Latin America.
These factors were partially 6-10 year implementation in some parts of the offset by lower revenue in Global Private world in January 2013.
Nevertheless, the FSA Banking, as we focused on repositioning our has set our 2013 capital target calculation on business model and target client base.
a Basel III end point basis.
This effectively We achieved growth in reported loans and accelerates our implementation of Basel III advances to customers of more than US$57bn by several years relative to European regulations during the year, notably in residential mortgages and other global banks.
Consistent with this, we and term and trade-related lending.
Customer now operate to an internal capital target set on a deposits increased by over US$86bn, allowing Basel III end point basis of 9.5%-10.5%.
us to maintain a strong ratio of customer Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders was advances to customer accounts of 74.4%.
US$13.5bn, of which US$8.3bn was declared in Underlying costs were US$4.3bn higher than in dividends in respect of the year.
This compared 2011 including payments of US$1.9bn made as with US$2.9bn of variable pay awarded net of part of the settlement of the investigations into tax to our employees for 2012. past inadequate compliance with anti-money Dividends per ordinary share declared in respect laundering and sanctions laws, additional of 2012 were US$0.45, an increase of 10% provisions in respect of UK customer redress compared with 2011, with a fourth interim programmes of US$1.4bn, and a credit in 2011 dividend for 2012 of US$0.18 per ordinary share.
of US$0.6bn relating to defined benefit pension obligations in the UK which did not recur.
Global standards Operating expenses also increased due to inflationary pressures, for example, on wages As a global organisation which trades on its and salaries, in certain of our Latin American international connectivity, we recognise that we and Asian markets.
Other increases arose from have a responsibility to play a part in protecting investment in strategic initiatives including the integrity of the financial system.
In order to certain business expansion projects, enhanced do this effectively, in April 2012 we committed to processes and technology capabilities, and implementing industry-leading controls to increase our ability to combat financial crime.
increased investment in regulatory and compliance infrastructure primarily in the US.
The highest compliance standards are being The reported cost efficiency ratio deteriorated adopted and enforced across HSBC and our from 57.5% to 62.8% and from 63.4% to 66.0% Compliance function has already been strengthened on an underlying basis, as a result of higher considerably.
More than 3,500 people are now notable cost items, as described above.
employed globally to work on compliance and the cost of the Compliance function has approximately Return on equity was 8.4%, down from doubled since 2010 to more than US$500m.
We 10.9% in 2011, primarily reflecting the adverse have created and recruited externally for two new movement in fair value of own debt attributable Compliance leadership roles Global Head of to movements in credit spreads, a higher tax Regulatory Compliance and Head of charge and higher average shareholders equity.
Group Financial Crime Compliance and appointed Similarly, the Groups pre-tax return on average a number of senior staff with extensive experience of risk-weighted assets RoRWA for 2012 was handling relevant international legal and financial 1.8% or 1.5% on an underlying basis.
A review of Know Your Customer files is for the negative returns on US consumer finance under way across the entire Group and an enhanced business and legacy credit in Global Banking global sanctions policy has been devised to ensure and Markets, the remainder of the Group that we do not do business with key illicit actors achieved a RoRWA of 1.9% in 2012 and 2.1% anywhere, in any currency.
In addition, we have in 2011. moved to protect HSBC from the risks inherent in The core tier 1 ratio increased during the year bearer shares by curtailing the ability of clients using from 10.1% at the end of 2011 to 12.3%.
This bearer share companies to open accounts or transact with HSBC.
10 We have also introduced a new filter, against unemployment.
We expect higher growth in Latin which all existing and prospective clients and America in 2013, due in part to a modest recovery businesses are screened.
This sixth filter focuses in Brazil.
The biggest risk to the world economy on financial crime risk.
It means that where we remains an uncharted shock from Europe and an cannot practically or economically apply the global exacerbation of the sovereign debt crisis.
We remain standards to which we are committed we will stop cautious on the outlook for Europe due to weak writing business altogether or significantly restrict demand, slow growth, and political and regulatory our activities.
This policy is consistent with our uncertainty.
commitments to adopt global standards, to simplify Finally, I am pleased to report that the business our business and operations, and to fide-risk our had a good start to the year.
Our results in 2013 business activities.
will include a dilution gain of US$1.2bn on our Implementing these standards will be a critical investment in Industrial Bank, following its issue of component of our work in 2013. additional share capital to third parties on 7 January.
There was also a US$0.6bn net gain on the Outlook completion of the sale of our shares in Ping An, which offsets the adverse fair value movement on Whilst the operating environment for financial the forward contract included within our 2012 institutions remains difficult, our core business will results.
On 19 February 2013 we announced the continue to reap the benefit of recovering economic sale of our operations in Panama for US$2.1bn.
growth in mainland China and its positive impact on other faster-growing regions.
We expect the developing economies, led by mainland China, to continue to grow briskly at 5.4%, while developed economies should see more gradual growth of 1.0%.
We forecast growth of 8.6% in mainland China in 2013.
S T Gulliver, Group Chief Executive The US economy should continue its gradual 4 March 2013 recovery, with continuing quantitative easing measures supporting a recovery in the housing market, although the recovery is still not strong enough to support a sustained reduction in 11 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview
