Business Review Chief Executives review Very good business performance Great people We exceeded all of our financial objectives in 2012.
We delivered Our continuing success is only possible thanks to our talented organic revenue growth on a constant currency basis of 4% and people, excellent teams and great leaders driving our organisation.
adjusted profit from operations of 8% at constant rates of exchange.
I was very pleased to see that, in our latest employee opinion Despite the adverse exchange rates, once again we delivered excellent survey in 2012, the percentage of our people who are extremely returns to shareholders, with adjusted diluted earnings per share up by satisfied with British American Tobacco as a place to work was 7% on last year, with an increase of 12% at constant exchange rates.
significantly higher than in our peer group.
We grew our underlying market share in 2012, with good share Sustainability at the heart of our business momentum in the second half of the year.
Pricing remains strong We continue to raise standards within our supply chain, market and, while our cigarette volumes were down slightly, this was our products in a responsible way and strive to reduce the impact mainly due to industry declines in some of our major markets.
of tobacco use on public health.
For me, this is a simple point.
To grow our business we must operate sustainably creating shared Outstanding operating margin improvements value for our shareholders and society in a challenging and We achieved a substantial improvement in operating margin of changing landscape.
160 basis points, exceeding our target of increasing operating margin by 50 to 100 basis points each year.
In addition to a strong Our efforts in these areas have received positive recognition price mix of 6%, we have continued to focus on productivity externally, but there is more we can do.
In the year ahead, we will improvements, addressing our cost base through factory be working with stakeholders to develop a new sustainability rationalisation, systems standardisation and productivity savings.
agenda that increases our ambition and better measures the impacts of our business.
Innovations driving growth Our Global Drive Brands GDBs Dunhill, Lucky Strike, Kent and Trafficking tobacco and regulation Pall Mall continued to perform well, driven by our innovations, We support regulation backed by robust evidence showing that it recording both volume and share growth.
We saw outstanding will help achieve the objective of reducing the impact of tobacco volume growth of 11% for Lucky Strike in 2012.
Dunhill volumes use on public health.
Measures such as excessive excise increases, grew by 2%, Kent by 1% or 4% adjusting for the one-off retail display bans and plain packaging do more to disrupt orderly comparator in Japan and Pall Mall by 3%.
Collectively, our four markets and little to further their intended aims.
In fact they play GDBs achieved volume growth of 3% or 4% excluding the impact into the hands of criminals by creating ideal conditions for the of Japan and now account for over one-third of our total volumes.
counterfeiters and smugglers to thrive.
GDBs grew market share by 30 basis points.
The illegal trade in counterfeit and smuggled goods accounts Fine Cut tobacco, a category that includes roll-your-own and for around 12% of the global marketplace.
This is a competitor make-your-own, grew volume by 8% in Western Europe and that has no regard for playing by the rules, no incentive for increased market share.
This was driven by Pall Mall, by far the maintaining quality and no qualms about selling tobacco largest brand in this category.
Consumer focus Where possible, we are in the front line in the battle against Improving the execution of our strategy starts and ends with our tobacco trafficking working alongside law enforcers, customs focus on the consumer.
Marketing products that satisfy a wide officials and international organisations, as well as making our range of consumer needs has been key to our recent success and packs easier to trace and harder to counterfeit.
will become ever more important in the future.
Management Board changes This consumer focus also extends to our efforts to improve Ricardo Oberlander joined the Management Board at the start of productivity through a flexible and efficient supply organisation.
2013 as Regional Director, Americas, replacing Jack Bowles, who This will enable us to release funds to invest in our brands and moved to our Asia-Pacific region.
At the same time, Naresh Sethi innovations, helping us grow market share and deliver higher was appointed Regional Director, Western Europe.
On 1 March 2013, Alan Davy was appointed to the position of Next-generation products Group Operations Director, replacing Des Naughton, who took on Alongside the innovations in the cigarette market, we are the new role of Managing Director Next-Generation Products, developing next-generation products.
Nicoventures, a company we encompassing Nicoventures and CN Creative.
set up in 2011, is aiming to launch nicotine-based products and, in December 2012, we acquired CN Creative, a UK-based company I would like to congratulate Ricardo, Jack, Naresh, Alan and Des on specialising in the development of electronic cigarette technologies.
their new roles on our Management Board.
6 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 Business Review Challenges and opportunities ahead 2012 highlights Our geographic diversity, powerful brands, investment in innovations and strong positions in emerging markets remain key strengths and we are confident in the future of the tobacco Our underlying overall market share grew business.
We also believe that building a portfolio of next-generation Global Drive Brand volumes grew by 3% products alongside our main tobacco business will provide us with significant new opportunities in the years ahead.
Innovations continue to drive growth We ended 2012 with share growth in the majority of our markets.
Outstanding increase in operating margin Pricing remains good and our GDBs get stronger every year.
by 160 basis points While we cannot underestimate the challenges ahead in 2013, I am confident that we have robust plans in place and the We have taken important steps forward in our resources to succeed.
We have the momentum, proven plans to develop next-generation products capabilities and passionate people to deliver another year Excellent overall financial performance of good growth and I look forward to 2013 with optimism.
Nicandro Durante Chief Executive Global Drive Brands 2012 performance Dunhill Kent Lucky Strike Pall Mall Cigarettes sold billion Cigarettes sold billion Cigarettes sold billion Cigarettes sold billion 49 67 33 83 Volume growth Volume growth Volume growth Volume growth 2% 1% 11% 3% Number of markets Number of markets Number of markets Number of markets 130 90 80 110 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2012 7
