16 Group Chief Executive Officers review Our role in the markets Changing competitive environment Wholesale financial markets play a vital role in As the industry leader, ICAP continues to global economic development.
As the worlds benefit from greater scale and diversity than leading interdealer broker and infrastructure its competitors, but the competitive landscape provider to these markets, ICAP is playing a in which we operate is changing.
Regulators central role in their evolution and long-term continue to pursue an ambitious agenda for growth and is uniquely positioned to prosper.
In the US, the Dodd-Frank Act will be Our perspective helps inform regulators and substantially complete in 2012. policymakers as they implement reform.
We believe we have a responsibility to help create Regulatory reform in Europe and the US is Michael Spencer more transparent, efficient and safer financial likely to push the model for price discovery Group Chief Executive Officer markets that support the global economy.
and execution towards pure electronic or  voice platforms.
This ICAP delivered a solid performance ICAP plays a pivotal role in bringing buyers provides customers with the ability to enter in 2011 12 against a difficult and sellers together in wholesale financial orders electronically and to execute trades economic environment.
The fact that markets globally.
Having continually directly or through a voice broker.
These we maintained profitability in a year invested across all our businesses, reforms will change the OTC landscape.
when trading volumes were under especially in technology, we are in a good Regulation and new capital requirements such pressure is testament to the position to benefit from changing customer are also pushing banks to fide-leverage and effectiveness of our diversified business, and regulatory requirements, giving us a to move their focus away from long-dated, our global presence, our people and significant competitive advantage as we structured and capital intensive products to the actions we took to manage our cost look forward.
We continue to maintain our high flow, highly-liquid, standardised products base as market conditions changed.
entrepreneurial edge and have the proven which lend themselves to electronic trading.
appetite and ability to innovate and Macroeconomic context develop new products and services.
We are confident that these changes present European growth in 2011 was weak with We also remain focused on markets significant opportunities for ICAP.
We have several countries in recession.
As many with structurally higher growth.
the scale and flexibility to adapt.
We have countries embraced austerity measures, invested in developing the technology and growth remained subdued.
The US economy Our strong balance sheet and diversified platforms that will be needed to enable showed some signs of recovery during the business give us options when we look at our customers to meet new transparency, first three months of 2012.
Emerging market where best to invest for the future.
This will trading and post trade requirements.
We will growth continued, albeit at a slower pace.
ensure ICAP is extremely well placed when be ready to roll out swap execution facility markets normalise.
SEF services in the US once the regulators have finalised the rules.
2011 2012 developments largest swaps dealers Barclays Capital, Bank of existing businesses.
As a result of the acquisition America Merrill Lynch, Deutsche Bank and of Island Shipbrokers, the Group has acquired New financial futures and options team J. P. Morgan agreed to co-invest in iSwap Euro a further interest in CTI Shipbrokers India We created a global financial futures and options Limited, which operates our electronic interest resulting in the company becoming a subsidiary team, hiring 31 employees in London, New York, rate swaps platform.
We believe this will greatly rather than an associate.
Chicago and Sydney, significantly enhancing our enhance the platforms growth as swaps trading execution brokerage offering.
This is a business becomes increasingly electronic.
New electronic trading platforms for interest with good structural growth prospects and we rate options and equity derivatives are pleased with progress so far.
Acquisitions in commodities As our customers prepare for the new regulatory In our voice business, we made some small but environment, we have introduced screen-based Customer investment in i-Swap important acquisitions, Island Shipbrokers in trading platforms for interest rate options DerivX ICAP has a history of partnering with its Singapore and Sun Commodities, a leading and equity derivatives iLinked, which are customers.
In November four of the worlds broker of European biofuels, to complement supported by our established voice service.
ICAP in 10 Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders ICAP plc Annual Report 2012 Group Chief Executive Officers review 17 Cost control developing our voice business across the Outlook In response to market conditions, we Asia Pacific region and his input and regional In the last quarter of our financial year realigned our business resources to ensure expertise will bring a valuable perspective to we saw an improvement in risk appetite they matched customer demand by reducing the senior management team.
However activity in April headcount in areas of lower profitability, and early May was slow with the ongoing while investing and hiring in growth areas We also strengthened the management euro crisis and regulatory uncertainty such as financial futures and commodities.
of EBS in March 2012 by appointing Gil depressing trading volumes.
Some resolution We also removed 20 million of recurring Mandelzis as Chief Executive Officer.
He on these important issues would give a big costs from our cost base.
We will continue to will also retain oversight of Traiana.
Already and welcome lift to market sentiment.
review our cost structure and will implement a member of the GEMG, Gil brings significant operational efficiencies to ensure the future FX experience and insight which will be We reduced costs last year and are growth and profitability of the Group.
important to EBS as it continues to evolve embarking on a structural overhaul that in this extremely competitive market.
we expect will result in further significant Management changes run-rate savings of at least 50 million per The year saw some changes in ICAPs senior Charity Day annum by the end of March 2014. management team.
Nothing sums up ICAPs culture like our Charity Day where, on one day each year, We remain confident that the Group is well Mark Price joined us from Deutsche Bank we donate our global revenue, including positioned for growth in the medium term in October as Group Chief Operating Officer, broker commissions, to charity.
To raise a and will meet its strategic objectives.
bringing substantial operational and risk record 12.75 million in difficult times is a management experience in financial tremendous achievement and speaks I would like to take this opportunity to thank markets.
His appointment reflects our volumes about our employees, customers every ICAP employee for their contribution commitment to maintaining the strong and suppliers.
ICAPs Charity Day in December to another successful year.
control and risk management environment 2012 will be our 20th anniversary and we we have developed.
hope it will bring the cumulative total raised Michael Spencer to more than 100 million.
Group Chief Executive Officer Mark Yallop, the previous Group Chief Operating Officer, left us in September after Dividend six successful years.
Mark made a significant Our strong balance sheet and our efficient contribution to the strategic development conversion of profit to cash has enabled the of our business and we wish him well for directors to recommend a final dividend of the future.
16.00p per ICAP share which will be paid on 20 July 2012 to shareholders on the register In February 2012, Hugh Gallagher, Chief on 29 June 2012.
The full-year dividend will Executive Officer Asia Pacific, joined the be 22.00p per share, an increase of 2.05p GEMG.
He has played a pivotal role in per share.
Investing in technology moves towards a fully convertible currency.
ICAPs Expanding our post trade businesses In April 2012, ICAP completed the roll out of a major investment in both voice and electronic broking of We offered more services in new asset classes upgrade of its world leading fixed income electronic CNH allowed us to capture a significant market in addition to creating infrastructure support in broking platform, BrokerTec, which improved share in what is a fast-growing market.
existing ones, such as Traianas comprehensive FX its performance significantly.
We also added complementary have been well received by customers.
Investment in Japan services that work in conjunction with clearing to In Japan, we sold our Japanese government bond reduce customer and systemic risk.
Investing in emerging markets business to Central Totan Securities Co Limited and We continued to invest in emerging markets and simultaneously purchased a 20% shareholding in the asset classes that we believe have significant combined business.
At the same time, the Group also potential.
For example, offshore renminbi CNH increased its holding in Totan ICAP Co Limited, will become increasingly important for a leading interest rate derivatives broker.
international trade and investment as China
