Intermediate Capital Group plc 04 Our business: Chairmans & Chief Executives statement Overview 1 After a strong start to 2011, the second half of the year was dominated by the European sovereign debt crisis and the resulting economic slowdown.
Against this backdrop, we are pleased to report another strong set of results.
Strong results and refinanced balance sheet In the 12 months to 31 March 2012, profit before tax increased to 199 million, excluding a one-off release of previously accrued costs of 45 million relating to the closure of legacy remuneration schemes and the impact of fair value on derivatives, compared to 190 million last year.
On the same 2 basis, profit before tax for our Investment Company was 161 million compared to 154 million last year.
Profit before tax for our Fund Management Company was 38 million compared to 36 million in the prior year.
We have also made significant progress towards refreshing the funding of our balance sheet.
In addition to the 227 million of debt facilities raised or extended during the year, we have recently agreed with our key banks, subject to documentation, the extension of 615 million of facilities maturing in May 2013 by a further three years.
We will continue to seek to diversify our sources of debt funding.
This i and the surplus capital that we generate through 1.
Justin Dowley portfolio realisations will enable us to reduce further Chairman our reliance on our largest lenders over this extended term.
Christophe Evain Chief Executive Officer Progress against our strategic objectives inachallenging environment We have broadened our product range by launchingnew funds to capture the investment opportunities offered by the current market dislocation.
In addition, we have strengthened We are pleased to announce ourdistribution capabilities.
The second half of 2011 was a particularly another strong set of results.
challenging time for raising capital for European investment products.
This was especially the case with US and Asian investors who were concerned about the outlook for Europe and the currency risk they faced by investing in Euro denominated assets.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 05 Business review 10 Funds and portfolio 40 Governance 55 Accounts 83 We have nonetheless made good progress towards Outlook raising our next European mezzanine fund, ICG Longer term trends are favourable Europe Fund V, and have reached a final close on tospecialistlenders Longbow UK Real Estate Debt Investments II.
Third The volatility experienced in the last five years, party mezzanine AUM were therefore up by 7%.
the low level of yield currently available from the Third party AUM were down by 3% in the year traditional fixed income asset class, and the to 31 March 2012 as the runoff of our old credit regulatory changes imposed on institutional funds exceeded funds raised in the period.
investors are resulting in an increased appetite The weaker economy in Europe has impacted foralternative credit strategies.
some of our more cyclical assets.
However, as the The imbalance between demand and supply majority of these had already been impaired during of credit will continue to provide opportunities to the previous recession, impairments for the year, generate superior returns, underpinned by solid at71 million, are broadly in line with last year.
cash yield, across our asset classes.
We believe The performance of our broader investment that experienced institutional lenders, such as portfolio has shown resilience and we have ourselves, will play a leading role in reshaping the continued to generate strong exits, with 74 million specialist debt market in the coming years, with of realised capital gains during the year.
In addition, promising opportunities in both senior and 44 million of unrealised gains from the fair value mezzanine debt.
ofour equity investments were recognised in the Since we announced our ambition to Income Statement.
growour fund management franchise in We made one new investment in Europe and March2010, we have been working on laying one in the US in the first half of the year.
In the thefoundations for the expansion of our funds second half, given the low level of buyout activity, under management.
We have made good there were only limited opportunities for new progress and we are now well positioned to investments.
The Asia Pacific market was more deliver AUM growth.
active throughout the year and we completed four In the last 12 months, we have further transactions.
expanded our distribution capability and have As a result, we arranged 406 million on recently announced that we have recruited a behalfof our mezzanine funds, Investment highly experienced individual to lead this team.
Company and third parties during the year.
The We have also enhanced our range of ICaccounted for 122 million.
Since year end, products in order to enable institutional investors wehave seen a material increase in our pipeline to capture attractive opportunities across the across all geographies.
We have completed two debt spectrum.
transactions and are at an advanced stage in Our acquisition of a 51% stake in ICG anumber of new investments.
Longbow is delivering ahead of our expectations.
Our portfolio has shown resilience in uncertain economic times and our investment pace has picked up in recent months.
Wehave recently acquired our third portfolio of discounted seniorloans from a European bank and we have made our second sponsorless investment in Australia.
In addition, we areatadvanced stages in a number of new transactions.
Theeconomic outlook remains uncertain and we will continue tobe extremely vigilant when making investment decisions.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 06 Our business: Chairmans & Chief Executives statement Positive momentum into the current year Employees and Board Since year end we have seen positive signs in On behalf of the Board we would like to thank our termsof fundraising.
We are making good progress employees who have delivered another strong set towards our 2 billion target for ICG Europe Fund V ofresults in a volatile environment.
and have won a number of credit mandates.
In particular, our thanks go to Tom Attwood, Since year end, we have acquired our third who retired at the end of March after 16 years portfolio of discounted senior loans from a atICG.
Throughout his career, Tom has made a European bank and invested in our second tremendous contribution to the firm which, under sponsorless transaction in Australia.
In addition, his leadership, has become one of the leading weare currently in exclusivity in two transactions creditfunds managers in Europe.
and at advanced stages in a number of other We are delighted to announce that Benot newinvestments.
Durteste will become a managing director and join The economic outlook remains uncertain and the Board as an Executive Director with immediate we will continue to be extremely vigilant when effect.
Benot joined ICG in 2002 as co-head of our making investment decisions.
French team and has since become the head of our European mezzanine team, which he will continue Dividend to lead.
In view of the increase in cash core income, We would also like to thank James Nelson up6%to 113.5 million in the 12 months to andJean-Daniel Camus who are not seeking 31March 2012, and the solid momentum into re-election to the Board at the AGM on 10 July thecurrent year, the Board recommends a final 2012 after 11 and five years respectively as non dividend of 13 pence per share, making a total of executive directors.
We expect to announce the 19pence per year, up 6% compared to last year.
appointment of additional non executive directors The dividend will be paid on 13 July 2012 to over the next few months.
shareholders on the register on 1 June 2012.
The Board has decided not to offer a scrip dividend alternative to the final dividend.
Justin Dowley Chairman Christophe Evain Chief Executive Officer We are making good progress towards raising our next European mezzanine fund.
Over the last two years we have built a solid platform which will enable us to grow our Fund Management Company.
We now have a distribution team and a range of investment products to capture the opportunities resulting from the lack of liquidity in Europe.
Given these strong results and our current momentum, theBoard has decided to increase the dividend by 6% to19 pence.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Our business 07 Business review 10 Funds and portfolio 40 Governance 55 Accounts 83 Successful exit from specialist outsourcer ICG disposed of a significant minority stake in CPA Global in January 2012.
The stake had been acquired two years previously alongside the management and founding shareholders.
ICG invested in a combination of minority equity and mezzanine capital, enabling thefounding shareholders to realise some cash from apartial disposal, generate an annual income stream via a cash-yielding instrument and participate in the future equity growth of the business.
CPA Global is a market leader in the fast growing market for outsourced legal services, assisting clients inmanaging their intellectual property portfolios, including patents and trademarks.
The company employs 1,500 people and its clients are based in over100 countries.
Over the course of our investment, the business continued its strong performance, demonstrating resilience and strong growth despite achallenging economic environment.
The performance of the business led to inbound expressions of interest and a small process was commenced in late 2011, which concluded in a sale ofthe business to Cinven in January 2012.
Country: UK Sector: Business services Year: 2010 Status: Exited investment www.
