DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executive Officers statement Our goal is long-term, sustainable success that creates value for POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE UK ECONOMY shareholders and has a positive impact on the communities in which As Sky has evolved, so has the positive impact that our business we operate.
We believe that the most durable businesses stand out has on our industry and the wider economy.
For example, we for their commitment to continuous improvement.
They constantly are now the UKs biggest investor in television programming, seek to adapt so that they stay relevant tomorrow and into the working with more than 100 independent producers for our future.
That is why Skys story has always involved constant renewal.
And we provide support and We know that to remain successful, we cant stand still.
investment for British sport at all levels from the elite to the grassroots.
To satisfy our existing customers and to attract more people to Sky, we need to keep moving forward and improving what To measure and explain the scale of our wider economic impact we offer.
That means getting better on screen, providing great on the UK, this year we commissioned a report from independent entertainment that is worth paying for.
It means making it easy consultants Oxford Economics.
It found that Sky contributes for our customers to access Sky content, easy to watch it when over 5 billion a year to UK GDP, supports nearly 120,000 jobs and and where it suits them, and easy to get more value from their generates 2.3 billion of tax revenues.
And it means expanding our range of services so we offer a set of entertainment and communications products that We hope that our story provides a good example of the important meet customers needs better than anyone else.
contribution that a successful British company can make, particularly at a time when economic growth is harder to come Looking back on 2012, weve continued our consistent approach by.
Our appetite to do more remains strong and we hope to to growth and returns.
Weve combined investment where contribute even more in the future.
it matters most to customers with a strong focus on driving greater efficiency across our operations.
We believe this is the DELIVERING FOR CUSTOMERS best formula to achieve sustainable growth in revenue, profit Because the main reason customers choose Sky is for a better and cash flow over time.
Our results show that this approach is choice of television, we have to keep getting better on screen.
Despite what continues to be a tough economic So we have continued to build on our traditional strengths environment, more customers are choosing Sky for a wider range in sport, movies and news, while making a step change in our of products than ever and our rates of customer loyalty remain entertainment offering.
This year we added Formula 1 to the very strong.
During the year, we added almost three million variety of sports we cover with the launch of a dedicated channel subscription products to reach a total of more than 28 million and - Sky Sports F1 - to provide greater depth of coverage than ever more than 300,000 net new households joined us.
Following a number of other rights renewals, we secured that Sky is now the choice of around 40% of UK households and a new agreement for Sky to remain the home of live Premier a growing proportion of those customers choose Sky for home League football for the three seasons to 2016.
As a result, we have communications as well as for television.
ensured the continued breadth and quality of our sports offering, This years strong operational growth builds further on the allowing customers to look forward to continued coverage of the progress that weve made over recent years.
Weve successfully UEFA Champions League, Heineken Cup rugby, English domestic transitioned the business to a multi-product strategy, doubling and international cricket, European Tour Golf and the Ryder Cup.
our total product base since 2008, while adding 1.6 million new In entertainment, our growing commitment to original British customers as well.
Importantly, weve achieved this growth while production is bringing more of the best acting and writing talent delivering an increasingly strong financial performance.
Over to Sky, including Sir David Attenborough, Melvyn Bragg, Ruth the same period, weve added almost 2 billion to revenue and Jones and James Corden.
Many of our home-grown comedies doubled adjusted basic earnings per share, which exceeded and dramas, such as Stella, Trollied and Mad Dogs, have already 50 pence for the first time this year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 4 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW returned or been re-commissioned for new series.
At the same shareholder approval at the Companys AGM in November 2012 time, we continue to offer the best of US drama, with Sky Atlantic for a further 500 million of share repurchases.
As with the bringing customers new series of much-loved shows like Game of current programme, News Corporation has agreed to participate Thrones and Mad Men.
Sky News continues to offer outstanding in the buy-back.
The effect of that agreement is to provide that reporting from home and abroad, while Sky Arts attracted its there will be no change in News Corporations economic or voting interests in the Company as a result of the share buy-back highest ever audiences for the Playhouse Presents series of programme.
We are also offering customers more ways to enjoy our content, Looking ahead, we remain confident about the long-term whether at home or on the move.
Alongside our market-leading opportunity that exists for our business.
With around 13 million Sky and high definition HD services, we have expanded the range homes yet to take pay TV and two thirds of Sky customers not yet taking all three of TV, broadband and telephony, there remains of content available on our video on demand service, which has now reached more than one million active users.
Sky Go, which allows considerable headroom for growth in home entertainment and customers to access our programmes on devices such as laptops, communications.
smartphones and tablets, goes from strength to strength with a At the same time, we are in no way complacent about the future.
better choice of content and record usage figures.
We expect the economic environment to remain challenging for all consumer businesses and the attractive markets in which we To give millions more people an easy and flexible way to access Sky content in July 2012, we announced the launch of a new operate will continue to be both highly competitive and dynamic.
internet TV service, NOW TV.
Available across a wide range of Against that backdrop, we will remain focused on executing our internet-connected devices, NOW TV will initially offer movies for clear and consistent plan.
We will continue to deploy capital in instant streaming and expand to offer sports and entertainment areas where customers see value in getting better on screen content.
Alongside the continued growth of our satellite and improving our products and services and maintain an acute service, this is a distinctive new way for us to meet the needs of focus on operating efficiency to underpin those investments and customers who dont yet take pay TV.
deliver increasing returns for shareholders.
Over the past year, weve continued to perform strongly in home RESPONSIBLE JOURNALISM communications as more new and existing customers recognise Sky News is the only national television news service that the quality and value of our products.
Around a third of Sky operates without any form of public subsidy or support.
We are customers now choose to take all three of TV, broadband and proud of the contribution it has made to media plurality in the telephony, which means we are Britains most popular provider UK and its track record of independent, impartial coverage.
At a of the triple play service.
During the year, we have continued time of heightened interest in editorial practices across the media to enhance our range of broadband services with the launch of sector, and as part of our commitment to acting responsibly more than 11,000 free WiFi hotspots and the introduction of a throughout our business, we commissioned both an external fibre product for customers who want higher speeds.
We see a review of email records at Sky News and an internal audit of significant opportunity for continued growth as millions more payment records.
Reporting to the Audit Committee, these customers have the opportunity to get a great quality service and reviews found no evidence of impropriety or cause for concern.
save money by switching their communications services to Sky.
Also this year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Companys RECORD FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE approach to two separate investigations in which one of its Combined with a continued focus on operational efficiency, this journalists accessed the email of individuals suspected of criminal strong growth has translated to a record financial performance activity.
Following a thorough review, we are satisfied that the with earnings per share exceeding 50 pence for the first time.
action was justified in the public interest and subject to proper Total revenue increased by 3% as the growth in customers and editorial oversight.
products more than offset headwinds in advertising and Sky Business.
Adjusted operating profit rose by 14% to 1,223 million, MAKING A BROADER CONTRIBUTION the highest level for six years, and we delivered adjusted basic EPS We recognise that our future success depends on long-term of 50.8 pence, up 22% on the prior year.
relationships with millions of families across the UK and Ireland.
Furthermore, we also understand that customers are increasingly The Board has proposed a full-year dividend of 25.4 pence per choosing to reward companies that share their values and make a share, an increase of 9% year on year.
This represents the eighth positive contribution to society.
consecutive year of growth and is further amplified by our continuing programme to return 750 million to shareholders through a share buy-back.
In addition, we intend to seek ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 5 DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Our position as a broadcaster allows us to inspire our customers to make a positive difference through our Bigger Picture programme improving lives through sport, bringing the arts to more people, helping to tackle climate change and raising the aspirations of young people.
Through Sky Rainforest Rescue, our partnership with WWF and the State Government of Acre in Brazil, we are protecting a billion trees in the Amazon rainforest from deforestation.
This year, we were delighted to meet our fundraising target of 4 million and to extend the project for a further three years so it can continue to support the livelihoods of more local families.
In sport, we also extended our hugely successful partnership with British Cycling, which is well on track to get a million more people cycling regularly.
Team Sky, our professional road racing team, made sporting history in July 2012 as Bradley Wiggins became the first ever British winner of the Tour fide France.
Over 35,000 young people have now taken part in Sky Sports Living for Sports, a programme which uses sport to engage young people in education and boost their confidence.
And our scholarships are helping promising young British and Irish athletes fulfil their potential and prepare for life in the spotlight.
As part of our Sky Arts Ignition series, were working with arts organisations including Tate Liverpool to create exciting new art works around the country.
Weve also announced our first five bursaries to help support young artists and kick start their careers.
At our headquarters in west London, our new Sky Skills Studios aims to raise the aspirations of young people by bringing to life the experience of creating media content, aligning with the national curriculum and helping to build confidence and life skills.
The Studios will be open from September 2012 and will offer a free learning experience to all schools across the country, with the aim of engaging 12,000 young people each year.
We see these activities as a vital ingredient of building long-term, sustainable success.
And we will look to continue to grow what were doing in all these areas in the future.
Our people are vital to everything that we do.
So I would like thank them for their focus, energy and creativity over the past year.
With their continued support and commitment, we can continue to execute against our priorities, deliver for customers and increase returns for shareholders.
Jeremy Darroch Chief Executive Officer ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 6 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT 2012 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 7
