Message from the CEO In a year of significant change, with new leadership and a new strategy, IPF has continued to perform very strongly, serving more customers and increasing revenue whilst maintaining tight control of impairment levels.
Our new strategy is embedded throughout the business and will set us up for further success in the years ahead.
I would like to start my first Annual Report and Financial appetite on a selective basis throughout 2012, but as a Statements as CEO of IPF by thanking John Harnett, my result of the expertise of our teams and well developed predecessor, for ensuring that our handover was both credit strategies, our impairment to revenue has seamless and positive.
It is a great privilege for me to lead remained rmly within our target range of 25%-30% IPF, a robust business that has outstanding growth prospects as planned at 27.0%.
Our cost reduction programme and is driven to support our customers needs by an is also delivering efficiencies demonstrated by our international team of dedicated employees and agents.
cost-income ratio which reduced by 1.2 percentage points to 39.8%.
My initial insights I spent my first two months travelling through our operating Investing in our people businesses and meeting as many of our employees and Throughout the year, we made the assessment, agents as I could.
It became clear to me that this is a development and retention of our key talent a top priority of unique business, with a track record of success built on an the business.
Our people and organisation planning process intimate knowledge of our customers and their borrowing is being rolled out and this will form the core of our succession requirements.
Our internal and external processes, planning strategy for the next few years.
Where necessary, through which we engage with our customers, have we are recruiting external talent to broaden our skill set, withstood the test of time.
They are a key component of particularly in the areas of marketing and technology.
the identity of the business, involving our agents in more than one hundred million customer home visits a year.
Playing our part As a large and growing enterprise, it is important that we play As a result of the proven success of the business model, our part in creating a sustainable business.
Rather than it is fair to say that whilst significant change had taken attempt to list all of the ways in which we do this, I believe place in the way other financial services operators that it is best encapsulated in the values by which we lead provide their services, our customer engagement model the business on a day-to-day basis: we are Respectful had remained largely unaltered.
and treat others as we would like to be treated: we are Responsible, taking care in all our actions and In addition, I observed an organisation focused decisions: and we are Straightforward by being on delivering growth through its existing operating open and transparent in everything we do.
businesses, but perhaps at the expense of missing out on new market and product development opportunities.
Ultimately, our success in this area will be judged by our stakeholders.
Whilst this journey will never be complete, A new strategy for growth the breadth and number of industry awards won by our Following several weeks of intensive reviews with the businesses leads me to believe that we are on the right path.
operating businesses and our central team in Leeds, I am particularly pleased that our business in the Czech the Senior Management Group articulated a new strategy Republic was reafrmed as the countrys most ethical for the business.
This was based on the premise that IPF is financial institution in 2012 and that our Hungarian operation fortunate to operate in a sector where there are significant was voted the best place to work in Hungary.
We have growth opportunities available to it internationally, both in included more details on the other key accolades we our existing and potential new markets.
have received in the Sustainability section of this report.
2012 performance Looking forward At the start of 2012, much of the discussion about the It is often said that in order to know where you are going, prospects for the business focused on the twin headwinds it is important to know where you have come from.
IPF is of adverse foreign currency movements and the increased a business with a great record of success, built on years of levels of Early Settlement Rebates.
I am delighted to say experience and expertise gained by its employees and that through the hard work and dedication of our agents people who are dedicated to serving our employees and agents, we have in fact negated a customers and growing the business.
Whilst there will be large portion of these financial impacts, delivering a obstacles to overcome, I believe that our business is headed profit before tax and exceptional items of 95.1 million.
rmly in the right direction to deliver its next chapter of growth.
Our growth in credit issued, receivables and revenue is very positive.
We deliberately increased our credit risk Gerard Ryan CEO 10 International Personal Finance plc Directors Report: Business Review IPF operates in a sector where there are significant growth opportunities.
Gerard Ryan CEO Annual Annual Repor Repor t and t and F F inancial inancial S S tat tat emen emen ts ts 2 2 00 11 22 1 11 1
