10 IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Chief Executives statement Successfully executing the Groups core strategy Alan Aubrey Chief Executive officer 2012 saw IP Group continue to successfully In summary execute its core strategy of building high-quality businesses based on intellectual property.
significant increase in net assets to 263.1m The Groups overall financial results for the year 2011: 221.6m were pleasing, with substantial growth in the value of the Groups portfolio of technology First significant portfolio company sale generated businesses contributing to a significant increase in the Groups net assets.
In line initial cash proceeds of 15.4m with our stated commitment we have again increased the overall level of capital deployed Fair value of portfolio increased to 181.8m into our portfolio to 26.3m 2011: 14.3m while maintaining an appropriate level of new from 123.8m spin-out creation.
The Groups first significant portfolio company sale, the acquisition of Total portfolio realisations of 16.7m 2011: 3.7m Proximagen Group plc Proximagen by Upsher-Smith Laboratories, Inc, generated initial cash proceeds of 15.4m in 2012, Companies across the portfolio raised in excess representing 35 times the Groups investment, of 110m of new capital with up to a further 9.2m potentially receivable in future by way of contingent value rights.
The business model that the Group employs in order to source, build and fund intellectual property-based companies relies on three core components: proprietary access to potentially disruptive, commercialisable intellectual property: a rigorous and systematic approach to opportunity appraisal and business building: and access to sources of capital to finance businesses as they develop.
Through the application of this business model, the Group seeks to form, or assist in the formation of, spin-out companies based on fundamental innovation, to take a significant minority equity stake in those spin-out companies and then to grow the value of that equity over time through active participation in their development.
At 31 December 2012, the overall value of the Groups portfolio had increased to 181.8m 2011: 123.8m.
Despite continued challenging economic conditions, both in the UK and overseas, much of the Groups portfolio has Latest news, share price and other investor information can be found at www.
com IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 11 2012 has been another strong year for the Group, marked by a number of significant developments across our portfolio.
continued to develop and mature.
The three Under the terms of the commercialisation ensure that the Group closed the year with most significant positive contributors to the agreement with the University of Manchester, cash resources of 47.9m 2011: 60.5m Groups fair value increases during the year, the Group will create a Proof of Principle PoP and no debt.
Oxford Nanopore Technologies, Retroscreen fund of up to 5m to facilitate the identication Virology and Proximagen, all announced and formation of new spin-out companies.
Outlook positive commercial developments, as did a The fund will be used to provide capital to While 2012, and indeed the early months of number of other businesses.
The one significant new projects intended for commercialisation 2013, saw positive performance for many disappointment during 2012 was the fact that, as spin-out companies, with the Group equity markets, the broader macroeconomic despite the successful completion of its Phase IIb receiving equity stakes in the companies environment remains uncertain.
Many clinical trial for the use of antimicrobial on pre-agreed terms.
The agreement, which commentators, including the IMF, expect a photodynamic therapy in the treatment of is for a minimum term of four years, or five continuation of the lower levels of underlying chronic leg ulcers, Photopharmica was unable years subject to certain conditions, covers growth that have been evident since 2008. to complete a transaction for its therapeutic the areas of materials and clean technology, This could present challenging trading and platform.
Further detailed analysis is provided electronics and communications, all funding conditions for small, early-stage in the Portfolio review.
non-therapeutic life, medical and human businesses, while equity market volatility sciences, and information technology.
could have short-term impacts on the value Our intellectual property sourcing model of the Groups portfolio companies.
However, has developed over time.
We continue to On the capital side, the Groups FSA-regulated our belief is that the challenges addressed work closely with our university partners subsidiary, Top Technology Ventures, has by many of the Groups portfolio companies, to identify, build and finance intellectual continued the management of two active including clean energy, big data, healthcare, property-based spin-out companies.
We retain venture capital funds during the year, the food supply and availability of fresh water, a core of exclusive partnerships from where 31m IP Venture Fund IPVF and the 25m are global in nature and technologies that the majority of our spin-out companies have Finance for Business North East Technology address these have the potential to generate originated to date and, while the rate of spin-out Fund NETF, as well as assisting portfolio significant value.
formation from university to university can companies with accessing further capital for be variable over time, we expect this to their development.
As anticipated in my last During 2013 the Group intends to continue continue to be the case.
In addition to our report, IPVF reached the end of its five-year supporting the development of its most core partnerships and as a result of our track investment period in August 2012 and, promising portfolio companies with people, record and specialist skill set, the Group has having invested in 26 of the Groups portfolio networks and capital, to grow its net assets also backed a number of new intellectual companies since 2006, will now deploy its and identify further  property-based businesses seeking to remaining capital into its existing portfolio.
The Group remains confident commercialise research and innovation NETF has now been investing in developing of the commercial potential of its portfolio, from academics at other high-quality technology companies in north-east England while our pipeline of commercialisable research institutions and expects to continue for three years, providing capital to 43 intellectual property opportunities remains to do so.
During 2012, the Group added businesses across the development spectrum.
We will continue to mature our post-seed eleven companies to its portfolio, including The Group and NETF have now co-invested businesses and pipeline and look forward to the creation of seven new technology in five companies, including the Groups first guiding them towards potentially significant businesses 2011: five.
spin-out from Durham University, Durham inection points over the next few years.
Graphene Sciences Limited, which met the We continue to monitor the depth and breadth of technical milestones triggering its second The Groups unrivalled access to our pipeline and, where compelling opportunities tranche of seed nancing during the year.
commercialisable UK intellectual property, are identied, we may add to this pipeline.
recently strengthened through its new Accordingly, the Group was pleased to announce As described above, the Group has continued partnership with the University of Manchester, the addition of a new partnership since the start to increase the level of capital deployed into its broad portfolio and its cash resources give of 2013: an exciting opportunity that will see its portfolio during 2012, with a significant the directors confidence in being able to the Group work closely with the University of proportion having been provided to its most deliver against this intention.
Manchester, an institution with considerable promising maturing businesses.
Having research pedigree having been ranked third strengthened the Groups balance sheet in the UK in terms of research power in the in 2011 through the raising of 55m of new Alan Aubrey most recent Research Assessment Exercise.
capital, the 15.4m proceeds from the sale Chief Executive officer of Proximagen during 2012 has helped to Business review Corporate governance Financial statements About IP Group
