BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Review We have delivered another strong set of results in 2012, illustrating how the successful execution of our strategy is enabling us to maintain the strong momentum we have established over recent years, despite what has proved to be a very challenging trading environment.
Dominic Burke Chief Executive BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW OUR MARKETS DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY GEC REVIEW OF OPERATIONS FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT Details of the performance of each individual This will be progressed in 2013 as we Key financial highlights business area are set out in the Review of continue to recruit and build on the deepOverall, the Group achieved total revenues of Operations on pages 21 to 28. seated technical knowledge and transactional 880.1 million in 2012, representing a market skills that our clients prize.
leading annual organic revenue growth rate of Trading and rating environment 7%.
We are also looking to leverage existing areas of strength to broaden our offering and Apart from some signs of firming in the US in Our global Risk & Insurance businesses maximise the expertise that sits at the heart of selected lines, insurance rates remained soft achieved organic revenue growth of 7%, with our business.
during the year, as capital in search of yield total revenue of 676.4 million.
Trading profit continued to flow into the sector.
This is For example we are looking to build from the rose by 6% to 139.7 million, with the trading unlikely to change until interest rates, leading position we have established in the margin remaining at 21% despite the particularly in developed markets, begin to Aviation market into related sectors.
continuing significant investment in leading recover to more normal levels.
industry professionals being made in all of our businesses.
JLTs business is in any case much more tied to economic activity and growth, rather than This again included particularly strong insurance market rates, since greater levels of A strong five year track record performances from our Asian and Latin corporate activity drive greater demand for our of growth American operations, which grew revenues services and skills.
Given this, our performance over the last Total Revenue JLT Specialty 5% organic revenue growth, 79% m twelve months and indeed over the past few JLT Re 6% organic revenue growth and Lloyd years has been all the more pleasing, because & Partners 9% organic revenue growth also we have consistently shown our ability to performed well as the benefits from deliver strong levels of organic revenue growth investments made in previous years continued in the face of some of the most challenging to come through.
JLT Res trading profit trading conditions in living memory.
declined versus 2011, as a result of the significant investments it has made in people This consistency has come from executing coupled with the decision by some large against the five core elements of our strategy primary insurers to retain more risk.
see page 17, which we will continue to 07 12 progress in 2013.
Thistle UK which we have now grouped under 12.4% compound annual growth rate the overall Risk & Insurance heading achieved Embedding specialty revenues of 34.3 million, 4% lower than 2011 Underlying Trading Profit due to difficult trading conditions.
101% Specialty sits at the very heart of our business, m because we actively choose to operate only in Our global Employee Benefits operations industries or sectors where we have distinctive delivered a 10% increase in revenues to expertise and knowledge that provides us with 203.7 million, of which 8% was organic, and a competitive edge and which are generated 43.3 million of trading profit.
underpinned by long-term macro-economic Our UK & Ireland Employee Benefits operation trends.
delivered a 5% increase in total revenues to 2012, therefore, saw the continued 146.0 million, a strong performance given embedding of specialty into our businesses.
JLT Specialty, for example, is firmly established 07 12 This included the part year contribution of as a market leader in many of its chosen areas 15.0% compound annual growth rate Alexander Forbes Consultants & Actuaries Ltd, of specialisation - for instance aerospace, in a business that we acquired at an attractive which in the space of four years we have price that gives us the opportunity to deliver Underlying Diluted EPS grown to become one of the worlds leading 93% both significant synergies and add to our Pence brokers of commercial aircraft.
expertise and capabilities in areas such as In Australia our retail activities have been Health and Wellness, Risk, Annuity and realigned along specialty lines over the last 24 Investment.
months with a number of important new hires Our Asian Employee Benefits operations also having been made.
In Asia too, the increasing had a strong year, growing its revenues by strength of our specialty capabilities has 24% to 38.2 million.
This growth was all enabled us to win a series of high profile organic and was underpinned by our strong clients.
In Latin America, we have continued to life insurance broking business which provides benefit from our focus on specialty lines such 07 12 solutions to high-net-worth clients, working as Construction, Energy and Mining that 14.1% compound annual growth rate closely with some of the largest private banks remain among the more dynamic growth in the region.
sectors given their exposure to continued infrastructure investment and demographic growth.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2012 13 26.0 79.7 490.6 50.2 160.4 880.1 BUSINESS REVIEW Chief Executives Review continued businesses, which are today much larger than We have a distinctive proposition that Building our international reach they were four years ago when the first champions specialty knowledge and and relevance programme started and whose local language which continues to resonate with clients We invested in five businesses in 2012 for a demands cannot be easily met in our Mumbai and insurers alike total consideration of 41 million as part of our knowledge centre.
We have an attractive culture that values drive to broaden our international reach and Secondly, whilst the benefits of offshore agility and entrepreneurial drive, rigour and strengthen our existing in-country operations.
process migration from our more mature depth of thought, and a collaborative This included acquiring a 25% stake in Marchbusinesses have largely been captured, it has approach that puts clients first JLT in Spain.
We also acquired TK Benefits to become evident that there are significant We have a determination to continue to help build out our Canadian employee benefits additional benefits to be gained from transform our business by targeting offering, Towner Management to help strengthening and aligning their operating improved efficiency and effectiveness strengthen our offshore and US captive platforms to enable greater specialty focus, management operations and Excelsus Group And we have a track record of delivering increased international collaboration and the to deepen our Asian marine capabilities.
strong organic revenue growth while seamless servicing of global clients.
investing in the business which positions In addition we have continued to invest heavily This new programme is anticipated to deliver us to continue to deliver long-term growth in our existing businesses.
For example JLT annual savings of 6 million in 2013, whilst still meeting our short-term profit Re has, over the past 18 months, established increasing to 12 million in 2014, for total objectives.
new operations in Beijing, Hong Kong and one-off costs of 18 million.
San Francisco and further expanded its JLTs distinctive strategy and strong operations in Miami, Basel, Sydney, momentum gives me confidence in our ability Collaborating as One JLT Singapore, Shanghai and created an Eastern to deliver year-on-year financial progress in We have made great progress in recent years European capability based out of London.
As 2013. to ensure that every client has access to the a result, JLT Re increased its headcount by very best of JLT.
This will receive further some 20% since the beginning of 2012. impetus in 2013 as we move more than 2,000 We aim to continue this investment in JLT Re of our London-based staff, currently located in 2013, given the opportunity that we believe across 18 floors in five different buildings, to exists to build a business of scale to balance one new location.
Further, during the year we our large inwards book.
will be rolling out the first phase of the JLT On the Employee Benefits side, we will also Insight project which has been a major internal continue to build out our healthcare initiative designed to improve how we capture, operations, with a particular focus on Hong share and use knowledge and data across the Dominic Burke Kong, Singapore, Indonesia and Brazil.
Chief Executive underpinned by the powerful macro-economic Both of these factors will enable us to deliver 15th March 2013 forces at play in terms of a large and growing enhanced client outcomes.
We anticipate number of middle class consumers for whom these benefits will ultimately contribute to our healthcare is a critical requirement given trading results.
generally poor local state-provided care and increased life expectancy.
Investing in People In addition, we see opportunities to build out In 2012 we continued to invest in talent, with our successful life insurance broking business over 850 new colleagues joining us during the beyond Singapore and Hong Kong.
As a people business, we recognise that for Driving operational effectiveness us to continue to grow, we need to create a and efficiency distinctive work environment that attracts the 2012 saw the successful completion of our right people, helps build their capabilities, Business Transformation Programme, which provides long term career opportunities and has delivered some 24 million of recurring rewards them based on their performance.
savings in return for an overall investment of We continue to benefit from the fact that many 27 million.
people recognise that it is a good time to be In March 2013 we announced a new at JLT because the elements that have programme designed to address two further underpinned our success in recent years are opportunities which did not fall into the scope fully embedded in the business and are set to of the first programme.
continue to drive our future growth.
Firstly, to improve the process and back-office We have a clearly defined strategy and activities of our Asian and Latin American stable management team 14 Annual Report 2012 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc
