Chief Executive Officers review When we set out several years ago to the transition to direct sales in the US, transform our business from an earlyand was further enhanced by increased stage development company into a end market volumes and price growth.
specialist healthcare business selling its The benefits of selling directly were also own products, we defined a set of core reflected in a substantial increase in profit contribution.
values that would guide us.
These values continue to be fundamental to how we go about our business.
The reported revenues from Voraxaze result from its availability under a Ultimately, they are about building trust treatment investigational new drug IND Louise Makin with all our stakeholders: customers, in the US and from named patient sales Chief Executive Officer patients, payers, regulators, partners, elsewhere.
A key achievement during the shareholders and colleagues.
We are year was the US approval of Voraxaze in proud to be part of a company whose January 2012 following a priority review We have the team, capabilities and products improve health and can save by the FDA.
This product addresses a financial resources to continue lives.
We also recognise our corporate real unmet need: there is no other implementing our strategy to be a responsibilities, and we believe that approved treatment for life-threatening leading specialist healthcare business.
always living our values will help us be a high-dose methotrexate toxicity due to responsible business that is capable of impaired renal function.
Around half the delivering sustainable, profitable growth.
patients who experience toxicity with high-dose methotrexate are children.
All of our values are equally important though one that stands out when We estimate the US peak sales potential reflecting on the past year is delivery.
for Voraxaze to be approximately $15m This is about doing what we say we will per annum, on the basis of commercial do at an individual, team, segmental and pricing rather than cost-recovery.
Thanks to the commitment Although modest, this unique product and professionalism of our employees, delivers a good margin and exemplifies we have had an excellent year and made our strategy of leveraging the investment strong progress towards delivering our we have made in creating a US key medium-term business goals.
It will be sold by the existing Acute Care team so The following section should be requires only modest incremental sales read in conjunction with the financial and marketing expenditure.
statements and related notes on pages 80 to 130.
Our partner Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation continues to make good progress with the development of uridine Specialty Pharmaceuticals revenue Specialty Pharmaceuticals triacetate UTA, a potential antidote to toxicity associated with 5-fluorouracil Our Acute Care sales force 5-FU, a common chemotherapeutic.
76.7m 11 12 performed well in its first full year Wellstat anticipates submitting a US 35.4m 10 11 selling CroFab and DigiFab directly regulatory application during the second in the US.
If approved, UTA would be resulted in a contribution of 39.4m.
sold by our Acute Care sales team.
In Specialty Pharmaceuticals contribution The team commenced selling May 2012, we also acquired rights to Voraxaze on 30 April 2012 following distribute UTA on a named patient supply its US approval in January 2012. basis in Europe for an upfront payment 39.4m 11 12 of $3.0m, together with an option to 10.8m 10 11 market UTA following EU regulatory approval, under pre-agreed financial terms including a multi-million dollar exercise fee and transfer pricing payments based on manufacturing costs The Acute Care sales team performed and a significant percentage of net sales.
strongly, delivering 117% growth in revenues from CroFab, DigiFab and Voraxaze.
This resulted principally from 08 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review DigiFab digoxin immune fab ovine Specialty Pharmaceuticals Approved for sale in the US, Canada, UK and Switzerland for the treatment of digoxin toxicity and marketed in the US through our Acute Care team.
The only available product for the treatment of digoxin toxicity.
Brachytherapy Implants Interventional Medicine Our brachytherapy business develops, manufactures and markets unique delivery systems containing radioactive seeds as well as ancillary equipment used principally in the treatment of early-stage prostate cancer.
Business review Chief Executive Officers review Our strategy within Specialty As planned, the AMs assumed Pharmaceuticals is to expand our direct control of selling LC Bead in portfolio of marketed products and the US from January 2012, following expiry of the distribution contract late-stage programmes through with AngioDynamics, Inc. in-licensing and acquisition.
We have a growing antidote franchise and are looking for similar products that are The transition has gone well.
used in emergency situations in We expect the financial benefits of hospitals and in other specialist centres.
selling directly to start this financial year.
We are also exploring opportunities Less immediately obvious, but equally to expand our portfolio with products important, are the benefits of being used by other specialist physicians able to get close to our customers.
within and outside the hospital setting.
This helps us fully understand their needs and the pressures that they face, so that we can respond in terms Interventional Medicine of our product and service offering.
Interventional Medicine revenue Revenues were 28.7m in the first In Japan, where we are partnered with full year following our acquisition Eisai, the regulatory application for 28.7m 11 12 1 of Biocompatibles, delivering a DCBead is being reviewed by the 5.6m 10 11 contribution of 6.8m.
In January Japanese regulatory authorities.
2012, we commenced direct sales In China, our partner SciClone completed of our bead products in the US.
a 40-person study and is engaging with Interventional Medicine contribution The full financial impact of this the Chinese regulator about the further transition will be evident in our steps required in order for them to 2012 13 results.
In South 6.8m 11 12 1 Korea, qualified reimbursement was 0.2m 10 11 achieved and in Taiwan we are awaiting reimbursement approval.
1 Includes approximately two months of trading following the Biocompatibles acquisition.
We estimate, based on our analysis of Later this year we expect first results public information, that the global annual from the PARAGON exploratory studies, aggregate sales of loco-regional in which DC Bead loaded with irinotecan treatments for liver tumours grew from is being investigated as a treatment for $87m at the end of 2008 to $193m at metastatic colorectal cancer mCRC.
the end of 2011, with our market share These include PARAGON II, which is growing from 20% to 27% during that evaluating the safety and efficacy of the period.
We anticipate continued doubleirinotecan bead used prior to surgical digit overall market growth through resection of metastatic liver tumours.
2020, driven by expanding the approved A second study PARAGON Louisville uses of the products, geographic is evaluating the effectiveness of expansion and product innovation.
chemoembolisation with LC Bead loaded with irinotecan, both with and Our strategy to expand this business without systemic chemotherapy, in is to: sell directly in the US: expand the treatment of unresectable liver geographically through working with metastases in patients with partners: invest in clinical studies colorectal cancer.
to expand the indicated uses of our products: develop line extensions: We plan to initiate a formal Phase II and acquire additional products used study in mCRC, the design of which will be informed by these exploratory by interventional radiologists, clinical studies.
We are also exploring other oncologists and oncology surgeons.
indications such as metastatic ocular cancer and cholangiocarcinoma, orphan During the second half of 2011 we set up our second field force, indications which may not require an Interventional Medicine team of extensive studies to gain marketing 24 Account Managers AMs and approvals.
11 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review AZD9773 CytoFab Licensing & Biotechnology In Phase IIb clinical development with partner AstraZeneca as a treatment for severe sepsis.
Manufactured by BTG using the same polyclonal antibody manufacturing platform used to make our approved antidotes, CroFab and DigiFab.
Business review Chief Executive Officers review At present, when DC Bead is loaded This part of our business derives from with a chemotherapeutic, this is done in BTGs history as an IP commercialisation the pharmacy at the hospital where the organisation.
It comprises licensed procedure is to take place.
We are assets together with assets acquired developing the PRECISION Bead and with Protherics and Biocompatibles that we do not intend to take to market PARAGON Bead, which are pre-loaded with drug and, if approved, would be a ourselves but which may have value to significant step forward for interventional partners.
We have retained the required medicine.
IP and other commercial skills to commercialise these assets, as those In January and April 2012, we reported skills remain core to our ongoing positive results from VANISH-1 and business activities.
VANISH-2 our two US pivotal Phase III trials of PEM, which are designed to Although not an active area of focus support its approval as a comprehensive in terms of new opportunities, our treatment to reduce the symptoms and Licensing & Biotechnology segment is improve the appearance of varicose expected to continue to provide a solid veins.
The primary endpoint was a financial underpin for BTG for many years reduction in symptoms, as measured by to come.
While some licensed assets a novel patient-reported outcomes tool.
will cease to deliver revenues following Improvement in appearance, the patent expiries, others are starting to secondary endpoint, was measured generate new revenue streams and using novel patient and physician tools.
have the potential to deliver royalties PEM achieved all the study endpoints beyond 2020. with a high degree of statistical significance.
In a smaller study, VV017, Following patent expiry in March 2011, patients were treated first with heat revenues from BeneFIX, for several ablation of the great saphenous vein years our largest individual royalty followed by PEM for the remaining visible contributor, are expected to end during varicosities.
Statistical significance was our 2012 13 year.
reached for one of two co-primary endpoints, the blinded independent A new revenue stream emerged during panel review of photographs, but not for the 2011 12 year with the US and EU the patient-reported measure.
approvals of Zytiga, marketed by the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of We are completing manufacturing and Johnson & Johnson.
This was approved chemistry, manufacturing and controls to treat men with castration resistant CMC activities and preparing our prostate cancer CRPC who have regulatory application, which we aim to previously received docataxel.
If approved, approvals resulted in two milestone we intend to market PEM ourselves in payments and our first royalties.
We estimate the global peak sales potential of PEM Importantly, a second Phase III trial to be up to $500m per annum.
in men who had not yet received chemotherapy was unblinded after an interim analysis in March 2012 because Licensing & Biotechnology of clear evidence of clinical benefits in Licensing & Biotechnology revenue men receiving Zytiga compared with Revenue of 91.6m delivered a those receiving placebo.
Revenues Johnson intends to start submitting 91.6m 11 12 benefited from higher than expected regulatory applications to extend the 70.4m 10 11 post-patent-expiry royalties on approved uses of Zytiga into this chemo-nave patient population.
BeneFIXan d a strong start from If approved, this could significantly Zytiga following US and EU Licensing & Biotechnology contribution regulatory approvals during 2011. expand the number of patients who may benefit from treatment with this product.
45.6m 11 12 In April 2012, Sanofi presented positive 32.6m 10 11 Phase III data and indicated it would submit US and EU regulatory 13 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review Chief Executive Officers review applications for the approval of alemtuzumab as a treatment for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis during the second quarter 2012.
The application is expected to receive priority review in the US.
If approved, this would result in another new revenue stream for BTG.
AstraZenecas Phase IIb study of AZD9773 completed recruitment of around 300 patients with severe sepsis in March 2012.
Top-line data are anticipated in the second half of 2012, together with a decision by AstraZeneca on whether to progress into Phase III development.
After disappointing data from a Phase IIa study in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, we discontinued development of BGC20-0134 and ceased commercial activities.
We are continuing to explore options for partnerships with CellMed, our German subsidiary acquired with Biocompatibles.
CellMed has a number of early-stage programmes and platform technologies that are not in our core focus areas but may be of interest to other companies.
There is good momentum across our three business areas and we look forward to another busy year with confidence.
We have the team, capabilities and financial resources to continue implementing our strategy to be a leading specialist healthcare business focused on Specialty Pharmaceuticals and Interventional Medicine.
14 Business review BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business review CroFab crotalidae polyvalent immune fab ovine Specialty Pharmaceuticals The only approved treatment for the management of patients with North American pit viper envenomation.
Of the 3,000 to 5,000 venomous snakebites treated in US emergency departments each year, 97% are from pit vipers.
