Chief Executive Officers Statement Our vision is to become a leading UK-listed Asian resources company The past year was a challenging one for Bumi plc.
Yet, against a backdrop of weak thermal coal prices, the underlying business continued to perform well, achieving growth in production as well as reduced costs in the latter part of the year as cost reduction measures took effect.
It is my focus to build on this performance and drive shareholder value through organic growth, continued cost reductions and improved systems of governance.
Gross profit for the Group was $411m 2011: $531m whilst revenues increased 9% to $1,531m 2011 ten months trading : $1,407m.
Underlying loss was $52m 2011: underlying earnings $92m restated, and underlying EBITDA was $365m 2011: $511m restated.
While sales volumes increased 5% in the year to 21.1mt, this was offset by a 13% reduction in the average selling price.
Vision and Strategy Given the proposed disposal of PT Bumi, we have modified our vision reflecting the anticipated change in the Groups composition and the Companys future direction.
The Companys vision is to become a leading UK-listed Asian resources company, with a focus on the growth markets of Asia.
The immediate focus is on PT Berau.
Key components of the Companys strategy are: Optimisation.
Driving operational efficiencies through the launch of a major independent benchmarking study.
Growing the business profitably with a major review of capital expenditure underway.
The as yet largely unexploited Binungan mining area offers huge opportunity for cost effective production increases and will be underpinned by fully costed capital expenditure plans.
Ensuring an appropriate capital structure and reducing the cost of borrowing.
Optimisation Growth Capital structure Costs are being aggressively cut across the The Group is expanding production to meet A reduction in borrowing costs across the business and a major benchmarking exercise its near term target of 30 mt per annum.
Optimisation The Group is undertaking a number of reviews that aim to change the short and long term cost structure of the business.
During 2012, PT Berau reduced stripping ratios and hauling distances, leading to a significant reduction in operating cost by the fourth quarter.
We have also focused on reducing mining costs and are negotiating more favourable mining contracts.
This includes deferral of contracted price increases, and improved terms from contractors, while maintaining productions levels, quality and safety standards.
Further initiatives are underway that should impact positively on the cost structure of the business.
In particular, a new asset optimisation and benchmarking review has been launched with the appointment of an independent consultancy.
We will benchmark our mining operations at PT Berau against other comparable operations to identify opportunities for operational and capital expenditure efficiencies and drive the cost base of mining operations down.
Growth I am pleased to report that PT Berau grew production by 8% in 2012 to 21.0 mt from 19.4mt in 2011.
This growth rate is expected to accelerate, with a target of 23 mt of production in 2013, and a near term goal of 30 mt.
Incremental growth is forecast to come from increases in production at Lati and Binungan, two of our key operating mining areas, especially at the latter, where a major expansion is underway.
Organic growth is the Companys immediate priority and while any attractive acquisition opportunity would naturally be assessed, the near term priority is delivering the significant organic growth options that are available.
The proposed $290m overland conveyor and power plant project has been deferred and all significant items of capital expenditure are under review to ensure optimal returns for shareholders.
Capital structure At 31 December 2012, the Group had net debt of $514m, with gross debt levels of $971m.
Our goal is to ensure an optimal capital structure and to bring down the Groups average borrowing cost.
Governance Whilst the Board had designed an appropriate governance framework and worked to have this adopted and applied across the Group, it became evident that not all the Groups policies were being fully complied with and the extensive review undertaken by PT Beraus new management uncovered evidence of apparent financial irregularities and significant expenditure for which no clear business purpose could be established.
Indonesian legal advisors have been instructed to advise on all options available to seek recourse and the Company will pursue all means available for the recovery of all relevant expenditure, including by way of engagement with relevant regulators.
Bumi plc Annual Report Page 5 Chief Executive Officers Statement continued Following the completion of the extensive review of PT Beraus financial position, the priority areas we are addressing to further enhance our controls are: Further aligning the governance framework within PT Berau and its subsidiary companies with the framework approved by the Bumi plc Board and ensuring that policies and procedures that support this framework are fully implemented and effective.
Increasing the more direct exercise of parent company control, while remaining compliant with local regulations, through Bumi plcs executive committee.
This committee, which I chair and includes Eko Budianto, the recently appointed President Director of PT Berau, will also receive regular reports on the effectiveness of our internal control and risk management systems from Internal Audit.
Reviewing our organisational structure to ensure the appropriate resources and skills are more effectively deployed throughout the Group and in particular enhancing key controls over the financial reporting procedures in the Group.
In any case where the commercial terms of contracts are not in the best interests of the Group, we will seek to amend or cancel them.
Taking the lessons learnt from the review, this exercise will be used to enhance the controls regarding related party transactions to ensure that they are disclosed on a timely and comprehensive basis to the Conflicts Committee.
Enhancing the Groups investment appraisal procedures in relation to large capital projects and other significant expenditure programmes such as community development and access to land to support mine expansion.
Impact of the review of the financial position of PT Berau Following the completion of the extensive review of the financial position of PT Berau in May 2013, it was concluded that payments to the value of $152m in 2012 could not be substantiated as having a clear business purpose.
In these circumstances the Board has disclosed all such expenditure separately as other exceptional costs in the income statement.
A summary of reclassifications and restatements arising from this extensive review is set out in Note 6 to the Financial Statements.
Where such expenditure affected opening balances at the time of acquisition of PT Berau, appropriate adjustments have been made to property, plant and equipment, deferred taxation and goodwill.
Health, Safety, Environment and Communities We believe in running our business in a socially and environmentally responsible way.
Employee safety, environmental protection and the wellbeing of local communities are essential to our corporate identity and values.
In terms of safety, I am pleased to report that we had no fatalities in 2012, a marked improvement over 2011 when PT Berau recorded four fatalities.
Outlook The recovery in the global economy has been fragile, with Europe still impacted by little or no growth, and the US showing modest signs of growth in 2012.
GDP growth for China and India slowed in 2012, but was still healthy at around 7% and 6% respectively.
In terms of thermal coal, the demand picture looks well supported for the Pacific region.
Growing demand for lower calorific value coal is forecast for India and China, a clear benefit for PT Berau.
However, increases in supply caused the price of thermal coal to fall by 21% in 2012, and any recovery in prices is expected to be muted in 2013.
Conclusion In conclusion, 2013 is expected to be a transformational year for Bumi plc.
The business is expected to be restructured through the disposal of our interest in PT Bumi and governance and financial controls at PT Berau are to be reviewed and enhanced.
A renewed focus on improving PT Beraus operational and financial efficiencies should drive shareholder value alongside significant organic growth options.
Lastly, I would like to thank all our employees for their hard work during the year and I look forward to us all working together to deliver on our commitments for 2013 and beyond.
Nick von Schirnding Chief Executive Officer, Bumi plc Bumi plc Annual Report Page 6
