Chief Executives statement Our strong investment performance, brand and distribution capabilities have helped Jupiter steer a steady course through another challenging year for financial markets.
Edward Bonham Carter Chief Executive Introduction In September 2012, Maarten Slendebroek joined Jupiter in the newly During 2012, we have continued to deliver value to clients and created role of Distribution and Strategy Director.
He has many shareholders, via the successful execution of our business model years' experience of building asset management operations and will through investment outperformance, effective distribution and play a key role in building further on our increasingly diversied efficient operations.
distribution capabilities in the UK and abroad.
efficient operations Investment outperformance Our scalable operating platform allowed us to deliver steady results While equity markets posted positive gains for the year, this in 2012.
EBITDA margins remained above 50 per cent.
and underlying performance masked significant underlying volatility, particularly EPS was down one per cent.
at 19.0p after reinvesting the savings during the first half of the year, as investors grappled with continued turmoil in the Eurozone.
from deleveraging our balance sheet in our people, platform and distribution reach.
Continued cash generation has seen us reduce our Our focus on investing in quality companies which we believe are gross debt to 78m and we have an increasingly robust balance sheet able to deliver strong results throughout the market cycle typically with a net cash position of 69m at year end.
This has allowed us to results in stronger performance in challenging market conditions.
raise the total dividend by 13 per cent.
to 8.8p, reecting the Board's The majority of our funds outperformed over the three year period confidence in the Group's growth prospects.
typically used by financial advisers, as well as over one year.
Over the three years to 31 December 2012, 79 per cent.
of mutual fund AUM Outlook was above median with 56 per cent.
above median over one year.
It is possible the current rally in financial markets will be sustained, Furthermore, our institutional clients saw excellent returns last year assuming the ECB continues to support weaker economies and with all mandates beating their benchmarks.
the US recovery is not derailed.
However, in reality, not much has changed from a year ago and markets are still facing several long Our managers continue to be recognised for their investment skills, term challenges.
and in October, Jupiter won S&P Capital IQs Diversied Group of the Year 2012.
We also continue to have a high number of funds While savers across Europe remain squeezed in the short term recommended by independent analysts and financial advisers.
due to low wage growth and increases in the cost of living, the Financial Express, for example, awarded Alpha manager status to structural growth drivers for the savings market remain intact.
12 Jupiter managers in 2012 more than any other asset manager Jupiter is renowned for its brand strength and ability to deliver in the UK.
outperformance over the long term and we are looking forward to capitalising on the growth opportunities available to us, both in the Effective distribution UK and internationally, in order to deliver strong returns for clients While the overall environment for savings remained below historic and shareholders.
levels and ow patterns were unfavourable in our core UK and European markets, 2012 was another good year for net inows into Jupiter products.
The Group recorded net inows of 1.0bn in 2012, up from 0.7m in 2011 which, combined with market movements, led to record assets under management of 26.3bn at year end.
Mutual fund net inows in the year were particularly strong at Edward Bonham Carter 1.6bn, driven by our strong investment performance, recognised Chief Executive brand, increasingly diverse product set and international distribution reach.
This is shown by AUM in xed income and convertible bond 27 February 2013 products totalling 2.6bn at 31 December 2012, and our SICAV range, sold predominantly to international clients, having AUM of 1.9bn.
Our overall ows were, however, held back by the withdrawal of a single large segregated mandate of 0.6bn.
4 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Business review 6 The asset management business model 7 How value ows to shareholders 8 Our operating model 10 Delivery against objectives 11 Key performance indicators 12 Principal risks and mitigations 14 Market review 17 Operational review 19 Financial review 22 Corporate responsibility report Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report & Accounts 2012 5
