CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW BUNZL HAS AGAIN DEMONSTRATED THE STRENGTH OF ITS VALUE PROPOSITION AND SHOWN ITS ABILITY TO DEVELOP BOTH IN EXISTING AND NEW MARKETS.
Michael Roney Chief Executive OPERATING PERFORMANCE The Group once again had a successful year in 2012 due to a combination of organic growth, good performance from the acquisitions made in 2011 and increased acquisition spend during the year.
Although some currencies, notably the US dollar, were marginally stronger than in 2011, the translation effects of the weaker euro and overall currency movements have reduced the reported growth rates of revenue and operating profit.
The operations, including the relevant growth rates, are reviewed below at constant exchange rates to remove the distorting impact of these currency movements.
Changes in the level of revenue and MANAGEMENT TEAM profits at constant exchange rates have been calculated by retranslating Managers from across the the results for 2011 at the average rates used for 2012.
Unless otherwise Groupmeet regularly to review stated, all references in this review to operating profit are to operating performance, discuss trends profit before intangible amortisation and acquisition related costs.
affecting our businesses and seek further opportunities for Revenue increased 6% 5% at actual exchange rates to 5,359.2 million growth and competitive and operating profit was 352.4 million, an increase of 7% 5% at actual advantage.
The percentage growth in operating profit at constant Finance Director exchange rates was greater than that of revenue due to the improvement in Group operating margin by 10 basis points to 6.6% as a result of the impact of acquisitions and the sale of the UK vending business in August 2011.
In North America revenue rose 6% 7% at actual exchange rates due to good organic revenue growth and the impact of acquisitions completed in2011 and 2012, while operating profit increased 8% 9% at actual exchange rates.
Revenue in Continental Europe rose 8% 1% at actual Patrick Larmon Celia Baxter exchange rates as a result of some organic revenue growth and the President and CEO North America Director of Group Human Resources impact of acquisitions but operating profit was down 2% 8% at actual exchange rates as margins came under pressure.
In UK & Ireland revenue was at at both constant and actual exchange rates primarily dueto good organic revenue growth and the impact of relatively small acquisitions being more than offset by the impact of the sale of vending during the second half of 2011.
However operating profit rose 8% at both constant and actual exchange rates due to the positive impact of cost reduction initiatives, product mix improvements in some businesses and the disposal of vending.
In Rest of the World revenue increased 23% Paul Hussey Paul Budge General Counsel and Company Managing Director UK & Ireland 20% at actual exchange rates and operating profit was up 22% 17% Secretary at actual exchange rates due to both excellent organic revenue growth and the impact of acquisitions.
Basic earnings per share were 61% higher 57% at actual exchange rates at 59.9p due to the significant impact in 2011 of the loss on disposal of the vending business.
Adjusted earnings per share, after eliminating the effect of intangible amortisation, acquisition related costs and the disposal of vending, were 71.8p, an increase of 7% 5% at actual exchange rates.
Andrew Mooney Frank van Zanten Although the underlying return on average operating capital increased, Director of Corporate Development Managing Director Continental Europe the overall return decreased slightly from 57.4% to 56.4% due to the recent acquisitions currently having a lower return on operating capital than the rest of the Group.
Our operating cash ow continued to be strong.
Despite an acquisition cash outow of 254.7 million and net capital expenditure of 20.2 million, our year end net debt of 738.1 million was only 85.2 million higher than at the end of 2011.
The net debt to EBITDA ratio increased marginally to 1.8 times compared to 1.7 times at the previous year end.
Rodrigo Mascarenhas Kim Hetherington Managing Director South America Managing Director Australasia Our continued focus on the sustainability of our business has once again Having been Director of Corporate Development since 1999, led to a further reduction, relative to revenue, of our Scope 1 and 2 carbon NancyLester left Bunzl at the beginning of 2013.
We thank her for emissions.
This has been achieved partly as a result of further investment hervaluable contribution and wish her all the very best for the future.
in energy efficient lighting systems in our facilities and the introduction 10 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 within our transport eet of a number of vehicles which have lower Companys existing safety product offering.
Revenue in the year ended emissions.
The health, safety and well-being of our staff remains a key 31December 2011 was C$53 million.
Vicsa Safety in Chile and its feature of the way in which we operate.
subsidiaries based in Peru, Argentina, Colombia and Mexico specialise inthe sourcing and sale of a variety of personal protection equipment ACQUISITIONS throughout the region.
The aggregate revenue of the Vicsa businesses in Our committed acquisition spend in 2012 of 272 million was the highest 2012 was US$65 million of which more than half was accounted for by level since 2004 with 13 transactions announced.
At the same time we entered into an agreement to purchase Vicsa Brasil which was completed earlier this month following In February we acquired the business of CDW Merchants.
Based in Chicago, clearance from the Brazilian Competition Authority.
Revenue in 2012 the business is principally engaged in the sale of retail gift packaging and wasUS$9 million.
The acquisition of the Vicsa businesses is an exciting visual merchandising solutions and products to the specialty retail and development for us as they expand our operations in South America online retailing sectors throughout the US.
Revenue inthe year ended outside Brazil into four new countries as well as extending our business 31 December 2011 was US$12 million.
The business, which works inMexico into the safety sector.
In December we also acquired Destiny closely with its customers to increase brand appeal and consumer loyalty Packaging in the US which had revenue in 2012 of US$52 million.
through innovative gift packaging concepts and merchandising displays, Basedin Monterey, California, Destiny Packaging is a leading distributor complements our existing non-food retail supplies business in North ofexible packaging supplies, principally produce bags, to fruit and America and extends our customer base, particularly inthe specialty vegetable growers throughout California and Arizona and complements and online retail sector.
both Cool-Pak and Netpak which we acquired in 2010 and 2011 respectively.
Together these three businesses give us an increasing We acquired three businesses at the end of April.
FoodHandler, also presence in the market of innovative packaging solutions for both growers based in Chicago, is a leading supplier of a broad range of disposable and food retailers in North America.
Finally the Company purchased gloves and other foodhandling products to the foodservice sector Schwarz Paper Company in the US at the end of December.
Based in throughout the US.
Revenue in the year ended 31 December 2011 Chicago and operating from 14 locations, Schwarz Paper Company is was US$99 million.
The business enhances our existing foodservice principally engaged in the provision of consumables and supply chain operations in North America and expands our product offering and solutions for the non-food retail and grocery sectors.
It signicantly importprogramme in this sector.
Based near Tel Aviv, Zahav is a leading increases the size of our non-food retail business and will further enhance distributor of packaging supplies to the foodservice sector throughout the Companys market leading position in the grocery sector.
Revenue in the year ended 31 December 2011 was ILS66 million.
ofthe acquired business in the year ended 30 September 2012 was This is our second acquisition in Israel which is a market we entered in US$363 million.
2010 with the purchase of Silco.
It has a strong and broad customer base, especially in the bakery sector, and signicantly increases the size of The acquisition of McNeil Surgical in Australia was completed at the our business in that country.
The Group also purchased in Aprilthe beginning of February 2013.
With revenue of A$16 million in the year Queensland based redistribution operations of Star Services International ended 30 June 2012, the business is engaged in the sale of healthcare in Australia.
Based in Brisbane and Cairns, the business is engaged in consumables and equipment to aged care facilities, hospitals and medical the supply of foodservice disposable products to wholesalers and centres as well as to redistributors and increases our market presence in redistributors throughout Queensland.
Revenue for the year ended this growing sector.
The acquisition complements our existing foodservice supplies operations in Queensland and will allow PROSPECTS us to penetrate further into the redistribution sector of this market.
The macroeconomic outlook continues to be challenging but we believe that our resilient customer base and the opportunities for additional Based near Seattle, Service Paper was purchased in June.
The business market consolidation will provide the Group with a good platform for is principally engaged in the distribution of disposable supplies to the further growth.
grocery, foodservice, food processor and industrial packaging sectors throughout the Pacic Northwest.
Revenue of the business acquired for In North America we expect to see stronger growth as a result of the six the year ended 31 December 2011 was US$61 million.
The business, acquisitions completed last year and an improvement in organic revenue which has a reputation for providing high levels of customer service, will growth from the levels seen in the second half of 2012.
In spite of the expand our existing business in the region.
difficult market conditions in Continental Europe, we currently anticipate some growth with a stable operating margin.
The performance of UK At the end of June we acquired Distrimondo which is based near Zurich & Ireland should continue to improve, in spite of the sluggish economies, and is principally engaged in the distribution of foodservice disposables led by organic growth and ongoing cost reduction initiatives.
Rest of the and cleaning and hygiene products throughout Switzerland.
Revenue in World should see a strong performance through a combination of good the year ended 31 December 2011 was CHF17 million.
The acquisition organic growth and the impact of the recent significant acquisition activity.
extends our operations in Switzerland which is a key market that we entered in 2010 with the purchase of Weita.
Acquisition growth is an important part of our strategy.
The pipeline is promising as we continue discussions with a number of potential targets.
The acquisition of Indigo Concept Packaging was completed in October.
Indigo is based in the UK and is principally engaged in the sale of quality The Board believes that the prospects for the Group are positive due retail packaging products to a variety of customers.
Revenue in the year to our strong market position, growing customer sectors and good ended 31 December 2011 was 6 million.
opportunities to consolidate further the markets in which we compete.
At the end of October we acquired Atlas Health Care in Australia.
Based inAdelaide, the business is principally engaged in the supply of medical consumables to the healthcare sector and gives us an enhanced market position in this growing sector.
Revenue in the year ended 30 June 2012 was A$22 million.
Michael Roney In December we entered into agreements to acquire five businesses.
Chief Executive Based near Toronto, McCordick Glove & Safety is a distributor of gloves 25 February 2013 and other personal protection equipment to a variety of industrial and retail customers as well as to redistributors.
It has enabled us to enter the personal protection equipment sector in Canada and enhances the BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED SOURCING WE SOURCE HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF DIFFERENT PRODUCTS FROM ALL OVER THE WORLD, LIAISING CLOSELY WITH OUR SUPPLIERS SO THAT WE ARE ABLE TO OFFER A FULL RANGE OF ITEMS WHICH SATISFY OUR CUSTOMERS DEMANDS.
FROM SAFETY HARNESSES AND HARD HATS TO BAKERY PACKAGING AND COFFEE CUPS, WE ENSURE THAT THE PRODUCTS WE SOURCE ARE THE MOST APPROPRIATE FOR THEIR EVERYDAY REQUIREMENTS.
12 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 EVERYDAY ESSENTIAL PRODUCTS BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED NORTH AMERICA OUR IT PLATFORM, EXTENSIVE WAREHOUSE NETWORK AND DELIVERY 8% FLEET CONTINUE TO POSITION US WELL TO MEET OUR CUSTOMERS DEMANDS INCREASE IN OPERATING PROFIT AT IN THE FUTURE.
CONSTANT EXCHANGE RATES WITH IMPROVEMENT IN OPERATING MARGIN.
Patrick Larmon President and CEO North America Our business serving the non-food retail sector also developed well despite slow US retail sales growth.
Our coast to coast distribution network gives us the scale needed to support national retail chains cost effectively through our uniform operating platform.
Our recent acquisition of Schwarz Paper Company complements our existing non-food retail and grocery distribution businesses.
Schwarz will signicantly expand our customer base and market presence in these sectors across the US in the coming year.
We also continued to improve our expertise and breadth of product line through our acquisition of CDW Merchants in February.
Their design and marketing offerings will further enhance our ability to introduce new and unique point of sale designs and, together with Keenpac, allow us to offer innovative packaging and store supply programmes that will lead to increased business with our existing customer base as well as attract newcustomers, particularly in the specialty and online retail sectors.
In North America revenue increased by 6% to 2,905.8 million due to sales growth with existing customers, new business wins and acquisitions.
Although the convenience store sector is still impacted by higher fuel This, together with the impact of higher margin acquisitions and good cost costs, it continued to expand in 2012.
We continuously work with retail control, contributed to an 8% increase in operating profit to 184.6 million, convenience store chains to provide additional programmes and products with the operating profit margin improving 20 basis points to 6.4%.
Our to help them meet the demands of the new services being offered at the extensive distribution network and delivery eet across North America and store level.
Our investment in a well trained sales force gives us a better our experienced sales force continued to produce value for our customers opportunity to develop more expansive programmes with these local, in the diversied business sectors we service.
Wholesalers in this sector also continue to extend their services which provides us with additional sales opportunities.
Our largest business, which serves the grocery sector, produced good growth in 2012 principally as a result of the full year impact of a significant We continue to strengthen our relationships with our preferred suppliers customer win in the third quarter of 2011 but also as we expanded our and further integrate our supply chains as we position their products business with other customers by offering integrated supply chain product closer to the customer reducing their operating costs and improving their and information supply chain solutions.
Execution of our cornerstone profitability.
Working as supply chain partners allows us to leverage our programmes of direct store delivery, cross dock and warehouse combined strengths to create unique programmes and products that best replenishment programmes on a local, regional or national basis provides satisfy our customers needs at competitive prices.
us with a unique competitive advantage in the marketplace and generates opportunities for us to reduce the operating costs and working capital Our private label import and import logistics programmes saw further investment of our customers.
Our overall business in the Pacic expansion by utilising our state-of-the-art Shanghai distribution centre Northwest was boosted by the acquisition of Service Paper in June.
andquality control services and leveraging our international logistics expertise.
We also penetrated more deeply into the foodservice sector The redistribution business also grew as we continued to enable our andstrengthened our competitive position through our acquisition of distributor customers, predominantly in the foodservice, jan san janitorial FoodHandler, a leading supplier of own brand disposable gloves and sanitation and ofce products sectors, to achieve increased profitability otherfood handling products.
Not only does FoodHandler expand our through our proximity and scale.
Our business model allows not only these foodservice product offering, it also complements our existing foodservice customers but all ofour customers to consolidate their sources of supply operations, augments our sales force with extensive product sales and and reduce their administrative and operating costs through our one-stopmarketing expertise and extends our customer base.
In addition, our shop offering.
Asa result of our excellent ll rates and dependable delivery recent acquisition of McCordick Glove & Safety enables us to enter the capabilities, our customers can improve their profitability and asset personal protection equipment sector in Canada which is a product area utilisation by rededicating storage space, once occupied by the stock where wehave already been very successful in a number of other items we now provide, to support higher revenue generating items.
Italso has a wide range of successful own brands that will enhance our existing safety product offering.
Our food processor business continued to perform well, with customers across the full breadth of the food processor supply chain from the elds We continued to manage successfully our operating costs despite ongoing to the stores.
These include growers, packers, large food companies and pressures on fuel, freight and healthcare costs.
As part of this process meat, fresh cut produce, home meal and specialty food processors.
The wediligently evaluate new warehouse technologies that could improve recent addition of Destiny Packaging and its exible packaging offering warehouse efficiencies and continually analyse the number of facilities complements Cool-Paks and Netpaks rigid packaging product lines and werequire in order to optimise our operating costs and service levels.
increases our ability to provide innovative packaging solutions for growers, packers and retailers.
14 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 CONTINENTAL EUROPE OUR BROAD PORTFOLIO OF BUSINESSES ACROSS A NUMBER OF MARKET SECTORS 1,079.4m AND GEOGRAPHIES ENABLES US TO MEET THE CHALLENGING MARKET CONDITIONS RECORD LEVEL OF SALES AS WE ARE FACING.
BUSINESS AREA REVENUE INCREASES 8% AT CONSTANT Frank van Zanten EXCHANGE RATES.
Managing Director Continental Europe In Belgium, we recorded strong sales growth in the cleaning and hygiene sector due to further gains with a number of existing customers although sales in the retail sector declined following the loss of one larger account leaving overall sales at.
Good margin management led to an overall increase in operating profit and margins.
In Germany, sales growth was modest with gains in sales to fast food chains, coffee shops and wholesalers being partly offset by lower sales to contract caterers.
Margins remain under pressure in particular from larger accounts.
Costs were reduced during the year to compensate for lower margins leaving operating profit at.
In Switzerland, our Weita business saw a slight decline in sales as the Swiss economy, and in particular its tourism industry, has been adversely Revenue rose by 8% to 1,079.4 million due to a combination of some impacted by the continuing strength of the Swiss franc, although margins organic growth and acquisition activity in 2011 and 2012, although were in line with last year.
At the end of June we acquired Distrimondo, a operating profit fell 2% to 87.5 million.
In the difficult economic distributor of foodservice disposables and cleaning and hygiene products environment in most of the countries in which we are present, pricing throughout Switzerland, which is integrating well into the Group and pressure in our markets together with a weaker euro impacting import generating synergies with Weita.
prices has led to a decline in gross margin.
Although operating costs remain tightly controlled, underlying revenue growth has slowed compared to In Denmark, sales have declined in the retail and horeca sectors and recent years such that the revenue growth, together with the impact from grown in the personal protection equipment sector.
Gross margins are acquisitions, was not sufficient to compensate for the gross margin decline.
alsounder pressure in the retail and public sectors and this, combined with some one-off costs associated with implementing a new IT system, Our largest business, the cleaning and hygiene operations in France, saw resulted in a reduced operating profit.
Gross margin continues to be under pressure, in particular from thehealthcare and public sectors with cost control In Spain, extremely difficult economic circumstances led to a fall in measures at our customers continuing to impact our business, leading underlying sales in both the cleaning and hygiene and personal protection to a decline in operating profit.
Measures to increase gross margin and equipment businesses, although overall sales in the cleaning and hygiene reduce costs have been implemented with a view to improving future business were ahead due to the purchase of King Espana in 2011. profitability.
By contrast, our personal protection equipment business Margins have also fallen as a result of the weaker euro increasing import in France enjoyed good sales growth with an improved operating profit.
prices and competitive pressures although this has partially been mitigated by synergies achieved following the acquisition of King Espana.
In the Netherlands, sales continued to grow signicantly in our businesses supplying the food and non-food retail sectors.
Our healthcare business In central Europe, sales grew after the decline of 2011 with the strongest saw reasonable growth although the horeca hotel, restaurant and growth in the retail sector although the cleaning and hygiene and safety catering sector recorded a small decline.
Margins remain under pressure sectors also improved.
Margins, however, remain under pressure across although improved in the healthcare sector, partly due to synergies from the region leading to a lower level of operating profit.
Overall underlying operating profit improved and was further enhanced by the full year impact of the acquisition of D-Care In Israel, our foodservice disposables business, Silco, continued to deliver which was acquired in 2011. strong sales growth but margins have declined, partly due to the strength of the US dollar.
In April we acquired Zahav, a leading distributor of 2012 was the first full year of ownership of Majestic Products, a personal packaging supplies to the foodservice sector which is integrating well protection equipment and safety products business in the Netherlands, into the Group.
Belgium, Germany and the US.
While trading in the European businesses was soft, the US business recorded strong growth both in sales and operating profit, in particular due to the successful introduction of new products.
It also relocated to a larger, purpose-built facility to allow for further growth in the coming years.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED CONSOLIDATION WE HAVE AN EXTENSIVE FOOTPRINT OF WAREHOUSE FACILITIES ACROSS FOUR CONTINENTS WHICH MEANS THAT OUR PRODUCTS ARE NEVER FAR FROM WHERE THEY NEED TO BE.
WHETHER CUSTOMERS REQUIRE ORDERS FOR A NETWORK OF LOCATIONS OR INDIVIDUAL OUTLETS, WE CAN QUICKLY AND EASILY FACILITATE THEIR NEEDS FROM OUR BROAD RANGE OF STOCK KEEPING UNITS.
16 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 THAT OFFERS OUR CUSTOMERS ONE-STOP-SHOP SOLUTIONS BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED UK & IRELAND OUR ORGANIC REVENUE GROWTH INCREASED THIS YEAR TO ITS 86.5% HIGHEST LEVEL FOR FIVE YEARS AS WE CONTINUED TO IMPROVE RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL, OUR PERFORMANCE.
THE HIGHEST OF ALL OF THE BUSINESS AREAS.
Paul Budge Managing Director UK & Ireland In hospitality we saw good growth, particularly with high street coffee shops and contract caterers.
Our ability to offer an extensive range of own brand products, which complement branded products, helped to make savings for our customers and maintain our operating margins.
This remains a very competitive market, so we are conscious of the need to provide high levels of service at low levels of operating cost.
As part of our programme to deliver these, we have further rationalised our network and closed twolocations.
In our food retail business we have continued to increase sales by gaining an additional major grocery retailer during the year, together with the impact of a new grocery account won towards the end of 2011.
Our non-food retail packaging business had a successful year, despite the significant challenges being faced by many of our high street customers, Our businesses in the UK & Ireland have shown a continued improvement due to continuing strong demand from luxury branded retailers and the in performance in 2012.
Although total revenue was at at 992.1 million, acquisition of Indigo Concept Packaging in October.
Gross margins are due to the impact of the sale of vending in August 2011, operating profit under constant pressure in the retail supplies market and it is through increased 8% to 65.2 million.
In a market where demand is still offering innovative supply solutions and reducing customers existing costs suppressed and there is constant pressure from customers to make that we have managed to continue to be successful.
savings, we have achieved underlying growth and margin improvement by further developing our market position and by successfully integrating the Although the healthcare market has been challenged by ongoing recent acquisitions.
We have also improved results by constantly appraising government spending constraints, we have made good progress during our resource levels and operating efficiency, investing in product sourcing 2012.
This has been achieved by focusing on more profitable business, and procurement and the continued development of our own brands.
expanding and developing our range of own brand products and by taking measures to reduce operating costs.
During the year we also increased The London 2012 Olympics was an important event for Bunzl as we the efficiency of our operations by introducing a new electronic ordering provided a number of products specically for the Games through our platform for our customers.
These included catering disposables, healthcare consumables and cleaning and hygiene supplies.
In addition In spite of a continuing difficult economy in Ireland and the negative to the business opportunity it presented, we were able to enhance our impact of the weaker euro, our business there has seen further recovery reputation for delivering an outstanding level of service.
This reects the work that had already been done to reduce our cost base and improve the sales performance.
The overall market that we The safety market has continued to be subdued as a result of reduced serve has stabilised, reecting an increase in demand from hotels and the demand, particularly in the construction and industrial sectors, although hospitality sector.
We have also been successful in winning tenders for the results for the year of our safety supplies business were boosted by supply to government agencies and facilities management companies.
the integration of SIG Safety and Workwear which was purchased during This has enabled us to offset the ongoing weak demand from high street 2011.
Our cleaning and hygiene supplies business performed well retailers and the takeaway food market.
as a result of good organic growth in the facilities management sector and the full year impact of the Cannon Consumables business also acquired in 2011.
We remained focused on operating costs in this difficult environment and further consolidated the branch network of our cleaning and safety businesses, reducing the number of facilities by two.
18 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 REST OF THE WORLD OUR BUSINESS IN AUSTRALASIA HAS CONTINUED TO IMPROVE ITS OPERATIONAL 22% EFFICIENCY THROUGH INVESTMENT IN NEW FACILITIES AND TECHNOLOGY WHICH RISE IN OPERATING PROFIT AT SHOULD FACILITATE FURTHER GROWTH.
CONSTANT EXCHANGE RATES DUE TO STRONG ORGANIC GROWTH AND Kim Hetherington IMPACT FROM ACQUISITIONS.
Managing Director Australasia OUR EXPANSION INTO NEW COUNTRIES IN SOUTH AMERICA NOT ONLY EXTENDS OUR SAFETY BUSINESS IN THE REGION BUT ALSO PROVIDES A PLATFORM FOR FUTURE GROWTH INTO OTHER MARKET SECTORS.
Rodrigo Mascarenhas Managing Director South America In Rest of the World revenue increased 23% to 381.9 million while efforts to grow market share in the more resilient healthcare and resources profits rose 22% to 33.2 million.
Both Australasia and Brazil experienced sectors.
During the year we successfully integrated our largest business strong organic revenue growth with the results also benefitting from the onto the main IT platform which has improved operational performance impact of recent acquisitions.
and increased efficiency and service levels.
In Australasia, our largest business, Outsourcing Services, which supplies Our business in Australasia continues to invest in infrastructure and the healthcare, cleaning and catering sectors, continued to perform technology to enable the business to grow efficiently.
During 2012 two strongly and again delivered strong results.
This was achieved through a ofour business units successfully relocated their New South Wales 2 consistent strategy of focusing on the resilient market sectors and growing operations into our new 20,000m distribution centre in the Sydney market share in aged care facilities and hospitals where we supply a wide suburb of Eneld.
This facility will improve operational efficiency and range of disposable and medical consumables.
We also saw some solid represents a major investment to facilitate future growth in Australias growth with our catering and cleaning customers who supply into the most populated region.
In 2013 we will consolidate two further facilities mining and resource sectors.
In addition in April we made our first entry into this location as their current property leases expire.
into the redistribution sector through the acquisition of the redistribution business of Star Services International in Queensland.
In Brazil our personal protection equipment businesses performed well despite the continuing slowdown in the rate of economic growth as the To help consolidate our market position in healthcare, in October year progressed and weakness in the Brazilian real which particularly we acquired Atlas Health Care which is a major supplier of specialist impacted import prices.
Danny, the redistribution business with a focus healthcare consumables in South Australia.
This acquisition brings on own brands acquired in November 2011, was successfully integrated additional market specialisation and expertise in woundcare and nutrition into the Group and launched a series of new products.
profit Cap also grew and complements our current product offering.
The purchase of McNeil and increased its profitability, partly as a result of new customer wins Surgical in February 2013 will further strengthen our position in this particularly in the oil and gas sectors which are continuing to expand, and growing sector.
developed some important relationships with additional suppliers which has enhanced our product offering.
The recent acquisition of Vicsa Brasil, Although sales in our food processor business increased in 2012, it which was completed on 19 February 2013, complements and further performed below expectations.
The business is continuing to develop extends our range of safety products.
expertise with major national non-meat food processors which diversies and balances our stronger position with retail supermarkets.
We are also Ideal, the cleaning and hygiene business which was also acquired in 2011, gained a number of new accounts in the retail sector and was growing in our traditional markets by introducing a number of new product development initiatives.
The business has created capacity for continued able to realise operational efficiencies and increase the operating growth and made a number of operational improvements, recently margin through the implementation of a new IT system and a logistics implementing scanning technology into the warehouse operations, restructuring programme.
to improve accuracy and increase productivity in the future.
The purchase in December of Vicsa Safety with its operations in Chile, Our catering equipment businesses had a disappointing year as Peru, Argentina, Colombia and Mexico, expands our personal protection we continued to be challenged by further softening in the traditional equipment business in the region outside Brazil and provides Bunzl with hospitality markets.
To offset this, the business has been refocusing its an exciting first entry into five high growth safety markets.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 19 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED DELIVERING WITH OUR FLEETS OF DELIVERY VEHICLES AND THIRD PARTY CARRIERS, WE ARE ABLE TO GET PRODUCTS TO OUR CUSTOMERS IN A TIMELY MANNER.
WHETHER DELIVERIES ARE DAILY, WEEKLY OR MONTHLY, WE WORK WITH OUR CUSTOMERS TO MEET THEIR REQUIREMENTS AND ENABLE THEM TO FOCUS ON THEIR CORE BUSINESSES, HELPING TO INCREASE THE EFFICIENCY AND COMPETITIVENESS OF THEIR OPERATIONS.
20 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ON TIME TO KEEP YOUR BUSINESS MOVING BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2012 21
