chief executive officers letter A Great Step Forward Completing a record year in 2010 11, Burberry entered 2011 12 with excellent momentum and a less certain external outlook.
Following a strong rebound for luxury in 2010, the sectors prospects were less predictable amid the macro uncertainty.
In this context, management planned to drive near-term results by concentrating on core strategies, while committing significant investment to benefit the years ahead, ever watchful of a changing environment.
In the final analysis, the luxury consumer broadly remained healthy and the team successfully navigated the uncertainties realised Eurozone sovereign debt crisis, natural disaster in Japan and sluggish US recovery to advance its long-term objectives: great brand, great growth, great company.
Great brand Great brands stand for clearly dened attributes which are projected to provide a pure, uniform experience across all consumer touch points.
Our strategies are aimed at reinforcing the Burberry brands digital luxury positioning, ensuring consistency of experience and enriching the depth and accessibility of that experience in keeping with evolving consumer expectations.
Correcting legacy issues We continued to correct legacy practices inconsistent with target positioning.
In the wholesale channel, Burberry exited doors not aligned with brand status and invested Angela Ahrendts in presentation through both enhanced assortments and Chief Executive officer dedicated, customised real estate in key doors.
Although the outlet store format is primarily an inventory management tool, our objective is fewer stores located in the top outlet centres in each market.
Accordingly, selected outlet stores were closed or relocated in the year.
Transitioning Japan We continued efforts to integrate Japan with the modern British brand.
As part of upgrading todays premium positioning, an additional seven licensed categories were exited or downsized during the year, while we continued to invest in our early stage retail operation.
Rening merchandising and marketing strategies to convert this legacy market, the team achieved solid sales gains in the year in this initial phase of building the brands future platform in Japan.
12 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Launching Burberry Body Great growth Fragrance is the most widely encountered product In serving as stewards of this 156 year old heritage brand, management defines great growth in both qualitative and in the Burberry portfolio.
With the creation of Burberry Body, the brand added its most elevated proposition quantitative dimensions.
The goal is sustained, profitable in this category.
Launched simultaneously across digital growth over the long-term fully consistent with the brand and traditional platforms, the global media campaign, vision, values and positioning.
featuring the iconic trench coat within a new sensual context, communicated the brands modern luxury Driving productivity positioning to a wide consumer audience.
During the year, management focused on several operational initiatives to drive store productivity Presenting Burberry Bespoke among the most potent levers of profitable growth.
Burberry Bespoke also debuted during the year.
Consistent execution ensured new product owed This interactive online experience allows consumers to reset selling oors across all mediums monthly to explore the full possibilities of Burberrys iconic trench to continuously engage consumers.
Investment in coat silhouettes, fabrics, colours, hardware and design replenishment inventory improved availability of core a completely personalised edition made at our facility product.
Continued commitment to sales training and in England for delivery within eight weeks.
Offering the addition of new modules tailored to high growth over 12 million combinations and the most luxurious of markets enhanced consumer responsiveness globally.
features, Bespoke is the highest expression of the brand.
For the year, comparable store sales increased 14% Integrating the physical and digital on top of an 11% gain in 2010 11.
Burberrys stores and digital platforms both offer distinct Accelerating retail investment consumer advantages.
Stores, for example, provide the The Group accelerated retail expansion with the opening immediacy of physical product, while Burberry World, of 48 mainline stores and concessions.
By strengthening the brands digital headquarters, can conjure a products the brands position in agship cities around the world, image from the runway or place it within a customers we see opportunity to increase sales and mindshare in purchase history.
As part of a seamless brand experience, these high potential markets which offer a concentration we are working to integrate the benets of both arenas of both sophisticated local and travelling luxury consumers.
brand essence to product knowledge to selection to Retail capital investment increased 60% in the year with service through a range of activities, including digital approximately half concentrated in these markets.
Larger trunk shows, synchronised product presence, 360 degree format stores opened in Hong Kong, Paris and Sydney.
video view, 24 7 click-to-chat in 14 languages and use of Store renovation activity also accelerated, with emphasis iPads in store, blurring the lines between the physical and on agship markets.
During the year we incorporated our most up to date thinking in the London Regent Street store project.
Engaging China Scheduled to open in summer 2012, this is Burberrys Mainland China is among the worlds largest and fastest store of the future.
This is Burberry World Live.
As the economic trends and cultural dynamics indicate that its importance will continue to grow, Burberry is investing in China for the long-term.
Ten mainline and concession stores were opened, for a total of 63 stores at year end.
At the country level, we are adding senior management and talent.
Marketing efforts intensied with the brand staging one of its most prominent events of the year in Beijing in April 2011 and the customisation of content to gain a leading position in the local social media arena.
In stores, we continue to rene formats, assortments and develop a targeted service proposition.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 13 chief executive officers letter Continued Growth in adjusted diluted EPS Year to 31 March Investing in growth markets is a key valuation metric for Burberrys shareholders Burberry is also investing in the smaller markets of the 61.6p 2011 12 26% future.
From regional headquarters in Brazil, the Group opened two stores in Central and Latin America, in So 12 61.6 26% Paulo and Guadalajara.
In India, two stores were opened 11 48.9 39% and the Middle East region also added seven stores 10 35.1 16% in the year.
09 30.2 -4% 08 31.6 9% Intensifying product Outstanding product is the soul of the brand and Adjusted diluted EPS is stated before exceptional items.
Reported diluted EPS 59.3p the object of passionate attention whether to set 2011:46.9p.
2008 and 2009 include the results of discontinued Spanish operations.
a new luxury standard in our core outerwear category with the creation of Bespoke or to elevate the brands position in fragrance with Burberry Body.
In addition to these, menswear received intensive focus during the year.
At origin Burberry is a male brand, and with rising prominence of the male luxury consumer, particularly in growth markets, the brand sees further opportunity to capitalise on this heritage.
During the year, the menswear division intensied efforts in tailoring through new product development, sourcing arrangements, marketing activities and in-store merchandising and service.
The tailoring initiative was piloted in selected stores with expansion planned for 2012 13.
Mens non-apparel categories are among the fastest growing in luxury.
Accordingly, the team invested signicantly to elevate and expand assortments in this area.
In the year, mens non-apparel was Burberrys fastest growing business.
Building customer centricity In an increasingly digital world, businesses have ever greater opportunity to understand their target customer.
During the year, we accelerated investment in this area with the addition of dedicated expertise and technology solutions.
These are early steps on a multi-year path to gaining greater customer insight from which to develop the foresight that informs our decision and service processes.
Leveraging information investment While substantial investment in core information systems has improved Burberrys fundamental operating capability and enabled rapid growth in recent years, we continue to rene and expand use of these tools.
In 2011 12, this core was further leveraged across the supply chain to enhance procurement processes and more precisely time the ow of product capsules to stores.
In the merchandising sphere, intelligence gained from consistent global data and reporting sharpened both pre-season buying and assortment decisions and in-season responsiveness.
14 Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 Great company During the year, the Foundation, which receives the A truly great company is great beyond its customers.
large majority of the Groups annual contribution of 1% For employees, it is an inspiring, rewarding place to of pre-tax profits composed of both cash and products, work.
While society broadly benets from the commercial such as British-made trench coats and other outerwear, contribution of a healthy business, a great company small leather goods, handbags, totes and mufers to more actively applies its resources in favour of greater philanthropic causes, continued to support organisations social value.
And, if a company achieves these, it should in key communities in which Burberry operates, and also deliver attractive financial returns for shareholders.
facilitated Burberrys first global staff volunteering day.
The Foundations success has further raised our aspirations.
Enabling creative thinking We recognise that constrained governments increasingly Today, innovation is vital to every business and essential need businesses with their expertise and other resources to luxury.
At Burberry, we organise ourselves to maximise to play a larger role in society.
So we ask ourselves, given cross-functional, collaborative interaction reporting a brand, talent and culture able to engage the interests relationships that integrate traditionally segregated silos of consumers around the world, what else can we do?
Marketing and IT, governing bodies that pair seasoned What is Burberrys larger role?
This is work for the future.
executives with the next generation of talent a council to dream, and a willingness to deconstruct and evolve Great financial results our structure as needs arise and the business grows These activities have positioned Burberry well for the years a new mobile commerce department.
The unconventional ahead, while delivering record financial results in the present.
interaction within this network drives the rich innovation Revenue increased 23% underlying to 1,857m.
A 14% the Tweetwalk a pioneering fashion show on Twitter, comparable store sales gain combined with 11% space Bespoke, the addition of weather to a runway show expansion and a 6% contribution from the China acquisition that fuels our business.
to produce 31% underlying retail revenue growth to 1,270m.
Wholesale revenue increased 8% underlying 14% excluding Building the social enterprise the China transition to 478m.
Licensing revenue increased Connecting through constant communication is a key 5% underlying driven by strong performances in fragrance, aspect of this culture.
During the year, we undertook timepieces and eyewear.
The business achieved double-digit development of a sophisticated communications gains across all product divisions and regions.
Adjusted platform built around social media architecture to operating profit increased 25% to 377m with retail more closely connect our nearly 9,500 employees.
wholesale operating profit growing 31% on a 25% revenue Incorporating interactive tools to enhance access gain achieving an historical high 16.4% retail wholesale to people and information globally, this will be the operating margin.
Capital investment totalled 153m focal point of communication and knowledge internally and the Group ended the year with 338m of cash.
and extend to external partners next year.
Investing in Britain A great year As home of the brand, Britain is a special place for In concluding a great year, I once again thank the global Burberry.
We continue to build the team at our global Burberry community.
This starts with the internal Burberry headquarters in London, committing to a second building team, and extends equally to our external relationships in Westminster during the year.
The Group further invested suppliers, customers and licensing and franchise partners.
in its trench coat manufacturing facility in Yorkshire Burberrys excellent performance springs from the work in our effort to build a world-class operation.
As part of this amazing community with all its expertise, passion, of this, we are also funding a training academy and dedication and loyalty.
Its exciting and an honour to work apprentice programme to develop skills in the next alongside all of you on this mission the opportunity has Burberry generation.
With a solid, balanced foundation in place, we can continue to create a great brand with great Enhancing social value growth, resulting in a truly great company relevant for another Supporting the Burberry Foundation dedicated to 150 years.
I look forward to Burberrys exciting years ahead.
helping young people realise their dreams through the power of creativity is also an integral part of our culture.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report 2011 12 15
