Our PrOgress GrouP chIEf EXEcutIvES rEvIEW.
Legal & Generals strong earnings per share EPS and cash flow growth underpin our 20% growth individend.
Double-digit sales growth showed EarnInGS PEr SharE the strength and value of the products we provide for consumers, companies and institutions.
13.9p Our strong performance reflects This year we also undertook several 2011: 12.42p the importance and resilience of broader pieces of research looking insurance, savings and investment atchanges to demographics and life across all our markets.
Our stages, the low levels of savings and rEturn on EQuIty performance was particularly protection in the UK and the impact strong in the UK a zero-growth this can have on peoples lives if 15.5% economy, with falling real wages, theyfind themselves unable to work.
2011: 14.9% huge structural imbalances and a In our 35Cubed review we saw a rapidly ageing population.
We also changing and complex network of performed well in similarly challenged financial transactions within families.
economies such as the US and Our Deadline to the Breadline report uK PEnSIonErS Who DEPEnD France, as well as making good highlighted that the average UK on uS for thEIr IncoME progress in high-growth economies familystill has only 19 days before such as the Gulf, China and India.
705,000 2011: 661,000 What EvEry Day MattErS IncrEaSInG our MEanS to My coLLEaGuES  EMPLoyEE EnGaGEMEnt InDEX During 2012 we worked hard to During the year we made changes embed our Every Day Matters to management structures to bring organising thought, which sits at the international operations closer to 78% heart of our brand, into everything the main UK operating divisions, 2011: 76% we do.
This included a One Day so as to benefit from their scale and exercise in September where we expertise.
Our operations in France asked employees to tell us about their and the Netherlands now sit under Go online to see a video presentation interactions with customers and each John Pollock in Protection and from CEO Nigel Wilson other on that day.
Throughout this Annuities, whilst our joint venture legalandgeneralgroup.
com report you will find examples of their in India has been moved to our experiences and the difference we Savings business under Mark make to our millions of customers Gregory.
We also rotated many of every day.
our senior managers into new roles.
indd 6 25 03 2013 12:04 OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmAncE OUR APPROAch GOVERnAncE fInAncIAl StAtEmEntS OthER InfORmAtIOn froM Profit to PurPose usinG technoLoGY to iMProve custoMer service we have also focused on harnessing Legal & Generals 12% growth in ePs reflects our improving technology to provide better services business strengths in project execution, operational scale and to customers.
colleagues successfully efficient manufacturing and distribution.
We have plenty of ambition, implemented challenging technical capability andopportunity to grow earnings further in2013 projects, including our successful Retail Distribution Review RDR and Beyond this, as a socially useful company, we play a wide role in providing pensions auto enrolment propositions.
financial services to our customers at the most exciting, critical or difficult moments in their lives providing investment and associated growth for the MaXiMisinG the PotentiaL wider economy and through our csR work in many of the communities in of chanGinG MarKets which we operate.
2012 saw significant regulatory changes, which will impact our trianGLe of austeritY strateGY anD outLooK: industry and its customers.
These Developed economies are locked acceLerateD evoLution included the RDR, ending the payment in aTriangle of Austerity: Opportunities to accelerate of commission on retail investment Fiscal austerity as governments our evolution include further products, the unwelcome abolition cut spending.
of gender-based pricing for insurance Regulatory austerity as risk is we have already succeeded in products following a European reduced.
winning new investment mandates court ruling, and the introduction Funding austerity as banks shrink in the Us, Europe, the Gulf, and Asia, of pensions auto enrolment.
balance sheets and cut lending.
and are well positioned to access some of the major pools of funds we responded effectively to these Each of these is creating opportunities available for investment internationally.
changes, introducing new RDRfor Legal & General.
compliant propositions for advisers, we also see opportunities to extend growing our distribution capability Fiscal austerity the UK Government our experience in the provision of through new partnerships has debt of over 1tn, and an protection and retirement solutions particularlywith building societies, unsustainable deficit of 120bn for companies and individuals into and implementing gender-neutral andfalling government spending on further international markets, pricing ahead of the deadline.
welfare means that more individuals will andexpand our role as a principal pensions auto enrolment was a need to make greater use of protection.
investorin infrastructure, property particular success: the Government Greater longevity and an ageing andbusinesses.
should be congratulated for driving population requires greater pension this through.
we expect to auto-enrol saving through auto enrolment and Digital technology creates improved 500,000 employees of major companies, more flexibility in decumulation opportunities for customer servicing including the co-op, Boots, Asda, mechanisms includingannuities.
and interaction, as well as further Barclays and Marks &spencer by efficiency gains in processing.
Regulatory austerity and fide-risking, wehave delivered successfully including for pension funds in the UK on digital projects in 2012, but more The timetable for the EUs solvency II and internationally, will enable us to remains to be done, and this is an legislation has slipped further, with extend our established 64bn areaof strategic focus for us.
implementation now unlikely before business delivering liability-driven 2017. we submitted our internal investment, and in pension buyouts.
Our strong balance sheet moreover capital model to the regulator gives us additional options to grow in November.
The cost of this Funding austerity and shrinking bank through disciplined, selective programme for Legal & General balance sheets create new long term acquisitions, and we have recently isalmost 140m, and for the UK investment opportunities, for example increased our in-house M&A capability.
in infrastructure and housing, for we regard these costs as indefensible insurers including Legal & General.
during a period of financial crisis.
we have already invested over 1.2bn in these sectors in the UK.
niGeL WiLson GrouP chief eXecutive annual report and accounts 2012 7 68906 L&G p004-023.
