Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 14 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 GROuP cHiEF EXEcuTiVEs REViEW Antnio Horta-Osrio Significantly improved Group performance with core business increasingly well positioned for growth.
in addition to investing for sustainable growth and returns in our core Summary business, we are reducing risk through substantial reductions in our non-core in 2012, we accelerated the delivery of our strategic initiatives and are asset portfolios and a sustainable approach to risk in our core business, which now ahead of our plan to transform the Group, despite the challenging together have resulted in a significant reduction in the impairment charge.
economic environment and continued regulatory uncertainty.
As a result We are also continuing to reduce risk and strengthen the balance sheet by of our actions, the Group is now in a far stronger position, with capital reducing wholesale funding, lowering operational leverage and building ratios further improved, our funding position transformed, a significant higher capital ratios.
We expect these initiatives, together with our focus on and capital-accretive reduction in non-core assets achieved, costs lower-volatility retail and commercial banking, to lower our risk premium over reduced in absolute terms and asset quality further improved.
While time, and give us a significant competitive advantage.
legacy issues, notably payment protection insurance PPi, resulted in the Group still reporting a loss at the statutory level, our achievements resulted in a significant improvement in both Group underlying and 2012 results overview statutory performance, and continued strong returns, above our cost of We delivered Group underlying profit before tax of 2,607 million in 2012, equity, being delivered in our core business.
a substantial increase of approximately 2 billion when compared to 2011 reflecting a significant reduction in losses in our non-core business We are a uK focused retail and commercial bank, and our aim, as defined and stable profitability in the core business.
income fell by 13 per cent to in our strategic Review in June 2011 is to build a strong competitive 18,386 million as a result of customer deleveraging and lower margins advantage in terms of operational efficiency and risk premium, that will in the core business, and the substantial 42.3 billion reduction in the allow us to become the best bank for customers.
However, this was more than offset by our actions Our drive to enhance operational efficiency and improve service to significantly reduce costs, which fell 5 per cent to 10,082 million, and continued at a pace in 2012, notably through the successful execution of by further improvements in asset quality, which resulted in a 42 per cent our simplification programme.
due to the progress made, we are now reduction in the impairment charge to 5,697 million.
very close to achieving our original target of around 10 billion of total On a statutory basis, the Group reported a loss before tax of 570 million, costs, two years ahead of plan.
We are now targeting a further reduction in with the principal reconciling items with underlying profit being provisions Group total costs to around 9.8 billion in 2013. taken during the year in relation to the legacy issues of payment protection At the same time as achieving this further absolute reduction in costs, we insurance and interest rate hedging products iRHP sold to small and have re-invested a third of our simplification savings and we are continuing medium-sized businesses sMEs of 3,575 million and 400 million to strengthen our core business by directing this investment to products respectively, a profit from asset sales of 2,547 million, and simplification and channels which better meet the needs of our customers.
The provision and Ec mandated retail business disposal costs together amounting to of simpler and more transparent products and services to our customers, 1,246 million.
Other reconciling items, which are detailed on pages 47 built around their needs and delivered efficiently, is a key part of regaining and 48 of this annual report in the Group Finance directors Review, their trust.
The speed of our progression towards becoming the best bank resulted in a net charge of 503 million.
The statutory loss before tax of for customers is clearly demonstrated by increasing customer advocacy 570 million represented a significant improvement on last years statutory and steadily falling levels of banking complaints excluding PPi.
The core business continues to deliver strong and stable returns above our cost of equity, with a return on risk-weighted assets of 2.56 per cent achieved in 2012, an increase of 10 basis points when compared to 2011 despite the challenging environment, with a small reduction in underlying profit of 42 million to 6,154 million being more than offset by a reduction of 6.1 billion in core risk-weighted assets.
We continued to reduce costs in the core business, where they fell 5 per cent to 9,212 million, while the continued application of our conservative risk appetite meant that asset quality remained good, and the core impairment charge reduced by 968 million to 1,919 million.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Introduction 1 14 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group performance 2 Group key performance indicators 4 Divisional overview and KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives review 14 18 77 115 203 355 We made substantial progress in reshaping the Group and strengthening the balance sheet.
We have proactively managed the run-down of our 5% 98.4 billion non-core assets, reducing the portfolio by almost a third in 12 months Total costs non-core assets to 98.4 billion, ahead of plan, and we have continued to do so in a Total costs reduced to 10.1 billion, in We have proactively managed the capital-accretive way.
We have transformed our funding structure with line with strategic review target two years run-down of our non-core assets by almost our use of wholesale funding reduced by 81.6 billion in the year, and ahead of plan.
the average maturity profile of the remaining wholesale funding further improved, with less than 30 per cent now having a maturity of under one year.
The non-core reduction, together with above market deposit growth of 4 per cent, resulted in the Groups loan to deposit ratio reducing to 121 per cent, with the core loan to deposit ratio at 101 per cent, in line The benefits of the simplification programme extend far beyond cost with our core long-term target of 100 per cent.
customers and staff are already benefiting from faster, more automated and less complex processes: for example, in commercial We further strengthened our capital ratios in 2012, with the Group core Banking we improved the lending process allowing businesses to receive tier 1 capital ratio increasing by 1.2 per cent to 12.0 per cent and our their funds in almost half the time, while mobile and voice recognition total capital ratio increasing by 1.7 per cent to 17.3 per cent, which is technologies and simpler, faster processes in Retail and a quicker already in excess of the icBs primary loss-absorbing capacity PlAc claims process in insurance are further examples of how our actions are recommendations.
On an estimated pro forma cRd iV fully loaded contributing to increased customer advocacy.
basis the Groups common equity tier 1 capital ratio would have been 8.1 per cent, including the successful resolution of two cRd iV items now Reinvesting a proportion of the savings from the simplification likely to happen.
Given our strongly capital generative core business and programme into our core franchise allows us to provide even greater levels continued progress in simultaneously releasing capital and reducing risk of support and service to our customers.
through non-core asset disposals, we continue to be confident in our in Retail, investment in our digital distribution capabilities continues to capital position.
be rewarded with the number of active internet customers increasing by The substantial progress we are delivering in reducing risk and delivering 1.2 million in 2012 to 9.5 million, whilst our mobile banking apps, which were on our strategic initiatives was reflected in the outcome of Moodys launched in October 2011, now have 3.3 million users.
We also achieved a investor service rating review of 114 financial institutions, where we major milestone of over a billion customer logons for the year.
Alongside received only a single notch downgrade on lloyds TsB Bank plcs our digital services we are committed to investing in our branch network longer-term senior debt and deposit ratings, and retained our short-term and refurbished 421 branches in 2012 and extended our opening hours.
Prime-1 rating in June 2012. in recognition of our ongoing commitment to customers we received a number of external awards including Best Overall lender at the Your Mortgage Awards for the eleventh consecutive year and a three star mark Accelerated delivery of strategic initiatives from the Fairbanking Foundation for the lloyds TsB classic Account.
in addition to further strengthening our balance sheet, we have made As part of being the best bank for customers, and reflecting the fact substantial progress in the execution of the other elements of our strategic that the re-focusing of our sME business on delivery for customers is plan to be the best bank for our customers, through reshaping and well under way, we announced the creation of our commercial Banking simplifying our business and investing in our core franchise.
division which brings together the Groups sME clients together with As we reshaped our business portfolio, we delivered improving credit larger corporate uK and global clients under the leadership of Andrew quality trends in all divisions thanks to the rigorous application of risk Bester who joined us in June 2012.
The changes will allow us to transfer controls on all new business and the further fide-risking of existing best practices from sMEs into mid-sized corporates and to deliver portfolios.
As a result, we achieved a further reduction in the Group operational synergies between the different segments in order to become impairment charge of 42 per cent to 5,697 million, significantly ahead the best bank for our corporate and sME customers.
of our expectation at the beginning of 2012.
The improving quality of our portfolios and their decreasing risk profile was also reflected Across commercial Banking, as part of our programme to enhance our in a 12 per cent decrease in risk-weighted assets when compared to capabilities in capital efficient products, we have continued to invest in december 2011, principally driven by the reduction in non-core assets.
the Transaction Banking platform, delivering new product propositions in card Payments & Acceptance, currencies and international cash in line with our uK-focused strategy, we have made further progress Management.
We also continued to invest in enhancing our online in reducing our international presence, and have now completed or capabilities, with the number of clients migrating to our foreign exchange announced our exit from twelve countries or overseas branches, as well as and money market e-portal Arena tripling in 2012.
We also launched announcing a reduced presence in a further four locations.
specialised products, including a deposit account tailored to the needs of Our Simplification programme is central to the successful delivery of our businesses in the agricultural sector.
We were voted Business Bank of the strategy and we continue to make significant progress in driving further Year for the eighth consecutive year at the Real Fd cBi Excellence awards, cost savings and efficiencies throughout the business.
We have reviewed a testament to our support for British businesses.
our organisational structures, increasing average spans of control and Within the Wealth business we have continued to leverage our expertise reducing the average number of management layers, while our cost to deepen customer insight and to invest in products and services Board continued to drive a focus on cost efficiency by business line and that are tailored to meet the needs of our clients.
in preparation for the by functional category.
The success of this approach is evidenced by our implementation of the Retail distribution Review RdR we invested achievement of run rate cost savings from the programme of 847 million in training our advisers to ensure that they are fully-qualified and at the end of 2012, ahead of plan, an achievement which gives us best-positioned to continue to advise clients, and ensured that our confidence in reaching our run rate cost savings target of 1.9 billion by the systems and processes comply with new standards.
in 2012, we also end of 2014. launched our private banking client centre which improved the onboarding experience for our uK Wealth clients, whilst making the referral process simpler for colleagues.
We have a strong market position in Asset Finance and have continued to invest in our technology platform in 2012 to provide an improved, cost-effective customer experience.
Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 16 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 GROuP cHiEF EXEcuTiVEs REViEW lloyds Banking Group is an important institution for the prosperity and growth of the uK and we are committed to nurturing uK business.
The lloyds TsB Enterprise Awards, now in their second year, celebrate innovation, drive and dedication within uK businesses and provided a number of winners with business support and a cash prize to invest in their business in 2012.
For our uK Retail customers, we provided 26.2 billion of gross new mortgage lending in 2012.
This included supporting over 55,000 customers in buying their first home, equivalent to one in every four first time buyers.
We also launched a number of innovative shared equity and shared ownership mortgage offers as well as supporting the local lend a Hand scheme which has helped over 900 first time buyers to become homeowners.
Our customers must be the focus of everything we do, and getting customer service right is at the heart of our strategy.
The further substantial improvement in our net Promoter scores in 2012 shows the progress we Mortgages have made in rebuilding trust with our customers.
We also delivered a We provided 26.2 billion of gross new mortgage substantial reduction in FsA reportable banking complaints, excluding lending in 2012.
This included supporting PPi, ending 2012 with one of the best performances of uK banks with just over 55,000 customers in buying their first home, 1.1 complaints per 1,000 accounts.
We have now brought forward the 2014 equivalent to one in every four first time buyers.
complaint reduction target of 1.0 complaint per 1,000 accounts to 2013. in 2012, and over the past five years, we have supported many of our customers in their involvement in, and initiatives relating to, london 2012.
Through our partnership with the Olympic and Paralympic Games, we supported 1 in 3 of the 2,000 companies that won london 2012 contracts, and played our role in the unprecedented success of the Games for the uK.
in insurance, we continued to invest in our core systems, products and processes in advance of RdR and the launch of pension auto-enrolment, to enable us to support both retail and commercial customers through Greater clarity emerging on this period of change.
We have taken the first steps towards launching an UK regulatory framework enhanced annuities proposition, with full implementation into this growing in October the Government published the draft Financial services Bill, market expected in mid-2013.
We are pleased with the further progress the first step in implementing the recommendations of the independent in enhancing our proposition, with scottish Widows being recognised commission on Banking.
We support the recommendation to for its products, service and quality, receiving a number of industry ring-fence retail banking operations, and recent proposals to ensure its awards including Best Group Pension Provider in the corporate Adviser implementation, as we believe that it will result in a safer, more stable uK Awards 2012. banking sector and economy, and will therefore require lower capital and liquidity requirements than would otherwise be necessary.
Further supporting our customers and the We agree with the Financial Policy committee that banks need to focus on UK economy strengthening their balance sheets in order to become increasingly resilient Our future and that of the uK economy are inextricably linked, and as the and to support the economy, and this is entirely consistent with the Groups largest uK retail and commercial bank we are aware of the importance strategy and the progress we continue to deliver.
Greater clarification of our role in helping Britain prosper and the mutual benefit of doing so.
from both the uK regulator and the European union on rules surrounding Our utilisation of the uK Governments Funding for lending scheme Fls capital, funding and liquidity is expected to be received in 2013. underlined our support in 2012 for the uK economic recovery.
We were the first bank to participate in the scheme and have committed in excess Dividends of 11 billion in gross funds to customers through the scheme since its We remain committed to recommencing dividend payments when the launch in september, having only drawn 3 billion from the scheme so far.
financial position of the Group and market conditions permit and after We are committed to passing the financial benefit of this low-cost funding regulatory capital requirements are clearly defined and prudently met.
on to our customers and to the areas that can be of the most economic Although we made considerable progress in 2012, given regulatory benefit to the uK, including sMEs and first time home buyers.
uncertainty and the statutory loss in the year, a dividend payment has not sMEs play a key part in uK economic growth and we continued to been recommended this year.
We exceeded our sME charter lending commitment of 13 billion, having increased the original 12 billion target eC mandated business disposal Project verde during the year, while also committing to lend an extra 1 billion to uK manufacturing businesses.
in addition, we beat our three year target of We continue to make good progress in the creation of Verde as a assisting 300,000 new start-ups by the end of 2012, helping to stimulate stand-alone bank which, as contemplated from the start of the process, economic output and improve business confidence.
This support for uK will allow the Group to divest the business either through a sale or an sME customers is underlined by our net sME lending growth of 4 per cent initial Public Offering.
From the summer 2013, Verde will be operating as a in the year, for the second year running, compared to the market which separate business within the lloyds Banking Group under the TsB brand.
saw a reduction in net lending to sMEs of 4 per cent.
We reached an agreement on non-binding Heads of Terms with The co-operative Group plc in July 2012 and continue to make progress with these discussions towards signing a binding sales purchase agreement.
Our aim remains to obtain best value for our shareholders as well as certainty, also for our customers and colleagues, while complying with the Ec requirement to divest the business by the end of november 2013.
Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Introduction 1 16 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Group performance 2 Group key performance indicators 4 Divisional overview and KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 10 Group Chief Executives review 14 18 77 115 203 355 We aim to ensure that all of our colleagues uphold the highest ethical Addressing legacy issues including payment standards and have the right tools to do their jobs, and in part this will be protection insurance achieved by creating a positive working environment.
As part of this, we The Group continues to address legacy issues, and remains committed have continued to develop our internal programmes supporting diversity, to resolving them and treating our customers fairly.
The Group has enhancing our ability to retain and attract talent across the Group.
in had further experience of PPi complaint volumes, uphold rates and september 2012 we launched our codes of Responsibility which define operational and redress costs since our third quarter 2012 interim how we aspire to do business and which provide all our stakeholders Management statement.
As a consequence, we have made a further colleagues, customers, communities and suppliers with clarity and provision of 1,500 million in the fourth quarter, which brings the amount transparency about what we stand for, helping us to rebuild our culture provided for PPi in 2012 to 3,575 million, and the total amount provided to and reinforce our values.
Total costs incurred to the end of 2012 were 4,344 million, Remuneration continues to be an important topic for the Group and for including approximately 700 million of related administration costs.
We are actively working to ensure continued alignment Given the agreement with the FsA reached on 30 January 2013 following between performance and reward, and that colleagues are appropriately the outcome of a pilot review of iRHP sales to small and medium-sized incentivised, with variable pay reflecting effective risk controls and the businesses, the Group now believes it is appropriate to increase its best outcome for customers.
Bonus awards are subject to deferral and provision for iRHP by 310 million in the fourth quarter, based on the adjustment, and in 2012 total discretionary awards were approximately revised estimates of redress and related administration costs.
The 3 per cent lower than last year.
salary rewards have been limited, and provision in relation to iRHP redress is now 300 million, and we have also frozen at more senior levels for the second year running, to reflect the provided for 100 million of related administration costs, all of which was continuing challenging economic environment.
Outlook Our commitment to colleagues After a year of challenging economic conditions in 2012, we expect to The progress we continue to deliver and our achievements in 2012 are a see some economic growth in 2013, although this is expected to be product of the commitment, drive and performance of our colleagues, below-trend, with the Bank of England base rate remaining at current and we see a real opportunity to improve engagement across all parts of levels.
However, house prices are expected to rise slowly and the Fls the Group.
should progressively have a further impact on lending.
some stabilisation in the Eurozone, combined with lower borrowing costs, should see The results of our colleague survey shows strong levels of engagement investment start to contribute to the improving environment.
Future in some areas, such as using customer feedback to improve processes.
economic developments do, however, remain dependent on progress in However work still remains to ensure that lloyds Banking Group is a great the Eurozone, and the impact of new banking regulation on the supply of place to work.
The current economic climate, and the constant focus credit to the economy.
on the financial services sector has undoubtedly affected colleague engagement, but we now have a real opportunity, through visible action, in this context, and with continuing successful delivery against our to improve engagement across the Group which in turn will continue to strategic initiatives, we are targeting core loan growth in the second support the delivery of our strategy.
half of 2013 and an increase in the Group net interest margin to around 1.98 per cent for the full year.
We anticipate a further improvement in asset quality, driving an expected substantial reduction in the 2013 impairment charge, with the correspondent increase in underlying profit before tax, while we also expect costs will continue to decrease with Group total costs reduced to around 9.8 billion in 2013.
We also remain confident in meeting our medium-term guidance.
We expect to reduce the non-core asset portfolio at least by a further 20 billion in 2013, and we therefore remain on track to achieve a non-core asset portfolio of 70 billion or less by the end of 2014, with more than half of this amount in retail assets.
Conclusion We have delivered a substantial transformation of lloyds Banking Group in the first 18 months of delivery on our strategy, despite a challenging environment and the need to address legacy issues.
We are now ahead of plan in creating a competitive advantage through a reduced risk premium SMe lending and best-in-class efficiency.
We are making significant investments in our We exceeded our 2012 sME charter lending simple, lower-risk, customer-focused uK retail and commercial banking commitment of 13 billion, while also committing to lend model, thereby continuing to support our customers and helping Britain an extra 1 billion to uK manufacturing businesses.
We expect this to enable us to return to profitability and to grow our core business, to realise our full potential to deliver strong, stable and sustainable returns to shareholders, and to allow uK taxpayers investment in the Group to be repaid.
Antnio Horta-Osrio Group chief Executive Overview Business review Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 business review Marketplace trends 19 Business model and strategy 22 delivering our action plan 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 customers 30 colleagues 34 communities 38 Risk overview 42 summary of Group results 44 divisional results Retail 52 commercial Banking 55 Wealth, Asset Finance and international 59 insurance 63 Group Operations & central items 67 Other financial information core and non-core business analysis 68 Volatility arising in insurance businesses 74 Banking net interest margin 75 Five year financial summary 76
