14 Overview London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2012 Chief Executives review Introduction and overview This has been a notable year for the Group.
We have delivered a strong financial performance, made significant progress on our diversification strategy and we begin the year ahead strongly placed to take advantage of the opportunities that our dynamic and evolving landscape continues to present.
Our business now represents a well diversified international portfolio of markets, products and services, spread across both asset class and geography.
This breadth of offering gives the Group greater scope to continue to pursue the strategy that we outlined nearly three years ago of getting in shape, leveraging our assets and developing opportunities.
This strategy is now delivering real results, providing the Group with growth, performance We are continuing our transformation, and resilience.
We are pleased to report that this strategic focus has delivered a strong financial performance, with the Group in an industry that is undergoing reporting total income of 814.8 million, a 21 per cent increase widespread structural and regulatory on the prior year and adjusted operating profit up by 30 per cent to 441.9million.
We also remain firmly focused on cost discipline change.
As a team, we remain and continuing to deliver improved operational efficiencies.
resolutely focused on our strategy, Our business is made up of four growth-focused complementary in navigating the complex global business divisions: Capital Markets: Post Trade Services: Information Services: and Technology Services.
All four areas macro economic environment and performed well during the year and reported a number of highlights.
We Capital Markets Our fixed income markets grew 10 per cent while our UK and Italian are excited about the opportunities cash equities markets and our derivatives operations were broadly available to us and we expect to make flat in revenue terms.
Our primary markets delivered good growth with an increase in total revenues for the year of eight per cent, further good strategic progress.
though adverse market volatility in the second half of the year did impact on issuance levels and secondary market trading.
Small and Medium Sized enterprises SMEs are the key to driving economic growth in the UK and across Europe.
Throughout the year we have been active proponents of initiatives that look to create a thriving ecosystem for these companies, helping them to become the corporate success stories of tomorrow.
Our dedicated equity markets for SMEs continue to develop, providing access to equity investment for a wide range of companies.
Our retail bond markets, MOT in Italy, and ORB in the UK, have also been the source of a significant number of successful placements.
Since it was launched just two years ago, ORB has raised over 1.5billion, demonstrating the need for such a platform in the UK.
BTP Italia, a new Italian Government bond dedicated to retail investors, raised 7.3billion when it launched on MOT in March 2012, reinforced MOTs position as the preferred platform for Italian Government bonds, for both private and professional investors.
During the year, 500 new bonds were also listed on MOT with a nominal value of 719billion.
The year also saw the launch of Turquoise Derivatives, which combined the Groups existing derivatives platform, EDX, with the MTF business that we own in conjunction with some of our key customers.
Turquoise Derivatives has already firmly established itself as the leading EU marketplace for trading Russian equity and index derivatives and now also offers trading in FTSE100 Index Futures and Options.
This new offering has been greeted with much enthusiasm from customers and we hope in the future to develop awider range of index products through FTSE that can be traded on Turquoise Derivatives.
The Group celebrated ten years of trading on its International Order Book IOB in 2011.
It has demonstrated tremendous growth since its inception and is now the worlds most liquid market for trading Overview Business review Governance Group financial statements Shareholder information Overview Annual Report 2012 15 in Global Depositary Receipts GDRs.
It has raised over Technology Services 40.6billion in primary and secondary market issues for MillenniumIT has transformed the technology offering of the Group.
companies from 48countries and continues to attract interest Its low-latency, highly scalable trading platform has been in place from global companies looking to list their GDRs in London.
on the UK cash equities market for a full year and Turquoise for 18months.
This new platform has revolutionised how customers view Post Trade Services the Groups technology offering and we are already well advanced In 2009, we stated our commitment to developing the Groups on our plans to migrate Borsa Italiana to the platform later this year.
post trade capabilities, especially in clearing.
Since then this business has made increasingly significant contributions to Group As well as delivering technology for the Group, MillenniumIT income, driven by growth in clearing volumes and increased has successfully grown its third-party capital markets customer treasury income from our central counterparty business, CC&G.
Over the year we announced a number of notable contract wins including the supply of trading systems This year our Post Trade division delivered organic revenue up to the Delhi Stock Exchange.
We have also continued to make 10per cent reflecting growth across all core areas of this strongly progress on previously announced wins including to the performing business.
Including net treasury income, total income Mongolian Stock Exchange and Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
grew by well over 50 per cent.
Demand for the cash we place on deposit in the Italian inter-bank market remained strong through Low cost, flexible, resilient technology remains a cornerstone the year and the spreads achieved remained high.
Looking forward, of our operations and we continue to actively invest in our skills, we expect that as market conditions improve and increasing expertise and capabilities in this area, including the further stability returns to the inter-bank market this will result in a more expansion of our technology campus in Colombo, Sri Lanka.
normalised return from our treasury management activities.
Outlook On 9 March the Group announced its intention to acquire a majority We have made significant progress over the last year in delivering stake of up to 60 per cent in LCH.
This transformative on our strategic objectives.
The Group is in very good shape and deal, which has recently received the overwhelming support of our business is increasingly well balanced and well diversified.
both sets of shareholders, will secure a leading role in global market We continue to operate in an environment where new regulation infrastructure for the enlarged Group in partnership with our and regulatory change dominate.
Fundamental shifts in the customers.
The transaction pioneers an open-access, horizontal way markets are structured and governed creates significant model, working with our customers for the benefit of the market opportunities and challenges for us, and we remain alert and as awhole.
We have been encouraged by progress Responding to market demand for trusted, efficient, scaled international to date, in particular around proposals which will have significant infrastructure providers, the transaction further builds upon implications for competition, especially in the exchange traded the Groups existing post trade offering.
We are in the process of derivatives space.
Although the outcome of all this regulatory obtaining the necessary regulatory and antitrust approvals and change is not clear, the Group is committed to active engagement expect to complete the transaction by the fourth quarter of2012.
and discussion with policy makers around the world, promoting safe, efficient, competitive, innovative, successful capital markets Information Services those in which all participants can thrive.
In December, we were delighted to announce that we had acquired the 50 per cent of FTSE that we did not already own for 450million.
Over the coming year we will remain focused on successfully FTSE is a world-leading global index business and for the last integrating new acquisitions, delivering on the stated cost and fiveyears, it has grown at an impressive CAGR of over 20 per cent, revenue synergies.
We will continue to partner with our customers reflecting its justly deserved reputation for innovation and customer to drive innovation and new services and build on the success of focus, as well as its globally recognised international brand and its our with customer models already in place at MTS and Turquoise.
portfolio of 200,000 indices across 80 countries.
Finally, I am particularly proud of the way our staff around the world Entirely consistent with our strategy, this acquisition brings to are embracing change, driving our business forward and working as the Group great opportunities for our customers to benefit from a team.
There is always more to do, but they have excelled this year.
complementarity within our combined businesses.
FTSE is a We are continuing our transformation, in an industry that strong fit with our listed derivatives operations, it will help with the is undergoing widespread structural and regulatory change.
development of new tradable products, it will enhance our global The current macro economic environment, particularly in Europe, reach and provide additional exposure and growth opportunities is evolving rapidly and remains uncertain, but the Groups breadth in indices, data and analytics.
Importantly it also increases our and diversity continues to provide resilience and a strong platform direct exposure to global buy-side firms.
from which to seek opportunities.
As a team, we remain resolutely FTSE is a business with a proven track record, strong management focused on our strategy, in navigating the complex global macro and very good growth characteristics, and we look forward economic environment and in delivering shareholder value.
to developing the business further over the coming months.
We are excited about the opportunities available to us and we expect to make further good strategicprogress.
Elsewhere within Information Services, we also completed the acquisition of TRS, the FSAs Transaction Reporting Service and clients have now been migrated onto our in-demand UnaVistaplatform.
UnaVista is a clear success story and has recently signed a number of leading brokerage firms to its Swaps Portal Service.
Demand for its products remains strong and its community of global users Xavier Rolet continues to grow.
